15-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata urges EC to club remaining phases of Assembly elections||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged the Election Commission to hold the remaining four phases of the Assembly elections in the state in one single day in view of rising Covid cases in the country. “Amid an ongoing pandemic, we firmly opposed @ECISVEEP's decision to conduct WB polls in 8 phases. Now, in view of the huge surge in #COVID19 cases, I urge the ECI to consider holding the remaining phases in ONE go. This will protect the people from further exposure to #COVID19,” Mamata posted from her Twitter handle in the evening. Among the five states where Assembly elections were held this year, Bengal is the only state where four out of the eight phases of polls still remain. The other four states -- Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry -- have already gone through the process and are now waiting for the results. Earlier in the day, the poll panel ended speculation about a change in voting schedule by saying that there was no question of clubbing the remaining phases of the elections in Bengal. Arrangements for the fifth phase of polls, on April 17, are already nearing completion, an election official said, even as several social media users held debates on whether the poll panel should at least conduct the next three phases of Bengal elections on a single day. "(There is) no such plan of clubbing phases," an EC spokesperson in response to queries. There are suggestions that some political parties may raise the issue at an all-party meeting called by the chief electoral officer of West Bengal on Friday. The meeting has been called to ensure that Covid-19 guidelines issued by the EC are adhered to by political leaders during campaigning. Amid the rising number of coronavirus cases, the EC had on April 9 flagged instances of star campaigners and leaders campaigning without masks and warned that it will not hesitate in banning events like rallies in case the Covid-19 guidelines issued by it last year are not followed. Several TMC leaders have accused the EC of conducting the polls for too long without any reason. Earlier on Thursday, TMC MP Mahua Moitra tweeted, “It is certainly criminal negligence bordering on manslaughter on part of @ECISVEEP  to mandate 8 phase election in WB in middle of worst pandemic. Unbelievable that we are being put through this. Infections, deaths rising everyday.” Bengal will go into its fifth phase of polling on Saturday, while the remaining phases will be held on April 22, April 26 and April 29. Results for all the eight phases will be declared on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
15-04-2021||West Bengal||EC bars Dilip Ghosh from campaigning for 24 hours over Sitalkuchi remarks||The Election Commission Thursday evening imposed a 24-hour campaign ban on the BJP's Bengal president Dilip Ghosh for his "there will be Sitalkuchi in several places" remarks. The order said the Commission "sternly warns" Ghosh and advises him to desist from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when the Model Code of Conduct is in force. The ban will be in effect from 7 pm April 15 to 7 pm April 16, during which Ghosh will not be allowed to campaign. The Commission had on Tuesday issued a notice to Ghosh for his alleged remarks after four people were killed when central forces opened fire during polling at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district. The Trinamul Congress had approached the Commission against Ghosh. The notice cited Ghosh's alleged remarks that "if someone crosses his limits then you have seen what happened in Sitalkuchi. There will be Sitalkuchi in several places.” The poll panel’s move comes days after it had imposed a similar ban on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for 24 hours for her calls to minorities not to divide their votes and to women to gherao central force personnel who intimidate them. Mamata had responded to the gag order by declaring she would sit in dharna near the Gandhi statue in Calcutta on Tuesday, the penultimate day of campaigning for the fifth phase of polling on Saturday when 45 seats, including Dum Dum, Bidhannagar and Rajarhat-Newtown, vote. Announcing the campaign ban on Mamata, Election Commission secretary Rakesh Kumar said: “Ms Banerjee in her reply has yet again conveniently left out key parts of her speech, perhaps due to selective amnesia….” The commission “sternly warns Ms Mamata Banerjee and advises her to desist from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when the model code of conduct is in force”, the order added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||FIR lodged against Mamata Banerjee in connection with Sitalkuchi killings||An FIR has been lodged against Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at a police station here, alleging that she instigated voters to gherao central forces and that, in turn, led to the incident of firing in Sitalkuchi and the subsequent death of four persons. Siddique Ali Mia, the zilla president of BJP's minority cell in Cooch Behar, cited the TMC supremo's comments during a rally in Banerswar area as he filed a complaint on Wednesday claiming that her address provoked people to attack CISF personnel during the fourth phase of state elections. He attached a video clip of Mamata’s speech in his complaint at Mathabhanga police station. Villagers, after being provoked by such provocative statements of Mamata Banerjee, tried to snatch fire arms of the deployed paramilitary forces, Mia said. "The said villagers including women launched an attack upon the paramilitary forces with the intention of causing bodily injury, knowing it to be likely to cause death of the deployed paramilitary forces," he wrote in the FIR, a copy of which is with the PTI. The BJP leader, when contacted, said he would launch a massive protest demanding the chief minister's arrest, if the police "sit idle" on the FIR in the next few days. "She (Mamata) is solely responsible for the death of those four people. She is answerable to all the voters of our district," Mia stated. At least four persons died outside a polling booth in Sitalkuchi assembly constituency on April 10 when CISF personnel opened fire in "self defence" allegedly after coming under attack from locals. The Election Commission had suspended the voting exercise at the booth following the incident. In its statement, the EC said, "The joint report of the two special observers has been received ... wherein they interalia stated that recourse to open fire by the CISF personnel became absolutely necessary in order to save the lives of the voters lined up at the polling booth, those of other polling personnel and their own lives as the mob had attempted snatching their weapons." The poll panel had also banned political leaders from entering the district for three days. Mamata met the family members of those killed in the firing on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Dilip Ghosh wishes all a 'Hindu Nava Varsha'||A sneak preview of “asol poribartan”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s clarion call for real change in Bengal, was available before Bengali New Year’s Day. “Sakalke Hindu Nava Varsher Subhechha (Greetings to everyone on the Hindu New Year),” Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh posted on Facebook ahead of Poila Baisakh. This is the first time that the Bengali New Year is being yoked to a religion and categorised as the Hindu New Year. For half a millennium, Poila Baisakh has been celebrated as a religion-neutral occasion by Bengalis, including those living in Bangladesh. “It’s one of those IT cell templates…. This is a first even for us, calling Poila Baisakh a Hindu occasion,” conceded a BJP state unit functionary on the condition of anonymity. The “Hindu” greetings had started circulating on Tuesday itself. “When I first received such a wish late on Tuesday night from a senior party colleague, I did a double take. It might be counter-productive as the Trinamul Congress will accuse us of not understanding Bengal’s ethos,” the BJP functionary added. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy lambasted the apparent attempt at polarisation even over such an occasion. “It is a festival for all Bengalis. They are not only trying to polarise the electorate through such statements, fascists like them will go to any extent in order to ruin our culture,” said Roy, the Dum Dum MP. Poila Baisakh, or the Bengali New Year’s Day, is the first day of the Bengali calendar, usually celebrated on April 14 or 15 by Bengalis wherever they live. The celebrations, according to most historians, are rooted in the Mughal era and linked to the proclamation of tax collection reforms by Akbar in the 16th century. The festival date is set according to the luni-solar Bengali calendar. BJP state unit chief Ghosh, in a video message shared on his Facebook page on Tuesday evening, tried linking various elements of mythological legends and folklore to claim it was the first day of creation according to the Vikram Samvat, a calendar initiated in 57 BC. “The most ancient calendar of the world, Vikram Samvat’s first day is about to start. It is a proof of India’s pride, heritage and culture. We were the first in the world to start calculating a year,” said Ghosh, although historically recorded formal calendar traditions were found in Sumer, Babylonia and Persia since, at least, the second millennium BC. Several historians pointed out that the Vikram Samvat starts in 57 BC, while the Bengali calendar starts from 593 AD, which is why Thursday will be the beginning of year 1428 in the Bengali calendar, and not 2078. Ghosh added: “This is considered to be the first day of creation. Starting from Bhagwan Ram to several other great men… this is why it is a day of pride for us. I convey the best wishes of the Hindu New Year to all Indians and citizens of the world, as a proud Indian….” Historians and political scientists said the BJP’s label was laughable, but the political motive was understandable, given the saffron camp’s craving to wrest Bengal from Mamata Banerjee ahead of the RSS’s centenary in 2025. Political analyst Subhamoy Maitra said it was evidently an election-driven statement. “A political leadership, given the narrative that’s a principal basis of this election, has tried connecting this occasion to that narrative, which they hadn’t done in the past…. The common people will interpret it in their own way,” he said. “How seriously this statement ought to be taken, academically or historically, is for historians to decide,” added Maitra, professor at the Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta. Historian Sugata Bose said this had been a Bengali New Year for centuries, which came about through a confluence of many different traditions, as Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has shown in the chapter on the Indian calendar in The Argumentative Indian. “In fact, when it happened in Akbar’s time, it was hardly possible to label them Hindu and Muslim. But retrospectively, we might call them both Hindu and Muslim traditions, a combination of the solar and the lunar calendars came about,” said Bose, a grandnephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Incidentally, this year’s Poila Baisakh and the beginning of the Ramazan have more or less coincided. The occasion is being celebrated widely in Bangladesh, where the Mangal Shobhajatra for the Bengali New Year’s Day, organised by the Faculty of Fine Arts of the University of Dhaka, was recognised by the Unesco as “a cultural heritage of humanity”. Bose, the Gardiner Professor of Oceanic History and Affairs at Harvard University, said the Bengali New Year’s Day had always transcended the division between religious communities in Bengal. “It’s a great pity that just for the sake of an election where divisiveness is the chosen strategy, a day that sees great solidarity and intermingling of people of all religious communities, Hindus, Muslims, Buddhists, Christians… the whole of Bengal belongs to them,” said the historian. “Let us rise above them. Let us, if at all possible, ignore this kind of divisiveness, and let us all get together and observe the occasion, regarding everyone as equal,” he added. Senior historian Rajat Kanta Ray saw a two-fold factor at play. “Modi wants to establish himself as the all-time leader of India… and he wants his party, the BJP, to be the permanent ruler of India,” he said. “It is easily understood that they are trying to bring about a cultural transformation to suit their political end. But, to Bengal, growing a beard like Rabindranath Tagore and cleaning public spaces like Mahatma Gandhi are not enough,” added Ray, professor emeritus of history at Presidency University and former vice-chancellor of Visva-Bharati.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Subash Ghisingh critic late Sudarshan Sharma’s girl debuts ||Anjani Sharma Bhujel was in Class V when her world came crashing down. Her father Sudarshan Sharma, a vocal critic of then undisputed Darjeeling leader Subash Ghisingh, was killed in 1992, and no one has been convicted for his murder. Twenty-nine years later she has plunged into “electoral politics”, unfazed by the family tragedy but with a strong urge to change the culture of politics in hills. Anjani is contesting as an Independent from the Darjeeling Assembly seat. “Wherever I went for campaigning the atmosphere was congenial. I did not face political hostility,” Anjani, 40, said on Wednesday, the last day of campaigning. Her father was only 42 when he was killed. Such a congenial atmosphere was not around when her father was in politics. Sudarshan was a leader of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL), rivals to Ghisingh’s Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF). Sudarshan — with party colleague Madan Tamang who was killed in 2010 —was actively involved in a movement to recgonise the Nepali language in the Eight Schedule of the Constitution. Ghisingh wanted the nomenclature Gorkhali during recognition while many in the hills wanted to stick with Nepali. The language — with both the words Gorkha/Nepali — was recognised in the Constitution on August 22, 1992. Sudarshan was murdered on November 21, the same year. “He was killed because of his involvement in the bhasha andolan and also because he was against autocratic rule… against the practices of social boycott (against Opposition supporters), settling for an autonomy (DGHC) following the Gorkhaland struggle,” said Anjani. Anjani was only a child when she lost her father but his life left a major impression on her. “Wherever I went there were a lot of people who talked about my father” said Sharma, a data scientist who has floated her own company. The Independent candidate said she was scared that issues like “regionalism” were under threat in the hill which prompted her to contest the elections. She does not hold a grudge against the GNLF. In fact, Subash’s son Mann Ghisingh did apologise to her. “I don’t have grudges; Mann was not responsible for my father’s death. I, however, want him to keep regionalism alive as his father (Subash) did. Back then the Congress was powerful (as a pan-India party), but regionalism had been kept intact, unlike now,” said Anjani. The electoral decision “angered” her mother Innu Sharma but the retired schoolteacher did not discourage Anjani from choosing her own path, she said. “My mother went through difficulties after the family tragedy,” said Anjani. “She struggled a lot to raise her two children,” said Anjani. Despite him being a municipality councillor there was no water and electricity connection at Anjani’s house when her father died. Sudarshan, who was also a teacher at Municipal Boys’ High School, was in jail for protesting against the Prime Minister Moraji Desai, during his visit to Darjeeling in 1979. Anjani’s elder brother Ananth was born then, Anjani said, adding that her father was also born when her grandfather Hari Prasad Sharma was in jail “for advocating issues of the community”. Standing in an election for the first time, Anjani said her campaigning experience made her believe that hill people are more conscious of issues and parties now. “Even in remote places like Srikhola, people were aware of issues and political parties,” said Anjani. Irrespective of the outcome of election results, Anjani plans to work on creating awareness on the census process and prepare the hill people with documents for the NRC process. Recently, Union home minister Amit Shah has said Gorkhas would not be displaced by the NRC process. “Leaders may make tall claims that Gorkhas might not be affected but we need to have our documents and many of our people are poor in documentation and keeping records,” said Anjani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi: Didi promises to take care of victim's family||Mariam, one-and-a-half months old, lost her father Maniruzzaman Mian when CISF jawans opened fire in Sitalkuchi during polling on Saturday. Four days later, the baby found herself in the hands of a visitor who came calling in a wheelchair. Handed back a little later, Mariam slept without fuss in her mother Rahila Begum’s lap as Mamata Banerjee promised to heal the wounds of the widow in her early twenties. “There won’t be any problems.… We will take care of you,” the chief minister told Rahila whose husband was one of the four who were killed in the firing by the central force. “Those who are behind these killings, I will not spare them…. Once the elections are over, the state government will conduct an inquiry. Whoever they might be, we will not relent and we will go to every possible extent so that they are punished,” Mamata added. Within hours of the tragedy on Saturday, Mamata had reached Siliguri with the plan of visiting the bereaved families the next morning. However, Mamata had to postpone her visit as the Election Commission announced a 72-hour ban on the entry of political leaders in Cooch Behar. The killings also prompted the commission to expand the silence period for the fifth phase of polling, following which campaigning ended on Wednesday. On Wednesday morning, Mamata’s chopper landed in Mathabhanga, where she met the families of the four victims of Jorpatki, a village in Sitalkuchi. The maternal grandfather and an uncle of Ananda Burman, a first-time voter who died on the same day in Sitalkuchi when two groups clashed, were also present in Mathabhanga to meet Mamata. When Mamata reached the ground near Mathabhanga sub-divisional hospital on Wednesday — after the 72-hour ban got over — she spoke with each of the families, especially with the wives, and cuddled the children. Mamata assured them of all possible help before telling them how her plan to reach them earlier was scuttled by the poll panel’s order. “I wanted to come on the very next day but was not allowed,” Mamata said. “But I had promised that I would be meeting the families on April 14 and accordingly, I have reached here. We will stand by these families and we will reply to the bullets with ballots,” said Mamata. The deaths in Sitalkuchi on poll day and the subsequent war of words between the Trinamul Congress and the BJP have added a new dimension to the already polarised discourse in Bengal this election season. BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, have been referring to the death of Burman, a Rajbanshi youth, to accuse Mamata of being selective in her mourning and only referring to the deaths of four Muslims to appease the community. However, the chief minister has been mentioning the death of Burman in all her speeches since the incident. On Wednesday, Mamata herself tried to drill holes into the BJP claim as she spoke of Burman’s death. “We will also find out who all were responsible for the death of Ananda Burman. All those who died are Rajbanshis as four of them were nasya Sheikh (Rajbanshi Muslims) while the other was a Rajbanshi Hindu. Please consider me as your own girl and I would urge you to maintain peace and amity,” she said. During her short address, Mamata instructed party leaders Rabindranath Ghosh and Partha Pratim Roy to make arrangements so that five “martyrs” memorials can be built. “Find a place and get the columns ready. Once the elections are over, I will come here again,” she said. The families, who were eagerly waiting for Mamata’s visit, said they found the chief minister’s visit reassuring. Jobed Ali, the father of Nur Alam Mian, one of the deceased youths, said even when they had headed to Mathabhanga from their hamlet — located around 20km away — they were not sure what Mamata’s visit would yield. “But her compassion and the manner in which she has assured us would help us to try and return to our normal lives. She is the only political leader on whom we can depend.… We are confident that she will meet her promise and we will get justice,” Ali said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CPM joins Ghani legacy bandwagon ||A tug-of-war between the Congress and the Trinamul Congress over A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury’s political legacy came to the fore once again on Wednesday, the death anniversary of the Malda Congress stalwart. On Wednesday, leaders of both the parties observed Ghani’s death anniversary, claiming themselves as the “right successors” to his political legacy. CPM leaders, too, for the first time, went to Kotowali, Ghani’s ancestral house located 10km from here, to offer floral tributes at his tomb. In the past also, leaders of Trinamul and the Congress had paid tributes to Ghani on his birth anniversary. The Left Front is fighting the current Assembly polls in alliance with the Congress. Ghani, a five-time MLA and an eight-time MP from Malda, had held several crucial departments as minister, both in the state and at the Centre, from 1972 to 1984. He passed away on April 14, 2006. State irrigation minister Soumen Mahapatra, Englishbazar Trinamul candidate Krishnendu Choudhury and many other party leaders gathered at Brindabani Ground of the town on Wednesday morning to pay respect to Ghani’s life-size statue. Choudhury had unveiled the statue after Ghani’s demise. “Barkatda was an iconic leader. He is particularly relevant when a communal party’s roars are being heard in the state and the Congress has surrendered to the CPM, which he had fought all his life,” Choudhury said. “Undoubtedly, Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul are the true torch-bearers of Barkatda’s anti-CPM and anti-BJP ideologies,” he claimed. Ghani’s nephew Isha Khan Choudhury, his father Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury and other relatives gathered around Ghani’s tomb to pay tributes before they went out for election campaigns. “My uncle was not only the guardian of our family. Actually, all residents of Malda still regard him as the pioneer and a visionary of a district like Malda. But all must remember that he never left the Congress, unlike the opportunists who are adept at shifting political allegiance every now and then. Thus, the Congress alone carried forward Ghani’s political legacy,” said the younger Khan Choudhury. Englishbazar CPM candidate Koushik Mishra also offered flowers to Ghani’s tomb at Kotowali. “The CPM and Barkat Saheb had always respected each other. He becomes particularly congruous as Trinamul does not care for political courtesy and the BJP is endangering the communal harmony which Ghani Khan tried to preserve all his life.” The BJP, which though stayed from any formal programme to pay homage to Ghani, ridiculed the CPM. “How can we forget that the CPM had described Ghani as ‘shukno pata’ (dry leaf) in 2004 with the ambition of defeating him? We are not hypocrites like them. Ghani Khan was a respectable leader. We never insulted him personally,” said Ajay Ganguly, Malda district BJP general secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Muezzin allegedly slapped for refusing to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'||A muezzin in Hooghly’s Chinsurah said he was slapped by an unidentified youth for refusing to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in the early hours of Wednesday. Mohammed Sufiuddin, 54, a resident of Chakbazar in Chinsurah, said that around 3.45am on Wednesday, he was riding a bicycle to the mosque from his home when three motorcycle-borne youths accosted him near the Chakbazar More and asked him to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. “I told them about my religious identity and requested them not to force me to chant the slogan. At this, one of the youths slapped me hard and I fell down with my cycle. As I cried in pain, the youths escaped from the scene. There was no one around as it was too early in the morning,” said Sufiuddin. “Jai Shri Ram” has been converted into a war cry by the BJP since the 2019 general election. Later in the day, Sufiuddin, who has been working as a muezzin at the local mosque for the past six years, lodged a complaint at Chinsurah police station against three unidentified persons. “We have received the complaint and started a probe,” said Gaurav Sharma, the police commissioner of Chandernagore. BJP leaders said the party would never force anyone to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. “Our party has never forced anyone to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’. I don’t know whether the offenders belong to our party. If anyone, even if they are from our party, is accused of harassing the person, I will request the police to take action against them,” said Gautam Chatterjee, the BJP president in Hooghly. Sufiuddin said that ever since the BJP won 18 seats in Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, there had been a tendency to harass people like him by those associated with the party. “This is not the first such instance with me. Shortly after the 2019 poll result was declared, a youth, who was part of a bigger group, had said, ‘Kaka, Jai Shri Ram bolo’ (Uncle, chant Jai Shri Ram). But before I could reply to the youth, one of his friends rebuked him and asked him not to force me to chant Jai Shri Ram,” Sufiuddin said. Banking on its Lok Sabha election performance, the BJP hopes to win a good number of the 18 Assembly seats in a district that used to be a Trinamul bastion. The Trinamul had won 16 Assembly seats in the 2016 election but trailed in eight in the Lok Sabha polls. Sufiuddin said he had never thought that he could be slapped for his religious identity in Chinsurah town, where he has been living for years. “They only slapped me once but I lodged a complaint with the police to teach them a lesson. If the police take steps, they will not dare to do such things in future. It is not the culture of our area where I have been living since my childhood,” said Sufiuddin. Trinamul leaders in Hooghly accused the BJP of trying to disturb communal harmony in Chinsurah. “The attack on Sufiuddin shows BJP’s attempt to damage our culture and harmony. We strongly condemn the incident,” said Tapan Dasgupta, a Trinamul leader and state agriculture marketing minister. In July 2019, five men had been branded cattle rustlers and beaten up after they declined to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in North Dinajpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Nirmala targets state over tea and tourism||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said the Mamata Banerjee government had never backed the Centre’s efforts for the betterment of the tea industry, while the tourism sector couldn’t flourish in north Bengal because of alleged non-transparent practices by the state administration. Sitharaman sought to put the Trinamul Congress government in the dock over the tea and tourism sectors, which are the backbone of the economy of north Bengal. She flagged the issues concerning the tea and tourism sectors on a day campaigning for 17 Assembly seats in Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts ended. The two districts will go to the polls on Saturday. Sitharaman first held a meeting with leaders of BJP-backed tea garden trade unions and representatives of plantation workers at Nagrakata (in Jalpaiguri district) in the western Dooars. She then attended a “retailers & traders meet” organised by the BJP in Siliguri. Speaking to newspersons, Sitharaman trained guns at the Mamata Banerjee government for not cooperating with the Centre for the development of the tea industry. “Since 2014, when I was in the commerce ministry, we have time and again tried to take initiatives for the benefit of the tea industry but the state government never supported us. On one hand, they didn’t do anything on their own. On the other hand, they stopped us. Till now, the minimum wage (of tea workers) has not yet been fixed. We have, however, made it clear in our manifesto that we will fix Rs 350 as the daily wage,” said the Union finance minister. She added that the Centre had allocated a sum of Rs 1,000 crore for the welfare of the tea population in Bengal and Assam, particularly women and children. The announcement had been made earlier this year as Sitharaman had tabled the budget. On the tourism industry, Sitharaman said: “Syndicates are even prevalent in the tourism sector of the region. There are certain non-transparent practices, because of which the industry has not flourished in the region.”. She went on: “A number of welfare schemes could not be implemented in Bengal because of the Trinamul government. For example, the Centre had set aside Rs 4,000 crore under the housing-for-all scheme but the state government has never contributed its matching grant. As a result, prospective beneficiaries were deprived of pucca houses.” Mannalal Jain, a leader of the Trinamul-backed tea trade union in the Dooars, rejected Sitharaman’s accusations. “The finance minister’s visit will not do any wonders for the BJP. She came here ahead of the elections and iterated some promises which were never met. On the other hand, Mamata Banerjee has lived up to her commitments made to the tea population, which include introduction of free housing scheme and facilitating revision of tea wages,” said Jain. Altogether, votes of the tea population decide the results of over 12 seats in north Bengal. On April 17, elections would be held in around seven such Assembly seats in the districts of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Arms haul cuffs on Bengal BJP worker||A BJP worker has been arrested for allegedly stocking arms and ammunition at a guard house inside a fishery in the Munshigheri area of North 24-Parganas. Police sources said two pipe guns, 10 rounds of cartridges and six crude bombs were seized during the raid early on Wednesday morning. After the seizure, the accused booth-level BJP worker, Himangshu Sardar, a resident of Gopalpur-Munshigheri area, was arrested from his house. Later, Sardar, 34, was produced at the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Basirhat and remanded in police custody for five days. “We have information that goons have plans to unleash violence in the area during voting on April 17. We have also come to know that the arms were being stocked in the deserted fishery on the instruction of a BJP worker,” said an officer of Haroa police. Local Trinamul leader Hafiz Ahmed said: “The BJP has no support base in the area and wants to terrorise people so that they do not step out to vote. The police have foiled their heinous motive.” However, BJP candidate Rajendra Saha refuted the allegations. “The police have acted on the directions of the ruling party. Trinamul is afraid of losing ground, so with the help of the police it planted the arms and implicated our party worker in false cases only to malign the BJP.” Three BJP workers were injured when suspected Trinamul supporters attacked a rally in the Dhuturdaha area of Minakhan on Wednesday. BJP candidate Joyanta Mondal has lodged a police complaint alleging that Trinamul workers assaulted BJP supporters with bamboo poles and iron rods. In Baranagar, BJP supporters were beaten up and party candidate Parno Mitra was heckled during a campaign allegedly by suspected Trinamul supporters on Wednesday afternoon. Later, BJP supporters blocked BT Road for about an hour seeking arrest of the culprits. “There was no provocation from our end. But local Trinamul leaders got women to attack our boys with sticks and shoes. Police were mute spectators when the attack took place,” Mitra said. Trinamul candidate and former minister Tapas Roy refuted the allegations. “She has realised she will lose and is now staging a drama to draw compassion from the people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CPM decides against holding large rallies amid Covid surge||The CPM has decided against holding large rallies ahead of the remaining phases of Assembly polls in view of an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. The move comes at a time experts have been blaming large political rallies, where Covid-19 protocols are being flouted, for the sudden spurt in positive cases in the state over the past few weeks. The CPM has become the first political party to initiate the step voluntarily and medical experts described the move as “responsible behaviour”. “We have decided that we will not hold large rallies ahead of the remaining phases of elections. We will lay stress on door-to-door campaign, campaign through social media and small street corners. Door-to-door campaigns and street corners would be held following proper Covid-19 protocols,” said Md Salim, CPM politburo member, at Alimuddin Street on Wednesday. This means the CPM would not hold large rallies for the sixth, seventh and eighth phases of the polls. The campaign for the fifth phase of the polls, scheduled for April 17, came to an end on Wednesday as the Election Commission had extended the silence period before the polls to 72 hours from 48 hours after the Sitalkuchi firing. Salim also said his party would request its allies like other Left parties, Congress and the ISF to follow the same path to ensure that the spread of the virus could be contained. He also said party workers would continue to work for distressed people like they had done during the first wave of the pandemic. Salim added that the CPM would use social networking platforms to reach out to voters in view of the pandemic. Experts welcomed the CPM’s move and said it would put pressure on other political parties to follow Covid-19 protocols. “It is astonishing that other parties like the Trinamul Congress and the BJP, which are organising huge rallies across the state, remained silent about following Covid-19 protocols like wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. They should take a cue from the CPM,” said a member of Covid-19 patient management team. “The situation is really grim... Already there is a scarcity of hospital beds in Calcutta and its surrounding areas. Still, rallies are being held in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the areas from where majority of the cases are being reported, as elections are due here,” said a source. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has, however, blamed the BJP for the spurt in positive cases in the state. “We had brought the situation under control. But the BJP is bringing in thousands of people from outside and they are spreading the virus in the state,” said Mamata while addressing an election rally in Jalpaiguri on Wednesday. The BJP said the entire country was facing the second wave and Bengal was no exception. “The chief minister is herself the health minister of the state and the government has done nothing to prevent the spread of the virus,” said Jayprakash Mazumdar, a state BJP leader. Officials in the health department said that the state government had taken several initiatives like increasing hospital beds, generating awareness, bringing down attendance of government employees to 50 per cent and increasing the number of tests. “But several other steps like imposing night curfew or setting up of containment zones could not be initiated right at this moment as elections are yet to be completed in a large part of the state. The problem has become more critical as elections were not over in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas where restrictions are immediately needed,” said a senior official. The Election Commission has decided to convene an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state. “The poll panel would request the political parties to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed properly in case of large gatherings. The poll panel expects that political parties would come forward as they have a responsibility towards the society,” said a source in the poll panel. According to the bulletin issued by the health department on Wednesday, the Covid -19 situation is alarming in the state. A total of 5,892 positive cases were reported in the state on Wednesday and majority were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas where election campaigns are still on. On Wednesday, Calcutta reported 1,601 cases, while North 24-Parganas logged 1,277 infections. The number of deaths jumped to 24 on Wednesday from 20 on Tuesday. “This is alarming. If the political parties don’t come forward and behave responsibly, more than 10,000 cases could be reported every day by the end of this month,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP’s 6,300-rally plan draws Trinamul ridicule||At a town hall meeting in the Rajarhat-Gopalpur constituency on Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah had declared that his party would hold 6,300 small meetings for the remaining 159 constituencies that go to the polls in the last four of eighth phases. While BJP leaders claimed that it was Shah’s strategy to “carpet bomb” these constituencies with campaigns, the Trinamul Congress mocked this decision and said the saffron camp was taking refuge in small meetings since they were experiencing thin crowds at big rallies. According to Shah, the idea behind the smaller rallies was to establish a stronger connection with the electorate. At bigger meetings, Shah had said, the leader would speak and leave, but with smaller audiences, there was a better opportunity to connect directly with the people. “The idea is to carpet bomb these seats with our campaigns. There will be town hall meetings, street corners, nukkads and even meetings at one’s uthon (backyard). We will hold more than 50 to 60 such meetings in each constituency,” said state BJP vice-president and spokesperson Jay Prakash Majumdar. Since Sunday, Shah himself has addressed three town hall meetings, including the one at Rajarhat-Gopalpur. The same day, he addressed another town hall meeting at Kamarhati. On Tuesday, he addressed a group of entrepreneurs in Bidhannagar constituency. BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda addressed two town hall meetings in the Asansol South and Asansol North constituencies on Wednesday. Mocking the saffron camp leaders for their alleged inability to draw crowds, Trinamul MP and spokesperson Saugata Roy said: “Where are people in their rallies? This is why they are being forced to cut the size of their meetings short.” “Shah has claimed an absurd figure. Who is going to count if they are actually holding 6,300 rallies? They don’t have cadres at the grassroots, they don’t have people to conduct small meetings,” Roy added. At many of BJP rallies, including those meant to be addressed by Shah, Nadda or Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the turnout has been much lower than what the organisers expected. Both Shah and Nadda had to cancel some of their meetings because of thin turnout. However, it is also true that in some other constituencies, the huge audience has surprised Shah himself. BJP’s Majumdar, however, negated Roy’s claims. He clarified that the smaller rallies would be in addition to the large public meetings and road shows that his party had been conducting. “Trinamul has already complained to the Election Commission, asking why we are conducting so many big rallies with all of our top rung leaders. They can rest assured that such meetings will continue along with the smaller ones,” he said. However, a section of BJP leaders has found this strategy a bit “uncomfortable”. According to them, it is uncalled for a Union home minister to address small gatherings such as town hall meetings. This is at best the work of local councillors, the leaders feel. They also raised the question of “too much intervention” from the central leadership in local affairs. “Why are we here for? Town halls, street corners, nukkads should be left to us. Amitji or Naddaji are leaders of great stature. Amitji is a home minister. They shouldn’t get involved in all these,” a state BJP leader said. Trinamul’s Roy took a step ahead and said Shah was “not even a proper politician”. “It is India’s misfortune that he is our home minister. Now, he will hold nukkads like councillors,” he said. Majumdar, however, said every BJP member was first an ordinary worker and hence, would address meetings irrespective of its size if the party wanted him to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Hate in saffron ecosystem’s DNA, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi went all out against the saffron camp in his first campaign outing in the Assembly elections in Bengal on Wednesday for his party nominees from the districts of Darjeeling and North Dinajpur. “We should not allow the BJP to come to power in this state. Wherever the BJP and the RSS go, they indulge in divisive politics. They spread hatred and create rifts among people… it is in their DNA,” said the Congress leader. Rahul addressed public rallies in Goalpokhor (North Dinajpur district) and in Shivmandir, on the outskirts of Siliguri (Darjeeling district). “The BJP will try to stoke fires in the state. None from the BJP would be affected by it…. it is the people of Bengal who will suffer,” he said. Though Rahul also attacked Trinamul, his verbal volleys at the ruling party in Bengal were more mellow in nature. “The Congress always works with its own ideology and never compromises with it. We have ideological differences with the BJP and the RSS and never ever will we make any understanding with them. But it was Trinamul that had forged an alliance with the BJP,” said Rahul, reminding his audience that Mamata’s party had been a part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) earlier. He also blamed the Mamata Banerjee government for unemployment in Bengal and highlighted the migration of youths from here to other states. “The youths in Bengal know well that they won’t get any job here in the state. That is why they are compelled to leave Bengal. This is one of the major issues which Trinamul has failed to address here, despite being in government (for a decade),” the Congress leader said. While speaking at a poll rally in Shivmandir, Rahul also addressed the Gorkha population of north Bengal and reminded them that despite electing BJP MPs thrice since 2009, their principal demand (of a permanent political solution for the hills) had not yet been met. “They (the Gorkhas) have elected BJP candidates from Darjeeling seat successively for three times. But their problems remain the same,” Rahul said. Sankar Malakar, the sitting MLA of the Congress in the Matigara-Naxalbari seat, later said that he would secure support of the Gorkhas in his constituency. “They (people of the Gorkha community) are well aware that it is the Congress party that has resolved the hill problem… not once but twice. Back in the 1980s, (then Prime Minister) Rajiv Gandhi was instrumental in forming the DGHC (Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council) and again, in 2012, it was the Manmohan Singh government that had expedited the creation of the GTA (Gorkhaland Territorial Administration). The BJP has made several promises but has delivered nothing,” Malakar said. Trinamul leaders, commenting on Rahul’s comments on their party, said that that he lacked information about present-day Bengal. “People are well aware that it is not the Congress but Trinamul that has been fighting against the BJP. He (Rahul Gandhi) seems to be unaware of the developments that have taken place in Bengal during past 10 years,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Turncoats have changed political dynamics||The flood of turncoats has been one of the defining elements of the Bengal Assembly elections. The changed political dynamics of the people in the electoral fray have added another dimension to the contest in West Burdwan — mentors have been pitted against their former protégés. In Pandaveswar, former Asansol mayor and Trinamul MLA Jitendra Kumar Tiwari is the BJP candidate against his one-time understudy — Narendranath Chakraborty, a Trinamul zilla parishad functionary. In Asansol North, minister Moloy Ghatak is taking on the BJP’s Krishnendu Mukherjee, his former comrade-in-arms. Mukherjee, a businessman, used to be a constant presence beside Ghatak at political and social programmes. The BJP had secured sizeable leads in both Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Chakraborty is banking on Mamata Banerjee’s slogan “Bangla nijer meyekei chai (Bengal wants its own daughter)” to turn the tables on Tiwari, who switched to the BJP in March amid protests from party old-timers. Tiwari said he was confident of victory, riding the “BJP wave”. “The people here will not accept those who are against chanting Lord Ram’s name. I am sure I will win with the blessings of Lord Ram,” he said while starting his campaign last month after offering puja at a Ram temple in Pandaveswar. He had taken the initiative to construct the temple during his tenure as a Trinamul MLA. Tiwari is also promising a free trip to the upcoming Ram temple in Ayodhya for senior citizens in Pandaveswar if he wins the polls. BJP insiders said Tiwari was also relying on the party’s polarisation agenda to see him through. Describing Tiwari as “Mir Zafar” and asking people not to vote for the “traitor”, Chakraborty recently told a gathering at Pandaveswar market: “In 2016, I could have been the candidate from Pandaveswar, being a party old-timer. But when Didi chose Jitendra Tiwari as her trusted soldier, I gave my best efforts to get him elected.” “Didi’s image and our efforts helped him to win the seat. People here will never support a traitor,” Chakraborty added. “I have promised to turn Pandaveswar into a model constituency if I win. People know I am a son of the soil and Tiwari stays 50km away in Asansol,” said Chakraborty, also Trinamul’s Pandaveswar block president. The Pandaveswar Assembly segment is part of the coal belt and falls under the Asansol Lok Sabha seat that has a sizable number of Hindi-speaking voters. The BJP got a lead of around 20,000 votes from Pandaveswar in the 2019 general election. “It is clear that Tiwari wants to woo them,” a source said. Pandaveswar has around 70 per cent Hindu voters, while Muslims constitute close to 27 per cent of the electorate. At Asansol North, sources said the BJP’s Mukherjee is banking on a possible split in the 40 per cent Muslim votes to sail through. The constituency has the largest number of Muslim voters in West Burdwan district. Sources said Trinamul was worried as the Sanjukta Morcha had left the seat to Abbas Siddique’s Indian Secular Front. Hyderabad-based Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has also fielded its candidate. Both parties are expected to eat into the Muslim votes. The AIMIM is hoping to get the support of the Urdu-speaking Muslim voters in the constituency. In the Asansol North Assembly segment, the BJP had taken a lead of 22,000 votes in the 2019 general election. Ghatak, however, ruled out the possibility of any split in Trinamul’s vote bank. “People here are not fools. They are aware of the development done by the Mamata Banerjee government in which I am a cabinet minister. People know about the misrule in BJP-run states. People are fed up of the increase in the prices of fuel and cooking gas. They will not vote for the BJP,” he said. The BJP’s Mukherjee, who has several criminal cases pending against him, is confident that the “goodwill” associated with Prime Minister Narendra Modi will ensure his victory. “Modiji is a popular leader in our state as well as the country. He is coming here to campaign. The people will vote for Modiji and nothing else will matter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: A small eatery in Darjeeling offers taste of loyalty||For politicians jumping ship like there is no tomorrow in the season of elections, a small and nondescript momo and thukpa (noodles) joint in the Darjeeling hills may serve a lesson in fidelity. Neeni Aji Ko Dokan (Neeni sister’s shop), situated near Darjeeling Motor Stand, remains largely unknown to tourists but ask any Darjeeling resident for directions and they will not fail you. Among the shop’s patrons is P.S. Tamang, the chief minister of Sikkim, whose Sikkim Krantikari Morcha is in alliance with the BJP. Tamang used to be a regular at the restaurant and knows the lane like the back of his hand. To the uninitiated, the shop only sells beef momo and thukpa. Tamang’s political ideology, or maybe compulsion, does not seem to match his taste buds. “When in Darjeeling, he does visit our shop. At times, he orders our momos to the hotel he checks into. However, since swearing in as chief minister (in 2019), he has not visited our shop,” says Tashi Gyalpo, 40, the owner of Neeni Aji Ko Dokan who comes from an apolitical family. Tamang probably discovered the place during his stay in Darjeeling in his younger days. It is the quality of momo and thukpa that attracts people to the restaurant and not marketing gibberish. Neeni, who was a friend of Tashi’s mother, used to always focus on quality, he said. Neeni died about two decades ago. The blink-and-you-miss restaurant is located on the ground floor of Rai Building in Darjeeling. There is no signage on the shop, nothing to suggest that it is a restaurant. It is neither spick or span nor “modern”. It has wooden cabins where not more than 20 people can sit at a time, but the shop sells more than 1,000 momos a day. Politicians would do well to listen to Tashi when he speaks about how the shop has stuck to traditions and not gone looking for greener pastures. “We still prepare our momos as we did in the past. We probably are the only restaurant in Darjeeling that makes momos on firewood. We want to stick to our past, stick to quality and provide the same taste,” Tashi says. Many customers say momos prepared on firewood have a “distinct taste”. “So is their achaar (pickle), which is hot and blends well with the steaming momos,” says Mohan Lama, a regular. The shop is run by four staff members and two of Tashi’s family members — Nima Norbu, 74, and Mingma Lamu, 72. “We serve the common people of Darjeeling. Our customers are common people from the town, from villages and we fear that if we change our looks, they might be overwhelmed and might feel uncomfortable,” Tashi says. Four pieces of beef momo costs Rs 50, so does a bowl of thukpa. Gorkhas are predominantly Hindus, some follow both Hinduism and Buddhism. In Darjeeling, beef is not anathema among locals. “We are known in most villages of Darjeeling. Even if they don’t recognise our faces, the moment we say we are from Neeni Aji’s place, they recognise us,” says Tashi. Darjeeling has been sending a BJP representative to the Lok Sabha since 2009. The party has promised a “permanent political solution” to the statehood issue and tribal status for 11 hill communities in its election manifesto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
15-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Lack of industry a key factor||Name: Soumitra Saha Occupation: IT professional Age: 26 Education: Graduate Annual income: Rs 6 lakh Size of family: Five — parents, elder brother and sister-in-law Seat: Dabgram-Fulbari (Jalpaiguri) Is there any issue that is deciding how you will vote? There can never be one issue. However, I would definitely say the huge shortage of jobs and the lack of industrial development in the state will play on my mind when I go to vote. Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016? If so, why? This question generates mixed feelings. I might be inclined to say yes. I still have hopes from the party. Three things which Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you. I would like to rephrase the question as which initiatives have helped me and which have helped the people in general. For me and several others, development of road network has helped to streamline commuting to a large extent. Also, for others, the setting up of super-speciality hospitals in backward areas and the array of social schemes for students and youths have helped society at the grassroots. Three things Mamata has done that hurt you. There are a number of issues that she should have taken care of. It includes scams in government jobs and the absence of a regular recruitment process for youths. Also, she often loses her temper and there are instances of her appeasing a section of the people while gagging dissent. Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? She has done several things for the poor. I do not see her as a part of the elite. What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? First she was our “Didi”. The term  “Pishi” has been recently coined in political circles. I don’t completely buy the theory that she is only a “Pishi”. We should also keep in mind that she is the only serving woman chief minister of the country. Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefited you. Initiatives like Digital India, Start-up India, Make in India, Ayushman Bharat and monthly pension for farmers. Also, relations with other nations have helped Indian companies to grow their business. In the past seven years, we have seen development of road and rail infrastructure, banking facilities have been extended to people across the society, the poor have got homes, and there has been a nationwide cleanliness drive. Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you. The Centre has taken certain “Tughlaqi” measures. First was the demonetisation that took more than 100 lives, then the privatisation of PSUs and the plan to implement “one nation, one language”. Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? I don’t believe it but yes, the government gives priority to certain private players. Issues like the hike in the prices of petroleum products should be addressed immediately. The government should work more on education, health and employment instead of installing statues. Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? More or less it is the same. There have been some development but even today, employment opportunities are lacking. What do you think about the Left’s chances and about its alliance? The Left has committed a blunder by joining hands with the ISF. They are now trying to launch some fresh faces. This might help them to win some seats. Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? Absolutely, we all are the same in Siliguri. As per my knowledge, there has been no news of Hindu-Muslim differences in the city for decades now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
