16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Nepali song speaks out against fascism||A day before the fifth-phase of polling in Bengal, a Bengali song that spoke out against Fascism has found an echo in the hills of Darjeeling. “Ma katai pani jaadina, yahi desh mai basnechhu (I won’t go anywhere else, I will live in this country),” says the Nepali song, almost literally translating the Bengali song in Nepali, and also sharing the visuals from the original. The Bengali song “Nijeder mote nijeder gaan (Our views, our songs)" speaking out against the politics of hatred had created a flutter. In the Bengali version, Rabindranath Tagore’s 1923 play Raktakarabi (Red Oleanders) inarguably his strongest protest against authoritarianism and exploitation, had featured prominently.  The Nepali version has been performed by Laaliguraas, meaning red rhododendrons, a socio-cultural organisation that has been at the spearhead against Fascism. Some of the most prominent faces from Bengali cinema, theatre and music like Rudraprasad Sengupta, Sabyasachi Chakraborty, Parambrata Chatterjee, Anirban Bhattacharya, Suman Mukhopadhyay, Anupam Roy and others had participated in the Bengali song. The Nepali version was performed by artistes from the tea gardens of Darjeeling and Kurseong. On Thursday, the Laliguraas members trekked five kms from Sonada till Maragaret Hope Tea Garden where at the residence of a member Prasidh, the song was recorded. After processing the video footage through the night, the song—an abridged version of the original—was released on Friday morning. Of the 45 seats that go to polls on Saturday, the BJP is ahead in 22 going by the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This includes the three Hill seats of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong. For over three decades, since the days of Subhash Ghising and later his protégé turned bete noire Bimal Gurung, the diktat of the hill outfit has writ large on the voters in these three constituencies. The BJP could get outsiders like the late Jaswant Singh and the current Raju Bista elected to the Parliament riding on the Gorkha votes. This time, however, the Hills are a divided lot with Gurung and another faction of the GJM led by Binay Tamang backing Mamata, while the GNLF is with the BJP, making a split in the votes inevitable. Even with both factions of the GJM backing her, the sailing may not be smooth for the Bengal chief minister. The fifth phase of polling will be held exactly a week from the blood-spilled fourth phase when five villagers in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi were killed in two separate incidents. The campaign for the fifth phase which ended on Wednesday has been one of the most acerbic ones, with both the Trinamul and the BJP hurling invectives. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, both were banned for 24-hours in this week. The fifth phase also comes at a time when the Covid pandemic has reached alarming proportions in Bengal along with several other states. In this phase, Mamata’s Trinamul Congress is ahead in 23 of the seats mostly in the south Bengal districts of North 24-Parganas and Burdwan. Both the parties need to hold on to their strongholds while looking to gain from the other. A task easier said than done. Like in the north, where the Trinamul has been on a downward slide, in the southern constituencies too the party is facing uncomfortable questions especially on corruption during the Amphan cyclone relief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
16-04-2021||West Bengal||At all-party meet, CPM, BJP say they're against clubbing last two phases||The Left Front and the BJP on Friday told an all-party meeting called by the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) over the alarming Covid-19 situation in Bengal that the poll schedule should be maintained and they were against the clubbing of the remaining four phases of the election. Out of the eight-phase Assembly elections in the state, four phases have been completed and the remaining four are scheduled to be held between April 17 and 29. "Our point is that the schedule should be maintained,” CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya said after the all-party meeting. “The election is in motion. There is no question of a change of schedule at this point of time," Bhattacharya said. Bengal CEO Aariz Aftab called the all-party meeting following the Calcutta High Court’s direction to him and all district magistrates of the state to ensure strict implementation of Covid-19 protocol during campaigning for the remaining phases of the election. Chief Minister and Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged the Election Commission to think about conducting polls for the remaining assembly seats at one go. The EC had dismissed questions of such a possibility on the day. On Friday, too, the Trinamul Congress sought clubbing of the last three phases of the elections. Emerging from the meeting, TMC Secretary General Partha Chatterjee said that in order to save the lives of people and to control Covid-19 infections while allowing candidates ample time for campaigning, a balance has to be drawn by the Election Commission. "We have told the commission that in order to give the people proper healthcare facilities amid Covid situation, the last three phases may be clubbed into one, while ensuring that the democratic rights of the people are upheld," Chatterjee told reporters. Bhattacharya, however, said that it was agreed upon at the meeting that campaigns, including public meetings, for the coming phases of the elections can be held abiding by the Covid-19 protocol. He said that clubbing of election dates was not on the agenda. "Someone wanted to raise the issue, but it was not discussed in detail," the CPI(M) leader said. Bhattacharya said that the Left Front has told the meeting that it is adhering to the Covid-19 protocol during campaigning and will continue to do so. "There is no allegation against the Left Front that it is not following the Covid guidelines," he said. BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta, who represented the party in the meeting, said the party does not want any step that would affect the "democratic spirit", echoing sentiments of the CPI(M). "We said that our party will abide by all Covid-19 protocols put in place by the Election Commission, and urged that no steps be taken that discriminate those voting in the next phases from those who have already exercised their franchise. "We have not said anything about clubbing (of phases),... we feel that the elections will be held in eight phases," Dasgupta told reporters after the meeting. Asked about the rising number of infections and deaths due to Covid-19 in the state along with the rest of the country, he said that campaigning cannot be stopped, and also wondered how the rights of the contestants and the voters can be taken away. Dasgupta said that virtual election meetings for the remaining phases are not possible as half of the eight phases have already been held. "A level playing field has to be maintained...We have advised the Election Commission to balance the need for a robust democratic culture with safety norms. "It is up to the Election Commission to tell us what exactly the political parties must do. We have assured the EC that under all circumstances, once it has laid down the procedures, the BJP will adhere to the norms faithfully." He said that the saffron party will provide masks to its supporters and workers at public meetings to ensure that health protocols are maintained. Against the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases, the Election Commission on Friday put in place restrictions on campaigning by political parties, including curtailing its time, for the Bengal Assembly elections. In an order, the poll panel curtailed the time for campaign up to 7 pm. Earlier it was up to 10 pm. Now there will be no campaign between 7 pm and 10 am on campaign day in the state, the Election Commission said. It also extended the silence period from 48 hours to 72 hours in each of the remaining three of the eight phases of the Bengal polls to be held on April 22, 26 and 29. During the silence period, which is usually for 48 hours, parties and candidates cannot hold rallies and meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Will ask EC to stop BJP from bringing outsiders for poll campaign, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday she will call upon the Election Commission to stop the BJP from bringing "outsiders" during campaigning, squarely blaming the saffron party for exacerbating the Covid-19 situation in the state. Mamata, during a public meeting at Nabadwip in Nadia district, said the BJP brought people from "worst-hit" states like Gujarat for erecting marquees for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's poll rallies. "I will tell the EC to stop the inflow of outsiders from states like Gujarat who are responsible for the Covid-19 spread in Bengal. "We have nothing to say if the PM or other leaders come for campaigning... Why should the BJP bring people from worst-affected states to set up podiums and pandals for rallies," she said. The Trinamool Congress chief said local labourers and decorators can be engaged for the purpose after necessary Covid-19 tests. The chief minister on Wednesday, too, had blamed the BJP for contributing to the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in the state by bringing "outsiders in large numbers" for campaigning during the ongoing Assembly elections. She was speaking at a rally in Jalpaiguri on the day. Referring to her injury, the chief minister said the BJP wanted to stop her from canvassing by "targeting her leg", but she has managed to come out triumphant. "They had targeted my leg, but I proved them wrong with the blessings of people. The injury has healed 75 per cent," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Shah blames Mamata for denial of citizenship to Matuas||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Friday accused West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of denying citizenship to Dalit Matua and Namsudra communities as her "vote bank would not like it". Reaching out to the two numerically strong communities which can infuence the outcome of assembly elections in many seats, Shah said a Rs 100 crore fund will be created for their welfare if the BJP is voted to power in the state. He also mocked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, calling him a "tourist politician". "These Matua and Namsudra families are living here for 50-70 years, for three generations. But Didi says they will not get citizenship, why? Because her vote back would not like it," he told an election rally in Tehatta in Nadia district. Taking a swipe at Rahul Gandhi who addressed his first two election rallies on Wednesday after keeping off the campaign in the state where his party is contesting in alliance with the Left while fighting against it in Kerala, Shah branded him a "tourist politician". "A tourist politician arrived in Bengal after almost the entire poll got over and questioned our DNA. BJP's DNA is development, nationalism and Atmanirbhar Bharat," he said. Flaying "dynasty politics" in the TMC, Shah said while the BJP wants to implement the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers in Bengal, "Didi only wants Bhaipo (nephew) Samman Nidhi". Top BJP leaders have been accusing Banerjee's nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee of wielding "unwarranted influence" over the government machinery and running "extortion syndicates". "After people's mandate on May 2 (counting day), nobody will be left to take cut money, the government of syndicates will be no more there, the government that works for Bhaipo will be gone," he asserted. The home minister assailed the TMC government for "failing to check infiltrators who take away the jobs of our youths and food of our poor". "Let alone illegal immigrants, not even a bird from across the border will be allowed to enter Bengal. Not the TMC, neither the Left, nor the Congress....only BJP can stop infiltration," he asserted. He claimed the demography of Nadia district, which shares border with Bangladesh, had got altered because of infiltration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Special Investigation team of CID to probe Sitalkuchi killings||Bengal CID Friday took over the case of killing of four people in firing by the CISF during polling in Cooch Behar district on April 10, a senior government official said. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has been constituted to conduct the probe in the incident which happened during the fourth phase of polling at Sitalkuchi. The incident had set off an acrimonious war of words between the ruling TMC and challenger BJP, and triggered public outrage. Investigators will visit booth number 126/5 in Jorpatki in Sitalkuchi assembly constituency where CISF personnel had opened fire after they allegedly came under attack from a group of villagers. The TMC has claimed those killed were its supporters who were gunned down when they were standing in queue to cast their votes. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is also the TMC chief, had called the incident a "genocide". Besides talking to witnesses and recording their statements, the SIT will also go through video footage of the incident. A video clip has emerged on social media, the officer said, adding a forensic test will likely be conducted to establish its authenticity. The SIT will also talk to officers and personnel of the local police station who rushed to the scene soon after the incident. The Election Commission had cancelled the voting at the polling station after the incident and imposed a ban on entry of politicians into Cooch Behar for 72 hours apprehending trouble. Mamata had visited Sitalkuchi on Wednesday and met the families of the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Crorepati candidates contest from a poor district||More than a dozen of candidates with assets of over Rs 1 crore are contesting from various Assembly constituencies in Malda, one of the poorer districts of the state. The statements of assets, furnished in affidavits submitted by candidates during nomination, reveal this surprising fact. All three major political parties — Trinamul, the BJP and the Congress — have a number of multi-millionaire candidates in Malda while the cumulative value of assets of only one of the three CPM candidates is nearly Rs 1 crore. While some candidates own most of the moveable and immoveable assets themselves, others have spouses richer than them. Matiur Rahaman, the BJP candidate from Harischandrapur, is a Class VIII pass-out. He possesses moveable assets valued at Rs 3.77 crore and immoveable assets worth another Rs 1 crore. His wife has moveable assets worth Rs 23.85 lakh. Rahaman, a businessman, has also said in his affidavit that he purchased an immoveable property of Rs 99.84 lakh and spent another Rs 35 lakh to develop it. Dipankar Ram, an LPG distributor and BJP’s candidate from Chanchal, has moveable assets worth Rs 1.37 crore and immovable assets of over Rs 4 crore. His wife has assets of over Rs 40 lakh. Abdur Rahim Boxi, who defected from the Congress to Trinamul, and is contesting from Malatipur, owns assets of over Rs 50 lakh. His wife, an ICDS worker and a businesswoman, has assets worth Rs 3.83 crore. Samar Mukherjee, a retired primary schoolteacher and Trinamul candidate from Ratua has assets of Rs 1.25 crore in his name and his wife owns assets worth Rs 84 lakh. Mukherjee won as an MLA four times as a Congress candidate from the same seat.Ujjwal Choudhury, who switched from the BJP to Trinamul and is in fray in Malda. Owner of a fuel station, he has properties worth over Rs 7 crore. “Many areas of Malda are backward where most people struggle to arrange two square meals. In such a district, many of those contesting the polls  are multi-millionaires. It is a sharp contrast,” said Rishi Ghosh, a social researcher. A retired schoolteacher in Malda, Radhagobinda Ghosh, said “crorepati” candidates are bound to make some voters uncomfortable. “Some voters will surely wonder if wealthy candidates can really relate to the needs of the common man,” said Ghosh. Among others on the list are Gopal Chandra Saha, the BJP candidate of Malda; Krishnendu Choudhury, the Trinamul candidate from Englishbazar; Sabina Yeasmin and Shyam Chand Ghosh, the Trinamul and BJP candidates of Mothabari; Gour Chandra Mandal, the BJP candidate of Manikchak; Mottakin Alam, the Congress candidate of the same constituency; Isha Khan Choudhury, the Congress candidate of Sujapur; and Payel Khatun, an Independent  from Ratua. Some of the candidates came up with their own clarifications. BJP’s Ram claimed he inherited most of his assets. Trinamul’s Mukherjee claimed his assets were both inherited and purchased by taking loans. His party colleague Choudhury said that he came from a family of erstwhile affluent landlords.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress nominee Rezaul Haque dies after testing Covid-positive||The Congress candidate from Samserganj Assembly segment, Rezaul Haque, died after testing postive for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Calcutta early on Thursday within hours of being admitted there. Haque was 46. Haque apart, a few other candidates such as RSP candidate from the Jangipur Assembly segment in Murshidabad Pradip Nandy, Trinamul candidate from Goalpokhor in North Dinajpur Gulam Rabbbani, and Trinamul candidate from Jalpaiguri P.K. Barma have tested Covid-19 positive. They are either admitted to hospital or are in home isolation. Samserganj Assembly seat’s election is likely to be deferred because of the death of a candidate. In case of other segments where candidates have tested Covid-19 positive, elections would be held according to schedule but the candidates would not be able to go out to campaign, sources said. “We have informed the Election Commission about the death of a candidate in Samserganj and will await its directive regarding the election scheduled for later this month,” said district magistrate and returning officer Sharad Dwivedi, adding that the last date for the withdrawal of candidature had ended. Responding to Haque’s death, Congress MP Adhir Chowdhury said: “We mourn the loss of our colleague and are ready to accept whatever the EC decides for the upcoming election.” Following Haque’s death, Trinamul candidate and incumbent MLA Amirul Haque said he would join the campaigning of other party candidates in other constituencies. Haque was a popular businessman in Murshidabad’s Dhulian, with business interests spread across sectors like education, automobile spare parts and betel leaf trade. Senior health department officials said infections among the candidates were a headache for the administration. “If candidates are getting infected, it is clear that political rallies are gradually turning into Covid-19 hotspots, which was being feared. This is why we were requesting political parties to follow Covid-19 protocols during rallies and campaigns. But the protocols continue to be flouted despite the EC’s orders,” said a senior health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul leader in Nanoor tries to stop CPM candidate from campaigning||A Trinamul leader in Birbhum’s Nanoor allegedly tried to stop sitting MLA and CPM candidate Shyamali Pradhan from campaigning on Wednesday and threatened that hands of those daring to vote for the CPM would be chopped off. Pradhan on Thursday lodged a complaint with police and the Election Commission in connection with the threat. She has accused Trinamul of preventing her from campaigning and creating an environment of fear in the run up to the polls. Nanoor is scheduled to vote on April 29. Sources said Noorman Sheikh, husband of Trinamul panchayat member of Nanoor’s Agartore village, had come in the way of a group of CPM workers who were campaigning in the area along with Pradhan. Sheikh accosted the CPM MLA and asked her why she had come to seek votes at the village after five years. He accused her of doing nothing for the area. This led to an argument between Pradhan and Sheikh. Pradhan said she could do little for the village because the local panchayat had refused to carry out work undertaken by the MLA. At one point during the argument, Sheikh allegedly said no one would vote for the CPM. “He then added if anyone dared to vote for the party, their hands would be chopped off,” said a CPM source. “There is no vote for the CPM. If anyone votes for the CPM, I will chop off the person’s hand,” Sheikh was heard saying in a video that circulated in social media. The Telegraph, however, did not independently verify the authenticity of the video. A source in the Election Commission said an EC team accompanying Pradhan during the campaign had also recorded the incident. The video that went viral was not the one recorded by the EC, the source added. CPM leaders accompanying Pradhan said it was a deliberate act to hinder the party’s campaign and create a fear psychosis among the voters. “He first asked me why I had visited the village after a long time and accused me of not doing any work. He said the road had been constructed by Trinamul. I explained to them that the Trinamul-run gram panchayat did not accept any money from my local area development fund as I represented the CPM,” said Pradhan. Pradhan also asked the Trinamul leader why the people could not cast their votes in the last panchayat polls. “This visibly embarrassed him and he lost his cool,” said the CPM source. Birbhum is one of the districts where most of the gram panchayats were won uncontested by Trinamul. “There are many villagers who are our workers and supporters. The Trinamul leader backed out under protest by a large number of villagers. I have lodged complaints with both police and the Election Commission,” Pradhan said. District Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal did not agree with his party leader’s attempt to stop Pradhan from campaigning. “Every political party has the right to campaign before the polls and it was not right to stop anyone. However, people are angry with the CPM at Nanoor as the party had killed 67 persons under its rule.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal forest department declares Tiger Hill a plastic-free zone||Tiger Hill, the famed sunrise-view point in Darjeeling perched at an altitude of more than 8,000 feet, has been declared a plastic-free zone by the state forest department. Tourists and local residents alike will now need to deposit all plastic items at the entrance gate of the sanctuary. The Darjeeling Wildlife Division has in fact declared the entire Senchel Wildlife Sanctuary, some 12km away from Darjeeling town, as a plastic-free zone. However, there are hardly any visitors to other places in the sanctuary except Tiger Hill. S.S.S.S. Sherpa, the DFO of the Darjeeling Wildlife Division said that they were stressing on awareness programmes among people to implement the plastic-free initiative rather than imposing fines, at the initial stage. “We are holding talks with various stakeholders like drivers, travel agents, tea sellers and even vendors selling puja items in front of the Senchel Devi temple to help us implement this initiative. Puja item vendors and tea sellers have already started selling and using plastic items,” said Sherpa. “We can think of fines at a later stage.” Senchel Devi temple is a famous temple for the people of this region. The forest department has also set up drop boxes at the entrance of Tiger Hill. “Anyone carrying plastic items, or even food packets, will have to deposit the same at the entrance. They can collect the articles on their way back to the entrance,” said Sherpa. During the tourist season, there is a huge rush among people to catch the sunrise. Local residents also go to Tiger Hill for picnics. The forest department last Sunday organised a mountain bike rally from Jorebunglow to Tiger, a distance of some 4km, to spread awareness among people about the new rule and to keep the area clean. The cyclists also organised a clean-up drive at Tiger Hill. “We have tied up with various social organisations like Scavengers and TIEEDI (Take It Easy, Easy Does It) to clean up the area and also to spread awareness among people to keep the place clean and not litter,” said Sherpa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Test for Trinamul Congress in no-trust motions at panchayats in East Midnapore||No-trust motions have been moved against the chiefs of three Trinamul Congress-run gram panchayats in East Midnapore district by their colleagues in the party. Trinamul sources in the district said the developments marked the continuation of a trend that had begun months ago when certain leaders were suspected to have links with the BJP while they were still in the party ruling the state. “A handful of rural leaders worked for the BJP in the Assembly polls which concluded in the district earlier this month,” said a Trinamul source. On Tuesday, Tamluk subdivisional officer received a letter of no-confidence against Sahid Matangini gram panchayat chief Dibakar Jana. The letter carried the signatures of 25 out of 30 members of the Trinamul-run body. In a separate letter, 10 out of 12 members of the Raghunathpur 2 gram panchayat signed a letter of no-confidence against pradhan Shiladitya Adak. In Nandakumar block, the BDO on Tuesday received a letter of no-confidence against Kumarchowk gram panchayat pradhan Basudeb Mantri. In the Khakarda gram panchayat in the district, 14 of 21 members moved a no-trust motion against deputy chief Nikunj Manna. “During the elections, we saw several Trinamul panchayat members working for the BJP. We are appealing to district authorities to remove them from their posts at panchayats,” said Trinamul’s Sahid Matangini block president Sharad Meta. Panchayat law dictated no-confidence motions could be taken up against office-holders only after half of the five-year term ended. The current boards of the four panchayats where the no-trusts motions were moved complete two-and-a-half years this month. “We will fix the dates of the no-trust votes soon,” said a district official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Fences turn fetters at Chit Sakati village on India-Bangladesh border ||Nur Rehman Sarkar, an octogenarian and his relatives at Chit Sakati, a village located in South Berubari of Jalpaiguri district, need to visit the government hospital in Panchagarh district of Bangladesh in case any of them needs medical care. Similarly, other residents of the village that is located at the India-Bangladesh border and is beyond the fences prefer to visit the markets at the adjoining localities of the neighbouring country to buy grocery and other items. “For decades, we have been living here without infrastructure or basic facilities. As our village is located beyond the fences, we have to go through a number of formalities to enter the mainland. It takes time and hence, we prefer to go to the adjoining areas of Bangladesh for medical emergency and other errands,” said Nur. The village is located 50km from Jalpaiguri town and spread over 153 bighas. Altogether, 26 families consisting of 165 people live at Chit Sakati. Of them, 81 are voters. To reach the village, one has to reach the border outpost of the BSF in Jhapartala of South Berubari. Once the identity proof is established, the security personnel will open the gates and let the person enter the village. On the way to the village, he/she has to cross the Kurum stream that lacks a permanent bridge. “We have to trudge through knee-deep water to reach Chit Sakati. Occasionally, we ourselves make a temporary bridge, particularly during the rains. We fail to understand why the central and state governments do not take initiatives to build a permanent bridge and proper roads here,” said Bablu Sarkar, a resident. He pointed out that if someone fell ill, the same route — via the stream and the gate — had to be taken to shift him to hospital in the adjoining Haldibari block or in Jalpaiguri. Even to cast their votes — elections will be held in Jalpaiguri on April 17, the villagers have to take the same route to reach a primary school that is on the other side of the fence. “It takes time and also, it is tough to carry a critical patient and cross the stream. That is why in such cases, we go to Bangladeshi hamlets like Mushipara, Bhatiapara and Nekipara for medical help. It seems we live in Bangladesh and India is a foreign land. The governments should take initiatives to address our issues,” added Bablu. He has said while the super-specialty hospital of Jalpaiguri is 50km away, the district hospital of Panchagarh district in Bangladesh is just 14km away. Annakanta Das, a Trinamul member of South Berubari panchayat, admitted the problems. “Earlier, we had helped the villagers build a temporary bridge. The village needs better roads and anti-erosion work on the banks of the stream. Those needs will be met in due course. As far as the protocol for their movement is concerned, we do not have much to do,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission bars Dilip Ghosh from campaigning for 24 hours||The Election Commission on Thursday banned Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh from campaigning for 24 hours and showcaused the party’s office-bearer Sayantan Basu for provocative remarks on the CISF firing in which four youths had been killed during voting in the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency on April 10. Ghosh was found guilty of violating two clauses of the model code of conduct that prohibit incitement of hatred between communities and intimidation. He had said “dushtu chhele” would be shot like the way the central forces had done at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district. The EC said: “Now, therefore, the Commission hereby sternly warns Shri Dilip Ghosh and advises him to desist from using such statement while making public utterances during the period when Model Code of Conduct is in force and imposes a ban of 24 hours from 7 pm on 15th April 2021 to 7 pm on 16th April 2021.” The EC also sent a showcause notice to BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu whom it quoted as saying on a private Bengali channel on April 12: “We will play the game of Shitalkuchi. They killed 18 years old Ananda Barman, a first time voter, in the morning. He was the brother of the BJP’s Shakti Pramukh. We did not have to wait for long....(Barely audible) Four of them were shown the way to heaven. There was a dialogue in the film ‘Sholey’ you know — if you kill one we will kill four of you. Shitalkuchi witnessed it — if you kill one we will kill four of you.” The EC gave Basu 24 hours to reply to the notice, saying: “Whereas, the above statement made by Shri Sayantan Basu, has been examined in the Commission and the same has been found to be in violation of the clauses (1) & (4) of Part I of ‘General Conduct of Model Code of Conduct for the guidance of political parties and candidates’, and the provisions under Section 123 (3A) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and Section 153 (A) (1) (a) of Indian Penal Code.” Four youths had been killed when Central Industrial Security Force personnel had opened fire outside a booth when voting was going on in the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency on April 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Old-timers recall 1982 result rerun in Darjeeling||Two days before Darjeeling votes, old-timers are suddenly recalling the 1982 Darjeeling Assembly election which had been won by CPM candidate Dawa Lama by a margin of just 309 votes. “Darjeeling’s present political situation reminds me of the 1982 election. I was a first-time voter then and today, Darjeeling seat remains as open,” said Poonam Kumar Sharma, a lawyer who is now 58 years old. Many old-timers recollect that the 1982 election was a watershed moment in many ways and the same is being talked about the result of the upcoming election. Amar Lama, a political commentator, said: “After that election, Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (which was a force to be reckoned with till Subhash Ghisingh emerged in 1986) could never win any major election and completely lost its sheen.” In the 1982 election, CPM’s Dawa Lama was pitted against ABGL’s J.D.S. Rai. Another group in the hills, Pranta Parishad, had, however, called for election boycott demanding a separate state. Following the boycott call, 60,012 votes representing 59.4 per cent of the total votes were cast. While Lama polled 29,165 votes, Rai got 28,856 and the number of rejected votes were 1991. The result was not bereft of twists and turns. “J.D.S. Rai and his supporters came out of the counting hall celebrating their victory only to be told a few moments later that he had lost the election. There was some confusion in the counting which I cannot recollect exactly,” said Govind Chhetri, general secretary, CPRM, who was with the CPM then. In this election, the existence of three regional political groups, two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha headed by Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang and the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), hangs in balance. The two Morcha factions are supporting the Trinamul Congress but are competing against each other. The GNLF is supporting the BJP. “Going by the crowds that the three groups are drawing, one cannot rule out a close contest similar to 1982,” said lawyer Sharma. The ABGL is now divided into three camps with two of the factions competing against each other. No other Assembly election till now has been as close as the 1982 polls. In fact, with the emergence of the GNLF and later, Bimal Gurung’s Morcha, Assembly elections always became a one-sided contest in the hills. Take the 2011 Darjeeling Assembly seat results. Trilok Kumar Dewan of the Morcha won the seat by a margin of 1.05 lakh votes. Dewan secured 79 per cent (1,20,532) of the total votes polled, while his rival Bim Subba of the GNLF secured only 9 per cent (13,977) votes. This one-sided trend most old-timers said is changing in Darjeeling in this election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid spike: Stakeholders of tourism industry in north Bengal on tenterhooks||Stakeholders of the tourism industry across north Bengal are on tenterhooks because of the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases across the country during the past few weeks. In north Bengal, tourism is the second major industry after tea. Around five lakh people are associated with the sector. In fact, during the past 10 years, it is this sector that has generated the highest employment in the region. The industry, which had taken a beating last year amid the pandemic and the consequent lockdown, had been limping back on the path of revival during the past four-five months when Covid cases had been on a steady decline. However, the sudden rise in the number of infections since mid-March has posed a fresh crisis for the industry. “It seems like a repetition of what we had faced in most of 2020. These days, most of the communications that we are receiving are for cancellation of trips,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary of the Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network. According to him, the occupancy rate in hotels, resorts and homestays across the region — both in hills and in the Dooars — has come down to 15 per cent or so these days. Last year, the tourism industry had grappled with the pandemic crisis from March to November. “From December onwards, tourists started coming, initially from other parts of Bengal and gradually from other parts of the country. Things had just returned to normality and people in the sector had started making some earnings...and now comes this second wave of Covid-19. We really don’t know what is in store for the tourism industry in the coming days,” added Sanyal. Those running hotels in the region said the occupancy rate had increased to 90 per cent during the Christmas holidays last year. “Till February, the inflow of tourists was on the rise. But over the past couple of weeks, there has been a decline, and particularly in past seven days, cancellations have risen considerably. If this situation persists, we doubt how many of us will be able to run our properties or bear regular costs like staff salaries,” said Biswajit Saha, a lodge owner of Madarihat near the Jaldapara National Park. Transporters, whose vehicles stayed off roads for months last year as tourists stayed away, are again facing a similar crisis. “During the past few months, we had started hoping again. But given the present situation, there is an apprehension that the situation may become like last year,” said Jayanta Majumdar, a transporter based in Siliguri. “Bhutan has closed its doors for tourists. A large number of tourists visiting Bhutan used to move through north Bengal, and their trips have stopped. “Haven’t we faced enough already?” Majumdar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Polarisation can’t break Bengal family, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday expressed confidence that “the large family of Bengal” would stand together regardless of the BJP’s attempts at polarisation, casting the Assembly elections as a battle to preserve “Bengal’s peace, culture, civilisation, identity and existence”. “I still think the people of Bengal are standing together. Bengal is one large family, of Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes — everyone is united. The family cannot be broken, despite all the attempts at polarisation,” Mamata told the ABP Ananda news channel in an interview on Poila Baisakh evening. “On the occasion of the Bengali New Year’s Day, I reaffirm my unflinching faith in Bengal’s people, who know this is the election to save Bengal, its honour and everything it stands for… its complex ethos. Women and the youth are playing a huge role in it this time, I believe, as are farmers, workers, teachers,” Mamata said. The chief minister acknowledged that the saffron camp had succeeded in polarising the electorate considerably when it made unprecedented gains in Bengal during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “But as Abraham Lincoln famously said: ‘You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time’.” Asked if she had witnessed signs of polarisation at the grassroots this time during her extensive campaign across the state, the chief minister gave a detailed answer. “See, this the BJP has done. The BJP went to the Matuas and pledged loyalty; it went to the Rajbanshis and pledged loyalty; but it is actually not loyal to anybody…. The BJP keeps going to various sections of the people and saying different things, trying to woo them, trying desperately to create tiny little fragments in the electorate to suit themselves. That’s a fact,” Mamata said. She said her personal assessment was that Trinamul would win a two-thirds majority this time despite what she described as the BJP’s attempts to divide through polarisation and identity-based politics. She asserted that despite being extremely religious personally, she would never stoop to adhormo (sin) in the name of dhormo (religion) like the saffron camp. Mamata said the people of Bengal were standing up to the BJP this time to beat back the “invasion” of the state. “I think the people are standing firm to prevent the invasion of Bengal by Gujarat. Bengal will not be handed over to Gujarat,” Mamata said, alluding to Narendra Modi and Amit Shah by their home state rather than names. Mamata said: “Otherwise, in future there will be nothing left of Bengal’s peace, culture, civilisation, identity, existence…. That is why this is a prestige battle for the people of Bengal. The BJP will be decimated in this election, that is my assessment.” Asked how many seats she believed her party would win, Mamata said: “The Trinamul Congress will, I believe, get two-thirds majority.” The Bengal Assembly has 294 seats, with 148 being the majority mark. Winning a two-thirds majority requires 196 seats. The BJP, led by Prime Minister Modi and Shah on the campaign trail, has been projecting a tally of at least 200 seats for itself. Mamata accused Modi of dog-whistling to polarise voters, alleging he was saying things without being explicit. “Who are you trying to fool, bhai?” she asked. “Our Hindus, in Bengal, are intellectually rich, culturally, they do not differentiate between castes like elsewhere. Everyone believes in Bengal, its soil, its water… raised on a diet of glorious schools of thought, such as that of Rabindranath Tagore, Kazi Nazrul Islam, Swami Vivekananda, Ramakrishna Paramhansa, Sarada Devi, Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose,” she said. “They (the saffron camp) are not real monks, they only dress like that to play the part. It suits thespians, not politicians…. They destroy in the name of religion. They lie in the name of religion. They do not even adhere to the religion themselves.” Asked why she chanted Hindu hymns at her campaign rallies, Mamata said she did it “selfishly”. “I used to chant the Chandi Path and many other hymns for at least an hour during my two-hour daily workout on the treadmill. I bow my head in humble reverence to all gods….  Because of that injury to my leg, I haven’t been able to walk on the treadmill for a month…. I think I have been putting on weight as well,” Mamata said, laughing. “My daily prayers for the well-being of everyone were getting hampered. So I chant the hymns from the dais. So that’s my own work getting done…. For instance, my Bagalamukhi Ma must never think that Mamata doesn’t remember her, as that might make her angry…. I don’t want to have these doubts.” Mamata asserted that she was “very religious”, more than most people. “But I’m not adharmik (unrighteous) or a bokdharmik (sanctimonious hypocrite),” she said. “Everyone is equal to me. I feel ashamed to underscore my caste, whenever I give out my last name, in this day and age. If we aren’t able to rise even above such basic differences — even after decades in politics — it’s a matter of shame.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Suggestions to club last two phases amid Covid surge||A Congress candidate has died after testing positive for Covid-19, deepening fears that the long-drawn-out election process in Bengal has turned perilous in the middle of a second wave of infection and prompting suggestions that at least the last two phases of polling be clubbed. The demand is likely to come up on Friday at an all-party meeting, scheduled by the Election Commission on the Covid situation in the wake of the death of Rezaul Haque, the Congress candidate from the Murshidabad seat of Samserganj. But a spokesperson for the Election Commission in New Delhi told PTI in response to a question whether some phases could be merged: “No such plan of clubbing phases.” Four of the eight phases are over in Bengal and the fifth is scheduled on Saturday. At least three other candidates have tested Covid-positive: they are the RSP’s Jangipur (Murshidabad) candidate Pradip Nandy and Trinamul’s Goalpokhor (North Dinajpur) candidate Gulam Rabbani and Jalpaiguri nominee P.K. Burma. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee suggested clubbing of the last two phases, conceding that it might harm her party since the areas involved are Trinamul strongholds but declaring she would accept such a move in the people’s interest. “The fifth phase has to be held as scheduled on Saturday as only 48 hours are left. The Election Commission might (also) have to hold the (sixth phase) as scheduled, on April 22, as all the formalities have been completed,” she said. “If they can club the last two phases (scheduled on April 26 and 29), we have no problem as it would give the people some relief during the pandemic.” Mamata blamed the deterioration in Bengal’s Covid-19 situation on the polls being drawn out into eight phases and the BJP bringing in outsiders. “There was no reason to hold elections in eight phases in Bengal.… It is an insult to Bengal, particularly when polls were held in one phase in Tamil Nadu and Kerala and in two phases in Assam,” Mamata said. Mamata added: “Besides, the regular entry of outsiders from states where the (Covid) situation is grim has turned the situation critical. During the Prime Minister’s rallies, many people from other states come in.” Mamata said she would not accept any Election Commission decision to curb large rallies ahead of the remaining phases. The poll panel is expected to announce some anti-Covid measures at Friday’s all-party meeting. “Four phases of the polls have already been held. If we are now asked to hold street corners ahead of the remaining phases, we can’t accept it,” the chief minister told ABP Ananda during an interview. She suggested that any restrictions on large rallies ahead of the next phases would give the BJP an unfair advantage. It was in this context that Mamata signalled she was open to the number of phases being reduced by merging them. “The elections will now be held in areas where we have strong bases. In the first four phases, (when polling was held in places) where the BJP had won some seats (in the 2019 general election), all types of rallies were allowed,” she said. “We cannot now accept any restrictions on large rallies. We will follow all guidelines and protocols during the meetings.” Mamata was responding to a question on the CPM’s decision to do away with large rallies. Poll panel sources said that merging the remaining phases was extremely unlikely. “Saturday’s polling cannot be deferred since all the arrangements have been made. It’s not possible to bring the last three phases forward as that would require the deployment of another 1,500 companies of central forces and cut down campaigning time for the candidates,” a source said. Another official said that deferring some of the phases to April 29 would not help, either, as the poll panel would have to allow campaigning till April 27 at all these seats, leading to an overall increase in rallies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid surge: Health officials in south Bengal districts scout for private hospitals||Health officials in several south Bengal districts are urgently scouting for private hospitals after fresh Covid-19 infections registered a sharp spike across the state in the past fortnight, with 6,769 new infections being reported on Thursday alone. Sources said that during the first wave of pandemic last year the health department took over several private establishments to turn those into either isolation wards or Covid hospitals, but when the number of infections decreased, the government released those establishments. But now, Covid’s second wave has again necessitated an infrastructure upgrade to admit the increasing number of patients. Bengal has 36,981 active cases as on Thursday. “The second wave of Covid has hit us. Districts have been asked to keep healthcare establishments ready depending on the number of new cases reported,” a senior health official said. In Birbhum, the health department inspected a new private hospital in Bolpur to convert it into a Covid hospital on Tuesday. Sources said more two such establishments will be found very soon. “We have identified a private hospital in Bolpur. As the number of cases is increasing, we are planning to convert it into a Covid hospital. Our officials inspected the hospital in Bolpur on Tuesday,” said Jayanta Sukul, the deputy CMOH-III of Birbhum. During the first phase of the pandemic, there were six centres, including hospitals, to take care of Covid patients in Birbhum. The corresponding figure for East Burdwan was eight. Now the two districts have one and two centres, respectively. In Birbhum, over 350 Covid-19 cases have been detected in the past 24 hours and the rate at which numbers are increasing is alarming, an official said. Sources said the Birbhum administration has reopened the isolation unit at the Niramoy TB sanatorium in Dubrajpur. In East Burdwan, there are only two healthcare centres to treat Covid patients. One of the centres is at Krishi Bhavan and the other is at Burdwan Medical College and Hospital. Sources said the two centres can treat only 100 patients. Already, 30 patients were admitted there. There is a need to augment the infrastructure in view of the rise in cases, sources added. “We have already increased testing and will set up private facilities as infections are increasing fast,” said Pranab Roy, the CMOH of East Burdwan. The state government has fixed a testing target for each Bengal district depending on its population and the number of Covid patients reported since mid-March. In an order issued by the health department on Monday, all districts were given specific targets of Covid-19 tests. Right now, the testing target is 36,000 a day across Bengal, including the RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests. “Earlier, districts were conducting only 100-250 tests per day as vaccination started. But as the Covid situation has begun to worsen alarmingly, we have fixed a target of 300-1,400 per day for each district. The number of tests will depend on the population of the district and their Covid active case trend,” said a senior health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Audio clips surfacing on social media heightens embarrassment of Malda BJP ||Two audio clips surfacing on social media have heightened the embarrassment of the Malda district BJP leadership that is desperately trying to bring dissidents, including those contesting as Independents against the party’s official candidates in many seats, into its fold. In those clippings, two persons, supposedly BJP leader Abhijit Mishra and district party president Gobinda Chandra Mandal, are heard trying to fervently appease two dissident candidates of Manikchak Assembly seat — with cash and promises of a zilla parishad seat nomination, respectively. The Telegraph has not independently verified the authenticity of any audio clip. Mishra purportedly is heard offering Dalim Mandal, a dissident contesting from Manikchak, Rs 2 lakh in cash to withdraw and help the official BJP candidate avert defeat. Mishra denied the voice was his while at the same time claiming there was nothing wrong in pursuing a dissident. “The audio is doctored. My voice and tone have been imitated. I did not ask anyone to withdraw candidature against money. But even if it is my voice, there is nothing wrong in pursuing a dissident worker to help the official BJP candidate,” he said. He will not file any complaint with the police in this regard, Mishra clarified. In the other recording, a person calling himself district BJP president Mandal is heard offering a Bharatiya Jana Sangh-backed Independent candidate Anil Chandra Mandal, also contesting from Manikchak, a nomination in the Zilla Parishad seat in future if he withdraws his nomination. District BJP president Mandal is purportedly pleading repeatedly with the dissident to sit for a discussion. The dissident is purportedly spurning the appeals. Mandal, when asked, said he did not recall calling up any particular individual. But he added that he found nothing wrong in calling up a veteran party worker who “is annoyed over some issue” and contesting against the party’s official candidate. “I cannot recall if I had called up any individual in particular. But I have spoken to all those who have expressed their grievances after the BJP candidate list was published. It was my duty to speak to them, understand their feelings and motivate them to work for the BJP, keeping aside their individual issues. A few candidates, who were initially upset, have already withdrawn their (rival) candidatures,” Mandal said. For the Manikchak seat, the last date for withdrawal of candidature was April 12. Elections will be held in the seat in the final phase, that is, on April 29. In Manikchak, the BJP has fielded Gour Chandra Mandal, the sabhadhipati of Malda Zilla Parishad, a Trinamul turncoat who joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly elections. Dalim, one of the dissident candidates, said Gour’s selection left them disappointed. “We are not against the BJP. But we revolted against Gour’s candidature. We can’t accept him as he used to harass us when he was with Trinamul,” he said. Gour, however, ignored these dissidents. “They will not be able to create any impact in these elections. The principal contest is between Trinamul and BJP and we will win this seat,” said the Trinamul turncoat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: TMC lodges complaint with EC accusing Babul Supriyo of defiling Constitution||The Trinamul Congress on Thursday lodged a complaint with Bengal’s chief electoral officer, accusing Union minister of state Babul Supriyo of defiling the Preamble to the Indian Constitution. Supriyo, who is also the BJP’s Tollygunge candidate, had tweeted a picture of the Preamble to the Constitution on April 14 on the occasion of the 130th birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar, the father of the Indian Constitution. The tweet also had a picture of Ambedkar. According to the complaint, the picture of the Preamble posted by Supriyo “has omitted the words ‘Socialist’, ‘Secular’ and ‘integrity of Nation’ that were inserted in the original Preamble with the 42nd Amendment to the Indian Constitution in 1976”. “What Supriyo has done is defiling the Constitution. He has taken an oath under the Constitution but after this he should be stripped of his ministerial position and arrested for inciting people to defy the Constitution,” said Trinamul MP and spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy Trinamul has alleged that Supriyo also insulted Bharat Ratna Babasaheb Ambedkar and that such defiling of the Constitution is an offence under Section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, which is punishable by imprisonment. “... it seems Supriyo, himself being a member of the parliament and a Union Minister, believes in a Constitution that does not have the words “secular”, “socialist” and “integrity of nation,” the Trinamul complaint reads. According to experts, the Constitution has been amended for around 130 times in the 71 years since it was adopted on January 26, 1950. In 1976, the 42nd amendment to the Constitution was introduced, which changed the description of India from a “sovereign democratic republic” to a “sovereign, socialist secular democratic republic”, and also changed the words “unity of the nation” to “unity and integrity of the nation”. The saffron ecosystem, with its idea of India as a Hindu nation, has for long tried to establish that these words were introduced in the Constitution during the Emergency by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. However, Roy negated such claims and said that both the Houses of Parliament had adopted these amendments and nothing was forcefully imposed. “The BJP would say Indira Gandhi had used the Emergency to amend the Constitution, but that isn’t the case…And if they have such problems with these words, they should counter those constitutionally,” Roy said. Speaking to The Telegraph, constitutional expert and former Supreme Court justice Ashok Kumar Ganguly echoed Roy’s words. “If someone is tweeting a picture of the Constitution or its Preamble, it has to be the full picture. One cannot make a selective post in case of the Constitution. Irrespective of whether the person is a Union minister or an ordinary citizen, he has to follow the Constitution.” Babul Supriyo said: “I have no reaction or comment to make till I receive a copy of the complaint.” Sinha repeats taunt Former state BJP president and candidate for the Habra seat, Rahul Sinha, on Thursday justified his comments on the Sitalkuchi firing. As the duration of the ban on his campaign expired on Thursday, Sinha told an election rally: “Vivek Dubey has made a clear statement…if the central forces are attacked, the forces will fire again. This means that what I had said, the representative of the Election Commission had said that same thing. I’m saying again, if the central forces are attacked…if people are not allowed to vote…the central forces should fire, doesn’t matter who dies in that…” The Election Commission had banned Sinha from campaigning for 48 hours for his inflammatory speech. He had said that the central forces should have shot dead eight people, instead of four, at Sitalkuchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
16-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Posters mimic Modi's 'Didi'  taunt||#Raag Keno Didi? Next to a cartoon featuring a contorted face of Mamata Banerjee is a question with a hashtag: Why the anger, Didi? There is no mention of who is asking it. Dozens of such framed hoardings, measuring about three feet by a foot-and-a-half, line a section of Central Avenue and beyond, from Central to Esplanade Metro stations, hung strategically at the pedestrians’ eye level. One is on a red backdrop and has a female figure in white sari with thin blue border, holding a mike in one hand and gesticulating with the other. The other on a black backdrop is just a face, cheeks puffed, eyes flashing, teeth bared and lips parted in the act of hollering. Despite there being no indicator, a look at the visuals triggers a voice in the head of the informed passerby, one that intones: “Didi, O Didi”, taunting and jeering and relishing the act and its perceived effect. Indeed, once that association is made, it is easy to connect the dots backwards. The hoardings made their appearance late on April 6. Exactly a month ago, on March 7, the same words were heard in course of the Prime Minister’s Brigade Parade Grounds speech. “Didi, aapko itna gussa kyun? Raag keno, Didi? Eto raag keno, Didi?” Narendra Modi had asked. He had quoted a part of a sloka from the Bhagwad Gita: Krodhat bhavati sammohah, sammohat smriti — vibhramah…. From anger, delusion arises, and from delusion the bewilderment of memory. The rest of the sloka, which he did not quote in original, describes how when memory is bewildered, intelligence is lost and causes one’s downfall. He had described the process in Hindi. “…Phir usse confusion ho jata hai, confusion me insaan galti karta jata hai, bura karta hai, bura sochne lag jata hai, aur apna hi sab kuchh gawa deta hai.” The “Didi, O Didi” jibe that has become a leitmotif in every Modi speech is possibly meant to agitate the chief minister and provoke her into reacting along similar lines. But it also seems to be part of a bigger scheme. The day after the Prime Minister’s rally, a music video was uploaded on YouTube with a Bengali rap song, playing on the words Raag keno Didi, and footage from both Modi’s and the chief minister’s speeches. That has not gained traction yet, having garnered just about a thousand views in a month. A week ago, at the Prime Minister’s Uluberia rally, several supporters were spotted wearing T-shirts with the same words: Raag keno Didi? There, too, the Prime Minister harped on Didi’s “anger”. “Aap ka gussa, aap ki narazgi, aap ka vyavhar, aap ki vani — inn sab ko dekh kar ek bachcha bhi bataa sakta hai ki aap chunav haar chuki hai… (Your anger, your disenchantment, your behaviour, your words — seeing all this even a child can say you have lost the election).” On April 2, #RaagKenoDidi appeared on Twitter, with the likes of BJP member and former Film and Television Institute of India chairman Gajendra Chauhan using it. BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya used the hashtag with a video clip of another speech of the Prime Minister, again asking “Eto raag keno Didi?”, on April 3. With the election bandwagon rolling into the city, the hoardings now make an appearance on an arterial central Calcutta street. Angry, frustrated, bewildered and defeated, that is the image of the tallest leader of the rival camp that the BJP is seeking to plant in the electorate’s mind. And the cartoons add a visual dimension to the taunt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
