17-04-2021||West Bengal||TMC uses infiltrators as votebank, BJP will solve problem, claims Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday claimed that the BJP is the only political entity which can stop infiltration and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee is concerned with "fake secularism". Speaking at public rallies at Ausgram in Bengal's Purba Bardhaman district and Chapra in Nadia district, the senior BJP leader alleged that infiltrators serve as the votebank of the TMC. "The Congress, the Left parties and the Trinamool Congress will not be able to stop infiltration in Bengal. The BJP is the only political party which can stop infiltration. "Didi (Mamata) is concerned with her fake secularism. She bothers only about her votebank," Shah said. Referring to a purported audio clip in which Mamata, also the state Chief Minister, is heard suggesting a rally with bodies of Cooch Behar firing victims, he claimed that she "indulges in politics over dead bodies". “People should be ashamed of her,” Shah said. Four persons were killed as central forces opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", near a booth in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district during the fourth phase of polling on April 10. The BJP released the purported audio clip on Friday, on the eve of the fifth phase of elections. Shah said, "Mamata spreads the politics of hatred and that is why there is so much violence across the state." He said that no incident of booth capturing was reported during Saturday's polls and the BJP knows how to deal with the "TMC goons". The BJP leader claimed that the Mamata Banerjee government did not give citizenship to the Matua people, who are refugees from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh), and justice to the Namasudras who are Dalits. "Let me say that if the BJP comes to power in Bengal, Matuas will be given citizenship by implementing the CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act)," he said. The BJP leader alleged that the TMC government has become synonymous with syndicates, cut-money (bribe) and politics of appeasement. In Bengal, 'syndicate' means the business run by persons allegedly enjoying political patronage, who force promoters and contractors to buy construction materials, often of inferior quality, at high prices. "Don't you all feel that this government should go," he asked. Time has come for the exit of the Mamata Banerjee government and Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal) will be created after the BJP comes to power in the state, the BJP leader said. Shah claimed that once the saffron party forms government in Bengal, youths will not have to go outside the state to seek jobs. "We will ensure that one youth of each family gets employment in the state," he said. Shah said that after the BJP comes to power, state government employees will be benefited from the Seventh Pay Commission, teachers will receive higher salaries, and women will be given free transport service. Earlier, Shah held a roadshow at Amdanga in North 24 Parganas district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Amid polls, Trinamul raises oxygen crisis in Maharashtra||A crisis of oxygen cylinders in Maharashtra cast its shadow on the ongoing polls with the Trinamul Congress accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ignoring the pandemic-induced health emergency and focus on winning the Bengal polls. “Maharashtra CM @OfficeofUT called Modi requesting for urgent supply of oxygen for his State. Was informed that PM busy campaigning in Bengal. Will respond on his return,” tweeted O’Brien on Saturday while polling for the fifth phase covering 45 Assembly seats was on. According to sources, in the last 24 hours,  Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has called the Prime Minister’s Office thrice but could not speak to him.The Covid crisis in Maharashtra  is growing into a full-blown standoff between the state and the centre. The NCP leader and Maharashtra minister, Nawab Malik, alleged the Centre had instructed the pharma companies not to supply medicines to the state. “It is sad and shocking that when Government of Maharashtra asked the 26 export companies for Remdesivir, we were told that Central Government has asked them not to supply the medicine to Maharashtra. These companies were warned, if they did, their license will be cancelled,” tweeted Malik. “This is a dangerous precedent and under these circumstances, Maharashtra government will have no choice but to seize the stock of Remdesivir from these exporters and supply it to the needy,” he wrote in another tweet. On Saturday, Modi called for a “symbolic” Kumbh mela in Haridwar where the restriction went for a toss for religious pandering. The Centre-Maharashtra standoff could have a bearing on the aftermath of the Bengal poll results. When the Maharashtra Assembly polls were held in 2019, the BJP and the Shiv Sena were alliance partners. Early one morning in October, the former chief minister, Devendra Fadnavis, had even taken oath, but the Sena in a post-poll coalition with the Congress and the NCP, trumped Modi and Shah to form a government headed by Uddhav Thackeray. The Mahavikas Agadhi government has since been a thorn in the BJP’s crown. A similar scenario might unfold in Bengal if none of the parties get a clear majority, which is possible on paper. By raising its voice in favour of Shiv Sena, the Trinamul is trying to keep the non-BJP governments in other states by its side, in case the BJP makes any attempts to snatch power through the back door as it did in Bihar, Manipur, Goa, Madhya Pradesh. The Maharashtra crisis also helps the Opposition to target Modi for neglecting the needs of the people as it is with the agitating farmers in Delhi and now the Corona crisis that has hit hard even his home state Gujarat. On Saturday, Modi had two election campaign meetings scheduled in Asansol and Gangarampur, while Amit Shah held a roadshow in North 24-Pargana in Amdanga and held two public meetings at Chapra and Ausgram. Despite the global pandemic and a spike in Covid cases across the country in the past few weeks that have rendered both hospitals, crematoriums and burial grounds inadequate to deal with the volume of the ailing and the dead, the Election Commission has continued with the unprecedented eight-phase polling in Bengal. After Saturday, three more phases are to go, and the results will be declared on May 2. At an all-party meeting on Friday, the central poll panel announced restricting poll campaign from 7pm onwards, though the measure will have limited impact, as crowds will remain on the streets for the day endangering lives. The other political parties had criticised the central poll panel’s decision to hold elections in eight-phases as it helped the BJP utilise all of its resources in the poll campaign. The CPM had announced it would not hold any big meetings as part of the campaign but there have been reports of large gatherings in some of the meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee alleges her phone is being tapped, says will order CID probe||A day after a purported audio tape -- in which she is heard proposing a rally with the bodies of Cooch Behar firing victims -- surfaced, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday alleged that her phone is being tapped and said she will order a CID probe into it. Addressing an election rally at Galsi in Burdwan, she accused the BJP of being involved in the conspiracy as the saffron party "cannot match" the ruling Trinamool Congress' campaigning on development programmes. "They (BJP leaders) are even eavesdropping on our everyday conversation. It seems they are tapping our phone calls on cooking and other household chores. "I will order a CID probe into the issue. I will not spare anyone involved in such snooping activities. I have already come to know who is behind this," the TMC supremo said. Mamata also claimed she has information that the "central forces are being involved in such acts with some agents". "It is clear that the BJP is behind it though they claimed they have no role in it," she said. A controversy erupted on Friday after the BJP released the purported audio clip in which Mamata is heard telling the Trinamool Congress nominee of Sitalkuchi to hold rallies with bodies of the four persons killed in CISF firing during polling on April 10. Claiming that such a conversation never took place, the TMC had described the audio clip as "bogus" and wondered whether the Centre was tapping a chief minister's phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Led by youth this time, Left hopes to lay the ground for long battle ahead||She is no fiery orator. She does not possess a trace of glamour. And almost everyone knows that her chances of winning are next to nothing. Yet Minakshi Mukherjee, the 33-year-old CPI(M) youth leader, has emerged as the unlikely new star of the 2021 Bengal elections. Videos of her quiet and determined campaign in Nandigram have gone viral; she is the most sought-after speaker at Left rallies throughout the state; and even those who have no allegiance to Left politics express a grudging admiration for the way she managed to make her presence felt in a high-pitched battle between Mamata Banerjee and her one-time protégé –turned-bitter adversary Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. But for all the publicity that has come her way, Minakshi is less about an individual than a phenomenon: one among a host of new young faces that symbolizes the efforts of the Left to rejuvenate itself at a particularly critical historical juncture. And the response she is getting also reflects a bigger trend which has been largely suppressed in the din created by the big players in this election: that despite an all-out effort by both the TMC and BJP to make 2021 a bipolar contest, the CPM-led Samyukta Morcha remains a factor in the politics of Bengal. With the BJP taking full advantage of the anti-incumbency mood and lacing it with its patented tactics of communal polarization, and Mamata Banerjee fighting back with even greater ferocity after the Sitalkuchi violence and its aftermath, the space for a “third force” is certainly limited. Besides, in the electoral arena, voters increasingly go for the “’winning side” which puts the Samyukta Morcha (or “jot” as it is colloquially termed) at a big disadvantage since no one expects it to win anywhere near a majority. Despite these factors, or perhaps because of them, the surprise element of this election is the number of people who seem to be looking towards the Left with more hope than despair. What makes it surprising is that both in perception and in reality, the once mighty CPM-led Left has been in a state of terminal decline – organisationally decimated by the TMC onslaught since 2011 and ideologically isolated after right wing Hindutva captured power at the Centre in 2014 and began rapidly spreading its tentacles into Bengal from 2016 onwards. The Left’s inability to withstand this twin assault has been reflected in the steady erosion of its vote share over the last ten years. When it lost power and was reduced to just 40 seats in that cataclysmic election of 2011, the CPM alone still managed to get over 30 per cent of the vote. That plummeted to less than 20 per cent in 2016. It reached near rock bottom in the Lok Sabha elections two years ago when the party failed to win a single seat and garnered a meagre 6.34 per cent vote share. The current assembly elections are taking place when the Bengal Left is at its lowest ebb ever. Apart from facing two formidable adversaries in the form of the TMC and the BJP, it is also the target of much criticism from secular and Left forces outside the state. After the BJP’s spectacular performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when it won 18 of the 42 seats with an over 40 per cent vote share, these sections felt that an enfeebled Left was in no position to check the BJP’s takeover of Bengal and should therefore back Mamata Banerjee. An intra-left debate between Left intellectuals and activists continues to rage in the virtual world of social media with many sharply critical of the CPM’s electoral tactics, including the setting up of the Samyukta Morcha. The story is different in the real world. With Left supporters being the main target of TMC violence over the years, any question of backing Mamata Banerjee in the election was untenable. Left leaders insist that the “Aage Ram, Pore Baam” slogan which gained much currency during the 2019 polls started out as a pernicious RSS whisper campaign aimed at confusing the Left voter. The media and the TMC amplified it and falsely claimed that it was a sanctioned Left tactic. Whatever be the genesis of the slogan, the fact is that large sections of the erstwhile Left mass base shifted to the BJP in 2019 -- many because the Left was in no condition to protect them from TMC “terror” at the grassroots level. Given this backdrop, Left activists point out, joining hands with the TMC in the name of “secular unity” would have only helped the BJP. The revulsion towards TMC’s corruption and violence is so great among Left sympathisers that such a tie-up would have ensured a further exodus of voters towards the BJP. Ideologically too, there appears to be a big difference in how Mamata Banerjee is viewed in Bengal and her image outside the state. For BJP critics in the rest of the country, the TMC supremo is regarded as India’s most formidable secular icon – singlehandedly taking on the might of the BJP. In Bengal, leftists of all hues, claim the opposite. They insist that Mamata Banerjee facilitated the rise of the BJP in multiple ways. Her attempt to establish an “Opposition-mukt” Bengal (by decimating the Left’s rural organisation and encouraging large-scale defections of Congress MLAs to TMC) coupled with her penchant for identity politics centred on caste and religion helped the RSS first, and the BJP thereafter to take advantage of the new fault lines that appeared in the social and political fabric of post-Left Bengal, they contend. But while the theoretical understanding of the need to fight the TMC as an essential element of the fight against BJP is one thing, to translate that into a meaningful exercise on the ground is something else altogether. In order to do that, the Left has adopted new electoral tactics in this election of which the most talked about is the “youth factor.” At its state committee meeting in January, the CPM decided that 60 per cent of its candidates would be under 40 years and barring exceptional cases, it would not field anyone above the age of 60. Minakshi Mukherjee apart, several of the youngsters such as former JNU students’ leader Deepshita Dhar in Bally, current JNUSU president Aishee Ghosh in Jamuria, state SFI secretary Srijan Bhattacharya in Singur, and SFI president Protikur Rahman in Diamond Harbour have attracted media attention. Youth is not the only factor that makes them different from the past. Many come from humble backgrounds such as Jhunu Baidya, the daughter of a sharecropper, who is fighting the Krishnaganj seat in Nadia district or Chandicharan Let, whose father runs a cycle repair shop in Bardhaman. “The truth is that after a very long time, a communist party has fielded communist candidates,” an old timer said. The CPM has not just fielded young candidates but has also left it to the youth to plan and execute the campaign. That has lent a freshness and vivacity to the Left’s outreach seldom seen before. Social media has been flooded with funny memes, catchy songs and snappy videos that have reached out to a whole new generation in the state. The take-off on a peppy film number (Tumpa Shona) before the Brigade rally in February may have come as a bit of a shock to older comrades brought up on a diet of IPTA-era revolutionary songs. But Tumpa proved a monster hit and signalled the Left’s makeover efforts even before the list of candidates was announced. The fielding of youth candidates, dismissed as a “publicity stunt” by both the BJP and the TMC, is much more than an electoral tactic. After decades of being in power, the CPM was seen as a party of the status quo, its leadership dominated by middle class bhadralok in starched white dhuti-panjabi even if the base comprised of poor peasants and workers. The crop of youth leaders who came up through mass movements in the 1960s and early 1970s were now old men. Those who joined later came to a party entrenched in power; when the terms “struggle” and “sacrifice” had long become empty shibboleths.  It is a different story today. With the Left at its weakest and with little hope of any overnight recovery, the young men and women who have joined the party are seen to be driven by a sense of idealism and conviction rather than the opportunism and careerism of yore; they know that fighting elections is only the first step in a long hard journey ahead. Another element of the new electoral tactic has been to focus on “livelihood” issues -- unemployment, price rise, hunger -- and steer clear of the emotive issues of religion and ethnicity that has come to dominate both the TMC’s and the BJP’s campaign. The third, and perhaps most controversial, has been the decision to form the Samyukta Morcha that includes not just the Congress but also the Indian Secular Front headed by Abbas Siddique, the peer of the famous Sufi shrine in Hooghly district, Furfura Sharif. CPM supporters may have got over their old anti-Congressism, but the decision to join hands with an “Islamic cleric” has not gone down well with many of them. Even though the ISF seeks to be a multi-faith platform of the “downtrodden” including Dalits and adivasis, and Siddique’s speeches have focussed on secular rather than religious concerns, many Left sympathisers are uncomfortable with the decision. A CPM leader said the decision to form the “jot” was to make the third force more “visible, credible and winnable.”  For now, it is has certainly made it more visible since Siddique (or Bhaijaan as he is known) has drawn huge crowds at every rally he has addressed. Whether it has made it more winnable won’t be known for another three weeks. And the credibility debate will continue for much longer. So is the Left’s new experiment working? The answer is both no and yes – in that order. After innumerable conversations in street corners and chai shops dotted across small towns, villages and in the big city itself, it is clear that the bipolar contest between the TMC and the BJP is the central leitmotif of this election. The “jot” is a factor in less than a third of the assembly seats. Being a “factor” does not mean victory. And if the mood for “poriborton” assumes the dimension of a wave, the chances of winning more than a handful of seats in a three-cornered contest become even slimmer. But elections are not only about winning. They are also about reaching out to people, making oneself heard, attracting new sections and converting hostility to goodwill. On that score, as we discover to our surprise, the campaign seems to be working. Even in seats where the Left has no chance, the names of their candidates come up in random conversations. In Domjur, for instance, where heavyweight TMC minister Rajib Banerjee is now fighting on a BJP ticket against TMC’s Kalyan Ghosh, we get talking to Sayan Naskar and Biswajit Bag, two young men watching Mithun Chakroborty’s road show. They will probably vote for “change”, they say, but on their own bring up the name of Uttam Bera – the CPM/jot candidate in the seat. “Uttam Bera is a very good man. He is always there to help,” Sayan says. His friend adds: “The CPM candidates are very good this time: they are educated, disciplined, sober.” It is a sentiment we come across in other places too. The words “shikhitto (educated)” and “bhodro (decent)” are used often. With the Left out of power for 10 years, the seething hostility towards the “Party” during the 2011 polls is now over. That Minakshi Mukherjee and Srijan Bhattacharya could campaign door to door for weeks on end in Nandigram and Singur respectively -- the two famous epicentres of the movement that felled the CPM -- is evidence of that. What is more remarkable though are the many voices asserting that the Left has a future – even if the present is bleak. Biswajit Datta, who runs a chemist shop in Jadavpur, says that Sujan Chakraborty is a strong candidate but even he may lose in the “poribortoner jhod (the storm for change)”. But he goes on to add: “The Left will come back. They must, they should.” Some distance away in Sonarpur, Pranab Ghosh says “Baam ashbe. Aaro unnoto baam aashbe. Ashtei hobe (The Left will return. A more rejuvenated Left. It has to).”  And a retired schoolteacher in Champdani in Hooghly district concedes that “Baam prochur bhool koreche. Kintu shaasti o peyeche. Aabar notun hoye uthbe (The Left made many mistakes. But it has been punished too. A new Left will rise).” Election strategists believe that the bulk of voters do not “waste” their vote on a party or alliance that is not a contender for power. This explains “wave” elections – a common phenomenon in other parts of India which has of late spread to Bengal too. But perhaps because Bengal had a long tradition of firm loyalties (towards either the Left or the Congress), there are still people (numerically more significant than in other states) who do not go with the “winning side” regardless of any ideological convictions. The rise of the BJP and the possibility of it gaining power have, in fact, drawn support for the “jot” from unexpected quarters. An elderly Sikh, at the wheel of an Uber taxi, does not know the names of any of the candidates in his constituency near Dum Dum. “Jo bhi jeetke aaye, Bangal mein bahut jhagde phasaad hone wala hain. (Whoever forms the next government, Bengal is in for turmoil)”. That is why, he adds, he will vote for the party he still associates with “discipline.” The concerns of more politically conscious citizens go beyond the possibility of immediate post-poll turmoil. They envision a long, drawn-out ideological battle against the Right. A middle-aged couple in a Ballygunge highrise who were unsure about who to vote for at the start of the elections have decided to vote for the “jot” because TMC is incapable of fighting a prolonged ideological battle, now or later. Sumit Chowdhury, a filmmaker and activist who was deeply involved in the movements in Singur, Nandigram and Lalgarh during the last term of the Left Front government, says there are many ideological differences within the various parties and groups that come under the broad “Left, secular, progressive” umbrella. These differences will remain and the debates will continue because that is what makes the Left a vibrant force unlike the monolithic Hindutva Right. But despite these differences, the time has come for a united battle to fight the new force that is taking over Bengal. “The real battle will start after May 2,” he says, a view echoed by several others in different parts of the state. The CPM’s decision to field fresh new faces untainted by their years in power, and experiment with new alliances to break the communal binary that threatens to engulf Bengal may yield modest electoral gains. The real test, it is clear, lies ahead: will the new seeds from an old tree be smothered in a field overrun by the lotus? Or do they possess the resilience, the stamina, the strength to sprout and grow and flower in an increasingly inhospitable environment? These elections are just the starting point for a much bigger challenge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Sporadic violence at some places during fifth phase of polls in Bengal||Sporadic incidents of violence were reported from some areas where polling took place during the fifth phase of the Assembly elections in Bengal on Saturday, while 78.36 per cent voter turnout was recorded till 5 pm, officials said. Polling was held in 45 seats in North 24 Parganas, Purba Bardhaman and Nadia in south Bengal, and Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in the north. The highest 81.73 per cent of voters' turnout was registered in Jalpaiguri district, followed by Purba Bardhaman (81.72 per cent), Nadia (81.57 per cent), North 24 Parganas (74.83 per cent), Darjeeling (74.31 per cent) and Kalimpong (69.56 per cent), he said. "By and large polling has been peaceful in Bengal today barring a few incidents of some violence," a senior official at the CEO said. "The security personnel are maintaining a tight vigil and they have addressed a few incidents that were reported," an official at the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) had said earlier. In the Shantinagar area of Bidhanagar, a clash broke out between TMC and BJP supporters with both sides accusing each other of stopping the voters from going to the polling booths. Bricks and stones were hurled, injuring eight people, officials said. A huge contingent of the central force was rushed to the spot to control the situation, they said. TMC MLA Sujit Bose and BJP candidate Sabyasachi Dutta visited the spot to take stock of the situation. In Siliguri, a scuffle broke out between TMC and CPI (M) supporters outside a polling booth. In Santipur in the Nadia district, the TMC alleged that personnel of the central forces were asking voters to go back, a charge rubbished by the authorities. Further, the TMC alleged that a polling booth in the Bardhaman Uttar constituency was captured by the BJP. The allegation was denied by the opposition party, while poll officials said that no such incident has happened. In Bijpur in North 24 Parganas, TMC and BJP supporters clashed after the Opposition party alleged that voters were being prevented from going to the booths. The BJP also alleged that some of its booth agents in the Minakha constituency of the same district were "kidnapped" by the TMC. The TMC said that the BJP does not have enough strength to depute agents in all the booths and that is why it was levelling such "baseless" allegations. A total of 1,13,47,344 people were eligible to vote. Of them, 57,35,766 are men, 56,11,354 were women and 224 are third gender. At many places, voters were seen without masks amid the resurgent coronavirus, raising concerns. The security forces ensured social distancing at the booths, while election officials provided masks, hand sanitisers and polythene gloves to the voters. The polling started at 7 am and continued till 6.30 pm in 15,789 stations across the six districts. The Election Commission had deployed at least 853 companies of the central forces for Saturday's polling. The strength of one company of central force is around 100 personnel including officers. The Election Commission on Saturday sought a report from poll observers on an alleged incident of firing by central forces in Deganga constituency of South 24 Parganas -- where voting is underway -- after such allegations were levelled by locals.

A senior election official said the office of CEO Ariz Aftab has received video footages, in which villagers are seen alleging that central forces opened fire near a booth in Kurulgacha area of Deganga to chase them away.

"We have sought a quick report on the matter from the poll observers there," he said.

However, a Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) officer posted at the booth, where the locals claimed shots have been fired, said the allegations made are "baseless".

"Everything is fine here. The voting exercise is going on very peacefully. There was no incident of firing anywhere in this area," he stated. A booth agent of the BJP died after falling sick at a polling station in West Bengal's North 24 Parganas district on Saturday morning, prompting the Election Commission to seek a report, an official said. Abhijit Samanta, the BJP agent of booth number 107 in the Kamarhati assembly constituency, fell sick within an hour of the beginning of the polling, he said. Samanta was declared brought dead when taken to a hospital, he said. Voters waiting in the queue at the booth alleged that Samanta was not attended by poll officials and the central forces personnel initially even as he complained of chest pain and started vomiting. Meanwhile, an Independent candidate in the Chakdah seat in Nadia was detained after he was found carrying a firearm outside a booth, police said.

Koushik Bhowmick, the candidate, was found carrying the firearm outside booth number 44 and 45, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Poll teams protest chaos in Jalpaiguri||Protests, demonstrations and even a roadblock by government employees and others assigned various poll duties on Saturday — when elections are be held in seven Assembly seats of Jalpaiguri — were seen in the district on Friday, allegedly over administrative mismanagement. Trouble started at Nagrakata in the Dooars where polling personnel, supposed to reach the distribution-cum-collection centre that has been opened on the second campus of the North Bengal University on Jalpaiguri outskirts, could not find vehicles. Some 250 to 300 government employees waited in front of the BDO office in Nagrakata till 11am, when their patience ran out and they blocked a road in protest, bringing traffic to a standstill in Nagrakata. “We were instructed to reach the DCRC in Jalpaiguri by 7am, but because of administrative mismanagement, we had to sit idle for over four hours. We don’t know when we can reach our booths,” said Ramesh Chandra Das, a government employee. The BDO intervened and arranged some vehicles but even till 2pm, some employees could not make it to Jalpaiguri, said a source. Some 200 vehicle drivers of Cooch Behar, who have been brought at the DCRC here to carry polling teams and security personnel to booths, were also disgruntled saying that though they reached on Thursday they hadn’t been assigned their duties. “I came here with my vehicle from Dinhata, I spent my own money on fuel, and a whole day passed. Even now, we have not been told as if our vehicles would be engaged. Those managing the DCRC have also not paid us money for food. There is complete chaos. Basics like toilet and drinking water are missing,” said Raj Burman, a driver. He said at a time Covid cases were on the rise, the administration hadn’t given them masks and sanitisers. “We are totally clueless about whether we will be asked to take polling teams to booths or return home,” said another driver. The polling personnel who reached the DCRC also questioned the arrangements. They said one had to walk repeatedly from one end of the campus to another to finish all formalities and collect EVM, VVPAT and other items. “Those at the registration and inquiry counters lack information…. We have to move to multiple counters for any single information. Vehicles (for our transport) have not been parked according to Assembly constituencies but haphazardly, and we have to move around, searching for the vehicle,” said Arijit Das, a government employee. In Jalpaiguri district, 18.32 lakh voters will vote in 2,562 booths spread across seven Assembly seats. In all, 11,581 polling personnel have been engaged for the polls. Altogether, 145 companies of the CAPF will be deployed in the district on Saturday, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Poll personnel ascend three highest booths in Darjeeling||Polling personnel for three highest booths of Darjeeling district, which are located at an altitude of 12,000 feet, reached their destinations on Thursday, a day ahead of the polling staff of other booths. According to sources in the district administration, these booths have been set up in Srikhola Primary School, Daragaon Junior High School and Rammam Forest Primary School, all under Darjeeling Assembly seat where elections would be held on Saturday. “Altogether, there are 2,271 voters in these three polling stations. Like other voters of the district, they will also cast their votes on Saturday. But considering the locations of these booths, we have to send polling staff two days ahead of vote day so that they get adequate time to make preparations,” said an official. He said these primary schools are almost 100km away from Darjeeling town. The polling teams need to travel for around six hours by road to reach the booths. “Even a few years back, the teams would reach Rimbick, which is around 80km from Darjeeling, by road. From there, they would have to take pony rides. Things have improved now as motorable roads have been made to connect these locations,” the official added. Altogether, 12 polling personnel, along with security forces, have been sent to these three polling stations on Thursday. Darjeeling district administration and the police are making all necessary arrangements to conduct elections in its five Assembly seats. In Darjeeling district, around 12.39 lakh voters will cast their votes in 1,413 polling stations spread across three subdivisions, Darjeeling, Kurseong and Siliguri. “All preventive measures have been taken for a free and peaceful election. The personnel of central paramilitary forces have been deployed in different areas. They are conducting route marches in different corners of the district and will also man the booths. Also, the state police will be there to manage the law and order situation,” said a police officer. In the district, 96.5 companies of paramilitary forces would be deployed on the poll day, along with 4, 441 personnel of the state police. In neighbouring Kalimpong district, where polls would be held in the sole Assembly seat on Saturday, 2.09 lakh voters will exercise their right in 302 booths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Polls crucial for four hill leaders not in fray||Unlike the rest of Bengal, the fate of four hill leaders who are not contesting the Assembly election will be at stake when Darjeeling votes on Saturday. The political futures of Bimal Gurung, Binay Thapa, Anit Thapa and Mann Ghisingh are hanging in balance in this election, more than the party candidates that they have fielded in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong Assembly seats. Gurung is the founder president of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Tamang and Thapa formed a breakaway faction in 2017. Ghisingh — son of Subash Ghisingh who led the Gorkhaland movement in the 1980s and leader of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) — currently heads the party. No one knows which way the poll winds will blow this time. This situation has come to pass in the Darjeeling hills because of a perceived sense of “leadership crisis in the hills.” “Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa might have been in charge of the most important political setup in the hills, the GTA (Gorkhaland Territorial Administration), but they have not yet received the public’s mandate as they have lost back-to-back elections,” said a hill observer. On the other hand, the BJP may have won both the Darjeeling Lok Sabha and Darjeeling Assembly by-elections in 2019 but in the hills the role of its MPs and MLAs is limited because of the GTA, the observer said. “Moreover, Bimal Gurung had walked out of the BJP alliance last October (to join hands with Trinamul), which has further aggravated the leadership crisis. The hills are currently unsure who has the mandate in this present political complication,” the observer added. Sitting Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba, who is a GNLF leader contesting on a BJP ticket, admitted that the Darjeeling elections were “not just about candidates.” “This Bengal 2021 election is not just about the candidates. It is more about the party, the ideology and about our issues,” said Zimba. “The future of Darjeeling is also dependent on the results of Bengal elections. If we (the BJP) win here and lose Bengal, it would be fatal. Even if we lose here but win Bengal that would make some sense for us,” Zimba added. If there is a change of guard, there will be significant changes in the hills. BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, have hinted that they would not carry on with the GTA if the saffron party comes to power in the state. Thapa, who was recently replaced as chairperson of the GTA, following the model code of conduct requirements, has said that he would not like to go back to the GTA as a nominated chairperson. This essentially means that in the event of Trinamul retaining power in Bengal but Thapa’s party losing in the hills, he may be reluctant to head the hill body as a nominated head. Moreover, arch-rival Gurung is also in alliance with Trinamul. Among the two Morcha factions, one headed by Bimal Gurung and the other by Binay Tamang, the one winning this election can be sure of their political career as they would be seen carrying the hill mandate. “The rivalry among these two camps is bitter and any party that loses this election will face a huge difficulty in reviving their support base,” said an observer. “Any party that gets the mandate of the hill people this time will receive a head start in the future elections,” admitted a Tamang-Thapa camp leader. The GNLF, which has been in political wilderness since long, has tied up the BJP and is also looking to revive its base in the hills. “A lot depends on the outcome of this election, else we have to go back to our strategy rooms,” said a GNLF leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: East Burdwan farmer poses questions for the BJP||Pradip Biswas, 54, a farmer who owns seven acres of land in Hatgobindapur village, has been looking out for senior BJP leaders these past few months to ask a few questions. In the run-up to Saturday’s polls in eight East Burdwan constituencies, scores of BJP leaders had visited the district to tell farmers that the Mamata Banerjee government had denied them the benefits of the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. Among them were Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda. “People like me heard them out, but some of our questions remain unanswered,” Biswas said. He reeled off his queries: ⚫ If the BJP government at the Centre is kind enough to give farmers an annual dole of Rs 6,000, why can’t it do something to control the prices of fertilisers, which have in the past six months risen between 55 per cent and 100 per cent? ⚫ If the Centre is so farmer-friendly, why can’t farmers like him get subsidised diesel? ⚫Could the Centre not show some compassion for the farmers agitating on Delhi’s outskirts since November end? Biswas, a graduate from Burdwan University, said these questions were not political — they were rooted in his lifelong experience of farming, an occupation that has become increasingly unrewarding, especially for those with smaller holdings. “I bought diammonium phosphate (DAP) at Rs 2,400 a quintal six months ago. Now I’m buying the same fertiliser for Rs 3,800 per quintal,” he said. “I need six quintals of DAP to cultivate the boro paddy on my seven acres of land, so I’m paying Rs 8,400 more. The prices of other fertilisers have doubled in the past six months.” Biswas says Modi’s attempts to provide relief to farmers is welcome but the farming community needs policies that make agriculture viable so that there is some incentive to till the land. “If the farm economics is in our favour, why should we beg for doles?” Biswas said. “What’s the reason for making all the farmers look like beggars?” The East Burdwan farmer’s sentiments echo those of the tens of thousands protesting the Centre’s new farm laws, which threaten to change the rules of the game in Indian agriculture. Biswas said he grows paddy at least twice a year. As the land’s productivity is linked to fertilisers and diesel (which runs the irrigation pumps), he is dependent on the Centre’s policies. “Ask any farmer and he will tell you he needs a favourable environment where his input costs are under control and his produce gets a fair price,” he said. “This government increases the input costs and reduces the chances of us getting a fair price by coming up with strange legislations. Then they offer us an annual dole of Rs 6,000. Isn’t it an insult to all the farmers?” Most of East Burdwan’s 4.55 lakh farmers — and their over 65 lakh peers elsewhere in the state — would not be as articulate as Biswas but there’s little doubt that many of them have the same questions for the BJP. The farmers of undivided Burdwan were with the CPM till 2011. The party’s farmer wing, the All India Kisan Sabha, still enjoys considerable clout in the region because of its regular campaigns for farmers’ rights. Over the last few years, however, the political equations have changed. Mamata Banerjee — often dubbed “more left than the Left” by CPM leaders — has reached out to the farmers with initiatives like the Mati Utsav, an annual programme that offers farmers a bouquet of benefits and incentives. Despite its stellar show across Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had secured leads from only 2 of East Burdwan’s 16 Assembly segments. This time, the BJP has laid special emphasis on (East and West) Burdwan, an insider said, adding that the party knew that winning Bengal was impossible without winning Burdwan. “East Burdwan is a district of farmers, who play a significant role in at least 12 constituencies. So, we have taken a lot of initiatives to woo the farmers since 2020,” a BJP leader in Burdwan said. “Our national president, Jagat Prasad Nadda, had started an outreach drive called ‘Ek mutho chaal’ (a door-to-door campaign seeking a fistful of rice) from this district. Now, a large number of farmers are with us.” Trinamul has not sat idle. Mamata has announced a Rs 10,000 annual allowance to counter the BJP’s central dole. At her rallies in East Burdwan, the chief minister has repeatedly cited how her government has helped farmers and resisted forcible land acquisition. Some farmers are, however, unhappy even with the dole of Rs 10,000 for they had expected subsidised electricity from the state government and higher minimum support prices, which lie principally in the Centre’s domain. “We don’t need any dole, from the BJP or from Trinamul,” said Sukanta Mondal, a farmer from Ausgram, East Burdwan. “No government seems to understand that farmers always want to earn money from their produce. It makes them happy. We need the government’s help to get a better price for our produce.” Amal Halder, state secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, said: “The BJP has no idea what the farmers want; so its campaign is based on the promise of a dole.” He added: “The good thing is, the farmers have not been swayed by Modi’s promises. They want policies that lower the prices of fertilisers and diesel and give them a fair price for their produce.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Development vs identity in Gautam Deb’s constituency||Identity politics and development cards are at play in Dabgram-Fulbari, one of the prominent Assembly constituencies in north Bengal. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, who won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016, is taking on the challenge posed by former Trinamul Congress colleague Sikha Chatterjee. She had left Trinamul and is contesting the polls on BJP ticket. Dilip Singh of the CPM is also in the fray. As Dabgram-Fulbari near Siliguri goes to the polls on Saturday, The Telegraph underscores the issues which have been highlighted by parties in campaign, the aspirations of local people and the promises made by leaders. The seat The Dabgram-Fulbari seat was constituted in the last delimitation and election was held for the first time in 2011. It is spread over 14 wards of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four adjoining panchayats of the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district. There are around 3.09 lakh voters who will exercise their franchise at 435 polling stations. In total, 10 candidates are in fray this time. Past results In 2011, Deb could beat Singh, who was the CPM candidate then also, by 11,236 votes. In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul had managed to secure a lead of 4,710 votes from this Assembly segment. In 2016, Deb doubled his winning margin and had won by 23,811 votes. However, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamul suffered a major setback in Dabgram-Fulbari as BJP managed to secure a lead of 86,117 votes from this Assembly segment. Issues at play Like many other parts of north Bengal, identity politics is also being played in Dabgram-Fulbari. Both Trinamul and BJP have focussed on different communities like Rajbanshis, Matuas and non-Bengalis and have played their own cards. “This is probably the only seat where Trinamul has come up with a parallel phrase of ‘Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay’ campaign to draw Rajbanshi votes. Yellow ‘gamchas,’ a common accessory of Rajbanshis that is also used to greet and honour people, are being randomly used in poll campaigns. In fact, the minister is being seen posting videos in social media where he is addressing the electorate in different languages,” said Deepak Dutta, a schoolteacher and a voter of the constituency. The saffron camp, on the other hand, has taken the task to woo Matuas. Sikha Chatterjee, the candidate, along with a number of state and regional leaders, is being seen moving into areas where the community resides. Trinamul, however, is no ready to relent, particularly because it is a prestige fight for them as Deb, considered as the tallest Trinamul leader in north Bengal, is the candidate. “We have come up with specific details of the development works which have been carried out in this constituency. We doubt whether there is any other Assembly seat in north Bengal where the Mamata Banerjee government has spent 664 cores in past 10 years. A number of important infrastructure have come up in the area during this period,” said Debasish Pramanik, the Trinamul president of Dabgram-Fulbari unit.Among these are Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state, the Bengal Safari Park, new roads, bridges, marketplaces, fire stations and other facilities. The BJP, on the other hand, is flagging issues like highhandedness of land brokers in different areas of the constituency and highlighting how syndicates backed by the ruling party are active in places like New Jalpaiguri, where the largest railway station of north Bengal is located. “We are also referring to the recent vandalism at the Inland Container Depot by Trinamul backed miscreants. There are many people who have lost their land in the hands of these brokers,” said Sikha, the BJP candidate. Voters’ wish, promises The constituency is a mixed bag of rural and urban voters. Thus, their aspirations are different. While those dwelling in the municipal wards want improvement of civic amenities in their localities, those living at the panchayats want a separate civic body while highlighting the rapid urbanisation which has taken place in their areas. “Most of the areas of these four panchayats can no longer be considered as villages. Though these localities still bear the rural tag, there has been rapid urbanisation and hardly a handful of them are dependent on agriculture. That is why we want a separate civic body,” said Milan Chhetri, a Salugara resident. The demand has made the political parties to act and Deb was the first person to confirm that once voted to power, he would strive to see that a municipality is constituted by the state government. Chatterjee, the BJP candidate, is not behind and confirms that they too have similar plans. “We would also focus on private investments as there are a number of industrial areas in this constituency. There is a scope to set up new industrial units which can create employment for local youths,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: EC rules out possibility of clubbing last three phases ||The Election Commission of India on Friday ruled out the possibility of clubbing the last three phases of the polls in Bengal in view of Covid but banned campaigning between 7pm and 10am. The poll panel also extended the no-campaign window before the date of polling from 48 hours to 72 hours. The guidelines were announced after an all-party meeting in Calcutta, where the Trinamul Congress proposed the merger of the last three phases of polling. Invoking powers under Article 324 of the Constitution, Election Commission secretary Madhusudan Gupta said in an order: “No rallies, public meetings, street plays and nukkad sabhas shall be allowed on any day during the days of campaign between 7pm and 10am with effect from 7pm” on Friday. The silence period at night till Friday was from 10pm to 6am. “Silence period for rallies, public meetings, street plays, nukkad sabhas, bike rallies or any gathering for campaigning purposes shall be extended to 72 hours before the end of the poll for Phase 6, Phase 7 and Phase 8 in West Bengal,” the commission added. The commission issued a set of guidelines to ensure that Covid-19 protocols were followed at political rallies. The parties and the candidates have been asked to provide masks and sanitisers to all rally participants. The cost of the masks and sanitisers will be added to the expenditure limits for the candidates as well as the parties. The poll panel has given the responsibility of implementing the directive to the district election officers and returning officers. Partha Chatterjee, state education minister, represented Trinamul at the all-party meeting and argued in favour of clubbing the last three phases but the BJP and the CPM opposed any change. Swapan Dasgupta, who represented the BJP, said: “We congratulated the ECI for holding polls properly so far.… There is no need to change the schedule now.” A BJP insider later said: “So many rallies are planned by the Prime Minister and other senior leaders in the three phases in seats which are Trinamul strongholds.… We can’t afford a clubbing of the phases.” Besides, the merger of dates would have required the deployment of another 1,500 companies of central forces, which was not possible at such short notice. “Then state police would have had to be deployed in many booths, which we don’t want,” said a BJP source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP office torched, publicity materials damaged in Raiganj||BJP leaders and supporters resorted to protest and blocked the Raiganj-Hemtabad-Kaliaganj state highway for over an hour on Friday, after an election office of the party was torched and publicity materials damaged in the Pirozpur area under Kamlabari panchayat, on the outskirts of Raiganj, on Thursday night. Around 100 demonstrators burnt tyres on the highway and raised slogans against Trinamul accusing them of the arson. They have demanded immediate steps against those involved in the incident. “For past few days, some Trinamul supporters had resorted to highhandedness in the area and threatened our supporters. We suspect they are behind this incident,” said Ganesh Chandra Biswas, a local BJP leader. Trinamul leaders, however, have denied the charges. Raiganj will vote on April 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: Cooch Behar police transfer probe to CID||The probe into the CISF firing outside a booth in the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency on April 10 has been handed over to the Criminal Investigation Department, said Cooch Behar district superintendent of police Debashish Dhar. “We (district police) have handed over details of the case to the CID. They have started investigating the case,” Dhar told the media on Friday. After the firing, the CISF (Central Industrial Security Force) filed a complaint at Mathabhanga police station. Local panchayat member of the Trinamul Congress Abdul Ghani also filed a complaint at the same police station against the paramilitary force. Based on the complaints, the police started an investigation. But there was an outcry for a CID probe. When chief minister Mamata Banerjee me the relatives of the four deceased youths, she herself said the CID would take over the probe once the polls got over. “However, the state police made the move earlier and it was decided that the CID would probe the case,” said a source in the administration. Residents of Jorpatki, who are still seething in anger, want exemplary punishment for the CISF jawans who had opened fire. “Since yesterday, CID officers have been collecting details from local people, including those who were injured in the firing,” said a villager. Arms seizure Cooch Behar district police have arrested four persons and seized a cache of firearms and ammunition from them, SP Dhar said on Friday. “We acted on a tip-off and conducted a raid on a private bus stand in Cooch Behar town. During the raid, a person was intercepted and we could seize four 7.6mm pistols, 20 rounds of live bullets and eight magazines from him,” the SP said. The police also arrested Manirul Islam, a resident of Dinhata, who is suspected to be a dealer of illegal firearms in the district. “Preliminary reports suggest he used to bring firearms and ammunition from Begusarai (in Bihar). We are interrogating him to know about other members of the racket,” the SP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: Calcutta High Court asks CID to file status report by May 5||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the Criminal Investigation Department to file by May 5 a status report on the firing by central forces during the April 10 polling in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment of Cooch Behar district. The order was issued by the division bench comprising Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee on two separate public interest litigations seeking a judicial probe. The CID had on Thursday taken over the probe into the firing by Central Industrial Security Force at Jorpatki village. Four youths had been killed in the firing. During the fourth phase of the Assembly elections on Saturday, CISF personnel deployed at Amtali MSK booth at Jorpatki had opened fire on a section of villagers. The counsel appearing for the Election Commission informed the court during the hearing on Friday that two complaints had been lodged with the panel on the firing. Besides seeking a judicial probe, the petitioners had also sought adequate compensation from the commission to the next of kin of the victims. The Bengal government’s counsel informed the court that the state administration had already expressed its desire to provide compensation to the bereaved families. The commission’s lawyer said his client was also ready to provide compensation to the family members of the victims but the amount would have to be distributed through the district magistrate in their capacity as the district election officer. The commission’s lawyer, however, did not refer to the quantum of compensation it would like to pay. The court then fixed the matter for hearing on May 5. On that date, the bench will take a further decision after going through the report submitted by the CID. Adhir files PIL Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Choudhury on Friday filed a PIL in the high court demanding a CBI probe into the firing under the supervision of the judiciary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee blames BJP for Covid surge||Mamata Banerjee on Friday squarely placed the blame of the worsening Covid-19 outbreak in Bengal — clearly in correlation to the intense, extensive campaign for the eight-phase mega Assembly elections in the state — on the BJP and alleged outsiders mobilised in large numbers for the saffron camp’s rallies. The chief minister said her party would appeal to the Election Commission to ban the entry of alleged outsiders without a negative RT-PCR test report for Covid-19. Addressing four rallies in Nadia and North 24-Parganas, Mamata said repeatedly that the Trinamul Congress would put forward the demand before the commission so that the criterion was applied, especially, to the badly hit states at the earliest. In all her rallies, Mamata lambasted the BJP for not only the “abject failure” by the Centre to curb the renewed surge in the outbreak but also for allegedly subjecting Bengal to the current situation by throwing Covid-19 caution to the wind for its campaign. “The Narendra Modi government neglected Covid-19, with only a view on these elections, which actually increased the positive cases across the country,” said Mamata. In her first rally of the day at Nabadwip, she alleged that the BJP had been bringing in countless “outsiders” to not only bolster its poll campaign but also to provide labour for Modi’s mega meetings, which require extra infrastructure. “People from other states, which are hit hard by a fresh spate of Covid-19 cases are coming freely to Bengal to erect pandals for the Prime Minister’s public meetings,” said the chief minister. “These people are spreading Covid-19 rampantly here, exposing our people to grave danger. We will appeal to the commission to ensure that whoever comes from an outside state should get the RT-PCR test done, and is allowed to enter Bengal only with a negative certificate. Nobody should be allowed in prior to this test,” she added, while repeatedly appealing adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols to the masses. Blaming the BJP-ruled Centre, Mamata said the Modi government should have made better use of the five-month period of relative relief in the pandemic till about the first week of March. “There had been a steady drop in Covid-19 cases. There was no great spike during those five or six months (from late October last year). During this time, Narendra Modi could have administered the vaccine widely to people,” she said. “They knew that Covid-19 was here to stay for at least two years. But they did not vaccinate people en masse…. Then, they compounded the problem with this outsider mess,” she added. The chief minister asserted that Bengal was yet to climb back into the 10 worst affected states — it is currently 11th — but Bengal was now unlikely to escape the pan-India spike. “How long will we be able to resist the surge? The BJP is bringing in tens of thousands of people for their political purposes. They are occupying hotels, guesthouses.... doing as they please, as if there’s no pandemic,” she said. “Nobody there has taken a Covid-19 test. Central forces are also coming for election duty from states badly hit, like Delhi and Maharashtra. Many of them are also Covid-19 positive,” she added. Mamata said she had no objection to Modi visiting the state as Prime Minister, or to the infrastructure necessary for his programmes. “But his party should engage local people to erect these pandals and whatnot for him, that too after the necessary Covid-19 tests. Why are people from Gujarat being brought in to do even that? Why are people from Uttar Pradesh being brought in? Why are people from Rajasthan and Jharkhand engaged?” she asked. The Trinamul chief also accused Modi of politicising the nation’s vaccination drive. “Such a long time ago, we had submitted a written appeal seeking permission for Covid-19 vaccination through the state infrastructure…. We would have done it free of cost,” she said. “But it is not clear why the permission was not granted. We planned to begin vaccination free of cost as long as stocks were available. We have begun this process,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Several parts of sub-Himalayan Bengal experience hailstorm on Friday afternoon||Many parts of the sub-Himalayan Bengal experienced intermittent bouts of hailstorm on Friday afternoon, hours before the fifth phase of the state polls. Hail and storms are likely in the region on Saturday too, weathermen have said. Large parts of the region — including Siliguri and Jalpaiguri — vote on Saturday. Friday’s longest hailstorm lasted for around 20 minutes here in Siliguri and left the streets swathed in white. It was accompanied by a number of brief but intense spells of rainfall, which continued till evening. Late in the evening, strong gusty winds blew in and around Siliguri. The hailstorm and gusty wind affected the movement of polling personnel to some booths. Publicity materials of political parties got damaged. The hailstorm, also reported in Darjeeling, Kurseong, Kalimpong and Gangtok left tea planters perturbed. “Hailstorms can cause considerable damage to tea leaves. After today’s (Friday’s) hailstorm, we suspect the quality of leaves will suffer in many tea gardens where production has just,” said a tea planter in Siliguri. “An upper air trough is hovering over north Bengal and Sikkim.  This contributed to the hailstorm and the shower as there was a strong moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal,” said Gopinath Raha, head of the Regional Meteorological Centre of Gangtok. The formation of hailstones, he said, could be because of the larger-than-usual volume of thunderclouds that, in places, touched the freezing troposphere. Weathermen have forecast more hailstorms, thunderstorms and showers on Saturday. “Isolated areas of north Bengal and Sikkim are likely to get hailstorms and thunderstorms on Saturday,” said a meteorologist. He added that the maximum temperature in the region was likely to hover around 30°C in the next two days. “We are keeping fingers crossed for a sunny Saturday. Adverse weather can discourage many voters from walking up to the booths,” said a senior political worker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Narendra Modi and Amit Shah misleading Matuas, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Friday asserted yet again that members of the Matua community were very much Indian citizens and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah of misleading the community. The chief minister also questioned Modi’s recent visit to Orakandi — a holy site for Matuas, now in Bangladesh. “Every time (prior to this) Narendra Modi was invited to Bangladesh, he called me, knowing that (Bangladesh Prime Minister) Sheikh Hasina loves me. I accompanied him in the interest of bilateral relationship though I don’t like him,” she said. “But this time he went to Bangladesh silently, without informing me. It was politically motivated. He did not go there as a mark of true love for Bangladesh....It was to woo the Matuas,” she added. “I will visit Bangladesh alone the next time, not to do any politics.” Reaffirming that Matuas were Indian citizens, a refrain she has adopted ever since the BJP passed the contentious citizenship legislations in 2019, she said nobody would be able to rob the Matuas’ right to Indian citizenship. “The BJP has been misleading you by offering you citizenship. Everyone who came to India before March 1971 is an Indian citizen. It appears the BJP wants to say the Matuas are not Indian citizens. I’d like to ask Narendra Modi and Amit Shah to be categorical enough and speak on the issue,” she said. “They are playing games with the Matua people,” added Mamata in North 24-Parganas’s Habra, a Matua-dominated Assembly seat from where Trinamul veteran and minister Jyotipriya Mullick is contesting. “Should we learn about citizenship from the BJP?” asked Mamata, assuring people that the state government had ensured their right to remain in India. “I am not giving you fake assurances. I am a chief minister. I never say fake things,” Mamata added. However, she advised people to ensure that their names were included in the electoral rolls. “Amit Shah and Narendra Modi have been making different statements at different places. In north Bengal, Shah said he did not order the NRC. But in Assam on April 8, they issued a notice for detention camps. They have deleted 14 lakh Bengali people...So you must ensure your names are included in electoral rolls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Infiltrators take away employment of youths, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday spoke extensively at his election rallies on illegal immigration from beyond the border with a clear hint that Bangladesh foreign minister A. K. Abdul Momen’s rebuttal of his repeated stress on infiltration had no impact on the BJP leader. “I want to ask you, should infiltration inside Bengal be stopped or not…Friends, these infiltrators take away the employment of the youths. These infiltrators who come, snatch away the rice from the poor. Friends, if the situation of infiltration in Bengal remains the same, then mark my words, not only Bengal, the security of the entire nation will be in danger,” Shah said at an election rally in Nadia’s Tehatta. In a recent interview with the online edition of Anandabazar Patrika, Shah had said since development had not reached the grassroots in the border areas of Bangladesh and the poor there still didn’t get food, infiltrators reached not only Bengal but also other parts of the country, including Jammu and Kashmir. Shah’s argument drew sharp reaction from Bangladesh, India’s most trusted friend in the region that has shown stellar performance in economic growth in the last decade. Bangladesh has also won accolades from multilateral banks for its achievements in ensuring a better quality of life for its people, which gets reflected in its higher rankings, in comparison to India on human development indices. Reacting to Shah’s comments, Momen had said: “There are many wise people in the world who do not see even after looking, and do not understand even after knowing. But if he (Shah) has said something like that, I would say his knowledge about Bangladesh is very limited. No one dies of hunger in our country now. There’s no monga (seasonal poverty and hunger in the northern districts of Bangladesh), either.” Multiple BJP sources said although they were aware that Shah’s comments would not go down well in Bangladesh, the home minister had to talk about infiltration to pursue the party’s polarisation agenda in a bordering district like Nadia. According to the 2011 census, Nadia has a Muslim population of around 27 per cent and so the BJP’s poll plan is to consolidate the Hindu population. “Friends…(help us) form the BJP government on May 2, I’m assuring you that forget a human being, not even a bird will be able to fly in from the other side of the border…” Shah thundered during his address at Tehatta. It was clear that he was trying to woo the Matua community, lower-caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh, as they play a key role in determining the electoral outcome in bordering areas of Nadia and North 24-Parganas. Wooing the Matuas on Friday, Shah said: “Our brothers from the Matua community, from the Namshudra community, shouldn’t they get citizenship or not? This Didi (Mamata Banerjee) says ‘as long as I’m here, Matua and Namshudra communities will not get citizenship’. Arey Didi, how long have you been here? Your exit is ensured on May 2,” said Shah. “Matua and Namshudra communities will be made Indian citizens with pride after May 2... Besides, a refugee welfare fund will be created with a corpus of Rs 100 crore and a monthly pension of Rs 3,000 will be provided to Matua leaders,” he added. Furthering his agenda of polarisation, Shah reminded the people of Tehatta about some incidents of communal flare-up in the area in 2012. “Friends, here in 2012, during Jagaddhatri Puja, the police had lathicharged, fired bullets... In all of Bengal, (one has to) move court for Durga immersion. I’m telling you (just) for once, elect a BJP government, then, no one will have to move court for Durga immersion…” Shah said. Later, at another rally in North 24-Parganas’s Barrackpore, Shah said the BJP would win more than 92 of 135 seats which had gone to the polls in the first four phases of the voting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CPM politician with a Che Guevara tattoo jumps into the lotus pool||Shankar Ghosh has a tattoo of Che Guevara on his arm but makes a case for chanting Jai Shri Ram, ensconced in the company of BJP workers with tilak on their foreheads and saffron scarves around their necks. On the other end of the arterial Hill Cart Road in Siliguri, his mentor turned adversary, CPM veteran and sitting local MLA Asok Bhattacharya eases into a chair on the ground floor of the four-storey party office on a sultry April afternoon last week, making phone calls to comrades to finalise his campaign plans for the evening. Three-four youths in an adjacent room are hunched over computers while two middle-aged men wait in the corridor to accompany Bhattacharya on campaign trail. “I have opted for door-to-door campaigns in some areas,” Bhattacharya, former Siliguri mayor and minister, tells this correspondent, ambling along the corridor after some time. Siliguri votes this Saturday. Cut to the second floor of Joymani Bhavan, a commercial complex around 200 metres from the CPM office. Ghosh, once an aide of Bhatacharya who switched to the BJP from the CPM and was promptly made the Siliguri candidate for the Assembly polls, emerges from a buzzing room at one corner of a large hall. Around 100 people, some of whom have turned up at the office to formally join the BJP, are patiently waiting for instructions from their leaders. The moment Ghosh comes out of the room, some of them surround him, seeking his attention while the others discuss among themselves their leader’s campaign roster and the rallies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. “So many things happening at the same time…. We have a host of programmes lined up,” says Ghosh, whose phone keeps ringing incessantly. Unlike the rest of Bengal, where the electoral battle is between the BJP and the Trinamul Congress, the contest in Siliguri — the biggest trade hub in the state after Calcutta and the most prestigious Assembly seat in north Bengal — appears to be centred around the CPM and the BJP. But Trinamul nominee Om Prakash Mishra cannot be written off by any stretch of the imagination. “The BJP has managed to create a hype by spending a lot of money…. I have served the people of Siliguri as an MLA five times. I have also served them as the mayor. I am tried and tested and that’s what I am telling the people here,” says Bhattacharya. The CPM senior is the architect of the “Siliguri model”, a tie-up experiment between the Left and the Congress that has now become a state-level template. Bhattacharya, who had been urban development minister in the cabinets of Jyoti Basu and Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, says his voters will not be swayed by the BJP blitzkrieg. Bhattacharya says that after Ghosh became a councillor in 2015, he had handpicked his then understudy to handle some key departments in the Siliguri Municipal Corporation. “We knew that he had secretly been in touch with the BJP for the past few months to fulfil his greed and ambition…. The people of Siliguri haven’t liked this volte-face and will punish him,” says the CPM leader. Ghosh swats away such allegations. “I was keen to work for the people of Siliguri and I was not getting the opportunity.… I needed the hands of a new friend to fulfil my objective and that’s why I am here,” says the PhD in microbiology. Ghosh appears to make it a point to show that he is comfortable in the saffron ecosystem. “What’s wrong in saying Jai Shri Ram?” he asks, before stressing that he has full faith in the BJP’s “Nation First” policy. “This stress on India, Indian-ness and Indian culture is our strength…. Add to that our leaders’ pledge to develop north Bengal. I am cent per cent confident of victory,” Ghosh adds. Siliguri is an interesting mix — its 2.25 lakh voters include over 90,000 non-Bengalis. Marwaris, Biharis and Nepalese make up this segment. Bhattacharya, who used to be called Asok Agarwal behind his back by the hardliners in the CPM because of his proximity with the business community, had an undisputed sway over this section that ensured his electoral success in Siliguri, which is part of the Darjeeling Lok Sabha constituency that the BJP has been winning since 2009. Sources in the BJP claim the non-Bengali voters have swung to the saffron fold because of Modi’s appeal and repeated visits by senior party leaders like Shah, finance minister Niramal Sitharaman, tourism minister Pralhad Singh Patel and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “It will be difficult for Asokda to keep his support base among the non-Bengali population as the majority of them have switched loyalties to the BJP,” said a veteran observer of Siliguri politics. The heavy presence of non-Bengalis, a source in Trinamul said, was the reason behind Mamata Banerjee springing a surprise by nominating Mishra, a former professor of international relations at Jadavpur University. Although a section in Trinamul had initially been unhappy with Mishra’s nomination — some had even felt that Mamata had given a walkover to Bhattacharya by fielding a “lightweight — the ruling party has been putting up a spirited fight in the last leg of the campaign on the back of repeated visits by the chief minister. “Didi has urged people not to vote for the CPM anymore as she has been doing all the work here…. We are confident of wresting the seat from Asokda,” says Ranjan Sarkar, the Trinamul president of Darjeeling. According to him, the arithmetic is in favour of Trinamul. “The CPM got only 7 per cent of the votes (in Siliguri) in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections while we more or less retained our 2016 vote share. The BJP was ahead in the seat….  This time, the CPM will increase its vote share by a few percentage points, which will affect the BJP and we will comfortably win the seat,” Sarkar says. Bhattacharya, a veteran of many elections, says the claims of his opponents mean little as his supporters will vote for him silently. “While it is true that the BJP has grown here, their presence is limited to three-four wards…. They don’t have an organisation either. And last but not the least, the non-Bengali population, the majority of whom are involved in business, are with us because unlike the rest of Bengal, Siliguri has been a peaceful city. People know that I have ensured peace here,” he says. The north Bengal city has indeed been an oasis of peace, which has encouraged the spurt in trading activities and boom in the realty and hospitality sectors. “Most people living in the Northeast, or even in neighbouring countries like Nepal and Bhutan, want to have their second homes in Siliguri and that’s why there is a boom in real estate…. The price of a cottah of land is in excess of Rs 60 lakh,” says a businessman. “It’s a cosmopolitan city and as it’s a trading hub, people here want the growth story to continue,” he adds. Aware of the people’s wishes, BJP leaders like Shah are promising a tea park, an IT park, an international airport and a super-fast highway connecting Siliguri to Calcutta. Trinamul’s thrust has been on Mamata’s delivery while the Left’s pitch is around Bhattacharya’s success in creating the base for today’s boom. In this competition of claims and counter-claims, the battle for Siliguri has become a cliffhanger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Calcutta High Court prods Election Commission on Covid safety||The Calcutta High Court on Friday expressed concern over the laxity of political parties towards Covid-19 safety protocols in their campaigns for the ongoing Bengal polls, directing the Election Commission of India to take “hard” measures for the safety of citizens for the four phases that remain. A division bench comprising Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee issued the order on Friday, following a petition that alleged mass gatherings in poll meetings convened by the parties were responsible for the sharp rise in Covid-19 numbers in the state. “We have noticed that norms laid down to check Covid-19 were not being followed in the political rallies. The numbers of the Covid-positive have reached a peak,” said Chief Justice Radhakrishnan. “At this time, maintaining social distance, use of masks and sanitisers are a must. But nobody is following the norms. The EC should be more alert and take hard steps to make the final four phases of the polls safe,” he added. The lawyer appearing for the EC assured the high court that an all-party meeting had been convened to discuss the issue and pursue necessary action. Chief Justice Radhakrishnan said the EC should try hard to convince the political parties to go for virtual campaigning. “They may also book time on television channels for campaigning,” he said. Later in the day, the BJP firmly opposed the idea. Sources said the EC was unlikely to change plans drastically for the rest four phases. The bench fixed April 19 for the next hearing of the case when the EC would inform the court about the outcome of the all-party meeting. When the polls were announced on February 26, Bengal had 3,343 active Covid-19 cases. As of Thursday’s figures — Friday’s bulletin was yet to be issued when the development took place in court — there were 36,981 active cases, a 10-fold increase. The day’s number of new infections is close to 7,000, compared to 200-odd in February. In 48 days between February 26 and Thursday, Bengal recorded over 62,000 new infections, outweighing the 28,000-odd recoveries. There have been 217 deaths of people who tested Covid-positive in that period. In these 48 days, the recovery rate fell from 97.63 to 92.55 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: RSP candidate Pradip Nandy dies after testing positive for Covid-19||The RSP candidate from the Jangipur Assembly seat in Murshidabad, Pradip Nandy, succumbed to complications after testing positive for Covid-19 at the Behrampore Covid Hospital on Friday evening. Nandy, who was 73, had been admitted to Jangipur subdivisional hospital on April 9 with symptoms of typhoid and had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 12. He was then shifted to Behrampore. A lawyer, Nandy had been with the RSP since 1967 and would have been a Vidhan Sabha election candidate for the first time this year. The Sanjukta Morcha had ceded the Jangipur seat to the RSP as a part of their alliance. Jangipur was to vote on April 26. However, under election norms, the seat will have a bypoll at a later date owing to the death of a legal candidate. Nandy’s opponent, Trinamul MLA Zakir Hossain, who on February 17 was injured in a bomb blast in Murshidabad, is still admitted to the SSKM Hospital in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Builders of Bengal: Atul Prasad Sen||Atul Prasad Sen is remembered today for his songs, known as “Atul Prasader Gaan”, a body of devotional, patriotic or intensely romantic songs written and set to music by him. They occupy a special place in Bengali culture and in the hearts of Bengalis. But Sen was also a dedicated social worker, a very successful barrister, an endearing man, and, in his quiet way, a rebel. He was born in Faridpur district, currently in Bangladesh. After the early death of his father, he was brought up by his maternal grandfather Kalinarayan Gupta, a noted Brahmo Samaj reformer who was also a kirtan singer. His mother later married another Brahmo Samaj reformer, Durga Mohan Das. Sen, who followed the Brahmo faith, imbibed his love for music and also his spirituality from his grandfather, and his songs belong as much to Brahmo tradition as to the Hindu devotional style. Sen studied briefly at Presidency College in Calcutta and then left for England to study law. After becoming a barrister, he returned to Calcutta and set up his practice here. He was in love with his cousin Hemkusum, his maternal uncle’s daughter. The couple married in Scotland under Scottish law in 1900. Sen returned to India soon after and set up his practice in Lucknow. In Lucknow, he found great success at the Bar. He became involved in the nationalist movement and the Indian National Congress. He was a close associate of Gopal Krishna Gokhale. Sen’s contribution to education was considerable: he was part of the effort to set up Lucknow University and a girl’s school. He was close to Rabindranath Tagore. Sen was the youngest and much-loved member of Khamkheyali Sabha (the eccentric group) set up by Tagore. Sen was one of the organisers of the first Prabasi Banga-Sahitya Sammelan, the Bengali literature meet held by Bengalis living outside Bengal, held in then Benares in 1922. He was a lawyer by day, but would be immersed in music by evening. Bits of lyrics would be found among his legal papers. He brought to Bengali music a tantalising new element: the use of thumri. He wrote 200-odd songs, many of which are sung till today. His songs were very popular in the Brahmo community and its worship and outside these as well. Kazi Nazrul Islam was influenced by Sen’s music. Sen’s wife separated from him, living in a different house in Lucknow. His own experience of longing and loss is said to have been behind the deep anguish of his love songs. One of Sen’s celebrated patriotic songs invoking the spirit of India, “Otho go Bharatlakshmi”, was composed by him on being inspired by the Gondola rowers’ song in Venice when he was visiting Italy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Dad, son guard Murshidabad’s Lalgola constituency for 50 years||The rest of Bengal may be gearing up for a cliff-hanger of a Trinamul-BJP fight in the Assembly polls, but residents of Murshidabad’s Lalgola constituency seem to be in a more relaxed mood. Save for a 15-year window dating back to the state’s first post-Independence polls in 1952, this constituency has been witness to a father-son duo sweeping 13 Assembly polls cumulatively. This time around too, seven-time nominee and six-time Congress MLA Abu Hena is sure-footed about his home turf. His father, the late Abdus Sattar, was a seven-time MLA and popularly championed for bringing the Congress government’s “Sabuj Biplab” seed programme to fruition as the minister of agriculture in the cabinet of Siddhartha Sankar Ray. In his long stint in politics, Sattar also held the posts of Opposition leader as well as Pradesh Congress president. “We are a family of politicians, and as everyone knows, my father has done a lot for the good of Lalgola. That is why we have such good relations with the people over here,” says Hena, who is the Sanjukta Morcha-backed Congress candidate this time. “If it wasn’t for the people’s approval and support, we could not have stayed on this long,” he adds. Hena’s confidence stems from the fact that even in the height of Left Front rule and then during Trinamul’s domination, the people of Lalgola have never deserted the Congress. While Sattar was the winner of the 1967, 1969, 1971, 1972, 1977, 1982 and 1987 polls, Hena won the 1991 elections, the year his father died, as well as those in 1996, 2001, 2006, 2011 and 2016. Prior to Sattar, Congress candidate Sayed Kazim Ali Mirza had secured three successive victories starting in 1952. Pitted against Hena this year is the Trinamul Congress’s Mohammed Ali, 57, a high school headmaster and veteran party worker who is the son of the late Idris Ali, a former MP and three-time MLA. Ali was a founding party worker of Trinamul and was widely touted as a right hand for Mamata Banerjee in the district in the late 1990s. “I am a son of the soil and people here believe in me,” says Ali, who oversees the KN Lalbagh school. “Congress people are rooted in Calcutta. I have been fed and raised here, so the people’s faith is with me. The Congress’s stronghold here will end this year,” Ali adds with an air of surety. Ali’s confidence will be put to test on April 29 when Lalgola goes to the polls in the last of the eight-phase elections in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
17-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal health department to upgrade its telemedicine facilities||The Bengal health department has decided to upgrade its telemedicine facilities within a week or so as it was felt that providing physical treatment to so many patients is almost impossible in view of the pandemic. “This time, the patients can avail themselves of the facility through video calling. It will help the patients as well as the healthcare facilities,” said an official. The central medical store will be open round the clock to ensure steady supply of medicines. The state government has decided to convert all 12 police hospitals into safe homes for police personnel. The state government has  asked the district authorities to conduct tests on central force jawans who have come for election duty. The idea is to isolate infected jawans so that others don’t get the disease. As expected, the state government has decided to enhance Covid beds by at least 20 per cent than what it had during the peak of the first wave. “Private hospitals in and around Calcutta have been asked to increase Covid beds by 25 per cent compared to what they had in October last year. Government hospitals will  increase beds by 20 per cent for Covid patients,” said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
