18-04-2021||West Bengal||Hope Didi’s leg heals before she has to walk to submit her resignation: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday asserted that the BJP will bag more than 122 of the 180 seats that went to elections in Bengal in five phases. Shah, who addressed two rallies during the day, claimed that Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee will have to surely make an exit after losing the Nandigram seat to the BJP. "Didi is demoralised after five phases of elections as it has been established that the BJP, with more than 122 seats, is much ahead of her. Take it from me, Suvendu Adhikari (BJP nominee) is winning the polls from Nandigram," he said at a public meeting in Purbasthali. The home minister also said that the TMC boss has just one agenda -- "abusing him, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central armed police force (CAPF)". He further stated that people should bid Mamata farewell after ensuring a huge defeat for her party, one that "befits her stature". He hoped that the CM's injured leg gets healed soon so that "she is able to walk when she submits her resignation to the governor after May 2." Pointing to a purported audio tape, in which the TMC boss is apparently heard proposing a rally with the bodies of Cooch Behar firing victims, Shah said he has so far never come across any person who "plays politics over the dead". Insisting that infiltrators are taking away the benefits meant for the country's citizens, he said, "People like you and I are second-grade citizens for Didi as we do not add heft to her vote bank." He gave assurance that his party, if voted to power in West Bengal, will ensure that cross-border cattle smuggling comes to a stop once and for all. Claiming that TMC's goons try to forbid voters from exercising franchise on every polling day, he said Banerjee is angry because people, this time, have come out in large numbers to cast ballots without any fear or anxiety. Shah, during his address in Swarupnagar, alleged that illegal immigrants are very close to the heart of Mamata Banerjee as they make for a chunk of her vote base. "Didi, however, does not want the new citizenship law to be implemented. I promise you (people) that all refugees will be given citizenship after the BJP forms government. "Having toured every part of West Bengal, I know that Didi's departure is certain," he said, exuding confidence that the saffron party will win the assembly elections with over 200 seats in its kitty. Slamming the CM over her contention that BJP leaders are "outsiders", Shah sought to know from the people gathered at the rally if he and the prime minister can actually be termed so. Iterating that Banerjee has refused to extend benefits of 'Ayushman Bharat' health scheme to the people of Bengal "on the pretext that she does not want Narendra Modi's money", Shah said, "The money is from the central government exchequer and not from him. Modi, being the son of a tea-seller, does not have so much money." He assured that a BJP government in Bengal will ensure that at least one member of every family in the state gets work in the next five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal assembly polls 2021: Mamata writes to PM for vaccines, Rahul suspends rallies||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi suspended election campaign meetings in Bengal on Sunday over the raging Covid pandemic, becoming the first national politician to keep public health priorities ahead of electoral gains after the CPI(M) announced a similar move. “In view of the Covid situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal.” Rahul, the Wayanad MP, tweeted on Sunday. “I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding public rallies under the current circumstances,” Rahul, who has address only two public meetings in Bengal (Goalpokhor and Matigara-Naxalbari) added in his tweet. Rahul’s advise came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi gloated on national television about the huge turnout at his public meetings in the industrial town of Asansol. Sunday also saw chief minister Mamata Banerjee writing to Modi, seeking additonal vaccines and life-saving drugs to curb the spread of Covid cases. “This is also the first time when a record number of sick and dead are being seen,” Rahul wrote in another tweet, taking a dig at Modi. Among the political parties in the fray in Bengal, the only party to have declared putting on hold all large public meetings is the CPI(M), the Congress’ salliance partner. On Sunday night, two prominent CPI(M) candidates in the 2021 Assembly elections, Minaskhi Mukherjee and Srijan Bhattacharya, are scheduled to  to address people via the traditional medium of radio. CPI(M) veteran and Left Front chairman Biman Bose will make a similar address on Monday morning. Minakshi will also appear on national television channel Doordarshan with fellow nominee Dipsita Dhar and senior CPI(M) leader Anadi Sahu. Modi’s claim on the record turnout came at a time when the country has recorded over two lakh fresh Covid cases on consecutive days and most cities and towns are struggling to provide medical support to the ailing and a funeral for the dead. While Modi himself did not campaign on Sunday in Bengal, Union home minister Amit Shah addressed a public meeting at Jamalpur, Burdwan and held a roadshow in Nadia’s Nakashipara. He had another roadshow and meeting scheduled at the town hall in Habra, followed by an organisational one. On the other hand, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee addressed packed crowds at Tehatta in Nadia and Gaighata and Khardah in North 24-Parganas earlier in the day. After returning to Calcutta, she led a roadshow from Dhakuria to Kalighat crossing. Though Mamata has stuck to her campaign schedule, she also took time to write to Modi requesting for more vaccines for the state. “You may recall that I had written to you on 24 February 2021 to allow the state to purchase vaccination doses directly with state funds and launch a massive free vaccination campaign in the state to cover the entire population. However, the state has not received the clearance,” Mamata wrote. In her letter, Mamata noted  that supply from the Centre was erratic. “We have to vaccinate 2.7 crore people and we need 5.4 crore doses,” Mamata wrote. The chief minister added that the state needs about 6,000 vials of Remdesivir and another 1,000 vials of Tocilizumab, but only 1,000 vials of Remdesivir were available. The figures provided by the West Bengal government health department on its portal stated till Saturday, there were 43,500 active cases with 7,713 new cases added to the tally. While a Trinamul legislator and two candidates have succumbed to the virus, at least four other nominees have tested positive. Rahul’s suggestion to his political colleagues came on the same day when reticent former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh sent a letter to Modi with a five-point advisory on how to deal with the Covid pandemic. Singh has suggested that the Centre allow states the flexibility to decide on frontline workers, whose vaccination needed to be prioritised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
18-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s ‘reckless act’ reason behind Covid surge in Bengal, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said BJP leaders "from Delhi" who are bringing "outsiders" for campaigning, without Covid-19 tests, are responsible for the spike in coronavirus cases in the state. The Trinamul Congress supremo also blamed the Election Commission (EC) for curtailing her campaigning time, for the ongoing Assembly polls, by five days while turning a blind eye to her plea to club the last three phases of the polls in the wake of the surge in coronavirus cases. "Leaders from Delhi are bringing in outsiders infected with the virus during campaigning without bothering to conduct Covid-19 tests. "I am not saying being infected with the virus is a crime. But the reckless act of the BJP has triggered the sudden rise in the number of coronavirus cases in recent times," the chief minister said, addressing a rally at Tehatta. Claiming that a BJP candidate in Howrah district went on campaigning despite being infected by the virus, Mamata asked "Why couldn't he sit at home and desist from campaigning?" "Our party never takes such a risk," she added. Alleging that the EC is showing an "unfavourable attitude" towards her, the chief minister said "Earlier they had taken away an entire day of my campaigning. Now in the last three phases, it has curtailed campaign time by 4 days. As a result, I will not be able to address 20 meetings in south Bengal districts." Cautioning people against allowing "outsiders to occupy Bengal," the TMC supremo said, "This election is for saving the honour of the womenfolk of Bengal and safeguarding the integrity of the state." Reminding the electorate that she did not allow the National Population Register (NPR) exercise in Bengal, she said "Remember your vote is important to prevent them (BJP) from coming to power, to prevent them from introducing NPR, National Register of Citizens (NRC), and the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA)." "When people protest against misdeeds and oppression, the BJP instigates firing and kills people. BJP only knows to loot, instigate riots and kill people," Mamata alleged. Wishing people on the occasion of the approaching Annapurna Puja, Basanti Puja, Ramnavami, and Ramadan, she chanted 'Chandi shlokas' and then wished members of the Muslim community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Who is recording Mamata Banerjee’s calls, asks Yashwant Sinha||The Trinamul Congress on Saturday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission of India, alleging that chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s phone had been tapped. The BJP had released on Friday an audio clip of a purported conversation in which Mamata allegedly proposed a rally with the bodies of the Sitalkuchi victims who were gunned down by central forces on April 10. A Trinamul delegation, led by its national vice-president Yashwant Sinha, met Bengal chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab and lodged the complaint. The delegation said the recording was in violation of not only the Constitution but also the Indian Telegraph Act, the Information Technology Act and the Indian Penal Code. “A day before polling, a so-called tape of a telephone conversation of the chief minister was released by the ruling party at the Centre in what is evidently the act of the dirty tricks department of the BJP. The timing is clearly with the direct aim of influencing voters,” said Sinha, a former minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet. The clip was released at a news conference at a BJP party office in Calcutta by the party’s IT cell chief, Amit Malviya. On Saturday, Sinha, a former IAS officer, said: “The biggest question, of course, is how is a chief minister’s telephone conversation recorded? Who is doing it? I have been a Union minister. I can tell you with complete authority that even to tap the phone of a criminal, there is a prescribed procedure that has to be adhered to…. “A chief minister’s telephone was tapped and the recording is being released by the IT cell of the ruling party (at the Centre)… how did it get it? How was it taped? How did the IT cell of the BJP get it? So many serious questions.” Responding to a BJP allegation that the clip was released from within Trinamul itself, Sinha said it was as laughable as the IT cell’s news conference. On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi couldn’t resist bringing up the audio clip. Modi told a rally in Asansol: “I think you all have listened to it (the audio tape). Didi was asking her party colleague to organise a rally with the bodies. Didi is doing politics even on unfortunate deaths.” Mamata, too, reacted to the circulation of the audio clip. “They (the BJP) are now even eavesdropping on our everyday conversations. It appears they are tapping our phone calls, even on cooking and other household chores,” she said. “I will order a CID probe. I will not spare anyone involved in such snooping activities…. The BJP has made the tape viral so it is clear they did it. I will not spare them,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Narendra Modi reminds Asansol of 2018 riots||Narendra Modi on Saturday reminded Asansol of the riots of 2018, drawing charges that the desperation to win the elections has made him fall back on an ill-concealed polarisation tactic unbecoming of a Prime Minister. Modi also glossed over the fact that turncoat politics has ensured that the politician his party had targeted over the riots is now a BJP candidate. Neither did Modi, whose tenure as Gujarat chief minister witnessed one of the worst riots in the country, betray any signs that he was conscious of the irony. “Do you remember the Ram Navami of three years ago? Who can forget the riots of Asansol-Raniganj? The entire life’s earnings of hundreds of people got burnt to ashes in these riots…. The poor were the worst affected. People who had shops on stations and small businessmen,” Modi told a rally in West Burdwan. In 2018, a clash had broken out between two communities over a Ram Navami procession in Raniganj and spread to adjoining areas. At least three persons were killed, including 16-year-old Sitbulla Rashidi, the son of a local Imam, Maulana Imdadul Rashidi. Although the saffron camp had then blamed the state government for the riots, the administration’s prompt action — and an appeal by Rashidi, who had urged people to restore amity and not to avenge his son’s death — had brought peace back to the area. In the 2002 Gujarat communal riots, at least a thousand people, mostly from the minority community, were killed. Modi, however, said at the meeting in Asansol’s Nigha:  “Who supported the rioters? Who undertook the policy of appeasement? For whom did the police support the rioters? There is only one answer. Everyone is saying ‘because of Didi’.” A local Trinamul leader  said: “The BJP had then accused Jitendra Tiwari, the former MLA from Pandaveswar and Asansol’s mayor, of being a mute spectator during the riots. Now, he is in their party and he is also a candidate. The people of Bengal will not be fooled by this polarising agenda.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Vote comes before alliance ||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday alleged that tweaks in poll campaign timings, attributed to Covid-19 safety concerns by the Election Commission of India, were aimed at inconveniencing her party Trinamul because the BJP did not have much chance in the 114 seats left for the final three phases. The chief minister, at a Purbasthali rally in East Burdwan, expressed displeasure at the poll panel’s decision, after it on Friday ruled out clubbing the last three phases of the polls, choosing instead to ban campaigns between 7pm and 10am. The commission also extended the no-campaign window before the date of polling from 48 hours to 72 hours. “We asked the Election Commission of India to reduce the number of phases (by clubbing the three final phases of the eight-phase Bengal election), but they did not listen to us,” said Mamata. The poll panel’s new guidelines were announced after an all-party meeting in Calcutta on Friday, where Trinamul had proposed the merger of the last three phases and the BJP opposed it. The CPM too was not in favour of changes in schedule. “But you reduced the scope of the campaign. Because the likes of (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi do not have much more left by way of campaign programmes. Because Amit Shah’s rallies have been witnessing a poor turnout. You have restricted only my meetings with that 7pm restriction,” added the Trinamul chief, who has conducted many poll events across the state after 7pm. Mamata said at least 120 hours have been taken from her in the end of the campaign. “Also, the 72-hour deadline for closure of the campaign ahead of every phase began from this fifth phase itself. So 24 extra hours ahead of the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth phases, besides that additional 24 hours (because of the commission’s ban on her campaign), that’s 120 hours of possible campaign taken away. Understood?” she said. Mamata rued the lost days, underscoring how she took no leave since the elections were announced (on February 26) and minimised wastage of time even after sustaining her leg injury at Nandigram on March 10. “So many of my days they wasted, my mothers and sisters. I have not taken a day’s leave from the campaign, even after that injury and hospitalisation, without heeding medical advice…,” said the wheelchair-bound chief minister. “Amaro koshto hoy re bhai (Even I feel pain, brother).” She accused the BJP of knowing it cannot win many of the 114 seats left, which is why it was no longer interested in elaborate campaigns. “Now, the BJP knows that the seats left are not where they can win, so they want the campaign period shortened, so that Trinamul cannot hold its programmes,” she said. She then dared the BJP — and the agencies at its central government’s disposal — to stop all the campaigns and have the voting conducted on Sunday itself. “Trinamul does not need to do anything more anyway. People will bless us with votes and hand you a drubbing even if all the remaining votes take place tomorrow (Sunday),” said Mamata. “You snatched my days of campaign. You are curbing my democratic rights. You are stifling our voice,” she added. Mamata again accused Modi and his party of turning  a blind eye to Covid-19 concerns for the sake of the Bengal elections, worsening the pandemic situation exponentially in the state. “None other than Narendra Modi, none other than the BJP will be responsible for worsening of the Covid-19 outbreak in Bengal,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Officer stick for selfie with Mimi Chakraborty||A polling officer was relieved of his duties after he clicked a selfie with a “celebrity voter”, actress-turned-Trinamul MP Mimi Chakraborty here on Saturday. Mimi, the Jadavpur MP and a voter of Jalpaiguri, reached the booth to cast her vote around 1pm. The actress was heard saying “Amaro chakri jabe, apnaro, (I will lose my job, so will you),” when she saw M. Chakraborty, the third polling officer of Pandapara Nimna Buniadi Vidyalaya (booth 17/155), advancing with his cell phone with the intention to click a picture with her. The MP’s alert, however, did not deter the government employee. He initially stepped back but while Mimi was walking out of the booth after casting vote, Chakraborty left his desk again and this time took a selfie with the actress. Mimi then got into her car and left. Moumita Godara Basu, Jalpaiguri DM, said: “What the polling officer did is a violation of government rules. As we came to know about it, we relieved him from his duties and have deputed another person in his place. We will take administrative steps against him.” The incident has led to mixed reactions in the district. “Mimi Chakraborty is a popular actress. It seems that the polling personnel could not control his emotions and clicked a photo with her. We don’t feel it is a major offence,” defended Saikat Chatterjee, the Jalpaiguri district Trinamul youth president. “He might have had plans to surprise his family with the selfie. But his move has posed a problem for him. We have seen celebrities voting during the elections but have never heard of such an act by polling personnel. The administration, we believe, has taken an apt decision,” said Palen Ghosh, the Jalpaiguri district president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. A senior government official pointed out that during the training, each polling team member is elaborately taught about the do’s and don’ts. “Even then, this person could not check himself. It is a complete violation of rules, particularly because the celebrity is also an elected representative of a political party,” he said. Both Mimi and the polling officer could not be contacted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: North 24-Parganas villagers allege central force firing||A group of villagers in Deganga in North 24-Parganas accused the central forces of firing without provocation during the fifth phase of election on Saturday, a week after the April 10 Sitalkuchi firing by the CISF that had left four voters dead. A police inquiry later failed to establish Saturday’s alleged firing by the forces. However, residents of Karalgachha village in Deganga Assembly seat pointed to a hole on the ground, which they said was made when a jawan fired on the ground. “We were sitting in front of a camp of Sanjukta Morcha-backed ISF candidate Karim Ali. A group of jawans suddenly got out of a car and started chasing us with batons. We started fleeing...I saw a jawan firing on the ground. We ran over the paddy field to save our lives,” Sheikh Sariful, a 35-year-old supporter of the ISF said. Sariful said he had never seen such high-handedness of men in uniform and got scared thinking of the Sitalkuchi firing. “We know no one can assemble within 100m of the polling station and we were sitting at least 200m. I heard the sound of firing and saw a jawan had aimed his gun on the ground. I saw him collect bullet shells from the paddy field,” added Sariful. ISF candidate Karim Ali filed a complaint with the Election Commission after villagers informed him about the alleged firing. “A police team headed by the inspector-in-charge of Deganga and SDPO went to the spot and interrogated the central forces and the presiding officer of the booth but did not find truth in the allegation,” said a police officer. SP of Barasat Police district Raj Narayan Mukherjee sent a letter to the special police observer Vivek Dubey, saying the allegation is found to be “not based on facts”. Though the Deganga allegation could not be established, Trinamul on Saturday lodged at least 43 complaints with the EC, accusing the central forces of favouring BJP candidates or supporters in Nadia, East Burdwan and North 24-Parganas. On Thursday, Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra shared a picture on social media where a BJP candidate from Ranaghat North-East seat was purportedly lunching with central force jawans. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged the central forces not to work for the BJP. “Jawans of the central forces are seen lunching with a BJP candidate. You may have lunch but my appeal is do it after polls. BJP leaders are maligning the image of the central forces,” she said from her rally in East Burdwan’s Purbasthali. “I request you to work impartially and not to follow the BJP’s diktats.” “If something happens, then a case will be started against you and you will have to visit here repeatedly. It will be like Sitalkuchi where a case would be lodged against the jawans who fired...We know about your work and contribution and we respect you, but don’t follow the BJP's diktats,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Roshan Giri name missing from voter list||Roshan Giri, the second-in-command of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung camp), could not vote on Saturday as his name was missing from the electoral roll of Darjeeling Assembly seat. His name had been struck off in June 2018, months after the Gorkhaland agitation ended in September 2017. Piyush Salunkhe, returning officer of Darjeeling seat, explained why. “According to the police report, Giri had pending non-bailable warrants against him that lifted on March 20, also the last date to finalise the voter list,” said Salunkhe. Had Giri applied for inclusion of his name on March 20, it would have been there, he said. Names of Morcha leader Gurung, Gurung’s wife Asha, daughter Nanda and son Avinash, and other Morcha leaders had also been deleted from the electoral roll. A number of cases had been slapped against Giri, Gurung and other Morcha leaders by the state government during the Gorkhaland agitation period, after which they were on the run since 2017. Sources said that the names were deleted on the grounds that they had non-bailable warrants  and were absconding and hence “ceased to be or are not ordinarily a resident in the constituency.” However, Gurung and his family could vote on Saturday. Giri said he was disappointed after not finding his name in the voter list of the polling booth of Chandmari Community Hall in Darjeeling. “I had applied for inclusion of my name in the electoral roll on February 1, 2021. I had received a text message asking me to furnish documents and I had followed the instructions accordingly,” said Giri. “I did not know about this bit about March 20. Since I had applied earlier, the authorities could have informed me about this,” he added. Voting in Darjeeling hills and Kalimpong passed off peacefully on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: First-time Nadia voter shot at, BJP blamed||Santu Baul, 18, of Nadia’s Santipur and a first-time voter, was shot at by suspected BJP supporters on Saturday when he was returning home with friends after casting his vote. A weaver’s son and a Trinamul supporter, Santu was hit by a bullet on his left palm at Mouchak Colony. “Bike-borne youths shot at a group, singling out Santu. They also hurled crude bombs and fired shots in the air,” said an eyewitness, adding the boy’s friends rushed him to Santipur state general hospital. “Santu lost a small piece of flesh as the bullet made a hole in his palm,” said a doctor. In reply, Trinamul supporters allegedly thrashed suspected shooter Raju Debnath. The police rescued Raju and admitted him to the same hospital where his condition is serious. Santu alleged BJP supporters had tried to prevent Trinamul supporters from voting. A murder-bid complaint has been filed against Raju. BJP candidate and MP Jagannath Sarkar denied any political link in the attack. “I suspect past rivalry,” he said. Trinamul candidate Ajoy De said the BJP had “engaged goons to win the polls at any cost though it has no support base in Santipur”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
18-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: High voter turnout amid pandemic||The fifth phase of polls in Bengal for 45 Assembly segments spread across six north and south Bengal districts recorded over 78 per cent of polling till 5pm, prompting Election Commission officials to forecast a final turnout of around 85 per cent. Though high voter turnout was good news for the poll panel, and unlike in the fourth phase, there was no loss of life, the day saw several incidents of manhandling of candidates, attacks on polling agents, complaints against central force jawans and sporadic clashes. Poll panel sources said that till 5pm, 78.36 percent polling was recorded. This percentage is considered to be on the higher side as polling continued till 6.30pm. “The final tally could touch 85 to 86 per cent mark. This is considered to be on the higher side as the state usually records 83 to 84 per cent polling in these districts,” said a source. Sources also said high voter turnout was significant amid the pandemic. “People are scared as Covid-19 is spreading rapidly in the state. Despite this, the high turnout hints that people of Bengal are politically conscious,” said a poll panel source. The BJP candidate from Kamarhati in North 24-Parganas, Raju Banerjee, was allegedly attacked and stones were pelted on his car while he was passing through Belgharia bridge on Saturday evening. Banerjee sustained injuries on his hand and chest and his car was damaged. The BJP held Trinamul responsible. In another incident, the BJP candidate from Barahnagar in North 24-Parganas, actress Parno Mittra, was allegedly gheraoed by Trinamul workers while she went to visit booth 78 of ward 7 of Barahnagar municipality after receiving complaints that proxy voting was on. Trinamul workers allegedly prevented Mittra from entering the booth and demanded she go back. The BJP candidate from Bidhannagar, Sabyasachi Dutta was gheraoed by a group of Trinamul workers. Trinamul workers demonstrated against Dutta alleging he was influencing voters within the booth premises. Police arrested an Independent candidate in Nadia’s Chakdah after he was found moving around with an improvised firearm. Police said that the Independent was intimidating voters. Several polling agents were either attacked or driven out of booths during the day and both Trinamul and the BJP were held responsible for the incidents. The BJP agent at booth 86 in Minakha’s Telenipara in North 24-Parganas was allegedly abducted in the morning. This is why the party could not field any agent in the booth, the BJP alleged, blaming Trinamul. BJP agents of booths 40 and 41 in East Burdwan’s Monteswar were allegedly driven out by Trinamul workers. The BJP alleged Trinamul workers beat up some voters. In Burdwan South seat, the BJP agent of booth 37 was allegedly beaten up by Trinamul workers and received serious head injuries. The ISF alleged that one of its agents in Basirhat North Assembly segment was beaten by the Trinamul. Another BJP agent at Burdwan North Assembly segment was allegedly beaten up as soon as polling started, the party blaming Trinamul. A BJP agent at a booth in Ariadaha in North 24-Parganas’ Kamarhati died inside the booth just before polling started. District authorities said that though the matter is being probed, preliminary reports suggest cardiac arrest. There were clashes between BJP and Trinamul supporters in several places. Trinamul supporter Santu Baul, 18, was shot at in Nadia's Santipur by alleged BJP supporters. The BJP and Trinamul clashed in Santinagar in Bidhanagar till a police contingent dispersed the mob. In East Burdwan’s Raina, BJP-Trinamul supporters clashed firecely in front of booth 72, and accused each other of intimidating voters. In Gayeshpur of Nadia’s Kalyani, BJP and Trinamul supporters clashed and both parties accused each other of attacks with crude bombs. The BJP also staged a roadblock demanding arrest of “goons backed by Trinamul”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
