19-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata again urges EC to to curtail poll schedule amid Covid surge||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged the Election Commission to re-consider its decision to stick to the original poll schedule, as she stressed that wrapping up the last three phases of polls on a single day or at least in two days would check the spread of COVID-19 to a certain extent. Indicating that the EC may have decided against clubbing the remaining phases at the behest of the BJP, Banerjee, while addressing her rally here in Uttar Dinajpur, requested the poll panel to prioritise public health. "With folded hands, I request the EC to hold the next three phases on a single day. If not one day, conduct it in two days and save one day. "Please don't take your decision based on what the BJP says... Please ensure that you protect public health by curtailing the poll schedule, even if it is by one day," the TMC supremo said. The CM further said that she and other leaders of her party would not hold any rally in congested areas. Banerjee lambasted the Narendra Modi government for "not taking adequate measures in the past six months to avert vaccine crisis". Calling the BJP a party of "rioters and war mongers", she told people gathered at the rally, "Don't allow them (saffron party leaders) to turn Bengal into Gujarat."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Summer vacation in Bengal schools to start from April 20 ||The Bengal government on Monday said summer vacation in schools will begin from as early as Tuesday in view of rising COVID-19 cases in the state. The summer break usually starts from the first week of May. "Classes for 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th standard had resumed from mid-February (in state-aided and state-run schools). But, due to the present COVID-19 situation, we are forced to prepone the summer vacation. The education department will issue necessary notifications today," Partha Chatterjee said. Chatterjee said he would also urge private schools to follow suit. The decision comes amid reports of many teachers in schools testing positive in the past two months. The headmaster of a state-run school in Jadavpur, however, told PTI that online classes will continue for students of Class 10 and 12 during the vacation "or the early phase of the vacation." The Mamata Banerjee government on Sunday issued a fresh advisory to rein in the spread of Covid-19 in the state after daily positive cases crossed 8,000 mark — twice of what Bengal had recorded in the peak of the first wave of pandemic last October. The advisory, in place till April 30, put stress on wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and adhering to other Covid-19 protocols in public places and public transport. The advisory asked all government offices to run with 50 per cent employees. It advised private establishments to re-introduce work from home or on rotation/shifts to ensure fewer employees are present. The advisory also suggested complete sanitisation of workplaces at least once a week at all public and private offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata reaches out to Modi for additional vaccines, medicines||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she has sought help from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for additional vaccines and medicines in the wake of spiraling COVID-19 cases in the state. She also said the state government will spell out measures to deal with the second wave of the pandemic later in the day. "With the massive surge in #COVID19 cases across India, GoWB is taking all necessary steps to protect its people. I've reached out (to) the PM to help us with additional medicines and vaccines required," Banerjee tweeted. "I have also directed all the top officials to make elaborate arrangements & step up their efforts at every level to deal with #COVID19 situation in WB," she added. Banerjee had on Sunday said TMC would organise small meetings in Kolkata and she would give short speeches in rallies in districts where polling would be held in the remaining three phases, keeping in mind the coronavirus situation. Trinamool Rajya Sabha member Derek O'Brien tweeted, "Mamata Banerjee will NOT campaign in Kolkata anymore. Only one 'symbolic' meeting on the last day of campaigning in the city on April 26. Slashes time for all her election rallies in all districts. Restricted to just 30 minutes." West Bengal on Sunday registered its highest single day spike of 8,419 fresh cases and at least 28 fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||‘Industry will surely come from Gujarat, Maharashtra’||TTOnline: You once said that Didi was a successful mass leader, but a failed chief minister. Why do you see her as a failure? She has failed in all respects. Take law and order. The deterioration of law and order in Bengal during Mamataji’s time has probably not happened anywhere else. I can say this on record that at least during the communist era, thugs did not go so far. They did not sit on their heads, there was a control over them. Maybe they were under the cadre, but that was unconstitutional too. But they were there. Now, the thugs are sitting in the driver's seat. And she has failed to stop this intrusion. She has failed to provide drinking water in all homes. She has failed to provide security to women. Now, her government has even stopped sending Bengal statistics to the National Crime Records Bureau. Why? Because these figures are shameful. The education system has collapsed. A great tradition of Bengal was spiritual consciousness. No work has been done on that front. People of Bengal are no longer afraid of the police. They don’t hesitate to chase them away. People should not be afraid of the police. But this is what happens when police are under a political umbrella. If the police do their job independently, bad people will be scared of them while good people will enjoy their protection. But this is not the case in Bengal now. I want to say something which many Bengalis will not like to hear. But I think it is my responsibility as a leader of this country to say it. Infiltration is now a problem in North Bengal. And if it continues like this, infiltration will be a problem in Calcutta too after 10 years. Remember I said this. Can any country function like this? Livestock (cows) is being smuggled. What will the poor do? The economy has been ruined. The ecosystem has been ruined. How much more land has Mamatadidi managed to bring under irrigation? I have been touring Bengal by helicopter and I have noticed that barely 20 per cent of land is green. Gujarat is able to generate three crop cycles. And here (Bengal), there is no shortage of water. Yet, why is there no improvement? The Ganges, flowing from the Himalayas, is ensuring that the land here stays fertile. Bengal had such a flourishing jute industry. Why didn’t the communists and Mamata Banerjee revive the jute industry? Not a single jute mill has been modernised. The only thing they did was to issue circulars making buying jute compulsory. There should have been modernisation over time. New seeds of jute should have been tested in agricultural centres. But nothing happened. Mamatadidi met me in Odisha once, and I asked how many new varieties of rice had agriculture scientists discovered in the last 10 years? She had no answer. If that’s the case, what is the agricultural university doing? The government has a responsibility. New varieties of the top 10 crops of the state have to be found. Production must increase. This is why I say Mamatadidi is a failed administrator. But we have surplus electricity in Bengal. We sell electricity to other states! Demand is low. So, electricity is in surplus. Selling electricity outside isn’t the hallmark of a good state. On the contrary, high per capita demand for electricity is indicative of how good a state is. That is the measure of development all over the world. Per capita electricity demand, per capita income and per capita savings — these are the three criteria for development. Will industry come? Yes. From Gujarat? Definitely. Industry will come from Gujarat and Maharashtra. Those who want to send their products to eastern India will not do so from Gujarat because it won’t be profitable in terms of transportation. They have to build a factory here. That will pave the way for goods to reach the whole of north-east, Bihar, West Bengal and even countries of the East. Now nobody thinks of Gujarat-Bangla, Maharashtra-Bangla. Only Didi thinks like that. Dalmias and Birlas manufactured products here. But according to Didi, they are all outsiders! But they contributed to Bengal’s economy. When did you start paying attention to Bengal? You have been coming to Bengal since 2016. When did you think that nothing was happening in Bengal? There are two parts to this. First, I was my party’s president. As a result, it was my job to ensure my party’s presence in each and every booth in the country. As a result, I wanted my party to reach every corner of Bengal. But how to do so? By studying the state in great detail. That's what my team did. That's when these shortcomings came to light. Second, we made a list of priorities. In terms of security, which state would be good to have a government in? In terms of development? In terms of education? Where there are possibilities? Normal answer: West Bengal. And Calcutta? There cannot be change in Bengal unless there is change in Calcutta. A lot should have been done for the development of Calcutta. But nothing was done. We have, therefore, created a fund of Rs 22,000 crore. We will fix infrastructure, develop 10 multi-storied parking lots and file a petition with UNESCO to declare Calcutta a Heritage City. We will ensure the rejuvenation of Adi Ganga in Kalighat and thereby re-establish the sanctity of the Kali Mandir. Mamata Banerjee's government has dumped the 'Namami Ganga' project for Barahanagar, Bali and Howrah in the Ganges. We will rescue the project. We have also set up funds for flood control in Ghatal, Kandi and North Bengal. We have plans to set up a board for the development of Jangalmahal, Sundarbans and North Bengal. We will also revive various languages like Santali, Rajbangshi and Gorkhali. Such efforts will give an impetus to the preservation of Bengal’s cultural diversity. You haven’t invested the amount of time you have in Bengal anywhere else. See Abheekji, I have plenty of time on my hands. I am the most free person in this world (laughs). I am 56 now, still have plenty of time. You claim you will form a government with more than 200 seats in Bengal. But how will Amit Shah benefit? Can I ask a naughty question? Do it! Does a BJP win in Bengal mean Amit Shah will be closer towards prime ministership? I have no benefit in conquering Bengal. What’s beneficial for the country is beneficial for me. How can I distinguish myself from the country? And on the question of prime ministership, all I can say is that my party does not think that way. That is not the culture of my party. If we win in Bengal, it will be the victory of our national party president and Prime Minister. My role is that of a party worker.  When I was party president, others worked. I got the credit. Now we are all trying together. Credit will go to Modiji and Naddaji (laughs). There is no confusion about this. It's better to be clear (laughs again). Five years from now, where does Amit Shah see himself? I see myself in the BJP. You see, the party determines our role. Personally, I don’t think about it. If you win West Bengal, there’ll be no challenge left. What will be the next challenge of Amit Shah? No not at all, there are lots of challenges. Odisha is left. Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala are left. There are many states left on the other side of the Vindhya mountains. There is a lot of work. I have taken up a lot of your time… Thank you. Thank you. Concluded||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: PM should help us heal, not reopen, wounds, says Imam||When rioters killed his teenaged son three years ago, Maulana Imdadullah Rasheedi had issued an appeal seeking harmony and forbidding revenge, earning deep appreciation and respect in Bengal. But a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi raked up the communal violence in an apparent attempt at polarisation ahead of the April 26 vote in Asansol, the 50-year-old imam felt obliged to voice a mild reproach. “He is the Prime Minister of our country and not of any one community. As a person vested with power, he should help us heal and not reopen wounds of the past for political gain,” Rasheedi, who has been imam of the Noorani Mosque in Asansol for more than three decades, told The Telegraph on Sunday. “I don’t want to recall such sad memories, and nor should anyone else. We have progressed from that unfortunate time, so why is the Prime Minister trying to sow unrest once again?” he asked, his gentle tone betraying perturbation rather than resentment. Modi had told an election rally at Nigha in Asansol on Saturday: “Do you remember the Ram Navami of three years ago? Who can forget the riots of Asansol-Raniganj? The life’s earnings of hundreds of people got burnt to ashes....” He had blamed the violence on “Didi”. The rioting that broke out during a Ram Navami procession in Asansol in 2018 claimed three lives, including that of 16-year-old Sibtullah, the younger of Rasheedi’s two sons who had just sat his Class X board exams. A day after he was picked up by a mob, the teen’s body was found with several injury marks that suggested he was beaten to death. Word quickly spread that the traumatised Rasheedi was reluctant to identify the perpetrators. Instead, he issued a remarkable appeal to people gathered at the Idgah Maidan, where his son was buried. “My son has died, but I don’t want anyone else to lose their children. If you strike back, I shall leave the mosque as well as this town,” he told the astonished crowd. Following Rasheedi’s gesture, politicians from several parties had visited him at his mosque to offer their respect and condolences. Rasheedi was in the middle of his Ramazan fast on Sunday and had just finished his afternoon prayers when this correspondent visited him at his home in the Railpar neighbourhood of Asansol. “Modiji came here to campaign for his party. What message has he given to us about development? How will his attempt to remind us of the sad and horrible past help towards the development of the Asansol region?” Rasheedi said. “I know some people will describe me as being against the BJP or Narendra Modi on principle, and may accuse me of being partisan on account of my faith. But no, I am only against provocations that can break the harmony and disturb peace here. I am not a politician.” He stressed that election campaigns should be built on records of performance and not sectarian appeals to emotions, and suggested the Prime Minister focus on controlling the spread of Covid-19. “He should take the initiative to reduce the number of poll phases to reduce mass gatherings,” Rasheedi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid mismanagement: Incapable and inefficient, PM must quit, says Chief Minister||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday demanded Narendra Modi’s resignation as Prime Minister, holding him responsible for the mismanagement of the effort against Covid-19. “He has to resign for the rise in Covid-19 cases in the country. He has to resign. He is the man who is responsible for it. He had no planning, no administrative steps and it was his complete inefficiency. He is an incapable person. If he had the minimum capability, he would have planned to control the pandemic for at least the next one year. But he had no planning,” Mamata told a rally at Khardah in North 24-Parganas. The chief minister was campaigning at Surya Sen Nagar for Trinamul’s Barrackpore candidate Raj Chakraborty and Khardah candidate Kajal Sinha. Mamata spent about a third of her address attacking Modi over his failure to curb the outbreak. The chief minister has been increasingly building her campaign around the pandemic. Her attack comes at a time the number Covid-19 cases in Bengal, as in many other states, has been increasing at an alarming rate. The chief minister announced she would write to the Prime Minister — which she did about two hours after the rally — alerting him to the situation in Bengal amid the second wave of the pandemic. “I shall write a stern letter to the Prime Minister. There is a lack of oxygen cylinders, there is no stock of remdesivir in the entire country. Maharashtra has already written a letter and we will write one today,” Mamata said. “Our own country has no medicine (for Covid patients) and he is donating medicines and vaccines to 80 countries. I have no objections to providing medicines to other countries but you have to give priority to our citizens first. Actually, he is providing medicines for self-glorification, nothing else,” she added. “At a time people in the country are dying in alarming numbers, he is happy securing thanks from other countries.” Mamata criticised the state governments run by the BJP. “See the situation in Uttar Pradesh, a state ruled by the BJP and Modi. The government is constructing a wall to guard its crematoriums so that people can’t see how many bodies are being simultaneously cremated. He provided vaccines and medicines to his own state Gujarat but the vaccines are being supplied there from the BJP party office,” Mamata said. She held Modi and the BJP accountable for the rise in Covid cases in Bengal, citing the extensive electioneering over eight phases involving tens of thousands of people, many of whom had entered the state unscreened for Covid-19. “Between November and March, we had it completely under control here, we had turned the tide…. But the number of Covid-19 cases started increasing after the BJP brought in outsiders to campaign,” she said. Mamata said her government was trying its best to combat the situation despite the alleged lack of help from the Centre. “We have directed officials to increase beds for Covid-19 patients at hospitals by 20 per cent so that people can get treatment at government hospitals. A team of 11 senior officials has been formed to get more private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. The chief secretary is speaking to the private hospitals so that people can easily be admitted there,” Mamata said. “I always take updates of the Covid-19 situation in between my meetings and during my helicopter flights,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal government issues fresh safety advisory on masks, work from home||The Mamata Banerjee government on Sunday issued a fresh advisory to rein in the spread of Covid-19 in the state after daily positive cases crossed 8,000 mark — twice of what Bengal had recorded in the peak of the first wave of pandemic last October. The advisory, in place till April 30, puts stress on wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and adhering to other Covid-19 protocols in public places and public transport. The advisory asks all government offices to run with 50 per cent employees. It advised private establishments to re-introduce work from home or on rotation/shifts to ensure fewer employees are present. The advisory also suggests complete sanitisation of workplaces at least once a week at all public and private offices. Wearing of masks, sanitisation and maintaining physical distance in crowded places such as markets, as well as public and private transport should be maintained strictly. Shopping malls, multiplexes, theatres, restaurants, eateries must make provisions for thermal scanning, hand wash or sanitiser at all entry and exit points. The norms have to be followed at stadiums and swimming pools, the advisory reads. Health department sources said a lot depended on how well the advisory is implemented on the ground. “For example, it remains to be seen what the state government does to ensure physical distancing and wearing of masks in city markets. So far, no such step was initiated by the police to implement the advisory on the ground,” said a source. Some officials said it was tough for the state to implement the advisory by engaging the police who are busy in election duties, particularly in Calcutta where positive cases are rising but polls are yet to be held. The state government has engaged senior IAS officers, mostly in additional chief secretary rank, to oversee implementation of the advisory and Covid-19 protocols in districts. “But implementing all protocols is not easy till elections are over,” said a source. Public awareness programmes have been planned in the wake of the grim situation, said a source. “We have to make people aware that the Covid-19 situation is grim. For this, public awareness generating programmes have been planned in the next few days,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Rahul Gandhi calls off rallies amid Covid-19 spike||Rahul Gandhi on Sunday suspended his election campaign in Bengal a few days after Congress president Sonia Gandhi wondered if political rallies should be cancelled in the wake of the menacing rise in Covid-19 infections. Late on Sunday night, the Trinamul Congress said chief minister Mamata Banerjee would restrict her campaign in Calcutta to one day on April 26. “Mamata Banerjee will not campaign in Kolkata anymore. Only one ‘symbolic’ meeting on the last day of campaigning in the city on April 26. Slashes time for all her election rallies in all districts. Restricted to just 30 minutes,” Trinamul leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien tweeted on Sunday night. Mamata told a TV channel: “Yes, we (Trinamul) have decided to hold small meetings, street corner-type ones, in the city in the campaigning for next three phases. We will not hold any big gathering any more. Also, my speeches in the meetings addressed by me will be much shorter.” Earlier in the day, Rahul had tweeted: “In view of the Covid situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal. I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding large public rallies under the current circumstances.” Sources said the Congress was unlikely to campaign in the rest three poll phases. Asked to comment on Rahul’s decision, Bengal BJP general-secretary and spokesperson Sayantan Basu claimed the Congress leader was trying to make excuses to avoid rallies in Bengal because of low turnouts. “The Congress and CPM have been failing to bring in people to their meetings. For them, large crowds mean 50 people and small crowds five people. This was an excuse to save their faces,” said Basu. On Rahul’s advice to other leaders against large public rallies, Basu said: “Who is Rahul Gandhi to advise? The Election Commission of India is there. If they put up a guideline, all parties will abide by it.” The Congress has been extremely critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for extensive campaigns amid the second wave of Covid-19 acquiring massive proportions. While Shah has debunked any link between rising infections and electioneering, arguing that other states had shown much sharper rise than Bengal, Modi’s exaltation over a big crowd in his Asansol rally on Saturday — when Bengal for the first time reported 7,000-plus infections in a day — drew scorn on social media. Modi said he was seeing such a massive crowd for the first time — something he has said repeatedly this poll season — as he could see people and nothing else all around. Responding to his ecstatic claim, Rahul tweeted on Sunday: “Such a big crowd of sick people and the dead are also seen for the first time.” The Congress posted several videos on social media sites of people dying without treatment and pyres at crematoriums in various cities. Social media is flooded with horrific videos of the grim Covid-19 scenario in the country, which the Prime Minister has not referred to in his election rallies. The Congress on Sunday intensified its attack on the Centre, arguing that Modi had betrayed the nation in this hour of crisis. Senior leader P. Chidambaram said in a series of tweets: “While ‘no vaccine’ boards hang on the door of most hospitals, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan claims that ‘there is no shortage in the supply of vaccines’. Believe the minister, there is no shortage of vaccines, oxygen, Remdesivir, hospital beds, doctors and nurses. There is only a shortage of patients!” Chidambaram listed the states facing vaccine, bed or oxygen shortages and asked: “Dear Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, are all the above claims false and demands unjustified? How do you say that there are no shortages?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee swipes at BJP over Matua candidates||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday criticised the BJP for selecting members of a section of a particular family while nominating Matuas for the Assembly polls. The chief minister didn’t name the section of the Thakur family close to the saffron party while she was addressing an election meeting in Gaighata, a known Matua bastion. Mamata was campaigning in support of Trinamul’s Gaighata candidate Narottam Biswas, a Matua leader who is pitted against the BJP’s Subrata Thakur, the elder brother of party MP Subrata Thakur and grandson of community matriarch ‘Baro Maa’, Binapani Devi. Gaighata is also where Thakurnagar is located. “The BJP pretends to be very concerned about the welfare of the Matua community. They are making spurious offers of citizenship to them (Matuas). Their concern about the community suddenly comes up during the election, whereas throughout the year, they show little concern about how they (Matuas) are leading their lives,” said Mamata. Matuas, a lower caste (mostly Namasudra) migrant Hindu community, are decisive voters in at least 32 Assembly constituencies in North 24-Parganas and Nadia. The community has also strong influence in parts of East Burdwan, Birbhum and a few north Bengal districts. Accusing the BJP of preferring only members of Thakur family, she said: “To get votes, sometimes brothers get the nomination, sometimes the wife’s name is offered, but the BJP never bothers to issue a ticket (nomination) to a gosain or a dalapati and even never asked a Matua sympathiser to fight the poll.” Explaining the difference in concern for the Matua community between the BJP and the Trinamul Congress, Mamata claimed that her party had tried casting the kind of nomination she was describing. “I have nominated Matuas for community representation. I have nominated Aniruddha Biswas in Kalyani, who is the son of our former MLA Ramendra Biswas. In Gaighata, I have also nominated Narottam Biswas, who are known old faces of the Matua community. I had earlier nominated Mamatabala Thakur also,” Mamata said, advising the BJP to nominate people from the community who had been active in fighting for their representation. However, a few members of the Sarba Bharatiya Matua Mahasangha close to Trinamul refused to support Mamata’s claim. SBMMS chief Mamatabala Thakur had openly expressed her anger for denial of nomination to a sufficient number of Matua members. “Mamatabala sacrificed her nomination and demanded that other members of the community be fielded in polls. But Trinamul practically nominated only Narottam as a Matua member. But he is not popular owing to several allegations of corruption and pending cases against him,” said an SBMMS leader on condition of anonymity. Significantly, Mamatabala also skipped Mamata’s meeting on Sunday. All India Matua Mahasangha leader and BJP’s Ranaghat Dakshin candidate Mukutmani Adhikari said: “Matuas know who are really concerned about them. The BJP has nominated at least eight candidates in Nadia and North 24-Parganas, whereas she (Banerjee) nominated only two. The difference in concern is clear enough.” Mamata, however, claimed: “It is the Trinamul Congress which is truly concerned for the welfare of the Matuas. We have constituted the Matua Bikash Parishad and have allocated a fund of Rs 10 crore for the Harichand-Guruchand University and other things. I will do the rest of the job by getting these people elected. But the BJP is only trying to mislead them with fake promises of citizenship.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC bans BJP's Sayantan Basu and TMC's Sujata Mondal from campaigning for a day ||The Election Commission on Sunday banned BJP Bengal’s general secretary Sayantan Basu and Trinamul’s Arambagh candidate Sujata Mondal from campaigning for a day for their incendiary remarks. Both bans took effect from Sunday 7pm. Basu hinted that the killing of four persons by the CISF in Sitalkuchi was the result of another murder. The EC said he violated clauses (1) & (4) of Part 1 of the model code of conduct with “highly provocative remarks....” Dalit leader Mondal made a disparaging remark on the BJP’s SC supporters and was told she violated clause (1) of Part 1 of the code by her comment that “could cause tension between different castes....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP candidate Gopal Chandra Saha attacked in Malda||Gopal Chandra Saha, the BJP candidate of Malda Assembly seat, was attacked late on Sunday evening. While BJP workers claimed that Saha, in his late forties, was shot at by Trinamul-backed goons, Trinamul workers alleged that he was injured by a heavy stone that might have been pelted by dissident BJP workers. Saha, who sustained a serious neck injury, was admitted to the MMCH where doctors said it was too early to comment on the cause of the wound. The attack occurred around 8.45pm when Saha was on his way to a public meeting at Jhantu More. District BJP president Gobinda Chandra Mandal said: “It was a clear attempt to kill our candidate. We believe he was fired at by hooligans backed by Trinamul.” Trinamul district spokesperson Subhamay Bose claimed his party had no link with the incident. Police have started an investigation. Additional SP M.H. Rahman said the cause of injury and what exactly happened were being looked into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Former governor requests Chief Election Commissioner to ban public rallies||Former Bengal governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi has appealed to the Chief Election Commissioner to consider banning all public rallies and door-to-door campaigning in the state in view of the Covid-19 second wave. “Please consider placing an immediate ban on all public rallies and door-to-door campaigning in the state till the last vote has been cast on April 29. And direct them to move to virtual campaigning,” Gandhi said in a letter to the CEC, Sushil Chandra, who took over last week. “The virus’s surge in West Bengal coinciding with the on-going elections in that state jeopardises the health of the electors, the election staff and security personnel on duty simultaneously and staggeringly. It places the election process in the state at dire risk, apart from endangering public health,” he said. “Social distancing… is out of the question in election rallies. But very few candidates and campaigners, if any, are to be seen wearing masks either. They are subjecting themselves and those they come in contact with, to great, in fact, potentially fatal, risk,” Gandhi added in the letter. “It should not be said that India’s electoral democracy and India’s public health are out of harmony.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata Banerjee requests Prime Minister to ensure steady vaccine supply in Bengal||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to ensure that Bengal gets Covid-19 vaccines as required because erratic vial supply has affected the ongoing vaccination programme amid the alarming spurt in infections. For the first time in the pandemic, the state’s daily reported infections crossed 8,000 on Sunday. “Unfortunately for us, the supply of vaccines from the GOI side has been scarce and erratic, which has been negatively affecting our vaccination programmes... We request your urgent intervention to ensure that the state gets its requirement of vaccine doses fulfilled at the earliest,” the chief minister wrote. The chief minister wrote in her letter that the state needs to administer vaccines to 2.7 crore people, who are eligible for vaccination, and that’s why the state needs 5.4 crore doses of vaccines. Sources said that the state has already administered vaccines to nearly 90 lakh people, of which 20 lakh people have received both the doses. “But the figure could have been much more if the supply of vaccines was regular. We have set up an infrastructure where we can give vaccines to 5 lakh people daily. But we are being forced to administer 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh vaccines daily due to scarcity of vaccines,” said a source in the health department. The chief minister also wrote that the vaccination drive has to be carried out aggressively in the Calcutta Metropolitan area due to its demography and high population density. Sources said that keeping this in mind, the state government had decided to launch a vaccination drive in all 144 wards of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation from April 16. “We have set a target of giving vaccines to 35,000 to 40,000 people every day in the CMC area during a period of 7-8 days. But to achieve the target, we need a steady supply of vaccines. Right now, we are getting 8-9 lakh doses every week, which needs to increase immediately," said another official. The chief minister said in her letter that Covid-19 cases in Bengal started to increase sharply as large numbers of outsiders have come here for election campaign and other purposes “at the behest of some political parties". She reminded in her letter that the state was not allowed to buy vaccines on its own to administer the doses to all eligible people in the state. "The chief minister knows no state was allowed to buy vaccines on its own... But she wrote this to make it clear that vaccine supply could have been managed more efficiently (had the state been allowed to buy vaccines),” said a source. The chief minister also wrote that the state was facing shortage in the supply of essential medicines to treat Covid-19 patients. “Second, the supply of essential medicines like Remedesivir and Tocilizumab (Actemra) is extremely scare and uncertain today, which has been a matter of grave concern for doctors here. We need around 6,000 vials of Remedesivir and 1,000 vials of Tocilizumab daily. However, at present only 1,000 vials of Remedesivir is available daily and no fresh supply of Tocilizumab is coming,” the chief minister wrote. “It may kindly be seen that the relevant authorities step up their efforts to ensure steady supply of these most essential medicines as soon as possible,” she wrote. The chief minister also pointed out that supply of oxygen, essential for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients, is steady so far, but that it has to be ensured that is maintained. Sources in the health department said the chief minister was worried about the situation as the daily positive cases in Bengal has crossed 8,000, much higher than what the state had recorded during the peak of the first wave last October. “Last October, we were getting 4,000-odd cases daily. This time, the daily figure has crossed 8,000. The chief minister has reasons to be worried as the situation is more critical this time,” said a senior health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP and Trinamul Congress trade assault charges||Violence erupted in pockets of Siliguri and Jalpaiguri towns after Saturday’s polls. In Siliguri, Trinamul supporters residing in Porajhar, a locality that comes under the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly constituency represented by tourism minister Gautam Deb, alleged on Sunday that a group of BJP supporters ransacked a local party office and attacked some of their houses. Deb, who reached the spot and met his supporters, said they had information that the BJP candidate Sikha Chatterjee) was also present. Chatterjee, who also reached Porajhar, countered that Trinamul supporters had beaten up her party workers. As the news spread, police officers visited the spot and spoke to locals. Supporters of both parties have been asked to refrain from any activity that can breach law and order, a police officer said. “We are looking into the complaints. Patrolling will be intensified in the locality,” he added. On Saturday night, youth Trinamul workers of Jalpaiguri accused the administration and central forces of carrying BJP booth agents in a vehicle where the EVMs were loaded from a school building of the town. BJP leaders alleged their booth agents were assaulted by Trinamul supporters, and the police and central forces rescued them. Both filed police complaints. Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, denied Trinamul’s charges. “No booth agent (of any party) was put in any official vehicle,” she said. “There was some commotion but the police controlled the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP worker Dilip Kirtaniya thrashed to death in Nadia district||A BJP worker was killed allegedly by those suspected to have links with the Trinamul Congress at Chakdah in Nadia district early on Sunday morning, less than 10 hours after polls had concluded in the area. Dilip Kirtaniya, 38, a booth-level BJP worker and a carpenter, was found dead in the courtyard of his home at Enayatpur in the town with severe injuries to his abdominal region. Police sources said preliminary investigation indicated that assailants had thrashed Kirtaniya when he had gone out early morning to attend to nature’s call. His mother reportedly spotted him lying dead on the courtyard when she opened the door around 5am. Kirtaniya was rushed to Chakdah state general hospital, barely 2 km away, where he was declared brought-dead. A doctor at the hospital said: “The victim’s testicles were thrashed by the assailants and were bleeding profusely.” The police later sent the body to JNM Hospital in Kalayni for the autopsy. Kirtaniya was a popular Matua leader at the locality. The victim’s elder brother, Biplab Kirtania, said: “He was murdered by miscreants of Trinamul. They had threatened my brother a number of times during the voting on Saturday. He had earned their wrath for escorting voters to the polling station, since many of them, who are BJP supporters, were afraid to go to the booth in the face of threats from Trinamul miscreants.” “Last night, they called out my brother late at night. But he did not go. However, it appears they were waiting outside and attacked him when he went out to attend nature’s call a few hours later,” Biplab added. Family sources claimed that miscreants had threatened Dilip on many times in the past one week asking him to leave the BJP. On the day of the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, miscreants with Trinamul links had beaten up him for daring to cast his vote in spite of their threats. In his police complaint, Biplab has named nine Trinamul workers. Angry BJP supporters ransacked the home of one of the suspects. Later, led by BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar and Chakdah candidate Bankim Ghosh, party workers besieged the Chakdah police station for about three hours. They also blocked NH12 for four hours and tracks at the Palpara railway station for an hour. Trinamul’s Chakdah candidate Subhankar Singh, however, denied the allegations. “The deceased was not a very influential person. I have requested police to find out the cause behind the murder”. BJP’s Chakdah candidate Bankim Ghosh said: “Dilip was a very enthusiastic party worker. I talked to him yesterday when he assured me of ensuring a comfortable lead for me in his area. It is quite unimaginable that Trinamul could kill him in such a way.” A senior police officer at Chakdah said: “All possible aspects behind the murder are being examined, including the activities of the accused persons. We are hopeful of nabbing the culprits soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amit Shah claims 122 wins in 180 seats for BJP, Mamata Banerjee scoffs||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday again made a prediction for the Bengal poll results, claiming at least 122 victories for the BJP in the 180 seats that have gone to polls over the five phases, making his party just about 26 short of majority in the 294-seat Assembly. Chief minister and Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee dismissed the lofty claims and asserted that the saffron camp would never be able to invade Bengal. At a rally in East Burdwan’s Purbasthali North, Shah said: “Didi (Mamata) got very demoralised after the fifth phase of polls.” “What is the reason? After the five phases it has become definite that BJP is much ahead of Didi with more than 122 seats,” he added. Shah has been making such claims after every phase of polling in Bengal in a bid to contribute to the saffron ecosystem’s narrative that the battle for Bengal is already decisively over in the BJP’s favour. Paying no heed to Shah’s claims, Mamata in a poll rally in North 24-Parganas’s Khardah, said: “The BJP can never win in Bengal. They will not win.” “What can I say to them? They will get nothing,” she said. “Some leader says they have completed a century, some say they have completed a double century (in winning seats). Some say they have created a double engine. You know what I think I should tell them? Nothing at all, because they are lying…. Liars.” It is equally important for Mamata to keep fighting the perception battle to ensure predictions by Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi don’t damage her party’s chances in the crucial remaining three phases, said an observer. “There are three vital phases, with 114 crucial seats – most of which we are likely to win,” said a senior Trinamul leader. “Even by conservative estimates, we are winning at least 110 seats (out of 180) in the first five phases and 80-plus in the rest three. Modi and Shah know we have a clear path to victory. They are playing these games to try and unsettle the minds of floating voters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
19-04-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Sengupta and Yasmeen Sengupta talk about the inclusive Bengal where they lived and loved||Gautam Sengupta is 69. Yasmeen Sengupta is 65. He is a Hindu. She is a Muslim. Married for 46 years, the two have lived through many ups and downs. Their families have always stood by them. Till their health permitted, Yasmeen used to paint alpona during Saraswati Puja at her in-laws’ ancestral home in Park Circus every year and Sengupta broke bread with her during Ramazan. There are many like the Senguptas of Park Circus around Bengal. But such stories demand a telling because of the politics of polarisation that threatens to tear apart the inclusive social fabric of Bengal. Yasmeen’s family shifted from Ballygunge Place to Circus Row when she was nine years old. Sengupta’s family home stood a stone’s throw from the Park Circus Seven-Point intersection. The two got introduced through a set of common friends and got married in 1975. Sengupta, who did his school and college from St. Xavier’s, holds Jesuit principles close to his heart till this day. Yasmeen did her school from South Point and graduated from Loreto College. Yasmeen’s grandfather, Rafiuddin Ahmed, is the founder of the R. Ahmed Dental College, the oldest such institute in Southeast Asia. But her inspiration is her grandmother Ayesha Ahmed, an alumnus of Brahmo Balika Shikshalaya. Later, Ayesha was part of a group of women who started a school for girls from marginalised families in Beleghata, which is now called the A.I.W.C Buniadi Bidyapith Girls School. She made Rabindranath Tagore a part of the lives of the Ahmed family. Yasmeen and Sengupta got married in Brahmo tradition. “There was hardly any ritual. I remember my friends singing Tagore songs,” said Yasmeen. “When we were growing up, inclusiveness was not just a textbook word. It was a part of our everyday lives. Every home had pictures of Tagore, Gandhi, Vivekananda and Netaji,” she said. Sengupta remembered growing up in a neighbourhood where the president of the local Durga Puja committee was a Muslim and the treasurer a Christian. Sengupta, who runs a manpower consultancy firm, has turned a part of his ancestral home into a guesthouse. The couple also own a flat in the Hastings area and keep shuffling between Hastings and Park Circus. One of Sengupta’s grand-uncles (father’s uncle), a doctor, was killed during the 1947 riots. “A man disguised as a woman in a burqa entered his chamber as a patient and shot him point blank,” said Sengupta. But the past never came in the way of the Sengupta family embracing their daughter-in-law. “My family members always considered the incident an act of terror, an aberration in a moment of madness,” he told this newspaper. “Their acceptance of me has been absolutely heroic. We (her parents and in-laws) speak the same language, eat similar food. It is not like I was wedded into an alien culture. But the way they rose above petty human instincts was heroic,” said Yasmeen. The couple have a daughter and a son. Their daughter, Rohini, is married to a Muslim man. The two are settled in Sydney. The bride and the groom’s family had known each other for three generations and the couple knew each other from childhood. “The marriage happened in 2001. It was such a happy occasion,” Sengupta said. His no-fuss demeanour drove a point home. That some of the stereotypes associated with interfaith marriages are based more on myths than reality. That an interfaith marriage can still be a normal and spontaneous affair. Yasmeen, a social worker, keeps reading newspaper reports and seeing television programmes around “love jihad” — a Right-wing narrative of Muslim men marrying Hindu girls with the alleged intention of converting and radicalising them. At least two BJP-ruled states have introduced legislation criminalising interfaith marriages if conducted for the ostensible purpose of religious conversion. “Where is the individual freedom, guaranteed by the Constitution? This is a blatant violation of constitutional values. Not only is this bad in principle, it is also bad in law,” said Yasmeen. “I am terrified of the future,” Yasmeen told this reporter bluntly. She is worried because she has heard plenty of stories of Partition from her elders and she dreads a rerun. “Politics now thrives on polarisation, more so in the run-up to the elections. Bengal and Punjab are two states scarred by Partition. Both places have seen how polarisation brings out the basest instincts in people. I have grown up around people who saw best friends baying for each other’s blood during Partition,” she said. Sengupta has spotted a change in the social fabric of Bengal. “A section of people now asserts their religious identity more strongly than before. Wearing your religion on your sleeve is the norm,” he said. The next second, he gave a caveat. “I have never been too religious. Perhaps that’s why I notice these things more than others.” Sengupta remembers some “flare-ups” in his neighbourhood in the aftermath of the Babri Masjid demolition in 1992 and surrounding author Taslima Nasreen, who was eventually “expelled” from Bengal in 2007. Sengupta stood up to a mob with sticks and flaming torches intent on setting a series of taxis on fire. “I managed to prevail on them. They were fuming but went back. Most of them were local boys,” he recounted. Both the husband and wife said the ongoing polls are more than a battle for political power. “We don’t know if it is possible to get back the Bengal where we got married. But we still have a place where all kinds of people live together. We must try to preserve what we have,” Sengupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
