20-04-2021||West Bengal||TMC urges Bengal CEO to club last three phases of polls amid Covid crisis||The TMC, which had been seeking a merger of the last three phases of assembly elections, shot off a letter to Chief Electoral Officer Aariz Aftab on Tuesday, urging him to consider the party's request amid the steep hike in COVID-19 cases. Chief Minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee, during her rallies on Monday, had also implored the Election Commission to re-think its decision to stick to the original poll schedule. The letter, undersigned by TMC leaders Derek O Brien, Sukendu Sekhar Roy, Pratima Mondol, and Purnendu Bose, highlighted the High Court order that directed the CEO to take urgent measures to avert a "deadly disaster that is staring at our faces" and said that "no prejudice would be caused if the three phases are clubbed into one". It further said that the steps taken by the EC to curb the spread of the disease such as curtailment of campaign hours are "cosmetic" as the critical human resource will continue to remain engaged on election duty. "Two equally important issues are at stake: the right to life and public health and the right to hold elections. It is pertinent to note that the Constitution of India has empowered the Election Commission of India to make this choice," the letter added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: PM Modi to hold rallies on a single day instead of two||The BJP has so far stuck to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s four-rally plan for the remaining phases in Bengal but indicated that the events would be held on a single day instead of two and efforts would be made to restrict the turnout to between 500 and 1,000. The tinkering was disclosed after chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced her decision to limit the number of her rallies in Calcutta to one and shorten the duration of her speeches. Mamata renewed a fervent appeal to the Election Commission of India to club the remaining three phases of the polls. “The Election Commission should take note of the situation and conduct elections in these remaining phases in one or at least two phases. We had raised the demand earlier…. But it seems that as the Prime Minister is scheduled to campaign here till April 23, they didn’t take the decision,” Mamata told a North Dinajpur rally. “I will not hold any major rallies or programmes in Calcutta except the one in north Calcutta on April 26.… Besides, I have curtailed the duration of my election meetings. Instead of addressing the meetings for 20 to 30 minutes, I’m speaking for 10 to 15 minutes at best, considering the situation,” Mamata told a news conference in Malda. “I cannot comment on what other political parties would do but we will definitely act rationally during the election campaign, taking into consideration the prevailing situation.” The CPM had been the first party to announce that it would not hold large rallies and would focus on door-to-door and virtual campaigns. The party has also booked slots with television and radio channels to reach out to voters. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi declared on Sunday that he was cancelling all his rallies in Bengal. While most political parties have responded to the crisis by shelving their plans to organise major political programmes, BJP sources said the party’s plans to organise four mega rallies for the Prime Minister till the last phase of the polls would not be altered. Modi was supposed to address two rallies each in Behrampore and Malda on April 22 and in Suri and south Calcutta on April 24. He will now address all the four rallies on April 23, a source said. “The Prime Minister’s Office has asked us to take necessary precautions during his public meetings and ensure strict adherence to coronavirus protocols. This is why we are clubbing the four rallies together,” said a state BJP office-bearer who is the coordinator for Modi’s rallies. On Monday night, the BJP central office announced that only 500 to 1,000 people would be asked to be physically present at these rallies. Others will be “advised and encouraged” to stay at home and watch the meetings on their television sets or on social media, the source said. Besides, the number of giant screens will be increased. The BJP’s plan to stick to the Prime Minister’s four-meeting schedule is likely to arm Mamata, who has been accusing Modi of mishandling the Covid crisis, with more ammunition to go after the Prime Minister. The Trinamul ecosystem dropped a hint about the campaign plan on Monday, with several leaders comparing the BJP and Trinamul responses to the second wave of the pandemic. On Monday, Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra posted a tweet calling out both the ECI and the BJP for not invoking the Epidemic Act amid the coronavirus crisis. “Why is @ECISVEEP (ECI) hell bent on killing us all? Why can the Epidemic Act not be invoked & voting clubbed together? How is BJP candidate’s right to campaign superior to voter’s right to life? This is insane @ECISVEEP,” she tweeted. Senior Trinamul leader Purnendu Basu held a news conference in the morning to explain how the lives of the people of Bengal were more important to Trinamul. Later in the day, the chief minister repeated her allegation and accused the saffron party of spreading the infection by bringing “outsiders” into the state. “They have brought in thousands of hired miscreants from other states to Bengal…. These people are spreading Covid,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||10-year-old hit by BJP worker for refusal to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ in Nadia||A BJP worker allegedly thrashed a 10-year-old boy over his refusal to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ on Monday afternoon when the child was passing by the tea stall owned by the party activist at Phulia in Nadia. The Class IV student, Mahadev Sharma, who had recently lost his mother, was admitted to the Ranaghat Subdivisional Hospital with multiple injuries. The incident angered local residents, who beat up the accused, Mahadeb Pramanik, the tea stall owner at Phuliapara. The protesters also raised a blockade on NH12 demanding Pramanik’s arrest. Intervening in the matter on a suo motu basis, police began a probe and managed to lift the blockade after an hour. The police assured the protesters that the accused would be arrested. Sources, however, said Pramanik — husband of Mithu Pramanik, the local chief of the BJP’s women’s wing — had fled The police have said the boy is the son of a carpenter who is a known Trinamul Congress supporter. “The boy was passing by Pramanik’s tea stall. He was singled out because of his father’s leanings. This was evident because Pramanik summoned him and began verbally abusing the boy’s father over his Trinamul leanings,” said a witness, adding Pramanik seemed particularly irked by the child’s father’s recent “proactive involvement” during polls here on April 17. “He started threatening the boy and wanted him to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’, which the boy refused,” the witness added. Sharma was then reportedly thrashed by Pramanik until a few villagers rushed in to help. Sharma, who was still in an apparent trauma, said from hospital bed: “He (Pramanik) insisted I chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and was abusing my father. When I refused, he started to beat and slap me, and then kick me. Luckily, some locals rushed in to help.” Hospital sources said the boy had suffered injuries to his face, head and back, and had been advised a CT scan. “The boy is in trauma, but is medically stable,” said a physician. Peter Mukherjee, a local Trinamul youth wing leader, said: “Some villagers rescued the boy in a semi-conscious state and informed me. “I immediately rushed to the spot and took him to the hospital. The incident proved yet again how cruel the BJP can be. It is unimaginable that he did not spare even a child who lost his mother.” Mahila Morcha leader Mithu Pramanik, wife of the accused, acknowledged the attack, but blamed the boy for alleged provocation. “It is true that my husband asked the boy to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’. But he said it jovially as he often does with many because the boy is known to him…. In fact, some customers who were present at the shop also retorted in jest that the boy should ask my husband to chant ‘Jai Bangla’. But the boy picked up a stone and threw it the shop, breaking glass containers. This made my husband lose his cool and he slapped him for the damages,” she claimed. “It is unfortunate that Trinamul is using the incident to malign us,” she added. The boy’s father, Shyamchand Sharma, said he could have never imagined that his 10-year-old son could be subjected to violence for his political leanings. “On the day of the election, BJP workers had been trying to influence voters, which I protested against. So, it appears they took revenge by attacking my son,” he said. Santipur police said a probe had already been launched. “A police team has also visited the home of the accused. We are trying to find out what exactly happened. However, till evening, no formal complaint has been lodged,” said an official. BJP worker Akhil Pramanik, 36, was found hanging from a tree in his courtyard at Kalna on Monday, prompting the party to accuse Trinamul of murdering him. Kalna police have started a probe after the wife of the BJP worker lodged a murder complaint. BJP leaders said Pramanik was an active party worker in the area and had recently been threatened by goons with dire consequences if he did not stay away from the BJP. Trinamul said Pramanik had killed himself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bypolls in two Murshidabad constituencies on May 13, Muslims seek change||The Election Commission of India on Monday issued a notification declaring May 13 as the rescheduled date of elections in Murshidabad’s Samserganj and Jangipur constituencies, where Sanyukta Morcha candidates — from the Congress and the RSP, respectively — succumbed to Covid-19 last week. In Samserganj, Congress nominee Rezaul Haque passed away on Thursday after undergoing treatment for over a week, whereas the RSP’s Jangipur nominee Pradip Nandy passed away at the Behrampore Covid Hospital on Friday. The election notification, however, prompted protests from Muslims in both the constituencies, where the minority community’s population is over 80 per cent. “Id is scheduled for May 14 to mark the end of Ramazan. Sometimes, the day comes forward, according to the moon sighting. Why couldn’t they schedule it for May 15?” asked Abdur Razzak, Murshidabad president of the All India Imam and Moazzem Organisation, accusing the commission of bias. He said he would petition the district magistrate — also the district election officer — for a change. District magistrate Sharad Dwivedi declined comments. Sources, however, said the commission norms had to be followed with regard to the election date. The notification has not gone down well with the Trinamul Congress’s Samserganj MLA and candidate Amirul Islam, who on Monday wrote an email to the commission demanding a date change. The party’s district president and MP Abu Taher Khan also reportedly wrote to the district magistrate. The CPM also formally asked the commission to reconsider the date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP trio on campaign trail in North Dinajpur||Three senior leaders of the BJP on Monday reached North Dinajpur, a district with nine Assembly seats where elections would be held in the sixth phase (on April 22), and underscored the promises which the party had mentioned in its election manifesto for Bengal. Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP chief J.P. Nadda turned up in the district on the final day of the campaign. While Shah spoke at a public meeting in Chakulia and attended two road shows, Singh addressed public meetings in Goalpokhor and Itahar. Nadda, on the other hand, attended a road show in Raiganj, the district headquarter. “We are confident that the BJP will come in power and implement the Citizenship Amendment Act…. Citizenship will be provided to the Matua community. North Bengal has been deprived of development by the parties which had been in power so far,” said Shah. The defence minister said the BJP would secure the majority mark in the 294-seat Bengal Assembly. “Elections have been held in five phases and the trends are favourable for us. People want a change as they have given 10 years to Mamata Banerjee. It is not a short time and many commitments could have been met,” Singh said. In 2019, the BJP had managed to secure the Raiganj Lok Sabha seat, even though the district has a minority population close to 50 per cent. In North Dinajpur, the BJP has not won a single Assembly seat in recent times. Back in 2011, Trinamul and Left had won three seats each, while two went to the Congress. An independent had won another seat. In 2016, Trinamul managed to win five seats, while two each went to the Congress and the Left Front. However, in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul could secure lead in five Assembly segments, while the BJP came first in the remaining four. Political observers pointed out that in the Parliament elections, BJP leaders had played the polarisation card and time and again referred to the Daribhit incident where two youths had died in a firing while protesting against the recruitment of some teachers in a school. “The strategy had worked for them. Unlike other seats, both the CPM and the Congress had contested in Raiganj and minority votes were shared among these two parties and Trinamul. But this time, the Congress and the CPM are allies and it seems the contest would be tough for the BJP. That is why top leaders and central ministers campaigned extensively on the final day of the campaign,” said an observer. In his speech, the Union home minister played the development card. “We will constitute a development board for north Bengal with an allocation of Rs 3,000 crore… the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose national highway that would connect Calcutta with Siliguri would be built and a central university would be set up in the region,” said Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Race to contain virus in north Bengal||The sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in north Bengal, especially in districts like Malda and Darjeeling, has made the state health department and some political parties in the hills draw up new plans to combat the situation. On Monday, state tourism minister Gautam Deb held an emergency meeting with officials of the Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri district administrations and the health department. At the meeting, it was decided that safe homes would be reopened and the number of beds would be increased at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri to accommodate more patients. A separate post of a nodal official will be created in the health department for the NBMCH and also a special cell would be constituted in Siliguri for regular monitoring of Covid patients. “The safe home (for treatment of Covid patients with mild symptoms) at Siliguri Municipal Corporation’s indoor stadium will reopen. Similarly, two other safe homes, which were earlier operational at Limbutari in Phansidewa block and at Batasi in Naxalbari block (both in Siliguri subdivision), will be made functional again,” said Deb. In the Darjeeling hills, where new cases have been reported, the GTA has also come up with some plans. According to sources, three people tested positive for the disease in Darjeeling municipality and two at Sukhiapokhri in the hills on Sunday. As of now, 21 people are under treatment at Triveni Covid hospital near Teesta. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction) has decided to set up helpdesks in Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik. “We will soon start the help desks. Party workers have been requested to activate surveillance teams which were formed earlier in all 45 constituencies of the GTA to help Covid-19 positive families coordinate on different fronts,” said Anit Thapa, general secretary, Morcha (Binay camp). Sources in the health department have said only one safe home — at Hatighisa (around 25km from Siliguri) — is operational now. “There has been a steady surge in Covid 19 cases in the past fortnight. The data of RT-PCR tests with us show 2,300 cases were reported in Malda, which is highest in any north Bengal district, from April 1 to 17. During the same period, 1,174 new cases have been detected in Darjeeling district,” said an official. In these 17 days, the number of cases also increased in Jalpaiguri (733) and North Dinajpur (698). But it is comparatively less in South Dinajpur (322), Cooch Behar (245), Alipurduar (130) and in Kalimpong (88). “We are testing around 1,400 samples every day at the VRD lab in the NBMCH,” the official said. Later in the afternoon, Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty for Covid-19 in north Bengal, held a meeting at the NBMCH. After the meeting, he said 110 beds were available at the hospital for treatment of Covid patients. “We have identified four more wards where 96 more HDU beds will be made available for Covid patients. Also, the new safe house at the indoor stadium will be operational with a capacity of 70 beds,” he said. According to him, the health department has no immediate plans to take over any private clinic for treatment of Covid patients in Siliguri. In Jalpaiguri, the health department reopened the female department of the Covid-19 hospital in Biswa Bangla Krirangan on Monday. The surge in infections has left residents of the town perturbed, particularly because the vaccination has stopped at the Jalpaiguri district hospital since April 15 because of shortage of vaccines. “We are supposed to receive around 14,000 of vaccines on Tuesday and would immediately resume vaccination,” said a health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Supreme Court bins plea for VVPAT match||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed Trinamul Congress leader Gopal Seth’s plea seeking a directive to the Election Commission of India for physical verification of EVMs using 100 per cent VVPAT (Voter-Verified Paper Audit Trial) assistance during the ongoing Bengal Assembly polls. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian dismissed the plea after noting that since polling had already taken place in some phases, it would not be appropriate to pass any directive at this juncture. “Voting is over. We are not going to interfere in the middle of the election process…” the CJI told advocate Pijush Kanti Roy who appeared for Seth. In response to a query from the bench, the counsel said the petitioner had made an earlier representation to the Election Commission on the issue. He said while the Election Commission had appreciated his plea, it had not passed any directive and so, he was constrained to approach the Supreme Court for appropriate strictures. “I am not seeking interference. The ECI has appreciated my request. Free and fair election is a right,” advocate Roy said, to which Justice Bobde replied: “ We agree with you on this, but we will not interfere.” Later, the court dismissed the petition. On May 7, 2019, 21 Opposition parties had suffered a  major setback after the Supreme Court had dismissed their plea for subjecting 50 per cent of the polling booths in the remaining phase of the general election to VVPAT of the EVMs to ensure transparency. At that time, the Opposition parties led by TDP’s N. Chandrababu Naidu, National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah and CPI leader D. Raja had cited various instances of malfunctioning of EVMs. The Opposition had pleaded that “…after the passing of the impugned order (April 8), the first Phase of Polling for General Elections has taken place and number of EVMs and VVP Ats across the country have been found to be defective and faulty”. “It · has been reported that in some cases where voters would vote for one party, EVM would record their vote having been cast for another party. In constituencies where EVMs or VVP ATs were found defective, polling had to be delayed and, in some cases, went on till wee hours of the the morning. Further, law and order problems were reported in many areas where supporters of political parties clashed against each other,” read their plea. However, on February 24 last year, the Supreme Court had granted weeks to the Election Commission to file its reply to a joint PIL filed by NGOs — Association for Democratic Rights (ADR) and Common Cause — alleging large scale discrepancies in the final tally of votes declared by the Election Commission after the 2019 general election. The petitioner had earlier alleged that as against the provisional lists announced by the poll body, so much so it was claimed that in six Lok Sabha constituencies, the discrepancies were more than the winning margin. However, the matter did not come up for further hearing thereafter in view of the prevailing pandemic. Elections to the 17th Lok Sabha were conducted in seven phases and covered 542 constituencies starting from April 11, 2019. The provisional results were announced on May 23, 2019. But the final tally of votes released by the EC in June indicated several discrepancies with the provisional votes declared on May 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP supporters protest attack on Gopal Chandra Saha in Malda||Hundreds of BJP supporters hit the streets of Malda district on Monday to protest the attack on Malda party candidate Gopal Chandra Saha. On Sunday night, miscreants had fired at Saha while he was returning from campaign. He is still under treatment at Malda Medical College and Hospital. Family members of Saha have filed a complaint with police. “They have not named anybody in the attack. A person has been detained in connection with the attack,” said a source in the district police. The investigators suspect a sharpshooter was engaged to kill Saha. While he was moving through Sahapur in Old Malda, the incident happened. “The bullet had hit his neck. We suspect a professional shooter was involved in the case,” a police officer said. Doctors said they had extricated the bullet. “He is under observation,” said a doctor. On Monday, state BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu and district BJP leaders visited the medical college and spoke to doctors about Saha’s condition. Basu said: “We do not want to politicise the incident. Police are investigating the case. We have come to the hospital to know about his condition. He is better and would hopefully resume his campaign shortly.” Trinamul leaders have distanced themselves from the attack and said it might have been the consequence of internal feuds of the BJP. “We have heard there was opposition within the party when Saha was named as the candidate. Also, a BJP dissident was deterred from submitting nominations as an Independent. We hope the police will unveil the truth. Trinamul has no connection with the incident,” said Subhamay Bose, a spokesperson for Trinamul’s Malda district unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: EC shifts 4 cops before voting||The Election Commission of India on Monday transferred four IPS officers in the districts where Assembly polls would be held in the next three phases and the Trinamul Congress accused the poll panel of acting at the behest of the BJP and transferring officers without consulting the state government. In an order issued by EC secretary Arvind Anand, the superintendents of police of Birbhum and East Burdwan were transferred, along with the Asansol-Durgapur commissioner of police and the Bolpur subdivisional police officer. The EC has posted Ajeet Kumar Singh as the SP of East Burdwan in place of Bhaskar Mukherji, while Nagendra Nath Tripathi has been appointed as the SP of Birbhum in place of Miraj Khalid. Besides, the poll panel has sent Mitesh Jain to take over as the CP of Asansol-Durgapur to replace Sukesh Jain, while Nagraj Devarakonda has been appointed as the SDPO of Bolpur in Birbhum to replace Abhishek Roy in the post. Trinamul termed the poll panel as “extremely compromised”. “EC = Extremely Compromised. EC transfers 4 officers, 48 hours before poll and almost 45 days after the Model (Modi) Code of Conduct has come into effect,” Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien tweeted. Trinamul was especially livid with the appointment of Nagendra Nath Tripathi, who was attached to the Nandigram police station just ahead of the second phase of the elections when Nandigram Assembly segment went to the polls, as the Birbhum SP. The Nandigram Assembly segment was a sensitive seat for the EC as chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari contested against each other. Tripathi had drawn attention after he had told the chief minister on her face during her sit-in at a booth during the voting that he would not do anything that would stain his uniform. “NN Tripathi, same person who was made in-charge of Nandigram, now shifted to Birbhum,” Derek O’Brien tweeted. Sources in the ruling party said the EC had made it clear that it was heavily influenced by the BJP after it had sent Tripathi to Birbhum, known to be a Trinamul stronghold. “Tripathi made the BJP bosses happy with his activities in Nandigram... Now, the BJP wants Tripathi in Birbhum as we have a strong organisation there,” said a Trinamul leader. Sources in the poll panel said the officers who were transferred had specific complaints against them. Trinamul alleged all the complaints against the officers transferred on Monday had been lodged by the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt ramps up Covid treatment facilities||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said there was nothing to panic about the Covid-19 situation in Bengal as the state government was taking all necessary steps to keep the spread under control and provide treatment to affected people. “There is no reason to panic... We have about 2,000 serious patients these days, who have comorbidities. We have taken steps to set up 4,500 more beds, of which 1,000 have already been added to the facilities,” said the chief minister in Malda on Monday. The assurance by the chief minister holds significance at a time the number of active cases in the state crossed 57,000 on Monday. “The chief minister wanted to assure people that the state government is aware of the situation and there is no scarcity of beds for Covid-19 patients at the moment,” said a senior health department official. Sources also said Mamata mentioned the figure of serious patients to make it clear that people should not press the panic button right at the moment as the majority of the infected had either mild or no symptoms. At the same time, the chief minister assured people that there would be no shortage of beds in the state in case more serious patients turned up at hospitals. “In greater Calcutta, we have 3,200 beds and 1,000 more beds have been added to the facilities. Besides, we have more than 200 safe homes and other centres where patients could get proper treatment,” said Mamata. Soon after the chief minister announced plans to add more beds to the 100-odd Covid treatment facilities, the top brass of the state government held a meeting with the authorities of private hospitals in and around Calcutta on Monday evening. “We want the private hospitals to increase Covid beds by 20 per cent more than what they had in October last year when the pandemic had reached its peak during the first wave,” said a source, adding that the focus was on Calcutta and its surroundings where majority of the cases were detected. Mamata said there was a scarcity of vaccines and essential medicines and she had written letters to the Prime Minister requesting him to look into the issues. Sources in the state administration said the chief minister was trying to step up the infrastructure to deal with the second wave of the pandemic and simultaneously, she was trying to ensure that panic didn’t set in. “She is aware that if panic sets in, it would affect the local economy, which is yet to come out of the ill-effect of the lockdown. If the local economy is affected once again, it would spell a disaster. So, she is trying to deal with the situation by enhancing treatment facilities,” said a source. As a part of enhancing the facilities, the government has engaged all senior IAS officers in the effort and they have been given responsibilities of one district each. They will help the district authorities to take proper steps and at the same time, they would act as a bridge between Nabanna and the districts. After governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had sought a report on Covid-19 situation in the state, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay met him and briefed him on the steps the state had initiated to contain the spread of the disease. The state government has also decided to increase beds at safe homes in Calcutta considering the fact that cases were rising alarmingly in the city. “Uttirno, an open air stadium in Alipore would be converted into a 500-bed safe home for Covid patients. Similarly, there will be a 200-bed Covid safe home in Gitanjali stadium. We are looking for some more facilities where safe homes would be set up,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: RSS engages ABVP to drum up support for BJP candidates in Malda||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has engaged its student front Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad to drum up support for BJP candidates in Malda, which is the largest district in north Bengal with the highest number of Assembly seats and has over 50 per cent minority population. Although the ABVP has a presence in north Bengal, its activities are hardly visible during the Assembly elections. But the scene is different in Malda this time. “Unlike most other districts in the region, the ABVP is actively working in Malda ahead of the Assembly elections. Its leaders and workers are roaming around, handing over leaflets to people, interacting with youths and organising different events. It seems the students’ organisation wants to draw support from the young generation through its nationalist narrative,” said a political observer. ABVP deputy organisational head Srinivas led a run in Malda on Sunday. The event that was flagged off from the pedestal of Shyamaprasad Mookerjee drew over 100 participants carrying ABVP flags. “I have been travelling across Bengal for the past six months and urging youths to take initiatives for the formation of a government that will have a development vision. Bengal has been ruled by different parties for the past 70 years and the agenda of development has taken a backseat. What is prevalent nowadays is blatant appeasement,” said the ABVP leader. Along with the ABVP, another RSS-backed outfit Vishwa Hindu Parishad is also working in the district, especially in tribal belts. “We are urging people to vote for a party that can form a transparent state government and will work on principles of nationalism,” said Bidrohi Sarkar, a VHP leader. The Trinamul Congress said the saffron brigade’s such initiatives wouldn’t yield electoral dividends. “People are well aware that these organisations work to divide them on religious lines. Malda residents will never back them. They have also seen the miserable performance of Malda North BJP MP who could not do anything for the district in the first two years of his tenure,” said Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury, a senior Trinamul leader in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Six held with firearms, abduct plan foiled in Cooch Behar||Six persons apparently had plans to abduct a foreign liquor shop owner were arrested after arms and ammunitions were seized from their possession here early on Monday. Debasish Dhar, the superintendent of police, Cooch Behar, said the gang had plans to abduct the businessman and had assembled at a house in Bharat Colony of the town. “Two firearms and some live ammunition have been seized from them. Among them, two persons, who are suspected to have criminal records, were hired and brought in from other states for the crime,” the SP said. Those arrested have been identified as Bandhan Roy and Bharat Burman, both residents of Dinhata, Basudeb Sarkar, who hail from the outskirts of Cooch Behar town, Sanjay Paswan from Dhubri district of Assam and Rajesh Kumar and Shivam Sahoo both residents of Uttar Pradesh. Two firearms, nine rounds of 7.6mm bullets and one round of 8mm bullet have been seized from them, said a police officer. “Basudeb Sarkar had taken a house on rent at Bharat Colony and others joined him in due course. They had also hired the duo from Uttar Pradesh. We need to interrogate them further for more information,” added the district police chief. Around 300 school students blocked the Alipurduar-Falakata state highway at Tapshikhata, on the outskirts of Alipurduar town, for three hours on Monday noon after a school girl was mowed down by a truck early in the morning. The blockade was withdrawn after local block officers assured the students of proper traffic vigilance on the road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amartya Sen backs ‘local’, not ‘central’||Economist and Nobel laureate Amartya Sen said this election had sharpened the communal divisions that Bengal’s luminaries, from Rabindranath Tagore to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, had “worked hard to replace with a peaceful understanding”. “The fanning of the dangerous flames of communal divisions has not occurred as strongly in Bengal since 1946, as it is happening now,” Sen said in an interview to PTI. “What Mahatma Gandhi did in the 1940s can be undone with a huge cost and sacrifice in Bengal, and this evil negation has unfortunately received much encouragement in this election. Bengal wants unity, not divisions — as Gandhiji so clearly explained.” Bengal should not have to be a party to “that national degeneration”, Sen said, when asked if the Assembly elections would have a bearing on national politics. “If Bengal ends up being governed by central rulers, not local leaders, it will vastly strengthen the concentration of power in India in the hands of those whose conception of minority rights is extremely limited and whose record on economic policy and social justice seems seriously defective,” he said. “The BJP-rule has not been particularly good for the country, with its huge neglect of the poor, mistreatment of minorities, messing up of the economy and mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis,” the economist said. There are reasons to scrutinise sharply the priorities of the ruling party in India that makes them so single-mindedly concerned about winning the elections in Bengal, he added. “The Mamata Banerjee government has taken a number of good initiatives, including the launch of its welfare programmes, especially the ones for girls. Also, the beneficial expansion of rural infrastructure (including much-needed rural roads), and very importantly a workable system of food security are worth appreciation,” the Nobel laureate said. The fact that children in Bengal, despite their families having smaller incomes than, say, families in Gujarat, seem to have better health conditions than Gujarat’s children is a tribute to the governance in Bengal, Sen said. “But there are gaps too that need to be addressed, including corruption check,” he added. Asked about the “outsider-insider” debate launched by Trinamul’s description of the BJP as a party of outsiders, Sen said it is “certainly a bad thing” because Bengal has historically been tolerant to outsiders. “There have never been movements against, say, Tamil or Malayali immigration into Bengal, unlike what happened in, say, Bombay. It is always unfortunate if anti-outsider criticisms have to be used — it is certainly a bad thing,” he said. But, he argued, “when one of the major political contenders in the electoral battles portrays a part of the ‘insider’ population of Bengal — in particular, Bengali Muslims — as less deserving of support, while deriving their strength from the support of Hindu activists coming originally from outside Bengal, the dividing lines are hard to be kept pure”. The reference was to the BJP’s campaign that has included branding of Muslims as Bangladeshis. The “outsider-insider” issue demands a fuller political analysis and it is important to understand that “excluding resident outsiders is always a bad thing, but excluding resident insiders is far more illegitimate”, Sen explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: A cottage  industry thrives around bomb-making every election season||Elections are back with a bang, literally. Ballots in Bengal have spawned a cottage industry over the years — that of bomb-making. Political clashes before polls have often involved crude bombs and many lives have been lost, prompting police crackdowns in which large caches of explosives have been seized. Bomb-making, however, continues unabated. “Do you think BJP and CPM workers will reciprocate with rosogollas if Trinamul men hurl bombs at them?” asked a 45-year-old crude bomb-maker in Birbhum’s Nanoor, breaking into laughter. “Yes, we get orders to make bombs from both the ruling party of the day and those in the Opposition. Bombs are a badge of strength. Those who have more goons and bombs are stronger. It is a weapon. Can the army fight with bamboo sticks against opponents armed with AK-47 rifles?” he asked, requesting anonymity. “Election is like war time. The demand for bomb-makers and explosives increases before polls. Political parties start stocking bombs a few months before elections,” he said. Central Bengal districts such as Birbhum, East and West Burdwan, Murshidabad and Malda witness frequent clashes with bombs. The use of bombs is not uncommon also in North and South 24-Parganas and some north Bengal districts. Politicians this newspaper spoke to said the practice of using bombs during elections dated back decades. Besides political murders, bombs are used to spread panic or to take control of villages after elections are declared. According to police records, 2,000 crude bombs have been recovered in the past year only in Birbhum. The number is around 250 since the elections were declared in February. Police sources said at least a dozen complaints had been lodged over clashes with bombs. Bombs stocked in vacant government establishments like ICDS centres, abandoned buildings of health centres and other places have often accidentally gone off in Birbhum, the sources said. A senior police officer who has served in Birbhum for at least 10 years said the stocks of crude bombs appeared unending. “We get tired recovering bombs but the stocks never end. This has been continuing since CPM rule,” the officer said, preferring anonymity. The bomb-maker this newspaper spoke to said he had no idea that a seven-year-old boy in Burdwan town had died on March 22 while playing with a crude bomb that he had apparently mistaken for a ball. “It was the fault of the local people who had stocked bombs…. But do you know how many people lose their limbs preparing bombs? No political party looks after them after they become useless,” he said. Sources said three types of crude bombs were usually used in political fights —known locally as sutli (tied with jute cord), kouto (explosives crammed into an iron canister) and socket (explosives stuffed into an iron pipe whose two sides are closed). A sutli bomb costs Rs 500, a kouto bomb can be had at Rs 600 and a socket is sold at Rs 1,000-Rs 1,200. “A bomb-maker charges Rs 150 to prepare a crude bomb (sutli). Every poll season, I receive orders for at least 100 crude bombs,” the bomb-maker said. “We earn between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5 lakh by making crude bombs during elections. Orders come from all the prominent political parties. At the beginning, the fight was between the CPM and the Congress, then it was the CPM and the Trinamul Congress. Now, it is between Trinamul and the BJP…. The business is alive,” he added. In February, junior minister Jakir Hossain and 10 Trinamul workers suffered splinter injuries when unidentified people hurled around a dozen crude bombs at them at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad. Political leaders did not deny the use of crude bombs during elections but passed the buck onto each other. Recently, the BJP candidate from Bolpur, Anirban Ganguly, had accused Trinamul of stocking crude bombs and demanded that all booths in Birbhum be declared as sensitive. Abhijit Tah, the BJP president of East Burdwan, said: “It is Trinamul that always uses crude bombs to create panic among voters and threaten our leaders in the villages. The BJP does not believe in such violent tactics. Trinamul claims that we use bombs but people know the allegations are false.” Birbhum Trinamul president Anubrata Mondal alleged that the CPM had started the culture of using bombs and now the BJP was emulating it. “The CPM used bombs to manipulate elections. Now, a large number of CPM goons have joined the BJP and are using bombs freely,” Mondal said. The CPM distanced itself from such claims. “Those who fight with bombs are criminals, not political persons. It is unfortunate that some political parties are using bombs,” said Goutam Ghosh, a CPM state committee member. Asked about the allegation that the CPM had encouraged the use of bombs, Ghosh said: “Our party never supported such people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
20-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Never an outsider in Calcutta||I was born in a house whose walls were carpet-bombed with framed portraits, many of which were of blood relatives I had never heard of, let alone seen. Those impossible not to recognise were not related to us at all: Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel…. My home was not godless but even the original triumvirate of Vishnu-Shiva (Brahma’s pictures are usually kept out) found themselves on a lower pedestal — not because of any discrimination but probably driven by the practical reason that the lamps would be within the reach of the children to be lit at dawn and dusk, every day if possible or occasionally in those days of easy forgiveness. Still it is undeniable that the Mahatma, Panditji and Sardar commanded at my home a higher profile, so to speak. They were surrounded by a legion of lords, which included Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the scholar and the second President of the Republic, and C. Rajagopalachari, freedom fighter, the first governor of West Bengal and the last governor-general of India. My life has been inextricably linked to S. Radhakrishnan and Rajaji for the facile and uncomplicated reason that my parents, products of the Nehruvian age, chose to name my brother and me after the two national figures. I was not particularly — and prophetically — fond of the name. One, even after sandpapering the edges (which made me Rajagopal, not Rajagopalachari), it was a decidedly unfashionable name. Rajiv and Sanjay (or Sanjeev) were the names that were hot then, which derived their firepower from the sons of Indira Gandhi. In the 20th century, such choices were commonplace. I was told my grandfather wrote to Gandhiji — even though they did not know each other — when my father was born, requesting that the Mahatma suggest a name for the newborn. Gandhiji apparently wrote back saying one of his sons was named Ramdas and it’s a name that he likes. I used the disclaimer “apparently” because I have no evidence, documentary or otherwise, other than the fact that my father was indeed named Ramadas. Two, I could figure out from the faint shadow of annoyance that crossed faces that it is a curse to be saddled with a name that has more than three or four letters. So, I generally ended up being called “Raj” or “Rajan” in Trivandrum (before it was reborn as Thiruvananthapuram, by when I had left the Kerala capital.) I suspect my brother Radhakrishan paid a higher price. Introduced, it would be a matter of moments before he would be called “Radha” (good for gender-sensitivity but bad for interpersonal relations with school bullies). So, although “Raj” and “Rajan” had given me a fair warning early in life, nothing prepared me for the breathtaking metamorphoses my name would undergo once I reached Calcutta to pursue a career in journalism. Here, “Raja” is the most popular derivative — among the callers, not the called. The shortened name offers opportunities at humour — and sometimes fake humility —– so that gems like “Tumi Raja, ami Praja” can be flashed. The next day, the name can become “Rajagopala”, “Rajagopale” and then “Rajagopalan”, only to take a longer leap to “Rajagopalachari” with a pause to decide if it is “Rajagopalacharya” or “Rajagopalacharjee (my favourite as it makes me a Bengali without having to wait for the CAA to be implemented.) Then there is the delayed letdown. Just when I heave a sigh of relief at being addressed as “Rajagopal”, the damper must surely follow with a wedge in between: it is almost always “Raja Gopal”, rarely Rajagopal. On the phone, some commit the cardinal sin of adding a dramatic twist by making it “Raj Gopal” (the effect of the name “Raj” for heroes in Hindi movies). But, should they come face to face, they rapidly correct themselves and change the call sign to “Raja Gopal”, my girth and the rest of the appearance curing them of any illusions of heroics in me. Make no mistake. By no means is the name-calling a one-sided match. My atrocious pronunciation mercilessly butchers almost every Bengali name. I plead guilty as charged on this count. But in the 30 years I have lived in Calcutta, I have mostly not felt hurt or offended at my name being mispronounced or misspelled. In fact, my name has often acted as an ice-breaker or a conversation-starter that led to delightful anecdotes. One day in Calcutta, I found myself in a roomful of Indians and a bewildered Scot who was struggling to remember names like “Gopalakrishnan”, “Parthasarathi”, “Achyut”, “Damodar”, “Brijesh”, “Keshav”, “Nandlal” and, of course, “Rajagopal”. The problem was solved when an enterprising gentleman told the foreigner: “All these names have the same meaning. You can just call them Krishna1, Krishna2, Krishna3….” My name has also bailed me out of tricky (and potentially physically perilous) situations. Soon after I reached Calcutta in 1991, Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eeelam (LTTE or Tamil Tigers). I had moved to a PG accommodation, woken up to find the taps dry and, consumed by indignation, had rushed to the landlord to enquire. A bear of a man, the landlord sized me up and took in my scrawny frame but asked with respect bordering on slight hesitation: “Are you a Tamil Tiger?” It was then that I realised in my anger, I had marched up to the landlord in a lungi that was tied at half-mast (I did so involuntarily to ensure that I did not trip but forgot for a moment that it is a universal sign for a call to arms). I also realised that the landlord was genuinely grappling with a snowballing doubt: did he give shelter to a terrorist? I did not mind at all. Neither did I smell any racist or ethnic slur. A manhunt was then going on across the country for possible collaborators who took part in the plot to assassinate Rajiv. I burst out laughing and he called me “Rajagopalachari” while calming me down with an endearing mix of Hindi and Bengali: “Rajagopalachari, shant ho jaiye, shant ho jaiye, jol aashbe, jol aashbe.” When I corrected him, the landlord guffawed and told me: “You will always be Rajagopalachari in Bengal.” Until then, I had little idea of Rajaji’s close association with Bengal. (By coincidence, Gopalkrishna Gandhi, the grandson of Rajaji as well as the Mahatma, would become the governor of Bengal in 2004.) Eventually, during the evening load-shedding that was fairly common in the early 1990s, my roommates and I would go to his shop downstairs that had a battery-operated lamp. The sight of me would set the landlord down memory lane and he would tell us stories about Nehru and the crowd that packed the Brigade when Indira Gandhi and Bangabandhu appeared together after the Liberation War. The lungi inadvertently helped me on another occasion, too — and it had nothing to do with my identity. My PG mates and I went for a late-night movie at Globe and were walking through the dark corridors of New Market when some of my friends decided to rib me for wearing a lungi (but at full mast now) to a movie hall and kept calling me “lungi, lungi, lungi….” We were walking in a procession through the narrow corridors with me at the head. All of a sudden, there was a commotion and several lung-wearing men — workers sleeping in New Market — encircled us, thinking that we were poking fun at them. I convinced the bleary-eyed and fuming men that my friends meant me and I struck a pose with my lungi at half-mast — probably the only occasion I played a hero in my life and it did work. They let us go unharmed. The last I remember of the landlord is him bellowing from his top floor in Moulali at my wife and I standing below on the road when I took her there to meet him on my off day: “Any issue?” “Tomorrow night,” I shouted back, assuming that he was referring to the journalistic jargon for the edition of a newspaper. The landlord let out that “Rajagopalachari” guffaw again. And to my utter embarrassment, I realised that he was asking us if we had any children, choosing the archaic word “issue” (the 12th meaning of the word in Webster’s dictionary is “offspring” or “progeny”) to fire the question. When the “issue” was born four years later, a child in a Bengali family in our neighbourhood called our daughter Bulbul because her parents could not reach a consensus. Bulbul remains Bulbul’s given name even now, 25 year later. So, what is the moral of this story? None, none at all. Just a footnote that seeks to redefine or repackage me. A few weeks ago, it was conveyed to me that an acquaintance (whom I have run into occasionally in the elevator and exchanged pleasantries or smiles with) had told a friend: “Your editor is a Malayali, a communist and a Christian.” The three “grave charges” were levelled as if they were some sort of crimes against humanity and were responsible for the positions that I took as a journalist. That I am a Malayali is a fait accompli — I had no role in that decision and occurrence. That I am a communist is fake news. True communists will be more outraged than anyone else if I, who has enjoyed the privileges that come by birth as well as feudal inheritance and served private capital in my entire working life, pretend to be one of them. Whether I am a Christian or not — that is none of his business. My faith is my private affair. Why am I making such a song and dance about a purported stray comment? The conversation came up because the person who apparently charged me with the three “offences” had joined the BJP the same day. I had once rudely tried to correct a person who had misspelled my name in a letter. Now I realise the true worth of each such wayward letter, written and uttered not with malice but with the shared confidence that such oversights will be forgiven and forgotten in this great melting pot of a city that has been indescribably kind to me. “Raja” radiates affection, and the truncated name is priceless. So are “Rajagopala”, “Rajagopalan”, “Rajagopalachari”, “Rajagopalacharya” and “Rajagopalacharjee”. I was not blessed with a banyan tree under which I could find enlightenment. All it took was a bigot to open my eyes and make me cherish the names this city has gifted me.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
