21-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata questions vaccine price disparity, will write to Modi ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said she would write to the Prime Minister about the discrepancy in price of vaccines being supplied by Serum Institute of India to the Centre, states and private hospitals. “I will write to the Prime Minister on this. Why would the private sector have to pay more? In a situation like this, should one look for profits or help the afflicted?” Mamata said while addressing the media. “We have given around 93 lakh doses so far. Our target is another one crore, for which we are asking the Centre to supply. The rest we will buy from the market,” the chief minister said. She also said that the Bengal government had secured an additional Rs 100 crore for the vaccination programme. Mamata announced that the universal vaccination programme would start in Bengal from May 5, three days after the Assembly election results are announced. The Centre has opened up the vaccination programme to everyone above the age of 18 from May 1. The privately-run Serum Institute had announced earlier in the day that prices for vaccines produced by the company was fixed at Rs 400 for states and Rs 600 for the private hospitals . The Centre, hwoever, woul dget to buy the vaccine at Rs 150. The Serum Institute’s decision to have different prices has raised questions on how it would prioritise supplies? Would the highest payer—in this case  private hospitals—be given priority over state-run facilities? Although the Centre had announced that those above 18 would be eligible to get the vaccine from May 1 (the current age limit is 45 years and above), a statement issued by the ministry of health and family welfare made it clear that states would have to procure vaccines on their own for those between  18-45. The second wave of Covid has led to a scarcty of medical resources across the country. Oxygen and medicines for treating Covid-19 patients are in short supply but BJP leaders in different parts of the country have been tomtoming their availability at their offices. Last week, Gujarat BJP chief C.R. Patil had distributed around 5,.000 doses of Remdesivir, for which the Gujarat High Court  issued a notice on Tuesday.  East Delhi MP Gautam Ganbhir tweeted on Wednesday, notifying party supporters of another drug available at his constituency office. “People of East Delhi can get Fabiflu from MP office (2, Jagriti Enclave) for FREE between 10-5. Kindly get Aadhaar and prescription,” Gambhir tweeted. In Trinamul-run Bengal, Mamata admitted there was a scarcity of medical supplies. “This is a disaster. Even in calamities we work. Emergency is emergency. We have our responsibilities, and we have to make arrangements. There is scarcity of oxygen. We are also trying to stop illegal stocking and profiteering,” she said. The chief minister, who also handles the health portfolio, said in Bengal, around 6,793 Covid-19 patients were at various stages of treatment in state-run and private hospitals, while another 51,593 Covid patients were recuperating at home in isolation. “We have 11,000 beds and will add another 2,000 beds by Friday. There are 3,888 patients in government hospitals and 2,905 patients in private hospitals,” Mamata said. The chief minister ruled out any possibility of a lockdown in Bengal. “I can tell people to be cautious., I can ask them to wear masks, but I cannot tell them to stop their work, businesses and stay at home,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata dubs second wave of Covid-19 a ‘Modi-made disaster’||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Wednesday sharpened her attack against the prime minister over resurgence of Covid-19 in the country calling it "Modi-made disaster" and demanded that he quit if he cannot provide adequate medicine to fight the disease. She alleged that 65 per cent of the drugs manufactured in the country for tackling the pandemic have been exported. "The Covid-19 pandemic had subsided in the country but has made a resurgence owing to the monumental failure of the central government and negligence and total incompetence on its part," she said addressing public meetings at Chanchal in Malda and at Harirampur in Dakshin Dinajpur districts. As the Election Commission did not accede to Trinamool Congress' request to hold the last three of the eight-phase election in Bengal on a single day, Mamata said she is having to take care of the sharp rise in the pandemic in the state as its chief minister as well as the election campaign for Trinamool Congress, her party. Hitting out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mamata said "The country is facing a Modi-made disaster. Modi Babu will have to take responsibility for why medicines to treat Covid-19 are not available in the market ... You have to provide medicines or leave the seat. Either you control Corona or move out." She alleged that 65 per cent of drugs manufactured in the country to treat coronavirus have been exported. Medicines may be given to other countries, but it has to be also ensured that people of the country get adequate supply. BJP is attempting to break the spine of Bengal and "we (TMC) have also resolved to break its backbone," the feisty TMC supremo said and claimed that none else has the power to fight against Narendra Modi other than her. "Bengal is the land of Royal Bengal Tiger and we fight like one," Mamata said. The chief minister claimed that her government has done a lot for the welfare of Rajbanshis and the minorities in the state. "We have done everything - the only task left to be done is to drive out the BJP," she said and assured that she will not allow implementation of National Register of Citizens or the National Population Register in Bengal. Mamata urged the people "not to allow division of votes" and to unitedly support the TMC. She said if TMC is re-elected for the third consecutive term, her government will arrange soft loans of up to Rs 10 lakh for higher education so that the deserving students can establish themselves in different fields across the country and the world and return to Bengal. Addressing a gathering in the Muslim-dominated Malda district, which is considered a Congress bastion, Mamata asked the electorate to cast their votes in favour of TMC irrespective of their religious beliefs as it is the "only party party which has not allowed any division on the grounds of religion. There is "no one else in the market" to ensure a government which will protect the religion and rights of all the people but the TMC, Mamata said and urged people not to divide the votes against BJP by supporting the Congress or the Left Front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid crisis: Mamata Banerjee reminds Narendra Modi of jab stupor in February 24||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has reminded Prime Minister Narendra Modi that she had requested his intervention as early as on February 24 to allow Bengal to purchase vaccines directly with state resources and give free vaccination to the people of the state. “No response was received from your end,” Mamata wrote to Modi on Tuesday, a day after the Centre changed its policy on vaccines. “I am informed that the central government has announced the much-delayed ‘universal’ vaccine policy… which appears to be hollow… and a regrettable show of evasion of responsibility by the central government at the time of crisis,” Mamata said. “Now when the number of cases in the second wave of Covid is spiralling like anything, the Centre has chosen to tactically indulge in empty rhetoric….” Mamata added in the letter that the Centre was shying away from “its responsibility for making available vaccines to the people of the country”. In her one-page letter, Mamata told Modi that his government’s Monday announcement lacked several key elements. “The announcement does not address major issues like ensuring the quality, efficacy, stable flow of supply of required number of vaccines by the manufacturers and also the price at which vaccines are to be purchased by the states,” wrote Mamata. She expressed apprehension over how the announced policy could lead to unscrupulous mechanisms in the market, including pricing of vaccines, as it appears to be based on market prices. This “may put the common people under huge financial burden”, she wrote. “More important, the supply would also become very erratic because the vaccine manufacturers are hardly prepared to scale up their production capacities to the desired levels to meet the nationwide demand,” read the letter, adding that the required vaccines are not currently available in the market. “In sum, I would earnestly request you to kindly ensure a fair, transparent and credible vaccination policy addressing all the issues outlined above, which would enable the people of the country to get vaccines urgently at affordable prices as per current scale as applicable,” Mamata conveyed to Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Darjeeling hills see greetings and clashes ||In the past 48 hours, the political atmosphere in Darjeeling hills blew hot and cold like Darjeeling’s weather, ranging from warm greetings between political leaders to attacks to missives of peace. On Monday morning, Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, adopted an unconventional method to reach out to his archrivals Anit Thapa and Binay Tamang through social media apprising them of an alleged attack on GNLF workers by supporters of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Tamang-Thapa faction. Edwards said that a small skirmish had taken place between the Tamang-Thapa supporters and the GNLF workers at Lopchu on Sunday night following which the former beat up a GNLF supporter and broke the windshield of his car. “I told our agitated cadres to...not take law in their own hands…please inquire and instruct your people to do the same. We are not enemies here in Darjeeling hills, and this kind of incident should be avoided by all political parties,” Edwards told Tamang-Thapa on social media. Thapa immediately responded to Edwards’s post and said he, too, did not encourage such incidents, and that the welfare of the hills was above party interest. “Please feel free to call me on my phone,” Thapa said. Many hill residents appreciated this warm exchange between the two leaders. However, late on Monday night, news poured in about a clash between rival Bimal Gurung and Tamang-Thapa camps of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Mahendra Pradhan, the leader of the Morcha (Tamang-Thapa camp), and former Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) Sabha member from Sonada, alleged that Bimal Gurung had personally assaulted him. “I was on my way to Nalichor (a Sonada village) while Bimal Gurung was returning (to Darjeeling). There was a traffic jam. I was alone and it was then that daju (Bimal Gurung) assaulted me and I sustained injuries on my head,” said Pradhan. The Binay camp leader also admitted that he also threw a stone at Gurung’s cavalcade after the attack. Gurung denied the charge and said while he was on his way from Ringtang tea garden, a group of eight-nine boys along with Pradhan were standing and whistling. The whistle is the Tamang-Thapa camp’s election symbol. “I carried on with my journey. Later I heard that they attacked one of the vehicles at the end of my cavalcade. One worker is injured and the charge that I assaulted Mahendra Pradhan is false,” said Gurung. On Tuesday, there was a war of words between the two camps. However, late on Tuesday evening, leaders of major political parties from the hills issued a joint statement calling for peace in the hills following an all-party meeting convened by Darjeeling police. Leaders who issued message of peace included Morcha (Gurung camp) general-secretary Roshan Giri, Darjeeling subdivision committee president (Tamang-Thapa camp) Alok Kant Mani Thulung, GNLF’s Edwards, BJP (hills) district secretary Raju Gurung and Trinamul’s Devendra Ghatani. “Politics is in its own place, but we are not enemies. Leaders are united here and it is foolish for cadres to fight,” said Edwards. “Political relations might change but we are all brothers in the hills,” added Thulung. “If anything happens, instead of informing party leaders it is better to go to the police station and allow law to take its course.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Stricter hygiene rules for tourism industry||The fresh surge in Covid cases — 9,819 new infections in Bengal on Tuesday — has prompted the Bengal tourism department to issue a number of fresh guidelines for stakeholders of the industry. S. Pradhan, a joint director of the department, has issued a set of instructions for transporters, tour operators, hoteliers, as well as management protocols for private and government accommodations. Transporters will have to sanitise vehicles thoroughly with disinfectants, use disposable seat covers, ensure proper physical distance of 2 feet each among passengers on board, limit the number of stops and train the driver and helpers on maintaining hygiene and safety protocols. Also, use of masks and gloves are mandatory for drivers and cleaners. “The transporters are also instructed to strictly follow a pre-plan itinerary. Tour operators or travel agents must tell tourists the dos and don’ts of travelling safely amid the pandemic,” said a source in the department. Since November last year, tourist inflow has increased in north Bengal. Covid cases had also shown a decline across the state. “However, over the few weeks, the number of Covid cases has suddenly shown an alarming surge,” said an official. “In Darjeeling district a major attraction for tourists, around 1,300 cases have been reported during the first 17 days of April. This spurt in infections is the key reason for strict safety guidelines.” The state tourism department has underlined guidelines for tourist lodges run by the West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation Ltd. “Sanitisation would be carried out every alternative day in these properties. Tourists and housekeeping staff will have to follow strict Covid protocols,” the official added. Other instructions include allowing only asymptomatic visitors to use the facilities, avoiding big gatherings in entertainment shows, introduce online or web check-in, having one isolation room  for every 50 rooms and one day gap to be maintained between two consecutive bookings for a room for thorough sanitisation. Those associated with the industry have welcomed the guidelines but are worried of a downturn. “In the past couple of weeks, almost 90 per cent of bookings were cancelled,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary of Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP rejigs campaign plan with virtual focus||Senior BJP leaders on Tuesday revised the party’s campaign plan for the last two phases of Assembly polls in Bengal and said they would try to reach out to the maximum number of voters virtually and refrain from bringing in large crowds at their public meetings in the next few days. Amit Malviya, the IT cell head of BJP, said that the itinerary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been redrawn. “It has been decided that he (Modi) will visit the state only on April 23, and speak in four public meetings. In each of these venues, there will be 500-odd persons in the audience. The meetings will be telecast (and livestreamed on various platforms) at smaller grounds or at the booth level,” Malviya said. Modi, sources said, will speak in Malda, Murshidabad and Birbhum districts. He will also address a meeting in Calcutta. Virtually, his speeches are scheduled to reach 56 Assembly segments. Similar arrangements — small crowds and telecast/ livestreaming of speeches — will be made for public meetings of home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda. Bengal elections of the last two phases – seven and eighth — will be held on April 26 and April 29 in 36 and 35 seats, respectively, for which campaigning is on. Over the past few days, mega public meetings organised by the BJP across the state drew flak, with people commenting on the dangers of crowding amid the pandemic. Trinamul has time and again approached the Election Commission with requests to club the final three or two phases of polls in the wake of the surge in the number of Covid cases. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that she would not speak at multiple public meetings in Calcutta and deliver shorter speeches in districts. These developments, observers said, made the BJP redraw its campaign plans. On Tuesday, the party’s national chief Nadda cancelled four public meetings which he was supposed to attend in the state. Instead, he held meetings with party leaders and workers. This change transpired a day after he was in Raiganj of North Dinajpur for a road show. In Murshidabad district, which has 22 Assembly seats, Modi’s main meeting will be held at the Behrampore stadium. “Around 500 people will be present there. Simultaneously, we will set up giant screens at least in one place in each of these constituencies. People will be encouraged to listen to the speeches virtually instead of being at the venue,” said a party leader. A senior Trinamul leader in Malda said: “In Malda, Covid infections are rising…we are perplexed. On the one hand, we can’t sit idle and let others (rivals) campaign, but there is always a risk of infection if people crowd.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Report on Sitalkuchi boy sought||The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights has written to the district magistrate of Cooch Behar for a report on Mrinal Haque, 14, of Jorpatki village under Sitalkuchi Assembly seat, who was reportedly beaten up by the CISF on April 10. His assault purportedly prompted some villagers to go to the booth in protest when some CISF personnel opened fire, killing four voters. The letter sent by an official of the WBCPCR to Cooch Behar district magistrate Pawan Kadyan said the commission had come to know from newspaper reports that the boy was “beaten up by central forces.” “The commission has taken suo motu cognisance and sought a report from the administration,” said a source. The commission has asked Kadyan about Mrinal’s present physical health, steps taken for his treatment and administrative action after the incident. Mrinal’s family members and neighbours have alleged that the district child welfare committee took no initiative to help with his treatment. “None from the administration came and stood by us. My son is still ill and we have not yet received any help for his treatment,” said Majid Mian, Mrinal’s father and a farmer. Alizar Rehman, a local Trinamul leader, added: “The administration should have taken some initiative for the boy’s proper treatment.” Representatives of the child welfare committee, however, said they have not yet received any official directive. Dora Bhattacharjee, chairperson of the CWC in Cooch Behar district, said they were aware of the case but needed official intimation to act. On April 10, when Mrinal was roaming in a market near the Amtali MSK (booth 5/126) of Sitalkuchi, some CISF men reportedly beat him and shoved him to the ground. Later, the boy was taken to the subdivisional hospital for the treatment of his injuries on his buttocks, back and shoulder. When villagers went to the booth and the CISF opened fire, killing four young men, Sitalkuchi shot to national prominence. However, the CISF maintained the firing was in self-defence. After the firing, some villagers ransacked the EVM and the VVPAT and also assaulted some members of the polling team. Polling came to a halt at the booth. Additional forces took the polling personnel away. On Tuesday, all five polling personnel posted on April 10 at the booth in Sitalkuchi— Md Abdul Rehman, a high school teacher who was the presiding officer, Abhijit Burman, Dipendranath Roy and Dilip Majumdar, the first, second and third polling officers respectively, and Minati Roy Burman, a health worker — reached the district magistrate’s office in Cooch Behar. They met Reena Joshi, additional district magistrate (development), and narrated their experiences. “We were told to submit our experiences in writing, which we did. We were inside the booth and whatever we saw that day we have written,” said Dipendranath. Sources in the administration said this was a part of the ongoing probe by the Election Commission after the incident. “The EC however is yet to decide on the re-poll date in the booth,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CM alert on  Ram Navami riot plan||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said she was worried about the occasion of Ram Navami on Wednesday, alleging that the saffron camp had plans to foment communal tension during the festival to extract electoral mileage by furthering its agenda of polarisation. Addressing a rally in Murshidabad’s Jiaganj on Tuesday afternoon, she said: “Tomorrow is Ram Navami. I am worried about the day because the BJP has a plan to create a riot…. We will resist the efforts (of the BJP).... I request you not to be provoked by anyone. You please observe Ram Navami and Ramazan simultaneously in peace and harmony.” “Please be careful. Hindus and Muslims, we both have to continue to live as brothers,” added the Trinamul Congress chief in the course of her 30-minute address. Sources said Mamata’s alert came as an ostensible warning to the people of the Murshidabad Assembly constituency, which is one of the three constituencies with a Hindu majority, out of 22 in the otherwise Muslim majority district. It is also the only Assembly segment in the district where the BJP had a lead — of 3,399 — in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “The BJP can do anything, including triggering an actual riot, to win elections. The BJP is on the backfoot in many Hindu-majority seats across Bengal, even in places it led in 2019, as many voters swung back to Trinamul in the past two years…. The BJP, therefore, is desperate to achieve immense polarisation as 114 crucial seats remain,” said a Trinamul leader in Murshidabad. A section of Trinamul leaders said Mamata had started alerting people to be careful against provocation by the BJP on Ram Navami with reference to the riot that was reported from Asansol following a Ram Navami rally in 2018. Owing to the pandemic’s second wave, most major constituents of the saffron ecosystem, including the Visva Hindu Parishad and the Hindu Jagran Manch, have announced cancellation of all processions and mass gatherings on Ram Navami. “However, we have been permitted to organise a puja for Lord Ram in every neighbourhood. However, we will have no control if unorganised groups take out their own rallies,” said a senior RSS leader. “The allegations being levelled are baseless. There will be no provocation from our end,” she added. Sources said several saffron wing units had decided to decorate the area with large festoons and cutouts of Ram and Hanuman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: 10 rallies in a day in Covid-hit Murshidabad||Poll-bound Murshidabad was carpet-bombed with crowd-puller events by both Trinamul and the BJP on Tuesday despite the recent surge in Covid-19 infections in the district. Murshidabad saw 10 rallies on Tuesday. Caution seems to have fallen on deaf ears in the district, going by the number of rallies and Covid infections. On April 1, Murshidabad had only 90 active cases. That number shot up to 2,093 by Tuesday, with 389 new infections detected in the district in the past 24 hours till 9am. Despite this scenario, and all the promises by political leaders amid safety concerns, the key players of the election are yet to withdraw from poll campaigns with scant regard for basic Covid-19 safety protocols such as social distancing. Murshidabad — a key district with 22 seats, with minorities comprising nearly 70 per cent of the electorate — witnessed three rallies by the Trinamul chief, and three more by her nephew and political heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee. The BJP conducted four road shows, two each by its state unit chief Dilip Ghosh and Union minister Smriti Irani. “This is really sad, that lofty claims are being made by the parties on curbing election campaigns in view of the Covid-19 situation, but none is actually doing anything about it,” said an attendee of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s first rally of the day at the Jiaganj High School. Mamata’s rally at Jiaganj was delayed by an hour and started at midday, causing the two others at Sagardighi and Farakka to be delayed as well. All three reported crowds in thousands with practically no social distancing. “It does not matter whether she speaks for three minutes, or 30 minutes, or 300 minutes, because people gather in thousands for hours before she starts speaking and spend a long time dispersing, in total disregard of the safety norms,” said a middle-aged schoolteacher at Sagardighi who would have liked to attend Mamata’s rally but stayed away because of Covid-19 fears. Union minister Irani’s road shows were in Kandi and Suti, Ghosh held two more in Burwan and Beldanga. “If such people (well-known leaders) come for such events in our areas, and the event is not virtual or televised, people will turn up… in the absence of major restrictions such as a lockdown,” said a Kandi-based shopkeeper, who was part of the crowd for the Irani road show. The Congress too had plans for two road shows — which would have taken the total of such events in the district to exactly a dozen — but they stood cancelled because its state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury is on home isolation. Of the major players in fray in Bengal, only the Left had sworn off all political programmes that draw crowds, on account of the grim Covid-19 situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Panel glare on chant-linked assault on boy||The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights has taken suo motu cognisance of a BJP worker’s assault on a 10-year-old boy for refusal to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and asked Ranaghat district police to probe the incident. Mahadev Sharma was admitted to the Ranaghat subdivisional hospital with multiple injuries. The boy was beaten up by Mahadeb Pramanik when the former was passing by a tea stall run by the BJP worker at Phuliapara near Santipur in Nadia district. The commission requested the Nadia district magistrate to ensure best possible medical treatment to the boy. At the same time, it directed the chief of the Ranaghat police district to conduct a probe and submit the report within three days. In a statement, the commission said on Tuesday: “It is a clear case of severe violation to child rights which attracts the provisions of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 as well as Indian Penal Code and United Nations Convention of the Rights of the Child (UNCRC).” The children’s rights body has also requested the Bengal chief electoral officer to conduct a probe on behalf of the Election Commission of India, take appropriate action and file a report. Nadia district child protection officer Anindya Das on Tuesday called on the boy at the Ranaghat hospital and spoke to his father. “The boy’s condition is stable. But he is traumatised. We have ensured all required treatment for him. The boy narrated the incident to me and showed me bruises on the body,” said Das. Santipur police started a case against Pramanik. A specific complaint was lodged against him by the child’s father, Shymanchand Sharma. However, the accused remained “absconding”. The Nadia BJP leadership preferred to disassociate itself from the incident to avoid embarrassment. “Mahadeb is not a BJP worker,” a district leader said on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court stresses public caution to fight virus||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday highlighted the need for greater public awareness in combating Covid-19 in Bengal in the backdrop of the ongoing Assembly polls. Last week, a division bench of the court had expressed its regret in regard to politicians not showing enough restraint on the campaign trail, as reflected in the recent rise in Covid-19 cases. “Unless and until common people realise the gravity of the situation, no government or any other agency can do anything. The public should be aware of the disease,” said chief justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan while presiding over the division bench hearing petitions seeking judicial intervention to ensure that infections didn’t increase because of the election campaign. The Chief Justice and Justice Arijit Banerjee asked the state government and the Election Commission of India to work jointly in raising public awareness of the situation. Following the litigations, the division bench had last week framed guidelines for the commission that they could adhere to Covid protocols on the campaign trail and during the casting of votes. The counsel appearing for the poll panel on Tuesday informed the court that the commission had undertaken all possible measures for the safety and security of common voters. An all-party meeting was also convened by the commission, said the lawyer. The commission’s counsel added: “Representatives of all parties attended the meeting and gave their word that they were ready to assist the EC on the issue.” Then, the bench asked both the state government and the commission to work jointly to raise awareness. “The norms laid down for combating Covid-19 must be fulfilled,” said Justice Radhakrishnan. The counsel appearing for the state government also told the court: “Since the poll process has already started, the state has had no power to take any steps. It is the EC which has had the power to take any steps so that Covid rules were followed during the polls.” The bench decided to monitor the matter and fixed it for hearing on Thursday when the commission will have to file a status report in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal readies for Covid test on migrants||The Bengal government has decided to increase vigil at railway stations and entry points in border districts amid apprehensions that migrant workers will return from Maharashtra, Delhi and Kerala, where Covid-19 cases have increased alarmingly in the last few days. The authorities of the border districts have been asked to intercept the returnee migrants, conduct tests and treat them if found positive. “Some restrictions like wearing masks and sanitisation have already been put in place by the railway authorities, but we need to start screening of passengers coming from states with high Covid caseload. We also need to ensure testing facilities for the returnees and lead them to quarantine centres or safe homes in the coming days to contain the spread of the virus,” said a senior health department. Sources in the health department said a majority of the exercises were taken up during the first wave of the pandemic last year. “But last time, we had to do it in a hurry and that’s why the migrants had lodged several complaints. We want to handle the issue more efficiently this time. So, we have started making arrangements in advance,” said a source. A senior bureaucrat said the steps had been planned after the government had sensed that there could be a rush of migrants to Bengal as restrictions had already been imposed in Mumbai and Delhi. “Some more states like Kerala could announce restrictions in the coming days. And once restrictions are put in place, migrants tend to return to the state. So, we have to keep arrangements ready,” said the bureaucrat. According to the sources in the health department, management of returnee migrants is extremely important to prevent the spread of the disease in rural areas. Health experts in Calcutta said the state government had successfully managed the flow of nearly 14 lakh migrants during the lockdown last year. “All returnees were taken to quarantine centres for certain periods and kept under observation to check whether they developed symptoms... If they had developed symptoms, tests were conducted. This is how the spread of the virus was prevented from entering rural areas,” said a health expert. State government officials said they felt that similar steps were needed this time. “If the virus spreads in rural areas, it would spell a disaster. As the health infrastructure is literally poor at villages where a majority of Bengal’s 10 crore people live, the situation could go out of control if the virus spreads to the rural areas,” said an official. Sources in the state government said the ruling establishment would not take any chance in terms of management of migrants. “Migrants are mainly from districts like Murshidabad, Malda, North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur where elections are yet to be held... If the migrants come back and face mismanagement, it could leave the ruling party in real trouble,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
21-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt lays stress on adding more beds to Covid-19 facilities||The Bengal government is laying stress on adding more beds to Covid-19 care facilities in Calcutta and its surroundings as the health department apprehends a sharp rise in infections in the next couple of weeks. “It has been decided that a total of 8,000 beds will be added to the Covid hospitals across the state. Majority of them would be added in the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority area. The steps are being initiated after it is apprehended that the number of cases could rise sharply in Calcutta and its surroundings in the next few weeks,” said a senior official. The state government has already added 3,400 beds to the Covid care facilities in the CMDA area and some more beds would be set up by the end of this week. According to the plan, Sambhunath Pandit Hospital would be converted into a 220-bed Covid hospital. Besides, the polyclinic of the SSKM hospital would also be converted into a Covid care facility under the SSKM hospital. Besides, all medical colleges in the state have been asked to reserve 25 per cent of beds for Covid patients. “For example, the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital has about 1,100 beds but currently, it has only 60 beds for Covid patients. The medical college has been asked to increase Covid beds to at least 250. This rule is applicable to all medical colleges and district hospitals,” said a senior health department official. Sources in the administration said the stress had been laid to increase beds in Calcutta after it was found that the districts where elections are over, positive cases had gone up significantly within a span of 8-10 days after the day of the voting. For example, elections were completed in Hooghly on April 10 and the district had reported a total of 191 positive cases on the day. But on Monday, the district reported 440 positive cases, which is a significant jump. Similarly, polls were completed in South 24-Parganas on April 10 and the district had reported 291 cases on the date. But the number of positive cases reached 522 on Monday, which is also a significant rise in the number of daily cases. “Elections will be held in Calcutta on April 26 and April 29, so it is being apprehended that the daily positive cases in the city could be up to 8,000 a day by the end of the first week of May,” said a source. The situation, sources said, could be less critical if political parties decide against holding large gatherings. Besides, the state administration is laying stress on implementing the Covid-19 protocols strictly in the city. “But no strict measures like curfew have not been planned right at this moment,” said an official. TMC plea The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday appealed yet again to the Election Commission of India to club the remaining three phases of the Bengal Assembly election — with 114 seats between them — in view of the alarming Covid-19 situation. The last two phases include seats in the core of the city and its immediate neighbourhood. A delegation led by Trinamul’s leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien met Bengal chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab, placing the formal request for Nirvachan Sadan’s consideration. “We are at a point where the nation, including Bengal, is faced with a gargantuan task of using all its resources to fight the ongoing pandemic. We have also the colossal task of completing the remaining three phases of the polls over the next 10 days,” said O’Brien. Additional reporting by Meghdeep Bhattacharyya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
