22-04-2021||West Bengal||Every Indian should get the vaccine free of cost, says Mamata in letter to PM||Terming the Centre's new 'liberalised and accelerated Covid-19 vaccination' strategy is biased in favour of the market and against the interest of people, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make it free for all. In her second letter to Modi in a week on the Centre's inoculation policy, Mamata also said that manufacturers should not do business with vaccines at this hour of crisis. The Modi government on Monday announced that everyone above 18 years of age would be eligible to get the Covid-19 vaccine from May 1. "I wish to invite your kind personal attention to the recently announced GoI policy on liberalised and accelerated Covid-19 vaccination with Phase 3 from May 1. I am afraid this is highly discriminatory and anti-people. "Moreover, it appears that there is a bias in favour of (the) market against common people's interest," Mamata’s letter read. Every Indian should get the vaccine free of cost, she said in her communication to the prime minister. "There is no place for making business by the vaccine manufacturers and instead efforts should be directed towards good of people without discrimination. And also fixing the rate for private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose is not only discriminatory but also unhealthy as it is likely to trigger unscrupulous mechanisms in the market," she added. Serum Institute of India on Wednesday announced that its Covishield vaccine will cost private hospitals Rs 600 per dose and state governments Rs 400, a rate which will also apply to central government procurement once the existing contract for Rs 150 a dose ends. In another letter to Modi on April 20, Mamata described the Centre's vaccine policy as hollow and without substance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Modi cancels Friday rallies, Mamata promises free vaccine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has cancelled four of his election meetings scheduled on Friday, his office announced on Thursday evening, hours after he chaired a high-level meeting on the logistics of oxygen supply amid a national crisis of surging Covid-19 cases numbering over 3 lakh in the last 24 hours. He will, however, address a rally virtually at 5pm, according to BJP sources. “Tomorrow will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Due to that, would not be going to West Bengal,” the Prime Minister tweeted around 5.40pm on Thursday while an hour of voting was left for the sixth phase of the eight-phase assembly elections. The BJP’s poll blitzkrieg in Bengal has come for criticism from all over the country amid the spiralling Covid numbers. Scientists have also zeroed in on a new strain of the coronavirus, calling it the Bengal strain. The CPM was the first to cancel big public meetings citing the surge in cases, followed by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who tested positive for Covid-19. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also been spending less time on the dais. But the BJP kept the poll juggernaut rolling. On Thursday, while voting was on, Union home minister Amit Shah addressed three campaign meetings in Harirampur, Gajole and Durgapur East. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh held four roadshows, while another party leader held roadshows in Calcutta. While campaigning in South Dinajpur’s Tapan, Mamata announced that the state government would bear the cost of Covid-19 vaccines to be administered to those above the age of 18 from May 5 in Bengal. “After the results are declared we will provide vaccines for free to those above 18,” she said. “This year, there was no chance of a Corona outbreak, had the Centre started vaccination six months ago. The Centre does not allow us to do anything. Last year, there were so many cases and deaths, we had handled everything.” Mamata accused the Modi government of botching up the Covid situation. “We wanted to buy vaccines much earlier, but the Centre would not allow us. Vaccines were sent abroad. Now there are no vaccines left for the country. After the cases spiked, Modi is blaming the people. Where will we get the vaccines from?” she asked. Till 6.00pm on Thursday about 79.04 per cent voters had turned out to vote in the 43 Assembly seats where polling was held under the shadow of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases stood at 10,784 till Wednesday evening, while the death toll was reported to be 58. Calcutta HC critical of EC While electioneering went on in full swing, a division bench of Calcutta High Court led by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan reminded the Election Commission that it was the implementing authority. “The Election Commission is empowered to act, but what is it doing about polls in these Covid times? The EC is just issuing circulars and leaving it to the people. But the EC has implementing authority,” the court observed. “The EC is not doing one-tenth of what T.N Seshan had done. If the commission did not take action, the court will,” the court added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
22-04-2021||West Bengal||EC dismisses TMC allegations of firing by central forces||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Thursday dismissed allegations by Trinamool Congress that two of their activists were injured in firing by central forces in Ashok Nagar assembly constituency in North 24 Parganas district, an official said. TMC activists had alleged two party activists were injured after they were hit by bullets fired by central forces outside booth number 79 in Ashok Nagar's Tangra area on Thursday when a few party members protested against a visit by BJP candidate for the seat, Tanuja Chakraborty. Clashes broke out in the area between BJP and Trinamool Congress' activists and bombs bombs were hurled, police said adding that unidentified people vandalised one vehicle carrying central policemen. "Two of my party colleagues were injured after bullets fired by central forces personnel hit them in their legs. Both are undergoing treatment at a nearby hospital. The central forces are not doing the right thing," TMC candidate Narayan Goswami alleged. Following this, the ECI sought a report from officials posted in the district and based on inputs dismissed the allegations. "There was no incident of any firing by central forces. We have no such report. This is a baseless allegation," a senior official told PTI. During the fourth phase of polling held on April 10, four persons were killed after CISF personnel opened fire in self defence outside a booth in Cooch Behar districts Sitalkuchi area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata slams BJP govt over vaccine price disparity||Hitting out at the BJP-led Centre over the disparity in the price of vaccines being supplied to the Union government, states and private hospitals, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said rates should be the same for every buyer. Mocking the BJP over its slogan of 'One nation, one party, one leader', she stressed that every Indian needs vaccine free of cost, regardless of their age and location. "One nation, one party, one leader shouts BJP all the time but to save lives they can't have one price for vaccine. Every Indian needs free vaccine, regardless of age, caste, creed, location. GoI must fix ONE price for Covid vaccine irrespective of who pays Centre or the States," the TMC supremo tweeted. The Serum Institute of India on Wednesday announced that prices for its vaccine 'Covishield' have been fixed at Rs 400 per dose for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. The Pune-based company sells Covishield to the Centre at Rs 150 a dose. West Bengal on Wednesday registered its highest single-day spike of 10,784 new COVID-19 cases, which took the tally in the state to 6,88,956. The death toll rose to 10,710 after 58 fresh fatalities were reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Most single-screens in Calcutta to shut as Covid cases surge||Most of the single-screen theatres in Calcutta will shut down for an indefinite period as the city grapples with the second wave of the coronavirus, an industry official said on Thursday. The alarming rise of COVID-19 cases in the last two weeks forced most of the single-screens to take the extreme step for public safety, an office-bearer of the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association said. Single-screens such as Navina, Menoka, Jaya, Ajanta and Orient are among the theatres downing their shutters from Friday, he said. Screenings will not be started before the situation turns conducive for the public to enjoy a film at a theatre without the fear of infection, he added. "We have no alternative. We were chugging on despite poor footfall since October last year when the cinema halls reopened after lockdown. The surge in COVID-19 cases is another blow. We cannot afford to be oblivious to the emerging situation," said Satadeep Saha, the co-owner of Ajanta Cinema and a multiplex chain. Notably, India on Wednesday registered over 3.14 lakh new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest-ever single-day count recorded in any country, taking the the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the country to 1,59,30,965. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday, a total of 3,14,835 fresh infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll increased to 1,84,657 with a record 2,104 new fatalities. The national COVID-19 recovery rate fell below 85 per cent. Registering a steady increase for the 43rd day in a row, the active cases have increased to 22,91,428 comprising 14.38 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 84.46 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Polling underway at 43 constituencies as Covid cases rise||The sixth phase of the Assembly elections in Bengal saw 79.09 per cent voter turnout till 5 pm in 43 seats where polling is underway amid a huge surge in Covid-19 infections across the state, which has been reporting a record number of cases recently. Around 79.09 per cent turnout was recorded till 5 pm, an EC official said. Long queues were seen outside most of the polling booths even before the voting began. In this phase, elections are being held in 17 seats in the North 24 Parganas district and nine seats in Nadia -- most of which have a significant presence of the Matuas, who are crucial to the electoral success of any party in the state. Besides, elections are also being held in the nine seats in Uttar Dinajpur district and eight in Purba Bardhaman. The 43 seats undergoing polls on Thursday had hugely contributed to the jump in the BJP's vote share in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, NDTV reported. From 10 per cent in the 2016 assembly polls, the BJP had cornered 41 per cent votes in 2019. The Trinamool Congress won 32 of 43 seats In 2016. In 2019, it led in 24 segments only, while the BJP, which did not win a single seat in 2016, led in 19 segments. The TMC alleged that two of activists were injured in firing allegedly by the central forces outside booth number 79 in Ashoknagar's Tangra area after a few party members protested against BJP candidate Tanuja Chakraborty's visit to the area. Clashes broke out in the area between the two rival parties in which bombs were hurled, police said adding that unidentified people vandalised one vehicle carrying the central forces. "Two of my party colleagues are injured after bullets fired by central forces personnel hit them in their legs. Both are undergoing treatment at a nearby hospital," TMC candidate Narayan Goswami alleged. The EC, which had sought a report from the officials posted in the district, later dismissed the allegations. "There was no incident of any firing by the central forces. We have got no such report. This is a baseless allegation," a senior EC official told PTI. The allegations brought back memories of the fourth phase of polls held on April 10 when four persons were killed after CISF personnel opened fire in "self-defence" outside a booth in Cooch Behar district's Sitalkuchi area. In Uttar Dinajpur's Chopra area, shots were reportedly fired after clashes broke out between activists of the TMC and the BJP over allegations of heckling by agents of a polling booth. Both the parties denied having used any firearm and blamed the opposition for the violence. The office of the chief electoral officer has sought a report on the incident from the local administration. In Raiganj, sources in the TMC said one of its activists sustained serious injuries after BJP workers allegedly stabbed him. The saffron party has, however, denied the allegations. Sporadic violence was also reported from the Bijpur constituency in North 24 Parganas, where TMC and BJP supporters clashed outside polling booths. Both the parties accused each other of trying to rig votes. Two supporters of TMC and three of BJP were reportedly injured in the clashes and a huge contingent of security forces was rushed to the troubled areas to control the situation. In the Halisahar area of Naihati constituency, the saffron party alleged that bombs were hurled at the residence of a local BJP leader, whose mother and younger brother are known to have suffered injuries. The TMC and the BJP traded charges against each other. In a separate incident in the area, a TMC worker was injured after unidentified miscreants hacked him. In the Titagarh area of Barrackpore constituency, clashes broke out between the TMC and the BJP supporters, following which bombs were hurled at each other, leading to severe injuries to five BJP activists. The injured have been admitted to a nearby hospital, official sources said. Film director-turned-TMC candidate Raj Chakraborty was gheraoed in the Barrackpore constituency by BJP supporters, who accused him of influencing voters. Chakraborty denied the allegations. TMC supporters had a verbal duel with the central forces in Habra constituency when its TMC candidate and state minister Jyotipriyo Mullick visited a polling booth in the area. In the Dum Dum Uttar constituency, a scuffle broke out between the TMC and BJP supporters when the ruling party opposed the visit of the saffron party candidate Archana Majumdar to the polling stations. In the Amdanga constituency, country-made crude bombs were recovered by police personnel. Over 1.03 crore voters are set to decide the political fate of 306 candidates in this phase. As many as 1,071 companies of central forces have been deployed to ensure free and fair polling, officials said. The voting exercise is underway in 14,480 polling stations of the 43 assembly segments. Bengal has been reporting a record number of Covid-19 cases over the past few days, breaching the 10,000- mark of daily infections on Wednesday. The Election Commission on the day turned down the TMC’s requests of clubbing the remaining phases of the elections. However, the poll panel has prohibited campaigning between 7 pm and 10 am to discourage public gatherings. It has also extended the silence period to 72 hours from 48 hours prior to polling in the sixth, seventh and eighth phases of the elections. The state registered its highest single-day spike of 10,784 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, while 58 more people lost their lives. At least six persons, including a child, sustained splinter injuries in North 24 Parganas district's Titagarh assembly constituency after bombs were hurled indiscriminately on Thursday afternoon amid the voting exercise for the sixth phase of polls, a police officer said. A huge team of police personnel and CAPF jawans were rushed to the area following the incident, the officer said. Preliminary probe has revealed that unidentified persons, wearing masks, hurled several crude bombs near Tata Gate in Titagarh, he said. "The injured are undergoing treatment at BN Bose hospital. We are looking into the matter," the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Fear and anxiety among Muslims, but also a new churning to challenge binaries  ||It is the third day of Ramzan. Farida and her husband have just broken their fast. They offer their visitor from Delhi an assortment of jol khabar (teatime snacks) served in delicate bone china crockery. There is an air of genteel calm in their drawing room. The polished red oxide cement floor, the ebony and glass showcase filled with silver enamelled artefacts, the unflashy furniture and the understated carpets, evoke an old-world charm far removed from the raucous din of Park Circus a stone’s throw away. Farida’s husband – let us call him Farooq – traces his ancestry to Avadh but has lived in Calcutta all his life. It is a city he loves without reservation, a city where his religion or his language never made him feel alien.  On the first day of Ramzan, he tells us, a Hindu Punjabi neighbour sent a platter of food for iftar. The next day, haleem came from the home of a Sikh friend. This year’s Ramzan is special – their younger daughter will keep the first roza of her life. In Muslim homes, a girl’s first ever day of fasting -- known as roza khushai – is celebrated with a big feast after sunset. Although the festivities will be scaled down this year on account of the raging pandemic, Farooq makes it a point to mention that a “Bengali Hindu” friend is sending across choice Bengali sweets for the occasion. “This is the city I grew up in, a city full of love and affection,” he says, and wonders how long it will remain that way. Though he speaks in gentle tones, never raising his voice in agitation or anger, he admits being horrified by “the amount of poison, the anti-Muslim venom, the lies and fabrications” being spread via Whatsapp, and often echoed by colleagues he had never suspected of harbouring such prejudices. The prospects of BJP coming to power fill him with dread and despondency. So even if he and Farida are not unabashed admirers of Mamata Banerjee and even less so of the TMC, they have “no choice” but to vote for the incumbent party. Nasir Ali and Jamat Ali live in a very different world – bereft of both refined elegance and quiet despair. Their fear is raw, their anger vocal. Nasir is perched inside a hole-in-the-wall kiosk selling pan and bidi in a small junction called Horibari that falls under the Haroa assembly constituency in North 24 Parganas. “Ekhane aamra  chirokal ek thala te bhaat khai, (Here we all eat from the same plate),” he says. There is no question that “Didi” will sweep Haroa for one reason and one reason alone: “The BJP is out to divide people; Didi stands for unity.” Jamat Ali, a much older man who joins in the conversation, is seething with anger.  Many of the villagers in these parts make a living out of fishing in the bheris that abound. Others till the soil. “We have lived here for generations. This is our land. This is our water,” he says. But their way of life, their life itself is under threat if the BJP wins. “Haven’t you heard the speeches of Dilip Ghosh?” he asks, and he almost breaks down with the lament: “Ora jodi aashe, NRC kore aamader taraabe, taraabe, taraabe. (If they come, they will use the NRC to kick us out).” Farooq and Nasir have very little in common. But in this assembly election, every effort is being made by political leaders and the media alike to bracket them together, to see all Muslims as one monolithic whole. If the blatantly divisive speeches by local and visiting BJP leaders are aimed at stoking animus among the majority community against an undifferentiated Muslim “other”, Mamata Banerjee has cast herself as their sole protector and is banking heavily on a “consolidated” Muslim vote to secure a third term in office. But as we travel through some of the Muslim dominated areas of Bengal, it soon becomes clear that the reality on the ground is far more complex than what the pundits of polarization assume; that beyond the emotions of fear and anxiety there is also a new churning within the Muslim community that challenges the double binary of Hindu versus Muslim, BJP versus TMC. We first get a glimpse of it further down the road from Horibari. In Aminpur Bazar, also in the Haroa assembly constituency, a large group of men in a roadside chai stall speak out strongly in favour of Mamata Banerjee.  But even while attacking the BJP, their bigger target is “Bhaijaan” – the popular name for Abbas Siddiqui who heads the Indian Secular Front (ISF) which has joined hands with the Left and the Congress to form the Samyukta Morcha, colloquially referred to as “Jot.” Their anger is understandable because the main fight in Haroa is not between the TMC and BJP but the TMC and ISF. Most of the people we meet do not even know the name of the BJP candidate. They only speak of Haji Nurul Islam, the sitting TMC MLA who is contesting again and his principal challenger, Qutubbudin Fatehi of the ISF. If the supporters of the TMC are more fervent in Haroa, it is the converse in the neighbouring constituency of Bashirhaat North. The trees and lamp posts that line the road that snakes through this seat are festooned with the ISF’s blue, green and white flag embossed with the image of a large white envelope. In a small marketplace called Swaroopnagar which falls under the seat, there is a chorus of voices rooting for ISF candidate Baijid Amin. One reason is that the TMC’s Rofiqul Islam Mondol is seen as a turncoat. He had narrowly won the seat last time as a CPM candidate but has since switched over to the TMC. But won’t a division of votes between the TMC and ISF help the BJP win? An elder in the group patiently explains why they have no such fear. “There is no BJP here. Have you seen a single BJP poster? The party does not even have workers to put up posters. Here it is hadda haddi lorai between Rofiqul and Baijid.” “Hadda haddi lorai” is a phrase we come across in yet another constituency in the district. The phrase, whose Hindi equivalent (kante ki takkar) is a stock response of voters in north India, denotes a very close contest between two strong candidates.  In the Deganga seat in the same district, we are told that the “hadda haddi lorai” is between TMC’s Rohima Mondol and ISF’s Karim Ali. The third contender in the fray is Hasanujjaman Chowdhury – but he belongs to the Forward Bloc and not the BJP.  Here too, there is little fear that a three-way division of the Muslim vote might help the BJP candidate Deepika Chatterjee. While TMC supporters decry Bhaijaan as a “BJP dalal” or dismiss him as a passing phenomenon with no roots on the ground, many ordinary voters seem to be drawn to the ISF because of their disenchantment with the TMC. The Muslim dominated belt across the districts of North and South 24 Parganas faced the brunt of the Amphan cyclone, and the mismanagement of Amphan relief funds is a raw wound that is yet to heal. We hear the same complaints of “cut money” culture and TMC “goondagiri” that was voiced by voters in other parts of the state.  As Azizul Islam, a shopkeeper in Deganga, cynically puts it: “Jodi CPM chilo ek nombor chor, era holo dosh nobor chor (the TMC workers are ten times more corrupt than the CPM used to be).” The anti-incumbency sentiment, it would appear, cuts across district borders and religious affiliations – with one crucial difference. If elsewhere the criticism of TMC is invariably followed by a stated desire for poriborton (which usually means a vote for the BJP), in these areas it largely translates into support for the ISF. The varied political response of Muslims in seats such as Deganga, Bashirhaat North, Baduria, Bhangor and Canning East reveal another irony. They are among the 31 assembly constituencies across the state where Muslims account for over 60 per cent of the electorate. In a polarized election, therefore, these ought to have been impregnable TMC bastions. But ground realities often throw up surprises. In areas where the Muslims form a majority, the fear of the BJP is relatively muted. The election becomes much more normal as a result: issues of land and livelihood, governance and delivery rise to the fore. In contrast, where the Muslim community has a moderate to sizeable presence (between 20 to 50 per cent), the BJP’s thoughtless polarizing campaign is likely to impel large sections of them to vote for the TMC. But whether or not the ISF does well in the elections, the presence of this untested new force is part of a much bigger churning within the Muslim community that has been going on for some years now -- even if it has not gained the kind of attention as the rise of the BJP and its much touted “subaltern Hindutva.” Although Muslims comprise 27 per cent of Bengal’s population (the highest in the country after Kashmir and Assam), there was never a “Muslim factor” in the state’s politics. Neither the Left nor the Congress stressed on communal identity.  Moreover, unlike in the rest of India, Muslims in Bengal are predominantly rural. According to a well researched report titled “The Living Reality of Muslims in West Bengal” brought out some years ago, their rural roots made them “almost invisible in urban public domain -- educational institutions, public services, media, cultural platforms, and other podiums of importance.”  In rural Bengal, they belonged to the ranks of small cultivators and sharecroppers, and were part of the CPM’s formidable “mass base.” Muslim activists and scholars say that a turning point for the community was the publication of the Sachar Committee Report in 2006. The committee, headed by Rajinder Sachar, was appointed by the UPA government to examine the socio-economic and educational status of Muslims in India. The findings were   particularly startling in the case of Bengal. Although Muslims in the state had a sense of security under Left Front rule, the report revealed that they remained among the poorest and most deprived in terms of access to education, health, and other key amenities. But before the contents of the report could be analysed and acted upon, rural Bengal was wracked by unrest following the Left Front’s attempts at land acquisition for industry. Muslims formed a predominant section of the small cultivators who lost their land to build the Rajarhat township on the eastern fringes of Calcutta that forms part of South 24 Parganas. The Singur and Nandigram agitations further alienated them from the Red Flag, and they began gravitating to the TMC – a move that contributed in no small measure to the debacle of the Left Front in 2011. On assuming power, Mamata Banerjee promised to set up a high-level committee under the same Rajinder Sachar to go deeper into the state of Muslims in Bengal and suggest measures to improve their status. Sabir Ahamed, a researcher who has done extensive field work on the conditions of socially disadvantaged communities in Bengal, rues that Mamata never set up the committee. Instead, she started relying on “dubious clerics”. But Ahamed is appreciative of the plethora of welfare measures undertaken by the TMC government which made a material difference to the lives of Muslims. Abdul Matin, a young lecturer at Jadavpur University who has done his doctoral research on Furfura Sharif, is far more critical of the TMC than Sabir Ahamed. But he too concedes that the TMC government made a genuine effort to address the socio-economic concerns of the Muslim community in its first term from 2011 to 2016. These included the setting up of Alia University in Rajarhat, expansion of OBC reservations for Muslims (95 per cent of Muslims in the state fall under the OBC category), scholarship schemes for students, a moratorium on further land acquisitions and greater political representation at the lower levels for members of the community. But things changed sharply in her second term. With the BJP coming to power at the Centre and making inroads in the state, Mamata Banerjee began wooing Muslims by resorting to an overt religiosity. Her pro-Muslim “optics” -- such as attending the Eid namaaz at Red Road, putting up giant hoardings to greet departing and returning Haj pilgrims, covering her head in the style favoured by Muslim women, organising qawwalis and mushairas, giving monthly wages to imams and muezzins – “only helped create an impression among Hindus that the TMC is appeasing Muslims,” says a Muslim academic who preferred anonymity.  Mamata Banerjee, he adds, was “not sensitive to the fact that Bengal has the history of Partition. It is not Kerala. She has made the community much more vulnerable.” Such optics are not the only thing that has helped the BJP. “In the last three-four years, Mamata Banerjee did not leave any space to the Opposition parties, whether Congress or the Left. On the other hand, you see a lot of shakhas coming up all across Bengal,” points out Matin. It is in this backdrop that the ISF phenomenon must be seen. The ISF may have been formed just on the eve of the assembly elections, but its roots go much deeper into the past. The founding peer of the shrine, Abu Bakr, was active in the reform movement among Muslims in the late 19th and early 20th century. But after Partition, when the majority of middle class Muslims migrated to East Pakistan, the shrine’s role also shrunk in the social and political arena. With the Left dominating the political discourse in post-Partition Bengal, there was little space for any autonomous leadership to emerge based on religious or caste identity. But after the defeat of the Left ten years ago, there has been a sea change in the state’s socio-political scene. The stranglehold of pure “class” politics has been broken by the encouragement as well as the assertion of caste and communal identities. A Left leader points out that while Mamata Banerjee started identity politics among communities such as Rajbonshis, Koch, Nepalis, Lepchas, Bhutias, and Muslims, the BJP started focussing on the sub-castes within these categories as part of its “micro social engineering” project from 2016. The BJP’s aim in Bengal, as elsewhere, is to knit these various castes and sub-castes within a Hindutva framework. Projecting the Muslim as an enemy is central to this project and perhaps explains why Amit Shah keeps harping on the “infiltrator” theme even when it is not electorally necessary. The ISF, which claims to represent not just the Muslim peasantry but also similarly disadvantaged dalit, adivasi and OBC groups, is part of efforts to create an alternative platform for Bengal’s “bahujan samaj” (a coalition of the underprivileged) to counter the Hindutva offensive. Joining hands with the Left and Congress has only strengthened that possibility. Much like Kanshi Ram who coined the term “bahujan samaj” four decades ago and then set up the Bahujan Samaj Party, Abbas Siddiqui’s efforts too may get eventually lost in the quagmire of power politics. But right now, movements like the ISF seem to represent a rural, vernacular, agrarian, democratic and radical impulse that is very different from the top-down imposition of “Left, democratic, secular” ideals that was long the norm in the state till a decade ago. As far as this election goes, Mamata Banerjee is certain to garner the bulk of the Muslim vote. But in the ideological and political battle that looms ahead, the new forces that have emerged on the Bengal scene could well play a bigger role.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri and Siliguri to get extra Covid beds ||Authorities have decided to set up Jalpaiguri district’s second Covid-19 hospital at Matialli in the Malbazar subdivision and create at least 900 more beds for the treatment at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri. The decisions were taken at a review meeting held by senior administrative officials of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts on Wednesday. The meeting was held at the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad because of a sudden surge in infections. Subrata Gupta, the additional chief secretary of the state food processing industries and horticulture department, was present at the meeting, along with Gorkhaland Territorial Administration principal secretary Surendra Gupta, and Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling district magistrates, Sashank Sethi and Moumita Godara Basu, respectively. Officials of the state health department and the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) also attended the meeting. “The new Covid hospital in Jalpaiguri district will come up at Matialli. It will be set up on the premises of the Industrial Training Institute and will have 60 beds,” Basu said. “We have also identified seven safe houses for treatment of patients with mild symptoms across the district. The safe homes will have around 50 beds each. If the number of Covid cases increases, we will mull over the proposal of creating micro-containment zones,” said Basu. As of now, the only Covid hospital that is functional in Jalpaiguri district is the one set up at Biswa Bangla Krirangan in Jalpaiguri town with 100 beds. Sethi, the Darjeeling DM, said: “The number of beds at the NBMCH for the treatment of Covid patients will be increased by 200. The Triveni Hospital for Covid patients in the Darjeeling hills will also increase beds.” The existing number of beds at the NBMCH is 110 and at Triveni 150. Besides, six safe houses will be operational across the district soon. The Siliguri civic authorities will hold an emergency meeting with traders of total 19 markets on Friday, said officials. “Without using masks and sanitisers, nobody will be allowed in markets. At the meeting with traders, we will ask them to strictly maintain all Covid protocols,” SMC commissioner Sonam Wangdi Bhutia said. A 12-hour night curfew has been clamped at Malbazar in Jalpaiguri district from Tuesday. “In the past one month, 192 Covid cases have been detected in the town and four persons have died. Considering the rapid increase, it has been decided to enforce curfew throughout the civic area from 8pm to 8am every day,” said a civic official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Congress leader’s banner of amity||A Congress leader who sells shoes on pavements of Rampurhat in Birbhum district  for livelihood set an example of communal amity on Wednesday by putting up a flex to wish people on the occasion of Ram Navami. The action of Sahazada Hossain, the 39-year-old Rampurhat town president of the Congress, comes at a time the venom of communal polarisation for the sake of winning an election threatens Bengal’s ethos to its very core. There were two messages on Hossain’s flex, though they were unwritten: 1) Religions might be personal, but festivals are social. 2) Religions or deities do not belong to any political entity. He spent Rs 250 to print the large flex with an image of Lord Ram and put it up at one of the crowded places in his locality of Railpar in Rampurhat. The flex drew many eyeballs as people noticed his name at the bottom. “It was very nice to see a flex printed by him (Hossain) to wish us all Ram Navami. He is a very good human being who takes such initiative in every festival, irrespective of religion,” said Sanjay Sharma, a resident of Railpar area, which falls under ward 14 of Rampurhat municipality. Several persons in the town, including political leaders, said the initiative was exemplary, especially at a time the administration had to stay on its toes around occasions such as Ram Navami in apprehension of communal tension. In 2018, the young son of an imam of a mosque in West Burdwan’s Asansol was killed in a riot – purportedly instigated by the saffron camp -- that took place following a Ram Navami rally. However, the imam, Maulana Imdadul Rasheedi, had famously refused to identify the perpetrators and instead appealed for restoration of peace. Even chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Tuesday said that she was worried about the occasion of Ram Navami, alleging that the BJP had plans to foment communal tension around the occasion, which coincided this year with the holy month of Ramazan. Hossain, who spends more time trying to sell shoes on pavements than in actual politics, has said he learnt the lessons of communal harmony since his childhood, as the area where he was brought up has a mosque, a church and many temples. According to him, over the past two years, he noticed that the celebration of Ram Navami had become more political than religious. “Even about three years ago, there were no large rallies, not that many pujas on Ram Navami in our town… but the BJP tried turning it into an important event for Bengal, to try and misutilise the occasion in order to divide people through hatred,” he said. “So, I thought: Let me wish people on Ram Navami to send out a message,” he added. Asked whether it was a political move by him to show solidarity towards the Hindu voters, Hossain said he could never associate politics with religion or festivals. “I have been wishing people similarly for Durga Puja, Christmas and Id for years,” the Congress leader said, adding that it hurt him to see attempts at politicisation of religion and festivals for the sake of winning an election, that too by promoting hatred and division. “I did not study much, for our family’s poverty, but I was always taught that we must all live happily together,” said Hossain, who makes around Rs 8,000 a month from selling shoes. State agriculture minister and Rampurhat Trinamul Congress candidate Asish Banerjee lauded Hossain. “This is what Bengal is all about. This is what we are trying to protect,” he said. The CPM’s Rampurhat candidate, Sanjib Barman, said: “I welcome the move… I am so proud of him.” The BJP’s district president Dhruba Saha, however, claimed it was evidence of his party’s success in giving Ram Navami its due in Bengal. “We welcome this…. So many Muslims are now chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress loyalty biggest asset in poll battle||Turncoats may be here, there, everywhere in Bengal’s political amphitheatre this poll season, but a 70-year-old man in North Dinajpur proudly announces that come what may, he won’t change his loyalty. Meet Mohit Sengupta, the sitting Congress MLA of Raiganj, who is reaching out to voters with his credentials of a man of political integrity. “During the past 10 years, I received a number of proposals, which some people might find alluring, to join another political party. I have never responded to such proposals and have proved my political integrity. At a time when turncoats are faces of both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP, I am here to prove that there is no need to change the party to win elections... If one has the political integrity and delivers on people’s trust, one can easily win elections,” says Sengupta, who is also the North Dinajpur district Congress chief. Sengupta, who has been in politics for over 45 years, is criss-crossing Raiganj, a name that is synonymous with former Congress leader Priya Ranjan Das Munshi. “Like A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury in Malda, Raiganj and North Dinajpur are synonymous with Priyoda. I have worked under him for decades and will continue to serve as a Congress worker…. This time, the number of seats we win does not matter here…. what matters is whether I manage to prove my point that people do not like defectors,” the the two-time MLA says with a smile. For years, the district was known to be a stronghold of the Congress. From Independence till the 2016 Assembly elections, the party had lost the seat only once. Sengupta, a five-time chairman of Raiganj municipality, is often credited for Priya Ranjan’s victory in the 1999 Lok Sabha polls. In 2003, the Congress bagged the zilla parishad, seven of the nine panchayat samities and all four municipalities in the district. In 2011, Sengupta contested the Assembly polls and won the Raiganj seat. Trinamul’s rise in the state did affect the Congress as scores of leaders joined Mamata Banerjee’s party and the Congress lost control of the rural bodies. In 2014, Priya Ranjan’s wife Dipa was defeated in the Raiganj Lok Sabha seat. Sengupta, however, managed to win from Raiganj in the 2016 Assembly elections and his party bagged three of the nine seats in the district. However, in the 2019 general election, the Congress suffered another setback when the BJP bagged the Raiganj Lok Sabha seat. As Sengupta has thrown his hat into the ring for another battle, political observers think his “political truthfulness” and integrity are his biggest USPs. Krishna Kalyani, the BJP candidate who is contesting against him, is a turncoat. “His father was a councillor of Forward Bloc…People are well aware that Krishna Kalyani was with Trinamul,” says an observer. Also, Kanaialal Agarwala (the district Trinamul president), who has been fielded against Sengupta, is the latter’s former party colleague. He had won the Islampur seat on a Congress ticket and later joined Trinamul. Raiganj will vote on Thursday in the sixth phase of the Assembly polls. “Questions might be raised whether the Congress can prove itself to be a political force across the state. But in Raiganj, Mohit Sengupta has a name and his integrity keeps him in an advantageous position,” sums up another observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Tea industry fear loss due to drought-like situation and hailstorm||Stakeholders of tea industry in Bengal and the neighbouring Assam — which produce the largest amounts of the brew in the country — are apprehensive of losing around 10 to 15 per cent of the crop during March and April because of drought-like situation and hailstorm. “The industry had lost around 140 million kilos of tea last year because of the lockdown and inclement weather. We were hopeful of a fresh start this year but prospects now look bleak because of the drought-like situation prevailing in Bengal and Assam,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India. He said tea bushes needed rainfall during the summer so that production maintained a steady pace till the arrival of the monsoon. North Bengal and Assam received less rain in March and April and it directly affected the yield. “Unless there is an improvement in weather, we apprehend that the production will be less by 10 to 15 per cent. A hailstorm has damaged tea bushes and even workers’ quarters and some other properties in a number of gardens in north Bengal recently. Altogether, the situation appears to be grim,” Bhattacharjee said. He said there was production loss in the north Bengal brew belt in January and February this year. While around 40.4 lakh kilos of tea were produced in these two months in 2019, the figure has come down to 19.2 lakh kilos during the corresponding period this year. Around 10.5 per cent of Assam’s total tea production — which was 618.35 million kilos last year — is recorded during March and April. The two months account for around six per cent of the annual tea production in north Bengal. The total tea manufactured in the region last year was 387.46 million kilos. A tea planter based in Siliguri said there had been a surge in tea prices in 2020 because of less production. “The low production was largely offset by the price rise,” he said. Representatives of tea planters met Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Calcutta on Tuesday and took up with her a number of issues pertaining to the sector. “We underscored that there was a steady trend to import tea into India in the past few years. This has the potential to dent fortunes of the domestic industry. The central government needs to act on the issue,” said a TAI representative. Some of the other issues which the planters discussed with Sitharaman were the need to formalise the small tea sector, subsuming welfare facilities with national programmes and more initiatives to promote export.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Vaccine crunch hits clinics amid rush||Low vaccine supply and the second wave of the novel coronavirus have hit government-run hospitals and health centres in several south Bengal districts particularly hard after preliminary phases of an aggressive poll season ended. Following the central government’s announcement of open market vaccinations starting May 1, the rush to take first doses is bound to hit services at health centres in Birbhum and Burdwan. “People were reluctant to take vaccine earlier. But the new wave of cases has caused them to wake up. Unfortunately, it is a delayed response because our public health infrastructure will simply not be able to keep up, especially after May 1,” said a health worker at the Bolpur block hospital, adding that decentralisation of the vaccination drive was the only viable option. “To make matters worse, the oppressive summer will also inconvenience a lot of people,” he added. Since Monday, health centres and block hospitals across these two districts have witnessed a surge of nearly 500 per cent in willing first-dose recipients, but have not even had a fifth of the stock. At the Bolpur block hospital on Tuesday, less than 50 people received their first doses. Sources said second-dose recipients would have to be given priority. “We don’t see an end in sight to this problem soon. May 1 is less than two weeks away and those who should have got both doses by now are queuing up for their first,” said a source in Burdwan. “And even then, most are not getting it because of shortage.” Latika Dey, 50, works as a domestic help at homes across Bolpur. On Wednesday morning, she joined an already-long queue at her local health centre around 6am but was turned away in a couple of hours. “At this rate, I will not be able to return to work nor receive my first dose soon,” she said. Nearby, retired schoolteacher Nidhi Ram Chowdhury, 74, sat under a tree exasperated. “This heat is too much,” said the septuagenarian who was awaiting his first dose. In Hooghly, cable operator Dilip Das has been visiting different block health centres since Monday but has not been able to receive his first dose of the vaccine. “In my line of work, being inoculated is important. But it seems the health infrastructure is not prepared,” he said. “There is a vaccine shortage now. However, many of the current recipients should have come forward sooner,” said a senior health official in Burdwan. “Our infrastructure and personnel cannot handle such a sudden load.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Aides try to find Mukul’s role in BJP||Mukul Roy, the former Trinamul Congress Number 2 and currently a BJP national vice-president, was up for a surprise when Union home minister Amit Shah asked him to fight the 2021 Bengal Assembly polls as a candidate. “Mukulda na korey diten, kintu Amitji bollen tumko ladna hi hoga. Dada aar na kortey parenni. (Mukulda would’ve declined the offer, but Amitji said you’ll have to contest. Dada couldn’t turn it down,” a close aide to Roy said. Twenty years back, in 2001, Roy had fought elections for the first time on a Trinamul Congress ticket from the Jagatdal Assembly seat. He was defeated by Forward Bloc’s Haripada Biswas by a margin of 13,402 votes. That was the only time Roy was fielded as a candidate in his four-decade-long political career. Roy, who had switched sides to the BJP in November 2017, is the saffron camp’s candidate for the Krishnanagar North Assembly seat. In close circles, Roy has been heard making a light-hearted joke about the turn of events. “My son is already a two time MLA. Now, his father is contesting the polls for the second time in his life. If I win, my son will be senior to me in the Assembly,” Roy was quoted as saying by sources. A through and through back-office man, it is said about Roy that he knows all booths in Bengal like the back of his palm. For the BJP, Roy was the biggest catch in Bengal before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He was made the chief of the election committee during the general election. Later, Shah himself had addressed Roy as the architect of the BJP’s win in 18 of the 42 seats. Roy would have preferred a similar role for himself in 2021 as well. For quite some time, he had hoped the BJP would form a similar committee again and ask him to lead it. However, the BJP’s top rung had different plans for him. For the two-time Rajya Sabha member (Roy was elected to the Upper House in 2006 and 2012) and former railway minister (2012-2013), Krishnanagar North is a safe bet, according to sources. In 2019, the BJP was ahead of Trinamul in this seat by 53,551 votes. However, many close to Roy think the party should’ve spared him the physical stress of being a candidate. He is a diabetic and only last year did he undergo two major surgeries. “Mukulda’s tryst with the BJP has not been very smooth. For three years, he remained an ordinary member of the party’s national executive committee. The Dilip Ghosh (Bengal BJP chief) lobby enjoyed complete control over the state unit and rendered Mukulda inactive,” a source in the party said. As a matter of fact, Roy had hoped the BJP would assign him some specific organisational role in the party, after he had proved his worth in the 2019 polls. However, it was only after multiple visits to Delhi and meetings with Shah that Roy was made a national vice-president. Incidentally, in the BJP scheme of things, a vice-president enjoys lesser power than a general secretary. Though for Roy his promotion to the post was an official induction into the central committee, a section in the BJP thought it was just “a consolation prize”. Things became a little more uncomfortable for Roy after another Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP in December 2020. “If you see the polls in general, Suvenduda is addressing so many rallies across Bengal. He is attending road shows. It is as if after Dilipda, Suvenduda is our crowd puller. But where is Mukulda in all these?” a state office-bearer asked. As Roy has been made one of the 294 candidates, he has almost confined himself to the two-room rented accommodation of Sunflower Apartments in Krishnanagar’s Khounish Park area. He has even restricted the number of poll campaigns for himself as well. “Mukulda is one of the most prominent faces of Bengal politics. He doesn’t need to introduce himself to his electorate. This is why he is focussing more on strengthening the organisation,” said Arjun Biswas, convenor of the BJP’s Nadia North organisational district under which falls the Krishnanagar North constituency. “We are confident that he will win and we will also increase the margin more than 2019,” Biswas added. Sources said Roy had taken a “one day one rally” policy and given more time to organisational meetings. “Mukulda still believes that BJP’s organisational capability isn’t enough and with a weak organisation, one cannot contest the polls,” a source close to Roy said. “He has denied any media interaction at all and strictly devoted himself to organisational work,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
22-04-2021||West Bengal||We don’t need Modi’s double engine, ours is ‘Bengal engine’: Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee came up with a newly-coined term as she countered the “double engine” narrative that the saffron camp had been trying to push hard to draw support in the Assembly elections. Mamata, who spoke at three public meetings in Balurghat of South Dinajpur, Harirampur of North Dinajpur and Chanchal of Malda said the state government had  its own “Bengal engine” that was spearheading the development process of the state. “We don’t need (Narendra) Modi’s double engine…. Ours is the ‘Bengal engine’ that has worked for development of the state. We are top in our performance and do not want Bengal to be run by Delhi…. Bengal wants to be on its own,” she said. The chief minister, who lambasted the Prime Minister and the Centre for the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, labelled herself as “Paharadar” (warden) of the state as she played the citizenship card. “BJP leaders are nothing but a group of doublespeak. They are making contradictory statements while addressing different communities on the NRC, NPR and the CAA. We want to make it clear that we will not let them implement any of these in Bengal,” she said. Her remarks indicated that in a bid to counter the BJP that has been trying to polarise votes in districts like Malda and South Dinajpur which have considerable concentration of minorities, she would go on highlighting these subjects to consolidate support among the minority population. “Remember, a ‘Morcha’ has been formed. A young boy has held the hands of some people and is fighting the election jointly with the Congress and the Left. He is trying to instigate minorities. They are no difference from the BJP. You should show them the door as Bengal has always been a proponent of liberal ideology,” Mamata said at Chanchal. There are 12 Assembly seats in Malda and six in South Dinajpur where elections would be held in the final two phases on April 26 and April 29. While addressing the audience, the chief minister also urged voters not to vote for the Left and Congress. “There is no point in voting the Left….. what would you get if you elect an RSP candidate? They will eventually sing in unison with the BJP,” she said at the rally in South Dinajpur. In Chanchal, she repeated the same request and asked voters to shun the Congress whom they had voted for “over 50 years now.” “Yet, the Congress could not do anything for Malda residents…. it is we who carried out development works,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government enlists 50 IAS officers into Covid-19 patient management system ||The Bengal government has drafted in about 50 senior IAS officers into the Covid-19 patient management system in the state considering that the situation could be worse in near future. “The senior officials will look after major issues related to Covid-19 patient management system. The primary goal of the government is to upgrade facilities to attend to more Covid patients at both government and private healthcare facilities. The officers would guide the government to initiate proper steps to enhance facilities,” said a senior government official. According to the plan, the senior officers have been given responsibilities like augmentation of beds at the Covid hospitals, supply of oxygen, admission to Covid care facilities, vaccination, management of satellite centres, Covid-related procurement and funerals of victims. They would study the existing system, following which they would submit a report pointing out the areas where facilities can be improved. While explaining why such a step was initiated, a bureaucrat said: “For example, people are making a beeline for vaccination centres. We have to find out whether we can increase vaccination tables or vaccination centres or working hours to ease the problem.” “The IAS officers would submit a report suggesting ways to solve the problem,” added the bureaucrat. Sources in the government said the ruling establishment was very careful about handling the situation in a more professional way to ensure that it did not send a wrong signal to common people. “Last year, there were issues related to funerals of Covid victims in the state, which did not send a proper message. This year, three senior IAS officers have been engaged to look after the issue in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area, besides rural and urban areas. If there is mismanagement on issues like this, people get panicky, which the state does not want at this moment,” said a source. The state government also wants to expedite the vaccination programme and that’s why the administration has sought 1 crore vaccine doses from the Centre. The health secretary, N. S. Nigam, would write a letter to the Union health secretary, urging him to send 1 crore vaccine doses immediately. “Government vaccination centres would be given 50 lakh doses and the private hospitals would be given 50 lakh vaccines to bring as many people as possible under the vaccination drive,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker arrested for boy assault over chant||BJP worker Mahadeb Pramanik who had beaten up a 10-year-old boy for refusing to chant “Jai Shri Ram” was arrested from his hideout near Santipur in Nadia district on Wednesday evening. The Class IV student, Mahadev Sharma, had to be hospitalised with multiple injuries. The assault happened when the boy was passing by Pramanik’s tea stall at Phulia in Nadia district on Monday. A senior officer of Ranaghat police district said: “We arrested the accused. He is being interrogated now. He will be produced in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Ranaghat tomorrow (Thursday) morning.” A case was started against him by the police on the basis of a complaint lodged by the child’s father. The BJP worker was booked for wrongful restraint, voluntarily causing grievous hurt and under relevant sections of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. All the charges are non-bailable, a Santipur police officer said. Pramanik’s wife Mithu, a local Mahila Morcha leader, said: “The administration has been trying to blow the case out of proportion for political interests. We will fight the case legally.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt allots Rs 100 crore to handle emerging Covid-19 situation||The Bengal government has allotted Rs 100 crore to handle the emerging Covid-19 situation in the state, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said here on Wednesday, besides detailing how her administration was ramping up facilities to treat patients. “We have kept Rs 100 crore ready. It would be spent for the sudden Covid crisis,” Mamata told a news conference here. During her brief interaction with the media, Mamata repeatedly stressed that the situation in Bengal was well under control and also urged people not to panic, but get vaccinated. Aware that short supply of vaccines was creating problems in some areas, Mamata said: “At least one crore doses of vaccines are immediately required for residents of the state and a letter has been sent to the Centre.” She mentioned that 93 lakh residents above the age of 45 years had been jabbed so far in Bengal. “If we include the second dose, around one crore out of the 10 crore population have been vaccinated. Once the vaccination of around two crore people is complete, we are ready to purchase the doses from the market to vaccinate others. A large stock is required as all above the age of 18 years would start getting the jab from May 1,” said the chief minister. As of now, around 40,000 people are getting vaccinated in the state every day, she said. At the news conference, the chief minister also demanded that the Election Commission take steps to ensure that Covid patients under treatment at hospitals could cast their votes. “Postal ballots should be arranged for them. They should not be deprived of their democratic rights. The EC should improvise the procedure to help these people,” she said. In the state, the government has already arranged around 2,000 safe-houses where patients can stay. Also, the counselling process for patients over phone has been initiated and specialist doctors are available to help them remain at home or safe houses round the clock, claimed Mamata. “We have 11,000 beds for Covid patients in the state. The number would be increased by another 2,000 very shortly,” she said. The administration, she said, has been asked to be vigilant and prevent black-marketing of oxygen cylinders and other items necessary for Covid patients. On being quizzed as to whether the government was mulling over a lockdown, Mamata ruled out its possibility again. “Closing down everything is not a solution. We all have to act consciously to curb the infection,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Trinamul workers killed in clash and explosion||A Trinamul Congress worker was killed in Murshidabad’s Hariharpara while another was shot at in North 24-Parganas’s Hansnabad during political clashes on Tuesday night. In another incident on Tuesday night, a Trinamul activist died in a blast while allegedly making crude bombs along with others in North 24-Parganas’s Khardah. On Thursday, polls will be held across 43 Assembly seats in the sixth phase of elections, including 17 in North 24-Parganas. In Murshidabad, polling will take place for 22 seats in the final two phases, on April 26 and 29. Police said Badal Ghosh, 50, was hacked to death in the Paragaon area of Murshidabad’s Hariharpara during a political clash when he was returning home on a bicycle. The Trinamul worker was attacked with a sharp weapon and bombs were also hurled to ensure he was killed. The cops suspect that Ghosh was killed allegedly in retaliation to the murder of Kasem Ali, 52, a Congress worker, who was killed on Monday night. On Wednesday, Trinamul’s Niyamat Seikh, however, accused the BJP of Ghosh’s murder. BJP candidate Tamal Biswas rubbished the allegations and claimed that the murder was fallout of a property dispute within the deceased Trinamul worker’s family. Later on Wednesday, the police arrested three BJP supporters in connection with the murder. In Hansnabad of North 24-Parganas, Mastan Gaji, 32, a Trinamul activist, was shot at by suspected BJP supporters during a clash. Seven Trinamul workers were also injured in the skirmish. The Trinamul leadership has claimed that a group of armed BJP supporters, allied to Trinamul turncoat Feroz Kamal Gaji (alias Babu Master), attacked their party workers in the Bhawanipore area. “They kept us gheraoed in Bhawanipore. When we tried to flee, they began firing indiscriminately in which Mastan Gaji was injured”, said a Trinamul leader. In another incident, Rajkumar Yadav, a Trinamul activist, died in a blast that occurred at his home in the G.C. Road area of Khardah. Police sources said prima facie it appears that Yadav, 27, had been making bombs when the blast occurred, demolishing his home. Local people said Yadav was on Tuesday evening seen distributing voter’s slips in the area. Also, Trinamul and BJP supporters clashed near Meghna more in Jagaddal, close to the residence of BJP MP Arjun Singh, late on Tuesday. Singh reportedly had a verbal exchange with police officers during a raid in the area around that time after he had accused the cops of harassing innocent people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election officials’ hill adventures ||If the road to hell is paved with good intentions, the path to democracy can be strewn with elephants, leopards and inhospitable terrain. The effort put in by polling personnel on election days often goes unnoticed, the hardship they overcome unappreciated. The Telegraph tracked three polling teams when Darjeeling voted on April 17. One had been deputed in a forest village while the other two in remote hill villages, but all of them were united in their determination to ensure “smooth elections” in the face of adversities. Sonam Gyentsen Wangdi, Presiding officer Jangli Kotha booth Wangdi, 51, posted as employment officer in Siliguri, had been assigned to the Jangli Kotha booth in the Matigara-Naxalbari constituency. The booth is located inside the Mohurgum Gulma tea estate, about 12km from Siliguri. “The place is cut off from the outside world. Mobile connectivity was very weak and we were given walkie-talkie sets to coordinate with sector officers and police,” Wangdi recalled. On top of that, the area is frequented by elephants and leopards, he said. On the evening preceding poll day, Wangdi and his team had visitors from the forest range office. “They told us not to venture out at night because the area was an elephant zone and a few leopards had also been sighted in the immediate vicinity,” Wangdi said. Soon after the foresters left came another setback — a hailstorm. The foresters’ warning meant the team members had no option but to stay put in their booth. The hailstorm ensured that uprooted trees cut off electricity for the rest of the night. “You can imagine our situation that night,” Wangdi said. Because of the hailstorm the self-help-group assigned to them could serve dinner only at midnight, that too in near darkness. No leopard paid them a visit that night but the poll officials would frequently be awakened by the trumpeting of elephants not far away. Polling was smooth on April 17 and Wangdi reached home at 1am the next morning. The school is located just below Sandakphu, the highest point in Bengal. The booth had been classified as P minus 2 along with the ones at Srikhola Primary School and Ramman Forest Primary School. P minus 2 means the polling personnel have to leave for their booths two days before elections because of connectivity issues unlike other polling officials who are required to reach only a day ahead. “We had to hurry from Darjeeling with polling materials without proper food as we had been told that it had started raining in the area and the roads would get slippery,” Sherpa said. The team left Darjeeling around 2.30pm on April 15 but when they reached a place near Srikhola they realised that the only vehicle that could take them to their destination was a four-wheel drive. That meant a pick-up truck. “We had no choice but to hop onto a pick-up truck. There was a slight drizzle but we travelled in the hoodless truck on the slippery road through the evening,” Sherpa said. When the poll officials reached their destination around 11pm, they were greeted by pitch darkness because a storm had played havoc with electricity connections. “Thankfully we had picked up dinner while on our way. However, there were no lights through the night,” said Sherpa. Electricity was restored around 3pm on polling day. The 44-year-old official did not want to be identified, nor did he want his deployment details revealed, as he felt there were many officers who had put in more effort. The official recounted how he had visited the houses of senior citizens and people with disabilities in remote areas. The Election Commission has made arrangements for citizens aged above 80 and those with more than 40 per cent disability to cast their vote at their home. “The biggest challenge for us was to trek to those houses that were far from where the nearest motorable road ended. At times we had to trek almost 6km uphill just to ensure a voter was able to cast their vote,” the official said. The team started around 8.30am in the morning and took almost 12 hours to cover the 10 voters they had been assigned to visit. “The walking part was difficult, exhausting, too, but the experience was touching. These elders blessed us because many had stopped voting because of advanced age,” the officer said. On polling day, the team trekked a total of around 16km. Many elders told the team that they wanted to vote in earlier elections too but could not because they had become too fragile to even be carried to the booth. “The twinkle in their eyes after having cast their vote, their blessings, however, made our day. When I reached home, I felt happy, having really done some good service to the community,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Now, Khardah without Asim Dasgupta and Amit Mitra||⚫ Has the debt-to-GDP ratio improved in Bengal since the change of guard in 2011? ⚫ Were the zero-deficit budgets of the Left regime the result of statistical jugglery? ⚫ Has Bengal done better in terms of human development indices after 2011? ⚫ Has the rate of implementation of investment proposals improved since 2011? ⚫ Did tax reforms start in Bengal during Left rule or after that? For the uninitiated, there have always been complaints about lack of transparency in economic data shared by successive governments in Bengal. But the residents of Khardah, a township barely 20km from the heart of Calcutta, cannot share this grouse — after all they have been fed on a healthy diet of economic jargon every election season for over 34 years. “The biggest difference in the 2021 election is that no one is talking economics,” says Subhasish Roy, a bank employee, a wry smile playing on his lips. This North 24-Parganas constituency has had the unique distinction of electing the finance minister of Bengal since 1987. The CPM’s Asim Dasgupta, a PhD in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, represented Khardah from 1987 to 2011. For the next two terms, Trinamul’s Amit Mitra, a PhD in economics from Duke University, took over. Dasgupta and his junior at the erstwhile Presidency College are not in the race this summer, but their duel — and campaign style — are very much part of the gossip in Khardah that votes on April 22. “Asim-babu had interest in a wide array of things…. I still remember his campaign, during which he would suddenly enter a park and play cricket or football with youngsters. But his campaign addresses used to be full of topics related to economics,” recounted a CPM old-timer who used to play an important role in drawing up the Salt Lake resident’s campaign roster. Several residents of Khardah this correspondent spoke to still remember the battles of 2011 and 2016 when debates on economics took centrestage. “Amit-babu’s campaign pitch revolved around Asim-babu’s alleged mishandling of the state’s finances.… Bengal’s indebtedness, per-capita debt, tax-to-GDP ratio — all these numbers were part of the campaign addresses,” recounted Joyshankar Bhattacharya, a resident of Khardah and professor of economics. Dasgupta used to respond to the charges levelled by Mitra, a south Calcutta resident, in his meetings. The debates on economics — and associated discussions on comparisons between MIT and Duke — became so intense that they entered poll pamphlets and wall graffiti in Khardah. Cut to 2021, the pre-poll discourse among the contenders doesn’t look like they are straight out of an economics classroom. BJP nominee Shilbhadra Datta, who is up against Trinamul’s Kajal Sinha and the CPM’s Debojyoti Das, is happy about it. “Two finance ministers represented this constituency for so many years…. The people of Khardah only got lectures in economics, but no actual development took pace here. There is scarcity of drinking water in Khardah. This is a tragedy and I promise to bring real change,” Datta said. While Datta, who had earlier represented Barrackpore as a Trinamul MLA, didn’t find any merit in the discussions on the state of the economy in election season, some residents of Khardah said they had every right to know about Bengal’s macroeconomic situation as the state’s finance ministers had represented them. “As the constituency of successive finance ministers, the profile of Khardah was different…. Besides, the discourse on economics also added a different identity to Khardah,” said Bhaskar Roy, a private sector employee. “The only problem was, some experts in state finances used to claim that they were not as lucky as the residents of Khardah because their questions on the state’s economy were often not answered,” he added. Trinamul nominee Sinha, whom Mamata Banerjee has fielded due to Mitra’s indisposition amid the pandemic, didn’t want to get drawn into the debate on economics. “I was born here, I grew up here and my political life was shaped by the people of Khardah…. I am Mamata Banerjee’s candidate and almost everyone knows me in Khardah. These two are my main campaign pitches,” said Sinha, who won many a heart by running community kitchens and setting up safe homes and quarantine centres during last year’s Covid surge. Unlike Mitra, who had been billed as the next finance minister even before the 2011 polls, Sinha has maintained a low profile, rising from the grassroots and commanding a strong following among youths. The CPM’s Das, a product of student politics, has already made a mark among the electorate with his matured addresses and door-to-door campaigns and is expected to increase the party’s vote share from 11.84 per cent in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. However, the contest in Khardah, which has over 2.32 lakh voters, is between Sinha and Datta. As Trinamul had got a slender 1,000-plus lead over the BJP from Khardah in the last general election, the saffron party is confident of winning the seat, riding a perceived wave despite poor organisational base. Sinha, on the other hand, is confident that his local connect will be enough to see him through.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Citizenship dream elusive, Matuas a divided house ||Krishna Kirtania, a resident of North 24-Parganas’ Gaighata, is unsure about whom to vote. A member of the Matua community, Krishna had voted the BJP — like most others in his community — in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Early on Sunday, Krishna visited Thakurbari, the headquarters of the Matua sect in North 24-Parganas’ Thakurnagar, in search of clarity. He spoke through the day with both factions of the Thakur family — one owing allegiance to Trinamul and the other to the BJP. The members of the family are direct descendants of Harichand Thakur, the founder of the Matua sect. The area votes on April 22. In 2019, Krishna and nearly the entire Matua community had been sure that the BJP would solve their problems over Indian citizenship. The community had helped the BJP to win two crucial seats in the Matua-dominated constituencies of Bongaon and Ranaghat. When the Narendra Modi government introduced the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act, the Matuas had thought their problems would finally be solved. Things, however, have changed in the last 21 months as these lower-caste Hindu refugees from Bangladesh await the implementation of the CAA, but there is no clarity on when it would be done. The uncertainty over the CAA’s future, combined with the continuous efforts of the Trinamul Congress and other political parties as well as apolitical outfits to call the BJP’s apparent bluff has worked to a certain extent. The Matuas seem to be a divided house. A source claimed that multiple factors, especially the confusion over the BJP’s true intentions regarding the implementation of the CAA, had alienated a section of the Matuas from the party. “In 2019, almost 100 per cent of the 50 lakh-odd Matuas had voted the BJP. This time the number will be lower,” said the source in the All India Matua Mahasangha, an apolitical platform of the community that’s headed by Bongaon BJP MP Shantanu Thakur. For people like Krishna, a major concern is the exclusion of the 15 lakh Bengali-speaking people in Assam from the National Register of Citizens. The NRC drive in Assam and its outcome — an issue Trinamul has highlighted in its poll campaign — has caused a degree of scepticism among the Matuas about document-based citizenship. “Yes, it is true that some of our people feared that they would be delisted if they failed to show documents because most of them don’t have papers dating back to the time of their immigration. It is practically impossible,” said Mohitosh Baidya, the general secretary of the Mahasangha. However, Baidya added: “We’ve held several meetings with our people at the ground level. We explained to them that the NRC and the CAA are different. The clause for the NRC in Assam was specific to the Assam tripartite agreement. In Bengal, the issue is different and all of us will be given citizenship.” He said the Matuas would vote for the BJP again. The Matua movement began when the CAA of 2003 put forth “illegal migrant” as a category within the legal framework of Indian citizenship. Under the provisions of this Act, lower caste Hindus like Namasudras, who had migrated from Bangladesh after 1971 or were born in India to migrant Bangladeshi parents, became vulnerable to possible disenfranchisement. The Act eventually became an ostensible trap to detain or arrest Bangladeshi refugees as “illegal migrants”. The deletion of the names of about 15 lakh Bengali-speaking people in Assam was also a result of the Act. Left-leaning economist Prasenjit Bose, who has been trying to convince the Matuas about the fallacy of the citizenship tripod, said the main problems began with the 2003 amendment. “This is the notorious Act which neither the BJP has withdrawn so far, nor Trinamul has ever raised its voice against in their endeavour to win the hearts of the Matuas. Both parties are basically cheating the Matuas,” he said. Bose and his team have organised several meetings in Matua-dominated areas in Nadia and North 24-Paragans to convince people that they are citizens of India and the BJP has been trying to use them by dangling the citizenship carrot only for political gains. According to him, the response of the people is an indication that the Matuas are finally realising that the BJP has taken them for a ride. Bose may blame both the BJP and Trinamul for the confusion, but for the Matuas the choice is between these two. Biman Biswas, 46, who claims to be a member of the All India Matua Mahasangha, said: “I am yet to decide who to vote for. The BJP has assured us citizenship. But so far it has delivered nothing. They have not even said that the provisions of the 2003 citizenship Act will be removed. If the categorisation of illegal migrants remains in the Act, many people will be trapped and detained since they will not be able to submit documents either in support of religious persecution or about their stay here.” What has added to the woes of the Matuas is the delay in the framing of CAA rules. The Act came into being in December 2019. In March 2021, the government was allowed an extension till July 9, 2021, for the framing of the rules. Trinamul is trying to use the loopholes in the BJP narrative to regain ground among the Matuas. Leaders like Jyotipriya Mallick, Saugata Roy and Bratya Basu have in the past few months invested considerable time trying to regain the faith of the Matuas. Mamata Banerjee herself has addressed the community and has tried to convince them that since they are already residing in the state, they wouldn’t need new proof of citizenship. “We believe we have been able to win back a substantial portion of the Matua people. I have myself explained to them that the BJP is basically a Manuvaadi party and in their scheme of things there is no place for Dalits like the Matuas…. We’ve exposed the BJP’s lies,” said Basu, adding that his party was confident of winning several seats in Matua-dominated areas. There are at least 30 seats in North 24-Parganas and adjacent Nadia where the Matuas wield influence. In 17 of these seats, the Matuas make up around 45 per cent of the electorate. Ten of the seats are in North 24-Parganas while the remaining seven are in Nadia, which are part of the Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha constituencies. All these seats were a strong support base of Trinamul until the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. But in most Matua-dominated segments such as Bongaon North, Bongaon South, Gaighata, Bagda, Habra, Haringhata, Kalyani, Ranaghat South, Ranaghat Northeast, Ranaghat Northwest, Krishnaganj and Chakdaha, Trinamul miserably lost to the BJP. Minister Mullick said: “Our defeat margins don’t present the real picture. It was a sudden obsession that a large section of the Matuas had shown for the BJP for a wrong cause. Such obsession never lasts long. There will be a different story on April 22 when these Assembly segments will go to the polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
22-04-2021||West Bengal||'The hopes of the entire nation are in the hands of the voters of Bengal'||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
