23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bankers committee urges Bengal government to curtail office hours||State Level Bankers' Committee has appealed to the West Bengal government to restrict business hours from 10 am to 2 pm for at least two weeks, amid a raging second wave of the Covid19 pandemic, an official said on Friday. Currently, banks provide services from 10 am to 4 pm daily, except holidays and the second and fourth Saturday of a month. Many of the member banks have already been advised by their corporate offices to take stock of the Covid situation in their respective working zones and consider restricting attendance up to 50 per cent in their branches and offices, Nabin Kumar Dash chief general manager of Punjab National Bank and convenor of the SLBC said in a letter to the government. "Many banks have approached us for imposition of restricted banking hours, as was implemented last year to reduce the risk of Covid-19 infection. Ensuring 50 per cent workforce availability itself is a challenging task in the present situation given a large number of infected staff and their family members," he said in the letter sent to the government on April 20. Full-fledged banking services for six hours will be a "daunting task" in the present Covid situation, he said. "We would urge you to take a considered view to restrict banking business hours from 10 am to 2 pm at least for next two weeks, which may be reviewed for continuation or otherwise," Dash said. He said the overall Covid situation at the ground level is alarming compared to the first wave of the pandemic. "We have also sent another letter to the West Bengal government today. What we have gathered is that the state administration is actively considering our request," the SLBC convenor told PTI. Meanwhile, All India Bank Officers' Confederations West Bengal unit has also written a letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, requesting him to ask the appropriate authority to reduce the banking up to 2 pm, and implement closure of bank branches on all Saturdays in view of the current pandemic situation. "Several states have already implemented all Saturdays off and reduced banking operations up to 2 pm to combat the second wave of the coronavirus infections. We have requested the West Bengal governor to ask the appropriate authority to consider our request," AIBOC state unit secretary Sanjay Das said. Bengal on Thursday registered the highest single-day spike of 11,948 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally beyond the 7-lakh mark, the health department said in its bulletin. The fresh infections pushed the state's coronavirus caseload to 7,00,904. The death toll also went up to 10,766 as 56 more patients succumbed to the disease, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Would've attended PM's Covid review meet if I was invited, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said she would have participated in the meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the chief ministers of states with the highest burden of COVID-19 cases, had she been invited. Addressing a press conference here, Banerjee said she heard that Friday's meeting on the COVID situation was meant for the worst-hit states, and hence she was not told about it. Chairing a meeting on the COVID-19 situation with chief ministers of 11 states and Union Territories with the maximum COVID-19 cases, Modi called for working together to fight the pandemic with collective power. The Trinamool Congress supremo alleged that the Centre's "inept handling has led to the present situation". "On March 7, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said COVID is on its way out. It means that the central government had no inkling about the impending crisis. It did not act on the recommendations of the World Health Organization to ramp up the stock of oxygen," she asserted. Alleging that Gujarat got 60 per cent of free vaccines, while other states received a little, she said, "We have nothing to say against one of the worst-hit states, but there should be a uniform policy." She said the Centre could have arranged for free vaccination for every citizen of the country by spending around Rs 20,000 crore but it did not. "When you (BJP leaders) have spent lakhs of rupees to book hotels, guest houses, charter flights and choppers and offered cash to voters to capture Bengal and hatch a conspiracy to win the elections here, could you not spend Rs 20,000 crore for the health of every Indian?" she asked. Banerjee said the state will now procure additional 5,000 oxygen cylinders for hospital use. The CM said the Centre has adopted a "step-motherly attitude" towards West Bengal in allocating oxygen cylinders. Banerjee alleged that the BJP was disrupting the polling by involving central forces. "Seven of my polling agents were kidnapped yesterday at Jagaddal to disrupt free and fair voting. Nothing was done. Security forces were influenced to open fire in another area," she claimed. Asserting that her party was ready to extend all cooperation to the Election Commission, Banerjee said, "I have cancelled today's public meetings after the EC issued fresh directives on Thursday." Noting that the COVID safety norms were being flouted in West Bengal during campaigning, the Election Commission banned roadshows and vehicle rallies in the state with immediate effect and said no public meeting having more than 500 people would be allowed. "The EC always issues orders late in the evening, perhaps keeping in mind the itinerary of the PM. But, we are quick to abide by the norms as we work for the interest of people," she claimed. Six rounds of the eight-phased assembly elections in West Bengal have already taken place, and the remaining two will be held on April 26 and 29. The CM reaffirmed that the Election Commission should have conducted the assembly polls in five phases by clubbing the last three phases into one and said that "the poll panel acted at the behest of the BJP."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission bans canvassing events that involve public gatherings||High-profile campaigning will move to the virtual platform and air waves in the remaining two phases of the Assembly elections in Bengal with the Election Commission of India on Thursday night banning practically all canvassing events that involve public gatherings. The only events permitted are public meetings of not more than 500 people, provided physical distancing norms are observed. The poll panel announcement was preceded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi calling off his on-site events in Bengal on Friday. The commission’s order was followed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee cancelling her election meetings. Two curious events preceded the Election Commission’s order, which comes after weeks of huge election rallies that are being partly blamed for the intensity of the second wave of Covid-19. The commission had rejected Trinamul requests to club the last three phases of polling in Bengal to check the spread of Covid. ⚫ Around 5.30pm, Prime Minister Modi had tweeted that he was cancelling his Friday trip to Bengal, where he was scheduled to address four election rallies. Modi said he would be chairing high-level meetings to review the Covid-19 situation. ⚫ Around 6pm, a BJP leader posted a tweet asking whether “the conscience keepers of democracy who are in abundance” would question why Mamata Banerjee was continuing her rallies in Bengal. ⚫ A little after 8pm, the Election Commission issued the fresh restrictions on poll gatherings. Earlier in the day, Union home minister Amit Shah, whose acumen at explaining the importance of chronology to his followers was well-established during the CAA protests, had held three rallies in Bengal. Like the last time, he was spotted on stage with his mask pulled below his chin in at least one venue on Thursday. Soon after the commission’s order, Mamata tweeted: “In the wake of upsurge in #COVID19 cases across the country and the ECI order dated 22nd April, 2021, I am cancelling all my prescheduled meetings and we will reach out to the people virtually.” Mamata will also address media conferences. Before the Election Commission had issued its order, BJP sources had said the Prime Minister was cancelling his Friday trip to Bengal as there was concern about a perception that the “government and the party are obsessed with elections” when people were dying in large numbers from Covid-19. According to the commission, the fresh curbs have been imposed because many political parties and candidates are still not adhering to the prescribed safety norms at public gatherings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Fatal fall for jumbo, two trampled to death in Alipurduar ||Carcass of a female jumbo was found at the Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) and two persons were reported dead in elephant attacks in Alipurduar district on Thursday. According to local sources, around 10 elephants entered Panbari village — adjacent to Panbari forest under Gadadhar range of the BTR (west) division — on Wednesday night. The residents tried to contact foresters but failed. On Thursday morning, an adult female elephant was found lying dead in a paddy field. It is suspected that the jumbo was pregnant. The foresters said the elephant herd had returned to the Panbari forest and preliminary probe suggests that the animal died as it slipped because of heavy rainfall. “We are, however, waiting for the autopsy reports to ascertain the actual cause of death,” said Budhraj Sewa, field director of the BTR. Meanwhile, Dhumra Minj, 45, a resident of Panbari village, was trampled to death by an elephant in the Panbari forest on Thursday morning. His body was later recovered by police. In another incident, a wild elephant attacked the hutment of Bimal Roy, 49, at Uttar Shidhabari village near Jaldapara National Park on Wednesday night. Sources said the tusker first attacked the hutment and then trampled to death Roy. Three persons died while five others, including a child, suffered serious injuries when a dump-truck collided with a jeep on Thursday afternoon in Alipurduar. The incident took place near Dalmore tea estate on Birpara-Lankapara Road in the district. The deceased have been identified as Gulasan Suri, 48, Asha Oraon, 45, and Salu Oraon, 44, all residents of Garganda tea estate. The injured have been admitted to NBMCH.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amit Shah plays polarisation card, claims majority||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday played the polarisation card in his poll campaign in South Dinajpur, a district that shares borders with Bangladesh, and has a substantial minority population. “Mamata Banerjee keeps on labelling me and the Prime Minister’s ‘outsiders’. We want to know from common people whether we are outsiders or Indians. She has tried to build this narrative to retain her vote bank…the same reason why she is against the CAA,” the home minister said at a public meeting in Buniadpur (under Harirampur Assembly seat) of the district. Shah also claimed that after the sixth phase of polls — held in 43 seats on Thursday — the BJP touched the majority mark in Bengal Assembly. Ever since elections started in Bengal, Shah has remarked on the probable number of seats his party has won in each phase, which other parties have called a mindgame. “After the fifth phase, we said the BJP will win 122 seats (out of 180). Now that the sixth phase of polling is being held today, we will touch the majority mark (148 seats). However, the remaining two phases (71 seats) are equally important to us as we want to secure 200 seats or more,” he said. Covid spike kept turnout low, but Shah’s speech was beamed virtually in many Assembly seats, BJP sources said. The home minister also spoke certain regional issues and old demands, such as opening of the Tentulia corridor through Bangladesh to cut the distance among north Bengal districts and between the Indian mainland by around 85km. According to the proposal, the route would move through a 4km stretch through Tentulia of Bangladesh. “We will work on the demand to open the Tentulia corridor. It will connect Chopra (in North Dinajpur) with Jalpaiguri district,” said Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘Outsiders’ take boat rides to booth ||At age 85, Narayan Halder looked weary as he got off his second consecutive boat ride across the river Ichhamati onto mainland India near Petrapole on Thursday morning. Halder, despite his age and the raging second wave of the pandemic, chose to take two boat rides from his home in Teroghawr village to the Indian mainland to cast his vote. Even though he is someone used to being an underwhelmed participant of a repetitive process and has lived a life without witnessing much political action around him. But Halder, one of less than 70 eligible voters in his village — officially a part of Bongaon’s Trinamul-run Chhawghoria panchayat — certainly realises the irony of his fate. “Our lives are beholden to the Border Security Force outpost, really,” he said pointing to his right just as a BSF jawan got off his outpost to adjust the octogenarian’s mask for a tighter fit. “You are going into the city now, you have to be careful,” the BSF officer sternly told the silent but bemused Halder. With its present still moored firmly in its past of having had only “13 homes”, which is what Teroghawr literally means, the village is still home to those 13 families who have less than 80 members between them today. During partition in 1947, they were designated to Indian territory, even though the Hindu-majority village, lying on a narrow strip of land crisscrossed by the river, is surrounded by Bangladesh on three sides. Residents here, one year into the pandemic, are not deeply invested in the political discourse gripping the country. Their only acquaintance with the virus has been through the cell phone on which Teroghawr happens to enjoy cellular data coverage and the occasional sensitisation drives undertaken by the BSF and local panchayat. “We are aware of the citizenship legislation, but we don’t have very strong views on it. Our ancestors have been here for over a century and we have paperwork going back decades,” said Uday Sarkar, another resident, admitting that they did enjoy the “solitude” the village enjoyed “by virtue of insignificance”. Sarkar added that people like him did not believe that there would be much change even if they get a certificate of citizenship. “We shall still remain outsiders in our own land,” he said. Ironically, at a time when both Trinamul and BJP — the saffron camp has parachuted almost all its central leaders to Bengal for campaigning — are desperately wooing the electorate, not a single candidate has stepped foot here in Teroghawr. “We are voters of Bongaon North but there has not been any campaign in our locality, because we don’t have many votes to offer,” said Sarkar. Echoing his octogenarian neighbour, Sarkar admitted that the BSF was the “only force of authority” in the lives of this village, neighboured by an even smaller village called Doghawria to the south. “The downside is that we live like outsiders. Every time we come to the mainland, we have to leave our IDs with the BSF when we enter, and so do our guests when they come to our village,” said Doghawria resident Biswajit Halder pensively. However, he acknowledges paperwork was a small price to pay in comparison to being delisted in the NRC like in Assam. “I’ve heard that about 14 lakh Bengalis have been declared non-Indians in Assam,” Biswajit said. The BJP’s 2019 citizenship thrust plays an outsized role in the psyche of the people in Assam and the Matuas, a community that dominates the electorate in Bongaon, as the fallout of the BJP’s Lok Sabha victory in 2019. In 2021 Bengal, the issue continues to polarise certain communities amid the ongoing state polls. A few days ago a panchayat member had come into these two villages to distribute booth slips, residents recall. “Other than that, we really have nothing to do with political parties or with the government. We really only interact with the BSF. I voted as a civic duty though, because I don't have much to complain about,” said octogenarian Halder, about to board a fishing boat to make the 20-minute journey back home from the mainland. The relationship between the BSF and the villagers is respectful but distant at best. “I think they realise we don’t encounter too much red tape on a daily basis, so they make up for it at times by harassing us when we come home with too many groceries,” joked Biswajit. “But they always let us go,” he added as an afterthought.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chant by polling official||The sixth phase of the Bengal Assembly polls involving 43 seats spread across four districts passed off relatively peacefully on Thursday, barring a few incidents. The Election Commission of India said it had received 1,992 complaints from various political parties during the day and addressed all of them. Some of the major incidents of the day: Police firing At least two persons were injured when state police allegedly opened fire to control violent BJP supporters outside the polling station No 35 at Ranaghat in the Bagdah constituency of North 24-Parganas district on Thursday afternoon. Sources said the police had to resort to a lathi-charge to disperse a mob gathered to protest the vandalism of their tent. However, the police later opened fire when the villagers allegedly became violent. Two persons — Budho Santra (65) and his nephew Mrityunjoy Santra (25) — who were returning from the field suffered bullet injuries. They were rushed to Bagdah hospital. BJP’s Bagdah candidate Biswajit Das alleged the police had unleashed panic among voters in a planned manner so that they didn’t turn up at the polling station to help the ruling party win the seat. Firing by miscreants Two Trinamul supporters were injured when a group of armed miscreants with suspected Trinamul link hurled bombs and fired indiscriminately outside Tangra Buniyadi Vidyalaya polling premises (polling station No. 79, 79A, 80 and 80A) of Ashok Nagar constituency in North-24 Parganas on Thursday afternoon. The injured — Manirul Mondal and Kabirul — suffered bullet injuries to the legs and were admitted to Barasat state general hospital. Sources said tension flared up when BJP candidate Tanuja Chakraborty arrived near the booth. The miscreants ransacked a number of police vehicles and hurled a dozen of crude bombs close to the polling station, unleashing panic in the area. A quick response team comprising state and central forces later brought the situation under control. Trinamul candidate Narayan Goswami, alleged that it was the central force personnel who had opened fire and injured the two party supporters. The EC ruled out the allegation of firing by the central force. ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chant Trinamul workers launched agitation after a polling official chanted “Jai Shri Ram” inside the booth set up at Gobindapur GSP Primary school in the Purbasthali South Assembly segment in Burdwan East district. Sources said the official had chanted “Jai Shri Ram” after the mock poll had been completed successfully around 6.30am. Trinamul lodged a complaint with the EC against the official. EC officials said the polling personal had been removed from his duty immediately and an explanation sought from him. Voter cards snatched Trinamul supporters allegedly snatched away electoral photo identity cards of some Indian Secular Front activists at Amadanga in North 24-Parganas. The ISF alleged that when its supporters were on their way to cast their votes, the “Trinamul goons” snatched their cards to prevent them from exercising their franchise. Officials said proper steps were initiated soon after the complaints were lodged. Steps were initiated to ensure that the voters can cast their votes. Firing after polls A group of miscreants allegedly backed by Trinamul fired pellets at the house of an election agent of the BJP at Nangtagach in the Chopra Assembly constituency of North Dinajpur on Thursday evening after the polling got over. Two women and a man of the agent’s family have suffered injuries and have been rushed to the block health centre in Dalua. Assault by jawans At least three incidents of excesses by central force jawans were reported in North Dinajpur. While a booth level officer  was beaten up on the polling station premises by the jawans though he was carrying a government identity card, the CAPF personnel rained batons on villagers at two other places. The baton-charges have led to protests at those places. For the assault of the BLO, a complaint has been filed with police as political parties, barring the BJP, have again accused the CAPF of resorting to highhandedness. Fingers chopped Kanak Biswas, a polling agent of Trinamul, lost two fingers of the left arm when armed men with suspected BJP links attacked him while he was returning home after the voting. The incident occurred at Asan Nagar in Nadia’s Bhimpur. The victim’s wife Chaina is a member of the local gram panchayat. Police said Biswas had been attacked at a deserted place with a sharp weapon. “He tried to resist the attack with left hand when two of his fingers were chopped of,” Trinamul block president Biswajit Das said. Biswas was rushed to Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar. The BJP has denied the charges. Police threatened A Trinamul leader at Ausgram in East Burdwan, Arup Mirdhya, allegedly threatened a police officer that action would be taken against him when his party comes to power after May 2. He asked the officer whether they were trying to create another incident like Sitalkuchi at Pratappur village in the Ausgram Assembly segment. Polling agent hit A Trinamul polling agent, Jagannath Mondal, was beaten inside a booth in Barogram (booth no 9) in Mangolkot Assembly segment in East Burdwan around 11.30am. Trinamul alleged the BJP had attacked the agent without any provocation and the saffron party was trying to take complete control of the booth. Officials said a complaint had been lodged and the probe was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Vaccine policy is anti-people: Didi||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday fired off a stern letter to Narendra Modi, terming his government’s Covid-19 vaccination strategy as “highly discriminatory” and “anti-people”. The chief minister accused the Centre of bias in favour of the market, against the interests of the masses, and stressed the need for every Indian to get free vaccination. Hours after the Bengal chief minister reiterated her promise of universal — for those above the age of 18 — free vaccination for all Bengal residents from May 5, three days after the Assembly election results, she has sent the letter to the Prime Minister. “I am afraid, this policy is highly discriminatory and anti-people. Moreover, it appears that there is a bias in favour of market against the interest of common people,” wrote Mamata. The chief minister called out the Centre over its unprecedented decision to make states buy vaccines for the mass-immunisation drive. “In fact, never ever has any state in this country been asked to buy vaccines in any mass immunisation drive, let alone at such hugely high rates,” she added, in condemnation of the varied pricing of the vaccine, which has triggered a controversy. Earlier in the day, at several election rallies, Mamata had said the Centre had enough money in its coffers, but was unwilling to make vaccination free for the nation. She called out Modi and his cabinet repeatedly over not having done enough in the war against the pandemic when there was time before the second wave. In the morning, she had tweeted a statement against pricing differentiation for the vaccines. “One nation, one party, one leader shouts BJP all the time but to save lives they can’t have one price for vaccine,” she had posted. “Every Indian needs free vaccine, regardless of age, caste, creed, location. GoI must fix ONE price for Covid vaccine irrespective of who pays— Centre or the States,” she had added on the microblogging site. Even in the letter, the Trinamul Congress chief brought up the differences in pricing, calling it “anti-federal”, “anti-poor” and “anti-youth”. “First, why should the prices of vaccines be different in cases of state government? GoI gets the vaccines from manufacturers @ Rs 150 per dose, while you have fixed for us, the states, a price of Rs 400 per dose. States will have to pay 167 per cent extra over and above the rates that GoI has fixed for itself,” she wrote to Modi. “Such peculiar differentiation of rates is also unheard of in Indian history.” The chief minister said fixing a rate of Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals was not only discriminatory but also “unhealthy”, as it could trigger unscrupulous mechanisms in the market. Mamata underscored the grave crisis for the nation, refusing to accommodate vaccine manufacturers being allowed to prioritise business now. “Every effort in this situation should be directed towards common good of people without any difference or discrimination,” she wrote. “I strongly feel that every Indian should get free vaccine, regardless of age, caste, creed, location, at one price, irrespective of who pays — the Centre or the states,” she added, seeking the Centre’s urgent intervention. The BJP, predictably, responded with yet another lavish praise of Modi, besides derision for Mamata, as she promised the universal free vaccination for Bengal from May 5. “She seems to forget that she would be thrown out of power on May 2 (the day of counting for the Assembly election). Whatever needs to be done after that, will be done by the BJP here,” said BJP state chief spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya. Bhattacharya yet again accused Mamata of trying to mislead the people — going to the extent of suggesting there was no great cause for worry even at this stage and intensity of the pandemic — and of fear-mongering to ensure less people vote in the phases that remain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Finally, PM puts Covid fight above rallies||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday evening announced cancellation of his four Bengal election events scheduled for Friday, citing the need to attend high-powered meetings on Covid-19. Modi announced the last-minute cancellation of the election rallies on Twitter. The Bengal BJP, which was in a quandary over what would happen to the party’s chances in the remaining 71 seats for the final two phases, later said Modi would address the people of the state virtually. “Tomorrow, will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Due to that, I would not be going to West Bengal,” posted Modi on the microblogging site at 5.24pm. The announcement reflected a belated desperation to salvage the intensifying perception of the government abdicating it’s responsibility to battle the pandemic and focusing only on wresting power in Bengal. On Friday, Modi would also hold a meeting with chief ministers of states badly affected by Covid-19, apart from other sessions including one with oxygen manufacturers. Lack of life saving oxygen amid a deluge of seriously infected patients has emerged as a big challenge and put the central government on the back foot. The Centre is fully responsible for the allocation and supply of medical oxygen to states. The central government has been widely blamed for not preparing for the second surge of Covid despite being aware of it. BJP managers indicated that there was thinking among the leaders that all big rallies by top honchos should be called off in view of the worsening Covid situation. Top honchos meant Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda. There was, however, no official announcement to clarify the situation. Sections in the BJP said the perception of the “government and the party obsessed with elections was harmful” when people were dying in large numbers from Covid-19. Around an hour after Modi’s tweet, the state unit of the BJP announced that instead of the four rallies — in Malda, Behrampore, Suri and Calcutta — the Prime Minister would address the people virtually, with state and district level-leaders present at the four venues. After Modi’s post, the BJP’s national general-secretary (organisation), B.L. Santosh, took a swipe at Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee for continuing with her “non-compliant rallies” in the state. Trinamul, however, was unwilling to relent. “India is being panned globally for the way the pandemic was allowed to get out of hand in the second wave. The buck stops with the Prime Minister who prioritises election victories over the health of Indian citizens,” said Trinamul spokesperson Bratya Basu. “Modi did what he did under pressure from the examples set by the likes of Mamata Banerjee,” he added. Basu pointed out that Amit Shah continued with his Bengal programmes, as usual, on Thursday as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Covid shadow on urban voters||Voter turnout on Thursday — in the sixth phase of the protracted eight-phase Bengal Assembly elections — was over 79 per cent till 5pm. But a closer look at the district-level voter turnout figures indicated a reluctance among many to go out and vote in the urban areas of North 24-Parganas, which has seen an alarming spike in the number of Covid infections in the last few days. Next to Calcutta, North 24-Parganas has become the Covid hotspot in the state. On Thursday, when Bengal had 11,948 lab-reported new infections in 24 hours, North 24-Parganas alone reported 2,372 positive cases, the second highest among districts. Calcutta reported 2,646 cases on Thursday. The overall polling percentage in the 17 Assembly segments in North 24-Parganas that voted on Thursday had been 75.94 per cent till 5pm. “It appears that the polling percentage is on the lower side, it is unlikely to reach the district’s average polling percentage of 82, a trend recorded in the past few elections,” said a poll panel source. Assembly segment-wise polling percentage revealed that the areas with a spurt in Covid-19 cases had lower voter turnout on Thursday than usual. For example, till 5pm, the turnout percentage in some of the constituencies like Bhatpara, Barrackpore, Noapara, Jagatdal, Khardah and Dum Dum North were 65, 67 70, 74, 77.06 and 76.3 per cent, respectively. “The voter turnout in these Assembly segments is unlikely to improve at the end of the day as reports suggest that there were no long queues in front of the booths even after 5pm. It is clear that people in these areas, which are close to Calcutta, were afraid of going out to cast their votes in the backdrop of the raging pandemic,” said a source. The fear factor, however, was less visible in rural areas as Assembly segments like Gaighata recorded 82 per cent polling till 5pm. Similarly, Baduria and Habra Assembly segments recorded 81 per cent and 82.58 per cent voter turnout till 5pm. “All these Assembly segments fall in the rural areas of the district and it appears that the turnout would surpass the average polling percentage of 82 per cent by the end of the day. This gives a clear hint that people in urban areas of the district were more fearful of going to the polling stations amid the spurt in Covid cases,” said a source. Another factor has drawn attention of the sources in the Election Commission of India is that turnout at the minority -dominated Assembly segments was higher than average this time. “For example, Amdanga, a minority-dominated Assembly segment, located near Barrackpore, has recorded 83.78 per cent voter turnout till 5pm, which was the highest in the district,” said a source. The trend was also noticed in the previous phase of polls where 16 Assembly segments of the district had gone for polls on April 16. Assembly segment Minakhan, another minority dominated seat, recorded 89.54 per cent voter turnout in the previous phase. In constituencies such as Degnanga, Haroa and Basirhat North — all minority-dominated — turnout was more than 88 per cent. Though there was a clear rural-urban divide in the voter turnout in North 24-Parganas on Thursday, the picture was different in the other districts that voted — Nadia, East Burdwan and North Dinajpur. All these recorded high voter turnout, irrespective of whether they were urban and rural parts of the districts. While East Burdwan reported 82.15 per cent voter turnout till 5pm, in the case of Nadia and North Dinajpur, the percentages were 82.67 and 77.76, respectively. Sources in the Election Commission said that the trend witnessed in urban North 24-Parganas posed a challenge before them ahead of the next two phases where the polls would be held in Calcutta’s Assembly seats. “Calcutta is the place where the maximum number of positive cases are reported every day. If the polling percentage falls here, it would also indicate a failure of the Election Commission as it would mean that the poll panel failed to make enough arrangements to assure the common people to come out and vote safely,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Storm in foothills, snow in Sandakphu||A sudden storm, coupled with thundershowers, razed various parts of Siliguri subdivision and adjoining Jalpaiguri district on Thursday morning, damaging hutments, cars and houses, while untimely snowfall caught Bengal’s highest point Sandakphu by surprise. While the storm inconvenienced people in the foothills, Sandakphu, in Darjeeling hills at an altitude of over 11,900 feet, saw “around six inches” of snowfall on Thursday, rare in April third week. Around 10.15am, the storm broke out in Siliguri and Jalpaiguri, prompting people to rush indoors. Traffic halted on roads in towns and villages and on national and state highways. No casualty was reported. A woman was injured in the storm in Jalpaiguri town. Chandan Pradhan, the secretary of Singalila Land Rover Owners’ Association, said it snowed “almost six inches” in Sandakphu and Phalut on Thursday morning. “Vehicles haven’t been able to move beyond Chauri Chowk about 3km below Sandakphu,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata slams Modi for Asansol riot speech||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday pulled up Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a “provocative speech” in his poll campaign in Asansol and appealed to people to maintain harmony and reject the BJP’s alleged divisive agenda. “I have learnt from the media about what the Prime Minister said in his election speech. He shamelessly reminded (people about) the unfortunate riot of 2018 with an aim to instigate and divide people. This does not suit a Prime Minister,” Mamata said in Asansol, speaking in Hindi. She was campaigning for Trinamul nominees from Asansol (North), the largest Muslim populated constituency in West Burdwan, and Barabani Assembly segments. The Asansol North Assembly segment was among the worst-hit in the 2018 riot in which at least three people were killed. Unofficial sources put the toll at four. Mamata reminded people about the “nobility” of Maulana Imdadullah Rasheedi, imam of a local mosque who lost his son in that riot but appealed for peace. “Do you remember the imam here who appealed for peace even after losing his son in the riot? He appealed to everyone to stop the riot despite losing his son. His appeal helped us resume normality here. Do you remember him?” she asked. Mamata said people lived and worked here in harmony since long. “But the Prime Minister on that day tried to disturb peace here. I am feeling ashamed,” she said. Rasheedi’s younger son, Sibtullah, who had appeared for his Class X board exams, had been picked up by a mob. His wounded body was found the next day. He was suspected to have been beaten to death. Rasheedi appealed to people at the Idgah Maidan, where his son was buried, to maintain peace. “My son has died, but I don’t want anyone else to lose his child. If you strike back, I shall leave the mosque as well as this town,” he said. The incident had caught media attention and helped the administration calm the situation. Mamata also called Asansol MP Babul Supriyo’s nomination as BJP candidate from Tollygunge Assembly seat an insult to Asansol’s people. “You elected Babul Supriyo as an MP from here twice. But he escaped to Tollygunge to contest in the Assembly election. Was it not an insult to you?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
23-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP nominee livid over central force ‘inaction’||Anadi Ghosh, the BJP candidate from East Burdwan’s Ketugram, on Thursday accused the central force jawans of inaction when he was allegedly confined and heckled inside a polling station in his constituency. In a first on the sixth phase of elections, the BJP apparently joined Trinamul in blaming the central forces. Ghosh not only accused the central forces of being mute spectators to his plight, but also praised the state police — which the BJP in Bengal normally vilifies — for rescuing him from alleged Trinamul goons. “It was a very sad experience for me, as the central force jawans did not come to my rescue even after my appeals. I called up the inspector-in-charge of Ketugram, Suman Chatterjee, who rescued me,” said BJP’s Ghosh. Prior to the sixth phase, Trinamul lodged over 800 complaints against central forces, to the Election Commission as the BJP heaped praise on both the forces and the commission. Trinamul’s attacks intensified after the firing by central forces at Sitalkuchi on April 10 that killed four men. Ghosh, a Trinamul turncoat, joined the BJP a few months ago and was nominated against his former party colleague and Trinamul MLA from Ketugram, Sheikh Shahanawaz. The BJP candidate went to Khaspur village, where he involved in an argument with a group of Trinamul workers, who were allegedly within 100 metres of a booth. “Our candidate entered the polling station in fear of an attack, after he was hurled abuses and threatened with physical harm. But when he again faced agitation by Trinamul workers inside the polling premises, the central forces did not come forward to help,” said a BJP worker with Ghosh. Suman Chatterjee, the inspector-in-charge of Ketugram, said: “The situation became heated as the candidate started talking to voters. We rescued him.” Many Trinamul leaders in East Burdwan expressed surprise to hear of Ghosh’s complaint. “I am happy at least one BJP candidate faced the problems with central forces,” said Shahanawaz, Trinamul nominee from Ketugram and MLA. BJP workers in at least half a dozen places on Thursday accused central forces of inaction. Three BJP workers who set up a camp in Ketugram’s Santinagar were allegedly beaten up by Trinamul workers in front of the central forces. “Central forces were standing idle when Trinamul men beat us up with sticks and rods. The goons of Trinamul hurled brickbats at state police, who managed to flee but the central forces did not react,” alleged  Mondal who got cuts in his ears and back. In Rujur village of the same seat, six crude bombs were hurled allegedly by Trinamul workers to drive away voters. A woman, Mandira Majhi, with her six-month-old, who was allegedly pushed into a drain for voting for the BJP, said the central forces did not help her. Allegations against central forces for lathi-charge came from Swarupnagar and Bongaon in North 24-Parganas. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
