24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Poll panel unfairly detaining Trinamul workers, says Mamata||Ahead of the seventh phase of voting in Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee shared WhatsApp messages, allegedly exchanged between three special observers of the poll panel asking police personnel to detain Trinamul workers, to boltser her claim that the Election Commission of India was in cahoots with the BJP. Addressing the media in Bolpur on Saturday, Mamata even threatened to move the Supreme Court, saying that she had gathered enougg evidence to prove her point that the poll panel was biased. “These observers are describing Trinamul party workers as trouble mongers. I have got copies of the messages exchanged between them and the officers. Some of our DMs and SPs are exceeding limits to keep them happy, following their orders. Are they BJP’s mynah? I won’t say anything now. After the polls I will take this up,” Mamata said. She said the Centre was aware that the Covid situation would worsen in January, but did not take any steps. Instead, the Centre went ahead with eight-phase elections in Bengal to satisfy their "lust for power", she added. “The PM and Union home minister should resign. The EC could have held the polls in three phases. It was stretched to help the BJP win Bengal. One party’s lust for power has landed us in this situation. Why didn’t the EC listen to us? Why elections had to be stretched to eight-phases, when it was clear that Covid is spreading?” she said. Mamata also questioned the Centre's decision to announce multiple pricing for the Covid vaccine. “Why can’t the Centre give free vaccine to every citizen? Why separate prices? What is going on? They have destroyed the country. Total negligence. A monumentally incompetent government,” she said. After the elections were over, Mamata said, she would knock on the doors of the apex court. “I have gathered all the evidence, all the documents. I will move the Supreme Court with these seeking its intervention for free and fair polls,” she said. “Retired people are being sent as observers. These retired people are issuing orders to serving officers,” she added. After the Election Commission’s belated action of banning rallies in the wake of the deteriorating Covid pandemic, Mamata has been holding news conferences instead of large public meetings. The remaining two phases of the eight-phase elections in Bengal will be held on onday, April 26 and Thursday, April 29. “In Naihati, Bijpur, Kanchrapara, Jagatdal what happened (during the polls on April 22) was under BJP’s instruction. In Budbud, Mangalkote, Islampur, Goalpokhor our workers were picked up from their homes early in the morning and detained for the entire day. All of this was done to ensure a victory for the BJP,” she alleged. Yet, Mamata said confidently, such high-handed measures would not be able to  stop the Trinamul Congress from returning to power for a third term. “Even after all of this, BJP won’t cross 70. The CPM-Congress together will get some 20-22 seats. Nobody can stop the Trinamul,” she said. The first five phases of voting in Bengal has seen violence, especially in the second and the fifth phases. Five persons were killed in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi on polling day after central forces opened fire, allegedly to save themselves from an angry mob. For the remining two phases, Mamata has aksed her party workers in the districts going to polls to be extra cautious. “Our workers in Birbhum, Murshidabad, Maldah have to stay alert. Like Covid, we also must take precautions against this EC-BJP conspiracy. If any worker is detained, his family members should go to the police station, gherao the thana and demand why he/she has been detained. If necessary go to the high court, and Supreme Court. Don’t forget to lodge an FIR,” she said. Mamata gave the same advise to her trusted aide, Birbhum district Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal. “They are very angry with him. This time if they try to keep you under observation, go to the court. They cannot do this with anyone,” she told him. Mamata also blamed the BJP for the current Covid crisis in the state. “Party cadres have come from other states, over two lakh centra force personnel have come here. They are moving from one district to another without undergoing Covid tests," she said, before visiting the temple at Tarapeeth and offering prayers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||EC top brass reviews enforcement of Covid guidelines during campaigning in Bengal||Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and Election Commissioner Rajiv Kumar on Saturday reviewed enforcement of COVID guidelines during campaigning in West Bengal where two remaining phases of assembly elections are to take place next week. A poll panel spokesperson said the EC top brass reviewed the enforcement of COVID guidelines with West Bengal chief secretary, police chief, health secretary and Calcutta police commissioner. The CEC directed them to ensure strict action under state and national disaster management laws for COVID-complaint behaviour. The meet comes a couple of days after the poll panel placed a ban on roadshows and foot marches, and placed a cap on the number of persons attending public meetings to 500. The Calcutta High Court on Thursday had expressed dissatisfaction with the ECI over enforcement of COVID-19 health safety norms during the ongoing West Bengal assembly election process, including campaigning. West Bengal on Friday registered the highest single-day spike of 12,876 COVID-19 cases taking the tally to 7,13,780, the state health department said in a bulletin. The death toll also went up to 10,825 with 59 fresh fatalities, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP  offers free vaccine, Narendra Modi silent||The Bengal BJP on Friday morning said on social media that free vaccines would be provided in the state but the promise did not figure in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s virtual address in the afternoon, which he suggested was his last campaign speech for Bengal. “As soon as BJP government comes to power in West Bengal, Covid-19 vaccine will be provided free of cost to everyone,” BJP Bengal’s Twitter post read in the morning. “But Modiji did not spell out the vaccine promise himself, probably fearing a backlash from the rest of the country,” a BJP source said. In October 2020, the BJP had made a similar promise in poll-bound Bihar, with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announcing free vaccination for “every person in Bihar”. Subsequently, a dual policy was offered to Bihar like the rest of the country: free vaccines from government facilities and vaccines for a price at private hospitals. On Thursday, the Nitish Kumar government said the dual policy would continue after May 1, too, when vaccination will be thrown open to those aged 18 and above. In Bengal, the BJP’s free vaccine promise had the ring of an afterthought as it came a day after Trinamul Congress leader Mamata Banerjee had declared that everyone aged above 18 in the state would be given free vaccine from May 5. Derek O’Brien, Trinamul Rajya Sabha member and national spokesperson, released a video taking a jibe at the BJP’s free vaccine promise and said: “BJP’s free vaccine jumla…. Two phases to go in Bengal and remember what BJP did in Bihar…. They announced during elections free vaccines… nothing happened… elections finished they forgot, same thing they have done… free vaccine jumla… don’t believe the BJP, don’t trust the BJP….” State BJP vice-president and spokesperson Jay Prakash Majumdar alleged that Trinamul was trying to confuse people. “At every government hospital in Bihar, the vaccine is being provided free. We will do that here as well,” he said. Asked why the Prime Minister hadn’t spoken a word about the promise during his address, Majumdar said Modi had spoken on the pertinent issues in Bengal as a whole and not on anything specific. “Health is a state subject. Every state government will therefore have to decide on the issue of free vaccination,” Majumdar said. Free vaccination was not the sole topic that Modi omitted. He did not mention Trinamul, Mamata or her nephew Abhishek Banerjee. “Infiltration, smuggling, illegal businesses, violence, extortion, syndicates are great enemies of development,” Modi said. “Sonar Bangla will be built with all our efforts and include everyone. On May 2, a BJP government will be formed in Bengal. At the BJP’s oath-taking ceremony, I shall come to meet you face to face.” A state BJP office-bearer said: “This was Modiji’s last poll address for Bengal. We had expected a dhamaka. But his speech was very mellow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Rail link remains elusive to Karimpur||Every Thursday Binay Kumar Dutta, 55, a beauty products retailer in Karimpur town, takes the first bus at 2.40am to catch the Sealdah-bound first train from Krishnagar to Calcutta. In the absence of a train service directly from Karimpur, Dutta has to undertake this 85km arduous bus journey to Krishnagar every week on his way to Burrabazar from where he fetches beauty items. Sometimes Dutta takes a direct bus to Calcutta, notwithstanding the 200km journey through a potholed-riddled state highway and NH12. Nevertheless, the people of Karimpur in particular and those of the Tehatta subdivision in general have become habituated to such journeys, resigning to the possibility that a railway link between Karimpur and Krishnagar could remain a dream. Since 1905, a number of surveys have been conducted by the British and then the Indian government, but the much coveted rail link remains elusive. Repeated appeals by the local people, elected representatives and organisations have not yielded results. Railway officials believe such a project is “unviable”. Before every election, the issue takes centrestage in the area. Political parties vow to fulfil the demand for a rail link, and the ongoing Assembly elections have not been an exception. Krishnagar Trinamul MP Mohua Moitra, who had represented Karimpur as its MLA, said: “I tried my best... held meetings with successive railway ministers and the Rail Board chairman. But it appears that they are not interested at all because of the possibility of negative returns due to the absence of freight.” “Emotionally I feel the need for the rail link, but am helpless. It appears, as I have always said, that unless and until Trinamul is an ally at the Centre and we push this with force irrespective of logic or economics, this rail link is not going to happen,” she said. After the Daulatabad bus accident that claimed 45 lives on January 29, 2018, the people of Karimpur have tweaked their demand to a railway link between Krishnagar and Behrampore via Karimpur. To press for the demand, youths in Karimpur launched a campaign on social media asking every resident to send a petition to the railway ministry. Durbadal Dutta, a petitioner who is a schoolteacher, said: “Over 18 lakh people who live in the Tehatta subdivision of Nadia and the Domkal subdivision of Murshidabad have to depend on buses. Karimpur is on the Nadia-Murshidabad border. A rail link between Behrampore and Krishnagar via Karimpur can save the people and the economy here.” Thousands of people travel from Nadia to Murshidabad daily for medical needs. Railway officials said the demand was not “feasible” due to the existence of a rail link between Krishnagar and Murshidabad. “Since the scope of freight on such a stretch is very poor and it will be an exclusive passenger service, the economic feasibility of the project is negative. While we need to invest Rs 2,500 crore on the project, the returns will be zero,” an official said. Local historian and former member of the Krishnagar station consultative committee, Sanjit Dutta, said: “The Tehatta subdivision is a major producer of jute, banana, betel, flower and horticulture products, which can earn good freight. A rail link can also explore industrial scope. But unfortunately, they are ignoring our demand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Burdwan's street vendor who sells candies and peace||Kinkar Malik is not a political activist, nor is he an Election Commission official but what he did this poll season has won him the appreciation of political parties and administrative officials in East Burdwan district. The 40-year-old street vendor goes around Burdwan town with his collection of snacks and lozenges on his two-wheeler, which doubles as a mobile kiosk. Malik purchased the second-hand two-wheeler recently and while selling his products he had an appeal on his lips that stood out — he urged people not to instigate violence during the elections. “Many people die in election-related violence in our state. Five poor villagers were killed in violence during the fourth phase of elections. I am scared how many more lives will be lost in the remaining phases. I urge people not to indulge in violence and rather enjoy our fundamental right to elect our representative,” Malik, who did not study after clearing the Madhyamik exam, told this correspondent last week while handing over a cake to a customer. Malik said that as a law-abiding citizen, he felt it was his moral duty to appeal to the people as well as activists of all political parties to ensure free and peaceful polls. “What is the need for violence during elections? People have the right to choose their own government peacefully and they should do it that way. People are scared of losing their dear ones in poll violence. This doesn’t happen in other states. This should be stopped,” he said. Malik had fitted a public address system to his motorbike and his recorded appeal for peaceful polls — “vote-ta ke utsaber moton palan karun (celebrate voting like a festival)”— reached out to people in the Burdwan South constituency that voted this Saturday. Malik leaves home in Jamalpur, around 38km from Burdwan town, early in the morning on his two-wheeler with biscuits, chocolates, lozenges and cakes stacked in a basket placed behind him. “My business has been hit because schools are closed in view of the pandemic. Most of my customers are schoolchildren and I have been missing them for over a year,” he said. Malik’s plea has not gone unheard. Burdwan town Trinamul spokesperson Prosenjit Das said he had heard Malik’s appeal and thanked him on behalf of his party. “We want peaceful elections and our leader Mamata Banerjee has ensured it after coming to power in the state. Coming from an apolitical person, Malik’s appeal is encouraging. We are thankful to him,” Das said. BJP leader Kallol Nandan said violence had become a tradition in Bengal and Malik’s effort showed that people were worried and wanted an end to it. “People do not want violence or deaths because of elections. He is the voice of the people and the ruling party now must react to the appeal,” Nandan said. CPM leader Apurbo Chatterjee condemned incidents of electoral violence. “I have seen Malik going around town with his appeal. We want an end to poll violence and have met Election Commission special observer Ajay Nayek with the same appeal.” District information and cultural officer of East Burdwan Kushal Chakraborty said there could be nothing more positive than a common man coming forward with an appeal for peaceful polls. “We have launched various campaigns to ensure peaceful elections. Kinkar Malik’s voluntary effort had a positive impact on people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Row over hanging body of BJP worker in West Burdwan ||The body of a man, who the BJP claimed was its worker, was found hanging from a tree in Jamuria of West Burdwan in the early hours of Friday. The BJP claimed Kiranjan Ghosh, 32, was killed three days ahead of the poll in the area. Ghosh was a resident of Alinagar village in Pandabeswar. Family members and local BJP leaders claimed Ghosh was killed and hanged to “stage” his suicide. Terming it a “planned murder”, Jamuria’s BJP candidate Tapas Roy said: “The murder was planned and executed to create panic and discourage voters from going to the polling station. The way the body was hanging indicates he did not commit suicide.” A team from Pandabeswar police, along with central forces, reached the site of the incident and sent the body for an autopsy. Debdulal Ghosh, the uncle of the deceased, said: “Kiranjan (Ghosh) went missing since Thursday evening. It is not clear how he died.” Tension raged on in pockets of Bengal on Friday, with two phases of the elections — and 71 seats between them — yet to be held. In a separate incident, supporters of Furfura Sharif cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui's ISF, which is a constituent of the Sanjukta Morcha, along with the Left Front and Congress blocked Taki Road on Friday, demanding the arrest of Trinamul supporters who allegedly attacked Morcha workers in parts of Basirhat subdivision on Thursday. “We filed many complaints with the district administration and Election Commission, but no action has been taken so far,” said an ISF leader. In Asansol’s Barabani, BJP workers were allegedly attacked ahead of a public meeting by Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari on Friday evening. The BJP leadership claimed armed goons with Trinamul links attacked its party workers and set at least two motorcycles on fire in the Gourandi Hattala area of the town to disrupt the meeting. Trinamul leaders denied the charge. At least seven persons got injured as Trinamul and BJP supporters clashed at a village under Harirampur Assembly seat of South Dinajpur on Thursday night. Leaders of both parties have accused each other of the attack. Among the injured, three persons have been shifted to Malda Medical College and Hospital and are reported to be critical. On Thursday around 9.45pm, some Trinamul supporters from Kesrail village under Harirampur block were returning home after campaigning when some BJP supporters intercepted them, sources said. Both groups attacked each other with bricks, rods and sticks. Crude bombs were hurled too. Police said six persons were detained. In South Dinajpur, polls will be held in six seats in the seventh phase on April 26. In Harirampur, Trinamul’s Biplab Mitra is pitted against the BJP’s Nilanjan Roy. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mask up, political rivals campaign in Darjeeling hills ||Five days after the Darjeeling hills voted, leaders of three rival groups, the Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, and the BJP were back on the streets — this time to distribute masks and sanitise neighbourhoods. Leaders and workers of the Tamang camp went around Darjeeling town distributing “around 10,000” masks to those not wearing them. At the same time, Gurung supporters were seen sanitising the town and distributing “around 8,000” masks. In Kalimpong, the BJP’s youth wing was also seen distributing masks. Vikram Rai from the Tamang camp said that they had formed a group called Hamro Pahad Covid Warriors whose members were also actively involved in a “surveillance committee” formed by the GTA during the first wave of the pandemic last week. “We basically have reactivated that group and today (Friday) we went about town distributing masks and encouraging people to maintain physical distance in the town,” said Rai. Back then, the surveillance team had essentially coordinated with patients and their families and kept an eye on outstation travellers. This time, the group volunteered their services at vaccination centres in Darjeeling and other places. “We request the administration to open vaccination centres at places like the Gorkha Rangamanch Bhavan where there is more open space instead of the district hospital. At the district hospital, apart from a rush for vaccinations, there are other patients, including those who want to undergo a Covid-19 test. Space for people at the hospital could be a problem,” said Rai. A Gurung camp leader and former municipality commissioner, Sailendra Chhetri said while they sanitised various areas in the town on Friday, they were looking such exercises at least once in three days or a week depending on the situation. Apart from these two major hill parties, the BJP Yuwa Morcha also distributed masks and put up awareness posters in various parts of Kalimpong town. “This is not a political exercise but a way to serve the community,” said Raju Rai, leader of the BJP Yuwa Morcha (Darjeeling hills). “Similar initiatives will be undertaken by our activists in Pedong, Sinji, Algarah and Gorubathan among other places in Kalimpong district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid crisis: tighter tourist screening in Alipurduar ||The Alipurduar district administration has directed owners of all lodges, hotels, resorts and other private accommodations not to let any visitor from outside the state or abroad check in unless screened by the district health department and the police. At a meeting at the district magistrate’s office here on Friday, the decision was made and the instruction passed on to tourism stakeholders in the region to try and rein in the alarming spread of Covid-19. Bengal has 74,737 active Covid-19 cases at present. On Friday, Bengal logged 6,878 recoveries, but again reset the record for the highest number of new infections in 24 hours, with 12,876. “It has been decided that in all these accommodations, health safety protocols should be maintained in the most stringent manner to prevent the pandemic from spreading. If any visitor from outside Bengal or abroad turns up in any of these places, those running the accommodations will inform the local police and health department employees. Thereafter, the visitor has to be screened and only after health department employees are satisfied would the visitor be allowed to check in,” said Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar. This apart, rooms and other areas must be sanitised twice daily. Also, no visitor can eat in the accommodation’s dining hall or restaurant. “Food will be served in their rooms. The health department and local administration will keep tabs on whether guidelines are being followed in these accommodations. If required, screening will be made mandatory for any visitor (not just from outside the state or country),” said an administrative official. Those associated with the tourism industry have welcomed the guidelines and said they were already on the alert. “Even if a single Covid case is reported from a resort, it is a big problem. Most of the staff at resorts are local residents and there is a risk of the contagion spreading through them. We will obey the latest administrative guidelines too,” said a resort owner. The tourism industry, the economic mainstay in north Bengal, had taken a beating in 2020 because of the pandemic and lockdown. It started reviving from November-end. But during the past three weeks or so, tourist inflow has reduced amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic. Meena and his officers also spoke with local trade bodies of Alipurduar, a town that sees hundreds of people daily from adjoining districts and Assam. They were told to ensure Covid safety measures in all shops and MSME units. “All employees must wear masks. Also, no shop in town will sell anything if the buyer does not have a mask on. We are also working on plans to sanitise marketplaces,” said Prasenjit Dey, secretary, Alipurduar Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Cop’s firing threat in court||A police sub-inspector, who had reportedly opened fire outside a polling booth, allegedly told lawyers during proceedings in a court on Friday that if needed, he would fire again. Bagdah SI Asadur Rahaman made the threat in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court at Bongaon in North 24-Parganas. He had come to the court to produce five BJP workers arrested in connection with poll-related violence at Ranghat in the Bagdah Assembly constituency of North 24-Parganas on Thursday. Rahaman had allegedly opened fire outside the booth at Ranghat. When the proceedings were going on in the court of ACJM Debasis Santra on Friday, Rahaman told some lawyers: “Guli chaliyechhi...besh korechhi, darkar hole aabar chalabo (Fine, I fired, and if needed, I will do it again)”. The lawyers immediately requested the judge to register a case against the SI. Understanding that the court had registered a probe under Section 506 of the IPC (criminal intimidation), the SI applied for bail. The judge granted him bail on a personal bond of Rs 1,000 The ACJM subsequently transferred the case to the district court. Chief public prosecutor Samir Das said: “The second officer of Bagdah police station produced before the judge five persons arrested in connection with an attack on police. While producing the accused, he told lawyers that if needed, he would fire again. So, the court ordered a probe against the officer.” On Thursday, two persons were injured when the police fired indiscriminately to control violent BJP supporters outside the polling station No 35 at Ranghat. Local sources said while trying to disperse the people gathered to protest an alleged vandalism of their tent, the police first resorted to a baton-charge. Later, the police opened fire, grievously injuring Budho Santra, 65, and his nephew Mrityunjoy Santra, 25, both of whom were returning from a paddy field. The police claimed that they had fired in self-defence as the villagers had attacked them with sharp weapons and injured three officers. The officer-in-charge of Bagdah police station, Utpal Saha, who had suffered deep injury to the head in the violence, was shifted to a private hospital along EM Bypass in Calcutta on Friday morning. At a news conference in Durgapur on Friday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she didn’t support the police firing at Ranghat. Ashis Sarkar, a lawyer, said: “The behaviour of the police officer today leads us to believe that it was an unprovoked firing with political interest. The way he spoke to lawyers inside the court to justify his act shows his mala fide intentions, which need to be investigated.” “We filed a petition in the court for a probe against him and it has been accepted,” Sarkar added. SI Rahaman refused to speak on the allegations against him. Tarun Halder, the chief of Bongaon police district, did not pick up calls made by this correspondent for his reaction to Rahaman’s alleged threat in the court. The Bongaon ACJM court on Friday remanded the five BJP workers in two weeks’ judicial custody. They were charged under several sections of the IPC, which include murderous attack, causing grievous injury and preventing government officers from performing duties. BJP’s Bagdah candidate Biswajit Das said the incident at the Bongaon court proved that the police had deliberately opened fire to unleash panic among voters so that they didn’t turn up at the polling station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Six arrested for attack on BJP nominee of Malda Assembly seat||Six persons, including a youth supposedly close to an elected panchayat head of the BJP, were arrested on Thursday in connection with a recent attack on the BJP candidate of the Malda Assembly seat. On April 18, BJP candidate Gopal Chandra Saha was in his car in Old Malda block when gunshots were fired at him and a bullet hit his neck. Thursday’s arrests reignited the political blame-game of the BJP and Trinamul. The arrested are Bittu Chowdhury, Akash Mandal, Arjun Ghosh, Bikash Haldar, Suman Ghosh and Sayan Saha. Akash is close to Ukil Mandal, head of the BJP-run Sahapur panchayat. “He (Akash) is ill and has no connection with the incident,” said the BJP’s Ukil Mandal. Trinamul alleged the attack bared the BJP’s feud. Though no name was stated in the FIR lodged by Saha’s family, BJP leaders had verbally claimed that Trinamul-backed goons had organised the attack. After these arrests, Jahar Ghosh, the block Trinamul president of Old Malda, slammed the saffron camp. “So far, BJP leaders were blaming us for the attack. Now one of the six persons is close to a BJP leader. The BJP’s internal feud has come to light,” he said. Ajay Ganguly, district BJP spokesperson, said they were waiting for more details. In a separate incident, the police on Friday found four sophisticated firearms and magazines each from Kaliachak, and arrested one person in this connection, Humayun Sheikh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid crisis: Centre reroutes state’s oxygen cylinders, Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Friday accused the Narendra Modi dispensation of meting out step-motherly treatment to Bengal amid the second wave of Covid-19, alleging the Centre was rerouting oxygen meant for her state to the BJP-ruled ones, before asking why funds for free and universal immunisation could not be spared by the Union government. “The Centre suddenly stopped our supply chain of oxygen cylinders and asked SAIL to send them to Uttar Pradesh… BJP-ruled states… yet another instance of step-motherly treatment, even now. I have strongly objected to this and has written to the Prime Minister in this regard,” the chief minister said at a news conference in Durgapur. Mamata’s fulmination was meant to keep Modi in the crosshairs in her election campaign, which she has apparently been rapidly pivoting around the Centre’s “monumental failure” in the war against the pandemic. The allegation came amid a mega crisis of oxygen cylinders across the nation amid the second wave of the novel coronavirus. The Modi government is widely being held responsible for the second wave sweeping India. The Trinamul Congress chief said her government had barred supply of oxygen cylinders for industrial purposes and instead, had been directing them for use in the healthcare sector. “We have been trying our best to handle the crisis with our own resources. Currently, we have 20,000 cylinders. We are in the process of arranging 5,000 more,” she said. Mamata said she would have participated in the meeting Modi had held with chief ministers on Friday if she had been invited. “I came to know that today the Prime Minister is holding a meeting on the Covid-19 situation, but they did not invite us. We could have raised our issues had we been invited,” she said. Mamata lambasted Modi and others in his cabinet for being in denial of the pandemic’s ground realities ahead of the second wave, thereby allowing it to blow up over the past few weeks. She said the Centre, according to her estimates, could have provided for free Covid-19 vaccination for every citizen by allocating Rs 20,000 crore, but it did not do so. “When you (the BJP) have spent hundreds of crores for booking hotels, guest houses, chartered flights and choppers, spent countless crores offering cash to voters, for winning Bengal… could you not have spent Rs 20,000 crore for the health and well-being of every Indian in the pandemic?” asked the chief minister. “You spend thousands of crores building statues…. Countless billions were deposited in your PM-Cares Fund, opaque and beyond audit…. Could money from that fund not have been utilised for free, universal vaccination of citizens?” she asked. Over the past week or so, the pandemic has taken centre stage at all public programmes of Mamata, who seems to have quickly realised how the election in Bengal now could be won and lost over the pandemic as the core issue. Sections within the BJP state unit admitted apprehensions over how the perception battle was being rapidly lost amid the Bengal elections over the past week or so as the Centre’s failures in the face of the raging second wave kept getting increasingly exposed. “All we do is respond with feeble whataboutery or lavish praise on the Prime Minister,” said a BJP functionary on the condition of anonymity. State BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya faced the media on Friday for the third consecutive evening with attempts at eulogising Modi and lambasting Mamata for criticising the Prime Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Elephant found dead in Dooars ||The carcass of a sub-adult wild elephant was found in Apalchand forest in Jalpaiguri on Friday morning. This is the second elephant death that has been reported in north Bengal in the past 24 hours. On Thursday, a female elephant was found dead on the fringes of the Buxa Tiger Reserve in the neighbouring Alipurduar district. Foresters said it appears that the elephant found dead in Apalchand forest — located under Kathambari forest range of Baikunthapur forest division in Malbazar of Jalpaiguri — had died three-four days ago as its carcass had started decomposing. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of death. As the carcass is decomposing, it is tough to assess whether it has sustained any external injury,” said a forest officer. Such recurring incidents of elephant deaths have led to questions at different quarters. Wildlife conservationists have pointed that the death of this sub-adult elephant has raised questions over the vigilance of the state forest department. “Even if we consider that the elephant was ill, the animal should have come to the notice of the forest guards. It is surprising that they found the carcass at least three-four days after its death even though the spot where the jumbo was found dead is not far from the local forest office,” said Shyamaprasad Pandey, a Dooars-based wildlife conservationist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
24-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021:Hill politicians plea to not link their village with April 19 clash||Hill politicians of all hues have been advised by residents of Nali Chour in Sonada to stop tagging their place with a clash between supporters of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang camps on April 19 as it is bringing a bad name to the village. Leaders of both the factions had said the clash had taken place at Nali Chour, about 20km from Darjeeling. Posters condemning the “Nali Chour” incident were plastered across the hills and numerous groups made claims and counter-claims, which all put the spotlight on the sleepy hamlet. The residents, however, issued a press statement, requesting politicians and their respective parties to refrain from dragging Nali Chour’s name to the violence. The villagers said the clash had indeed taken place at Ramita and not Nali Chour. Sakuntala Gurung, who spoke on behalf of the Nali Chour residents, said: “Our village is getting a bad name. Politicians are mentioning our village’s name; posters have our village’s name; the same is mentioned in the FIR and this should be immediately corrected.” Mahendra Pradhan, a leader of the Tamang faction and a former Gorkhaland Territorial Administration Sabha member from Sonada, had alleged that Bimal Gurung had personally assaulted him. “I was on my way to Nalichor, while Bimal Gurung was returning (to Darjeeling). There was a traffic jam. I was alone and it was then that daju (Bimal Gurung) assaulted me and I suffered injuries to the head,” said Pradhan. Another resident of the village, Durga Pandit, said the name of the place was not “Nalichor” as was being mentioned by political leaders and their supporter but “Nali Chour”. Gurung had, however, denied the charge and said while he was on his way from Ringtang tea garden, eight to nine boys, along with Pradhan, were standing and blowing whistles. The whistle was the Tamang camp’s election symbol. “I carried on with my journey. Later, I heard that they had attacked one of the vehicles at the end of my cavalcade. One supporter was injured and the charge that I assaulted Mahendra Pradhan is false,” said Gurung. Even though Pradhan and Gurung, two centres of the incident, had not explicitly said the incident had occurred at Nali Chour, other leaders of their respective camps started issuing statements that mentioned the village as the place of the clash. “We are peace-loving people and no such incidents had occurred at our village in the past, too. The place is a tourist attraction as we are surrounded by temples, monasteries and churches. We request politicians to remove the name of our village from posters and refrain from mentioning it in their press statements,” said Pandit. This is probably the first time that such a request has been issued by villagers in the Darjeeling hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
