25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: People interested in 'Covid ki baat', and not 'Mann ki baat', says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday claimed that people are no longer interested in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Maan ki baat programme, they, instead, want to hear COVID ki baat (COVID- related talks) as the pandemic has left lakhs gasping for breath, amid shortage of vaccines and oxygen cylinders. Modi, during his monthly radio broadcast Mann ki baat earlier in the day, said that the COVID-19 "storm" has shaken the country, and urged people to get vaccinated. On her part, she said the COVID-19 patients in the state "should vote" and that she has asked the Chief Secretary to make arrangements reports NDTV. "Don't worry about Covid. I am your pehradar (watchman)," she said. Banerjee, during a meeting with party workers at an auditorium in Murshidabad district, claimed that Modi and Union Minister Amit Shah were busy "planning ways to capture Bengal, when they should have been taking appropriate measures" to combat the second wave of the pandemic. "Who is interested in your Mann Ki Baat, people now want to hear COVID ki baat. If there is one infected person in a crowd of 1,000, he can contaminate the rest. Two lakh CAPF personnel came from states like UP, Delhi and Rajasthan and many of them might have been carriers of the virus without their knowledge as no RT PCR tests was conducted by the EC. "I am doing more Covid meetings than campaign meets," Banerjee said at the virtual rally today, after cancelling all her political rallies last week in view of the COVID-19 crisis. On Thursday, PM Modi had also cancelled his four scheduled rallies, hours before the Election Commission announced multiple restrictions, and held a single virtual meeting. "Around one lakh BJP cadres from other states, including ministers from saffron party-ruled states, came to Bengal for campaigning and to rig votes. They put up in hotels and guest houses, and must have contributed to the spike in COVID-19 cases in Bengal," she claimed. Cautioning voters against possible visit of central forces accompanied by BJP men at their residences for "intimidation", Banerjee said, "Please ask them to maintain distance as you dont know if anyone of them is carrying the virus. Mothers and sisters, tell them we are not allowing outsiders inside the house." Iterating her charge that some EC special observers have planned to take TMC leaders into "preventive custody" ahead of the elections, Banerjee said, "That would be illegal detention. None should go to police stations on getting such calls and sit tight till the voting exercise gets over. No one can take your right to exercise franchise." The CM claimed on Saturday that she has come to know from WhatsApp chats between EC observers and top officials, including police superintendents and district magistrates, that intructions have been given for detainment of TMC workers ahead of the voting exercise. Continuing her tirade against the poll panel, she said, "Police superintendents and district magistrates have been changed arbitrarily at the last minute to help the BJP. "We will move the Supreme Court to ensure polls in future are conducted in a more democratic manner. I have already spoken to several senior lawyers." Banerjee, during her addresss, asked those present at the venue to leave the doors of the auditorium ajar for better air circulation, and said that she was "forced" to organise such meetings in enclosed spaces as EC diktats left her with no other option. "We had asked the poll panel to club the last few phases, but it did not pay heed. I know the BJP has made specific plans to rig the election in every phase. In the sixth phase, BJP-sheltered goons from other areas accompanied central forces to residences of our workers in Naihati, Bhatpara, Jagaddal in North 24 Parganas. In the next phase, they are trying to terrorise our people in Paschim Bardhaman." Wondering "why the police fall silent when EC takes charge during polls," she asked all officers to perform their job without any biasness. Claiming that "cash flow from BJP camps to buy votes was comparable to water flowing from fire brigade hose pipe", the TMC boss iterated that the saffron party-led central government should have instead borne the cost of the COVID-19 vaccines being provided to people. The CM further said that her government has set up 100 COVID-19 treatment units in state-aided and private hospitals across Bengal over the past one week. "If you (BJP leaders) have such great love for Bengal, why are you not sending us more vaccines? Why is that truckloads of vaccines are being transported to Gujarat? I have nothing against Gujarat, but what about other states? You are discriminating against Bengal and giving lectures at election meetings," she said. She said Bengal, with a population of around 10 crore, has received three lakh vials so far, which could cater to just about 1.5 lakh people, as each of them need two doses. "We have, however, managed to vaccinate one crore people and have sought another one crore (from the Centre). We will provide vaccines for free from May 5 to anyone who is 18 years of age or above," Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Who is interested in ‘Mann ki baat’ says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday claimed that people are no longer interested in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Maan ki baat programme, they, instead, want to hear ‘Covid ki baat’ (Covid-related talks) as the pandemic has left lakhs gasping for breath, amid shortage of vaccines and oxygen cylinders. Modi, during his monthly radio broadcast Mann ki baat earlier in the day, said that the COVID-19 “storm” has shaken the country, and urged people to get vaccinated. Banerjee, during a meeting with party workers at an auditorium in Murshidabad district, claimed that Modi and Union Minister Amit Shah were busy “planning ways to capture Bengal, when they should have been taking appropriate measures” to combat the second wave of the pandemic. “Who is interested in your Mann Ki Baat, people now want to hear Covid ki baat. If there is one infected person in a crowd of 1,000, he can contaminate the rest. Two lakh CAPF personnel came from states like UP, Delhi and Rajasthan and many of them might have been carriers of the virus without their knowledge as no RT PCR tests was conducted by the EC. “Around one lakh BJP cadres from other states, including ministers from saffron party-ruled states, came to Bengal for campaigning and to rig votes. They put up in hotels and guest houses, and must have contributed to the spike in COVID-19 cases in Bengal,” she claimed. Cautioning voters against possible visit of central forces accompanied by BJP men at their residences for “intimidation”, Banerjee said, “Please ask them to maintain distance as you don't know if anyone of them is carrying the virus. Mothers and sisters, tell them we are not allowing outsiders inside the house.” Iterating her charge that some EC special observers have planned to take TMC leaders into “preventive custody” ahead of the elections, Banerjee said, “That would be illegal detention. None should go to police stations on getting such calls and sit tight till the voting exercise gets over. No one can take your right to exercise franchise.” The CM claimed on Saturday that she has come to know from WhatsApp chats between EC observers and top officials, including police superintendents and district magistrates, that intructions have been given for detainment of TMC workers ahead of the voting exercise. Continuing her tirade against the poll panel, she said, "Police superintendents and district magistrates have been changed arbitrarily at the last minute to help the BJP. “We will move the Supreme Court to ensure polls in future are conducted in a more democratic manner. I have already spoken to several senior lawyers.” Banerjee, during her addresss, asked those present at the venue to leave the doors of the auditorium ajar for better air circulation, and said that she was “forced” to organise such meetings in enclosed spaces as EC diktats left her with no other option. “We had asked the poll panel to club the last few phases, but it did not pay heed. I know the BJP has made specific plans to rig the election in every phase. In the sixth phase, BJP-sheltered goons from other areas accompanied central forces to residences of our workers in Naihati, Bhatpara, Jagaddal in North 24 Parganas. In the next phase, they are trying to terrorise our people in Paschim Bardhaman.” Wondering “why the police fall silent when EC takes charge during polls,” she asked all officers to perform their job without any biasness. Claiming that “cash flow from BJP camps to buy votes was comparable to water flowing from fire brigade hose pipe”, the TMC boss iterated that the saffron party-led central government should have instead borne the cost of the COVID-19 vaccines being provided to people. The CM further said that her government has set up 100 COVID-19 treatment units in state-aided and private hospitals across Bengal over the past one week. “If you (BJP leaders) have such great love for Bengal, why are you not sending us more vaccines? Why is that truckloads of vaccines are being transported to Gujarat? I have nothing against Gujarat, but what about other states? You are discriminating against Bengal and giving lectures at election meetings,” she said. She said Bengal, with a population of around 10 crore, has received three lakh vials so far, which could cater to just about 1.5 lakh people, as each of them need two doses. “We have, however, managed to vaccinate one crore people and have sought another one crore (from the Centre). We will provide vaccines for free from May 5 to anyone who is 18 years of age or above,” Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Day after attending rally at Calcutta, Babul Supriyo tests positive for Covid-19||Union Minister Babul Supriyo Sunday informed that he and his wife have tested positive for Covid-19 and hence he won't be able to vote in Asansol on April 26. Supriyo has tested positive for the virus for the second time. He, however, said mentally he will be with the BJP candidates of the Asansol area and will monitor the situation from home. "Both me & my wife have tested positive. Me for the 2nd time!! V Sad that I won't be able to vote in Asansol. I needed to be there on the road too for the 26th polls where 'desperate' @AITCofficial goons hv already unleashed their terror machinery to disrupt free & fair polls (sic)," Supriyo tweeted. "However, the #TMchhi terror machinery who I hv handled (well) since 2014 may not rejoice. Wil b doing my duties frm my room & b right by my candidates mentally in every way possible to ensure 9/9 seats there (sic)," he said in a series of tweets. The MP had attended a rally at Entally in Calcutta on Saturday, an event that drew charges that the crowd count exceeded 500 and physical distancing was lax. “We had been very strict to ensure that only 200, not even 500 chairs, were placed.… Social distance was maintained between the chairs…. I know if rules are flouted, the commission will hand me a letter. But if people come out and gather around, what can I do? What was Didi’s police doing? Why weren’t they strict,” he had asked. However, the police now are under the Election Commission. Supriyo, a two-time MP from Asansol, is contesting assembly election from Tollygunge Assembly seat where voting is over. The seventh phase of elections in 36 Assembly segments in Bengal will be held on April 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid-positive TMC candidate from Khardah dies in Calcutta ||TMC candidate from Khardah Assembly constituency Kajal Sinha, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died at a hospital here on Sunday morning, an official of the state health department said. Sinha (59) was found to have contracted the viral disease two days ago, following which he was admitted to Beliaghata ID hospital, the official said. TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed shock and grief over his demise. "Very, very sad. Shocked. Kajal Sinha, our candidate from Khardaha, succumbed to Covid. He dedicated his life to serving people & just fought a tireless campaign. He was a long-serving committed member of @AITCofficial. We will miss him. My condolences to his family & his admirers," Mamata tweeted. Polling was held in Khardah constituency on April 22. Earlier this month, Pradip Kumar Nandi, the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP)candidate from Jangipur seat, and Congress nominee from Samserganj constituency Rezaul Haque succumbed to the disease. With a record single-day rise of 3,49,691 new coronavirus infections, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 1,69,60,172, while active cases crossed the 26-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,92,311 with a record 2,767 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Petrol tanker accident on Asian Highway 48||People with containers line up to collect petrol from a tanker that went off the Asian Highway 48 and fell on the side on the outskirts of Dhupguri police station of Jalpaiguri district on Saturday. As petrol started leaking from the tanker, people started rushing to the spot with jerry cans, buckets and even pitchers to collect whatever petrol they could till the police dispersed them. But despite police vigilance, whenever people got the chance, they came back for the “free fuel”, which costs over Rs 90 a litre now in the market. Police chased the crowd with batons a number of times to clear the area and prevent the probability of a blaze. Sources said the oil tanker was heading towards Birpara from Siliguri along AH48. Around noon, as it neared the Sonakhali forest of Dhupguri, the driver lost control of the tanker that fell into a ditch. The driver fled, while cleaner Paresh Roy received minor injuries. The police also called in a fire engine and a recovery van to the spot and readied foam spray as precaution against fire. By afternoon, the recovery van pulled out the tanker from the ditch and towed it away. The driver has not been traced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid bed crisis in East Midnapore||Hospitals in East Midnapore are facing acute crisis of beds for Covid-19 patients and the facilities could not adhere to the state health department’s directive of maintaining stipulated covid beds in the district due to the shortage of health care staff. The state health department had issued a directive last week asking government hospitals to create 500 Covid-19 beds in the district and private hospitals to allocate 25 per cent beds for such patients. Currently, the district has 50 beds at the Baroma Covid hospital and 50 beds at a private hospital in Chandipur, all of which were occupied. The facility at Chandipur reportedly admitted 50 more patients. None of the district’s seven hospitals — including one each super speciality facility in Nandigram, Panskura and Egra, and one each sub-divisional hospitals in Contai, Egra and Haldia, and the Tamluk district hospital — have been able to add a single bed in the past week owing to shortage of health care staff. East Midnapore is recording an average of 400 new cases daily for over the past week. On Saturday, the Sanjukta Morcha backed by the CPM wrote to the district magistrate demanding urgent action on the issue. “The state has failed the people in this crucial time. The ruling party and the district administration should take steps immediately,” said Niranjan Sihi, the CPM’s district secretary. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has contested from Nandigram even though the super speciality hospital there has not added one bed.” The district health department sources said they were aware of the inadequacies but had been unable to source adequate health care staff. Also, there was no proper oxygen supply in the district. A 30-year-old youth recovering at the Chandipur hospital expressed his concern. “My mother’s condition is deteriorating, also in the same ward, as the medical attention has been below average.” A.K. Mudi, the superintendent of Nandigram super speciality hospital, said: “If I have to start a 100-bed ward, I need 15 medical officers, 40 health care staff and 12 Group-D staff as well as adequate oxygen supply. I have informed the health department and awaiting their reply.” The chief medical officer (health), East Midnapore, Bibhas Ray, said: “We are coordinating with the hospitals and beds will be available soon.” On Saturday, a meeting was held between the health department and the district administration over the crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal seeks 10% oxygen, Centre plans to import||The Bengal government has written a letter to the Centre, requesting it to allocate 10 per cent of 50,000 tonnes of oxygen that the latter has decided to import, as some 50 per cent of the oxygen produced here is being sent to Uttar Pradesh as a part of Delhi’s rationing system. “Right now, we are getting 223 tonnes of oxygen out of 497 tonnes produced in 10 plants of the state....With the allotted quantum of oxygen, the state’s needs are now being fulfilled. But in the next two weeks, we will need more oxygen as Covid-19 cases could increase. This is why the state has requested for allotment of a part of the oxygen to be imported,” said a senior official. Bengal on Saturday reported the 44th consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases, by 6,638, to 81,375. On Saturday, the state logged 7,584 recoveries, but the number of new infections was 14,281, the highest yet. Officials explained there are concerns that with the allotted 223 tonnes of oxygen, the state might not be able to manage the situation in the next two-three days as infections have risen alarmingly. “In response, Bengal was allotted another 85 tonnes of oxygen, but to be supplied from Jamshedpur (Jharkhand). We have requested if we could be allowed to use oxygen produced in our state and the oxygen from Jamshedpur be sent to Uttar Pradesh. But we fear we would require more than 450 tonnes in the next two weeks,” said a source. The officials said arranging oxygen was crucial to treat serious Covid patients during the second wave of pandemic. “This time more cases are being reported and a big percentage of those infected need oxygen support,” said a health department official. The state government has also taken some other steps to increase supply of oxygen. “All the plants that produce medical oxygen have been requested to enhance production. One such plant has accepted the state's request and decided to enhance its production by 20 per cent within the next couple of days,” said a source. The state government also decided to streamline the sale of small oxygen cylinders from the local chemist shops. “Shops will give priority to Covid patients. Shops can sell cylinders if one produces a prescription issued by a registered medical practitioner. But priority must be for Covid patients,” said a source. The state government has taken initiatives to ensure bodies of Covid patients are cremated in a dignified way. In case of any death in a state-run or state-acquired Covid-19 hospital, Calcutta Municipal Corporation will cremate the body following Covid-19 protocols free of cost in Calcutta. In districts, urban development and panchayat departments have been asked to develop a similar facility. In case of deaths at home, if the CMC helpline number 2286-1212/1313 is called up, the civic body will take immediate action, said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata's jab at BJP’s free jab promise||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said the BJP’s sudden promise to provide universal free vaccination against Covid-19, if voted to power in Bengal, was not only unconstitutional but a “gross violation” of the model code of conduct. Mamata added that she had been promising free vaccination for all as the chief minister since February. The Bengal BJP on Friday suddenly launched a campaign on social media, saying as soon as the party comes to power here, there would be free, universal vaccination against Covid-19. Though the BJP’s free-vaccine announcements on social media carried a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he was conspicuously silent on the matter in his campaign speech hours later. “This is not true, what they (the BJP) are saying. Before the Bihar elections (last year) also, they had promised free vaccines if the BJP came to power there. We here had announced it in the month of February. So, it is too late now (for the BJP),” said Mamata at Bolpur. “This campaign by them means that only if the BJP is in power in a state will they give free vaccines to all, and not so in states where non-BJP parties are in power. Do you think it is proper for the country? Is it constitutionally right? It is absolutely wrong… and it is a gross violation of the model code,” she added. “It would have still been okay had their manifesto included it. This being said now is not only wrong but also fake.” She went on to criticise Modi and his government for the mismanagement of India’s war efforts against the pandemic. “Such an Atmanirbhar Bharat (Modi’s vision of a self-reliant India), where there is no oxygen, no medicines, no vaccines for Covid patients. There is nothing in the country, and they are chanting the slogan of Atmanirbhar Bharat. It is only Atmanirbhar BJP,” said the Trinamul chief . “They neglected the Covid situation across the entire country only to try and loot the Bengal election. I say again in no uncertain terms that Modi and (Union home minister Amit) Shah must take full responsibility and resign,” she added. Mamata also lambasted the Election Commission for conducting the Bengal elections over eight phases in two months, despite the raging pandemic. “It was a deliberate move to kill people (by the poll panel) and conduct the election in eight phases. You stopped campaigning but did not (club) the (remaining phases of) elections,” said Mamata, accusing the EC repeatedly of having succumbed to BJP’s pressure. Asked if the state government and the Centre were working together to combat Covid-19, Mamata said this time the Centre did “nothing”. “The last time (during the first wave), we worked together. This time, the central government has done nothing…(it is) their monumental failure and negligence,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: WhatsApp chats prove EC bias, says chief minister||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday lambasted the Election Commission over its alleged bias to “help” the BJP, producing printouts of purported WhatsApp chats between poll observers and government officials to buttress her charges. “It is a plan of the Election Commission, to prevent Trinamul from contesting the polls by detaining our party workers, and in turn helping the BJP...They are directing officers-in-charge or other police officers to detain our workers. We will file FIR against such illegal detentions. It is a plan by the BJP and is being implemented by the Election Commission,” Mamata told journalists in Bolpur. Mamata added that the poll panel should “follow raj dharma and work impartially”. “But if they work like the mouthpiece of the BJP, I have to protest,” she said. After producing a sheaf of printouts with purported chats among poll observers and district magistrates and police officers, she asked a journalist to check the contents. “See the chats of election observers... How they are instructing to detain Trinamul workers by marking them trouble-mongers. In their conversations, they are using words like Trinamul goons. How can the Election Commission say goons of Trinamul? I would have had no objection if they said workers,” she said. “Whose conversations are these? They are conversations of Sudeep Jain (deputy election commissioner) and Vivek Dubey (special observer in Bengal) with police observers and DM and SPs,” she added without revealing the source. Mamata said the WhatsApp chats bore evidence of the poll panel’s bias and she would move Supreme Court to appeal for an impartial conduct of elections by the EC in future. “Evidences are here. I tolerated much in 2016. Now I am determined, I will go to the Supreme Court, the highest court of the country, after the election is over. I will pray there (to get directives) for an impartial election to be conducted in the country in future. We will go to the Constitutional Bench. Three persons (of the EC) are working according to the directives  of the BJP,” she said. Mamata also read out a few of the purported WhatsApp exchanges to establish how the EC was detaining Trinamul workers illegally. “All observers of phase 7 and 8 to collect the list of trouble-mongers identified against whom action u/s (under section) 151CrPC is planned from SP/CP concerned. You will be requested to explain to the Commission that you have verified the adequacy and impartial compilation of that list for detention of P-1 (night before the poll) night...” she read out. “That means it is a plan? What do you mean by plan, Mr Commissioner?” Mamata asked, adding she knew that in the sixth phase of polls in Budbud, Mangalkote and Dum Dum North, her leaders were detained illegally till voting was over. “My eyes were opened in Nandigram,” she added. “One of my leaders, Abdus Samad, was asked to make his driver sit at the Nandigram police station on poll day. He was a leader of the land movement and he could not move...” Mamata told her party workers and their family members, including children, to come out to protest and gherao the police station concerned if anyone from the party was illegally detained in the remaining two phases of elections. “...You will gather at the police station and ask why he or she was illegally detained. You have to move court if needed. You will lodge an FIR if any of the leaders are detained illegally,” Mamata said before leaving for Tarapith Kali Temple in Rampurhat. “...We have bowed our heads for too long. We have shown more respect than they deserve. We will obviously show our respect but the commission should keep in mind that we are also a political party...” she said. Mamata asked Birbhum Trinamul district chief Anubrata Mondal to move court if the EC kept him under surveillance this time. Mondal was kept under EC surveillance in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls and 2016 Assembly polls. She also slammed some government officials for allegedly obeying the BJP’s commands and asked them to work impartially. A senior BJP leader in Birbhum said what the EC was doing was right as some people from Trinamul had a history of preventing supporters of Opposition parties from voting. “It is necessary to arrest those who try to spread violence or stop voters,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP can’t cross 70 seats, says Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday, for the first time since the Bengal polls started, predicted the outcome, saying the BJP would win 70 seats and the Sanjukta Morcha around 30, in the 294-seat Assembly. Mamata asserted the BJP would not get past 70 seats despite the alleged help by the Election Commission. Mamata who met Trinamul workers at the Gitanjali auditorium in Bolpur, and addressed people virtually, said: “It is the BJP’s good fortune that they have got a few persons (of the EC) to help them. With their help, the BJP might get seven, eight, or 10 extra seats. You (the EC officials) may help them get those few seats. But remember, despite all your (the EC’s) efforts, the BJP’s total of seats will not cross 70. It is my challenge. You can’t make it (cross) 70.” “Remember, the CPM and the Congress, jointly, can get 20-30, or 20-22 seats…they can get less too. But remember, you (the BJP and the commission) have no power to stop Trinamul Congress (from retaining power) in Bengal.” It means  she feels her party would get 191 or so — not factoring in the three hill seats that she left for the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Sources in her party said her confident assertion after six crucial phases (with 223 seats between them) was on the basis of an internal assessment, built on “reliable and realistic” ground reports. Union home minister Amit Shah and sometimes Prime Minister Narendra Modi have been claiming decisive victories for the BJP to which Mamata has issued rebuttals. But this was the first time the Trinamul chief issued a statement, not a reaction. A senior Trinamul vice-president said Mamata “knows we are getting 55-60, at least, in the 71 seats that remain, and that we won 120-135 out of the 223 seats polled”. The BJP state unit shot back, its chief Dilip Ghosh predicting 160 seats for the party from the 223 that went to polls in the first six phases. “With two phases left, we will comfortably get past 200,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mithun's rally halted, charged with Covid norm flout||The election department of Malda dissolved midway a campaign meeting attended by actor Mithun Chakraborty on Saturday after the Trinamul Congress accused the BJP of flouting Covid-19 safety protocols. More than 500 people — the limit prescribed by the Election Commission — reportedly gathered to see the actor at Baishnabnagar. Chakraborty was campaigning for BJP candidate Swadhin Sarkar. Rajarshi Dutta, district magistrate and district election officer of Malda, said appropriate action had been taken after complaints were filed.  Sources said an FIR had been lodged against the organisers. “More than 500 people gathered at the Baishnabnagar rally. This is a breach of both election guidelines and coronavirus protocols. We have demanded action against Mithun Chakraborty and the BJP,” said Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy. Pratap Banerjee, a state BJP vice-president and election office in-charge, said his party was abiding by the commission’s rule. “However, in some cases, people get excited and try to get a glimpse of someone like Mithun Chakraborty…. We obviously can’t tell them to go away. But we do ask them to maintain the protocols.” A rally attended by Union minister and Tollygunge candidate Babul Supriyo at Calcutta’s Entally on Saturday, too, drew charges that the crowd count exceeded 500 and physical distancing was lax. Supriyo said: “We had been very strict to ensure that only 200, not even 500 chairs, were placed.… Social distance was maintained between the chairs…. I know if rules are flouted, the commission will hand me a letter. But if people come out and gather around, what can I do? What was Didi’s police doing? Why weren’t they strict?” The police now are under the Election Commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul's Abdul Ghani will be taking on Congress’s Isha Khan in Malda||Malda’s Sujapur has another “Ghani” in the electoral fray after close to four-and-a-half decades. Abdul Ghani, a former Calcutta High Court judge, is the Trinamul Congress’s candidate for Sujapur, which votes in the last phase on April 29. Abdul Ghani will be taking on the Congress’s Isha Khan Choudhury, the nephew of the late A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury, the political stalwart whose legacy is still palpable in Malda. Sujapur, barely 12km from district headquarters Englishbazar, had been the fief of Ghani Khan, who represented the seat for five terms from 1967 to 1977, including the two untimely elections in 1969 and 1971. Since 1967, Sujapur has always elected a Congress candidate, including members of Ghani Khan’s family. Abdul Ghani, the Trinamul candidate, had also been the chairman of the state wakf board. He studied in London and is the descendent of an erstwhile affluent zamindar family in Englishbazar. “The Congress has won from Sujapur for decades but has failed to bring real change here. I am a son of the soil and I feel that families who have worked as migrant labourers for generations want jobs here. In the past 10 years, there have been massive changes in the state and if development is the parameter, Mamata Banerjee is an icon. People of Sujapur will stand with us this time,” Abdul Ghani said. His namesake, the original Ghani, had a long and illustrious political career. Ghani Khan held key portfolios, including power and irrigation, in Siddhartha Shankar Roy’s cabinet between 1972 and 1977. In 1980, Ghani Khan, considered among the few trusted lieutenants of Indira Gandhi, was elected an MP from Malda. Sujapur’s continued love for the Congress has flummoxed other parties and political pundits alike. Development has by and large eluded Sujapur, 90 per cent of whose voters are from the minority community. The area is dotted with cheek-by-jowl houses and narrow lanes. Piles of plastic scrap articles are found dumped along National Highway 12. The area’s innumerable plastic crushing units — both legal and illegal — have only increased pollution levels. Isha Khan, the sitting MLA, said: “There is no denying that Sujapur cannot forget my uncle, Ghani Khan Choudhury. My uncle always considered Sujapur residents his close relatives. The bond is eternal and we believe the tradition of electing the Congress will continue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: If Anubrata Mondal is sweating, BJP is closing in ||“Eto porishrom ami agey kono vote-e korini (I have not worked so hard for any election before this),” says a half-smiling Anubrata Mondal, seated on a wooden chair on a blistering Birbhum afternoon. An awning in front of the ground-floor office at the Trinamul strongman’s Bolpur home provides some relief to “Keshto”, as Mondal is affectionately called. The Trinamul district chief is minutes away from leaving for a roadshow on a hoodless jeep in Khoirasole on Tuesday afternoon. Birbhum votes on April 29. Although the battle-hardened politician does not say so, it appears that the scorching sun — the mercury has touched 40 degrees Celsius — is weighing on his mind, as also the figurative spotlight that the BJP’s recent success in this Trinamul stronghold has swivelled on him. “I started my election meetings as early as November last year and have not stopped for a single day,” Mondal says. “In earlier elections, I hardly worked for six to eight hours a day. But this time, I start at 9.30am and work till 2am the next day,” says Mondal, one of the most trusted aides of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her go-to person in Birbhum. Mondal has been entrusted with Trinamul’s functioning in not only Birbhum district, which has 11 constituencies, but also in three other constituencies in neighbouring East Burdwan. “I can’t take too much travel.… I have been travelling 400 to 500km a day for the past few months,” says the 60-year-old. Mondal refuses to directly address questions on the BJP’s rise in Birbhum since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Trinamul insiders say that despite Mondal succeeding in “gifting” the two Lok Sabha seats in the district — Bolpur and Birbhum — to Mamata, the numbers showed that the BJP had made considerable inroads, leading in five of the 11 Assembly segments. BJP sources claim the party is confident of winning at least four of these five seats — Suri, Sainthia, Dubrajpur, Rampurhat and Mayureswar. Mondal, however, has made a pledge to his party chief. “Not 10, I will win in all 11 seats in Birbhum and three in East Burdwan. You come and meet me on May 2 evening and I will tell you the formula,” Mondal tells this correspondent. The Trinamul sources, however, say the party is not taking the BJP lightly. “It is not the same war as in the past because the BJP has prepared a base in at least six of Birbhum’s 11 constituencies,” a source said. Till 2019, Birbhum had been Trinamul’s backyard. The district has a 37 per cent minority population, and the community plays a decisive role in four constituencies — Muraroi, Nalhati, Hasan and Suri. Mondal and his aides consider this as an advantage for Trinamul. BJP leaders in the area, however, claim that recent rivalries within Trinamul have pushed a section of the minority vote towards the saffron camp. “They want to teach Trinamul a lesson,” a BJP source said. The Scheduled Caste population is also considerable in Birbhum — 29 per cent as per the 2011 census. The BJP’s stellar performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls had been attributed to a great extent to the support it received from this segment. “A large part of the SC vote bank is polarised owing to the appeasement politics of Trinamul. The people of Birbhum are looking beyond caste and creed to support us to protest the corrupt practices of Trinamul,” a BJP leader said. The cast and community equations, insiders in both parties say, are new in Birbhum and the sudden change in the electoral game has introduced several new elements. The most prominent among them is the subtle image change that Mondal himself has effected. Always a gregarious speaker, Mondal has been far more subdued in his recent rallies, avoiding controversial statements. In 2019, he had caused an uproar by referring to “nakuldana”, which many had interpreted as a reference to bullets. In 2013, he had told party activists to bomb police should they try to assist Trinamul’s opponents. Asked about the perception of a mellow Mondal, the leader laughs. “I never promised journalists that I would say something inflammatory every election,” he says. “Anyone can think what they want, but I am doing what I have planned. But you may find me in form on the day of the polls,” says Mondal, adding that he has understood that the politics of polemic is a “waste of time” while taking on the BJP. Birbhum BJP president Dhruba Saha asserted the party would win most of the 11 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
25-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: All that glitters is not Sonar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has promised in his many election meetings to transform Bengal into Sonar Bangla. To understand what this might mean The Telegraph looks for clues in the states where the BJP is already in power, the states that in Modi’s words have a “double-engine sarkar”. Since there can be no better test of governance at this time than the Covid pandemic, this newspaper decided to look at the performance of two BJP-ruled states in handling the surge. The first is Gujarat, which selected itself, not merely because Modi and his home minister Amit Shah hold it up as the model for the country. Gujarat was governed for 13 years by Modi himself as chief minister. He retains a keen interest in the state, and has shown it off to two of his best friends, Donald Trump and Xi Jinping. The BJP has been in power there for more than two decades. The second is Uttar Pradesh, home to the Prime Minister’s Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi. It is also a state whose chief minister is the rising star in the BJP and is seen by many as Modi’s natural successor. “The opinion in the state is that Modiji should remain Prime Minister for as long as he wants and that when he steps down, Yogiji should take over from him,” a BJP supporter from Varanasi told this newspaper. Along with Modi and Shah, Adityanath has been a key campaigner for the BJP in the Bengal election. An important reason for picking the two states was that the Congress has not been in power in either for the past two decades, so there is no way it could have played spoiler in their development. Also, there are no roads blocked by farmers in either Ahmedabad or Lucknow that the BJP can blame for hindering supply of life-saving oxygen to the hospitals. Bengal can decide which model it would prefer should the BJP come to power here: The Gujarat Model Hospitals: The dominant image from Gujarat’s cities this month has been of ambulances queued up: outside hospitals and crematoriums. A long line of ambulances is parked outside Ahmedabad Civil Hospital every day, carrying patients awaiting admission. Those not fortunate enough to get an ambulance arrive in any vehicle they can afford and wait at the hospital gates — in cars, autorickshaws and even tempos. Families try to provide oxygen support as the patients lie gasping for breath for hours inside the vehicles. A related and recurring image is that of patients who are stable being led out, oxygen masks still in place, to make room for those whose condition is worse. The state government told Gujarat High Court this month that in seven districts, there were no hospital beds. Two patients died in Banaskantha district this week when the oxygen stocks ran out at a hospital. In Rajkot, an inquiry has been ordered after family members of two patients who had died said oxygen shortage was the cause. Crematoriums: The queue outside crematoriums is long, with many grieving families forced to wait from morning to evening to perform the last rites of their loved ones. PTI quoted a bereaved family member as saying they had to first wait for an ambulance to transport the body and then wait outside the crematorium for their turn. “On average everyone is waiting eight to nine hours,” the family member said. Although Hindus do not normally perform funeral rites after sunset, night cremations are being reported across Gujarat’s cities. On one mid-April night in Surat, 25 wood pyres burned simultaneously. Metal structures of furnaces at some crematoriums in Surat started melting or breaking because they were being used round-the-clock. In Vadodara, crematorium capacity has been increased with 35 new metal pyres. In Surat, two defunct crematoriums have been made functional. Count mismatch: The state government has been accused of hiding death figures. Media reports claiming the actual death toll in Gujarat is much higher than the official numbers have appeared in conjunction with what one public health expert in the state has described as “gross and strange inconsistencies” in numbers of severely ill Covid-19 patients that suggest either fudging or inefficient data collection. “The state official bulletin on Thursday, April 22, claimed there are 376 people on ventilators — but the number of ventilators occupied in Ahmedabad alone was at least 403, according to the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association,” the doctor told this newspaper, requesting anonymity. On a day the government claimed 55 Covid deaths, figures from crematoriums and burial grounds, collated by media organisations, showed that 480 bodies had been disposed of according to pandemic protocol. A doctor in the state said any city where crematoriums or burial grounds are inundated with bodies is likely to be experiencing much higher extra deaths. “If we apply the crude death rate of about 7 per thousand per year on the estimated eight million population of Ahmedabad, the city has roughly 153 deaths per day,” the doctor said. “How can 24 extra deaths from Covid-19 as reported yesterday cause a rush in crematoriums or burial grounds?” Remdesivir: The drug that is believed to cut hospitalisation time for many Covid patients is at the centre of a controversy in Gujarat, after the state’s BJP chief C.R. Patil announced that he had 5,000 vials that would be distributed free in Surat. Asked how such a large stock of the medicine had landed in the BJP chief’s hands, chief minister Vijay Rupani said: “I don’t know. Ask Patil.” Not only is remdesivir in short supply across the country, there are restrictions in place on its retail sale. A local daily, Divya Bhaskar, published Patil’s mobile number as a front-page headline and wrote: “This number belongs to the ‘government’ of injections”. Court’s views: Gujarat High Court has said the state government had failed to prepare for the second wave. “People now think that they are at God’s mercy,” it added. Lending weight to allegations of data fudging, the court has asked the government to be transparent on infection and death counts. “The state should not feel shy of publishing the correct data,” it said. The UP Model Hospitals: The Adityanath government made a referral from the chief medical officer mandatory for securing a hospital bed. The result: precious time lost. A son recounted to Reuters how they had tried in vain to get a bed, and how the call telling them one was available came a day after his 70-year-old father had died. Television channels showed footage of a man lying down on the road in the path of the CMO’s car to get a referral. The system has been scrapped now after an uproar, but the decision came too late for many families. A journalist with Covid, Vinay Srivastava, 65, begged for help on Twitter to get a hospital bed, even tagging chief minister Adityanath. Srivastava posted that his oxygen level had dipped to 52 and died without treatment on April 17, a day after he had started tweeting. Oxygen: Hospital after hospital in Lucknow has taken the extraordinary step of putting up notices saying they are running out of oxygen and have not received supplies despite requests to the state government and the Centre. The notices further ask families to move their patients elsewhere because in the absence of oxygen, they won’t survive. Images of family members queuing up to refill oxygen cylinders and of hugging a cylinder tight when they can find one are being widely shared. Crematoriums: Bodies lined up on the pavement outside a crematorium gave the lie to the state’s claim of zero deaths in Ghaziabad on April 15. Bodies have also been piling up on the steps of Varanasi’s ghats and into the lanes leading to them. A tin wall was installed to hide from view the large number of pyres burning at Lucknow’s most prominent crematorium. Court’s view: “It is a shame that while the government knew of the magnitude of the second wave it never planned things in advance,” Allahabad High Court said. ⚫ For those in Bengal not happy with either of these models and looking for a third, there is Madhya Pradesh. The BJP ruled the state for 15 years from 2003, lost power in 2018, but toppled the Congress government and returned to the helm in March 2020 — a day later, the nationwide lockdown was announced. On April 16, 2021, state capital Bhopal officially reported eight Covid deaths. The same day, the number of people cremated in Bhopal with Covid protocol was 108. “We believe there is large-scale under-reporting of deaths — the state on Thursday reported 75 Covid deaths over the previous 24 hours, but I know a single hospital in Bhopal had earlier this week with 15 deaths in a day,” said Shankul Dwivedi, a medical practitioner in Bhopal and spokesperson for the Federation of the All India Medical Association, a network of resident doctors nationwide. The daily Dainik Bhaskar has described the state’s data on deaths as a lie. “These burning pyres are telling the truth,” the Bhopal edition of the paper said, with an aerial view of many funeral pyres burning together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
