26-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata backs Madras HC order, says EC is 'BJP's parrot'||Mamata Banerjee cast her vote at Bhowanipore's Mitra Institution late in the evening on Monday on the penultimate day of voting in 36 Assembly seats that includes three incumbent ministers from South Calcutta, the backyard of the Bengal chief minister. About 75 per cent polling was recorded till 5.30pm in Bengal on Monday, coinciding with the end of campaigning for the last phase of polling on Thursday, April 29. In the four constituencies of Calcutta South, about 60 per cent polling was recorded till 5.30pm. The 32 other Assembly seats where voting was held are spread over South Dinajpur, Maldah, Murshidabad and Burdwan West, the last citadel of the Congress where both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP have made significant inroads. The most significant development of the day, however, happened some 1,672km away in Chennai where the Madras High Court sqaurely blamed the Election Commission of India for the surge in Covid cases. “Your institution is singularly responsible for the second wave of Covid-19. Your officers should be booked on murder charges probably,” said the bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. “Were you on another planet when the election rallies were held?” asked Chief Justice Banerjee. The high court is scheduled to hear the matter again on Friday and if unsatisfied with the poll panel's response, counting of votes on May 2 could be impacted. The Madras High Court observation was welcomed by Mamata. “Their neglect, wrong decisions have put us on the brink of disaster. A Prime Minister and a home minister spent three months here just because they want to win Bengal at any cost and put everyone’s life at risk, instead of planning for steps against Covid,” the chief minister said in North Calcutta's Shyampukur, winding up 50 days of campaigning to seek a third term, her fiercest electoral battle since she led the Trinamul Congress to victory 10 years ago. The Madras High Court’s censure of the central poll panel comes at a time when the country's health infrastructure is crumbling under pressure from the spiralling number of Covid cases. Till Monday 8am, India had recorded 3.52 lakh new cases, taking active cases to 28lakh. In Bengal, the number of Covid cases jumped to 15,889 in the last 24 hours. 'Madras HC is right' Mamata came down heavily on the central poll panel for its refusal to club voting days amind the rise in Covid cases in the state. "They could have clubbed the phases together as the Covid situation started worsening from the third phase onwards. But they did not listen to us. They continued to be the BJP’s pet parrot,” she said. “The court (Madras high court) is right. They could hold polls in Tamil Nadu and Kerala in one phase and Assam in two phases, but for Bengal they ordered eight-phases… I will request the EC to withdraw central forces from areas where polling has been held as they are spreading Covid. We can’t set up safe houses as schools and colleges are occupied,” she said. Mamata reiterated that she would move the Supreme Court against the partisan behaviour of the Election Commission. “Someone has to bell the cat… I would not have raised it had they not crossed all limits,” she said, indicating the electoral tussle will drag on beyond May 2 when votes are to be counted. Agents confined On the seventh phase of voting, Mamata alleged that Trinamul polling agents in Asansol South were told not to leave their homes. “I have received similar reports from Habibpur, Raninagar,” she said. There were no reports of major violence during the polling in the 36 Assembly constituencies on Monday. No lockdown While the state administration has taken steps to increase beds to treat Covid patients, Mamata has ruled out imposing a lockdown. Karnataka will go on a 14-day lockdown from Tuesday night, while the Delhi government has extended the lockdown period by another week, as  states grapple with the crisis arranging for beds, oxygen and vaccination, most of which the Centre has dumped on the state’s shoulders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Voting goes on for 7th phase amid rising Covid cases||Stray incidents of violence were reported Monday from some areas where voting is underway for the seventh phase of the assembly elections in Bengal, though the overall polling process has been peaceful. Polling began at 7 am on Monday for 34 seats in the seventh phase of the assembly elections in West Bengal, amid tight security and a rampaging second wave of COVID-19. Till 5pm, 75.06 per cent voter turnout was recorded. Long queues were seen outside most polling booths where voting is underway adhering to Covid protocols. Over 86 lakh voters will decide the political fate of 284 candidates in this phase. Security measures have been heightened in view of the violence in the previous phases, particularly the death of five people in Cooch Behar in the fourth round of polling on April 10, an Election Commission official said. A few incidents of scuffle were reported from the Asansol area, where TMC candidate Sayoni Ghosh claimed that BJP activists tried to jam booths in her constituency.  The allegation was dubbed as baseless by BJP candidate Agnimitra Paul, who asserted, "Ghosh is making excuses sensing defeat". Meanwhile, there was commotion in Rash Behari constituency after BJP candidate Lt Gen (retd) Subrata Saha's agent was accused of molesting women voters inside a polling booth, police said. Mohan Rao was detained after several women voters claimed he tried to drag them holding their hands inside Bidya Bharati School, a police officer said. Rao, however, rubbished the allegations and said no such incident had taken place. "We have received a complaint in this regard and a probe is underway," the officer said. In the Jamuria constituency, Left Front candidate Aishe Ghosh alleged that her party agents were stopped from entering the booth by TMC workers, a charge denied by the ruling party. The poll panel has deployed at least 796 companies of central forces in the seventh phase to ensure free and fair voting, he said. It has also put in place measures to ensure strict adherence to health protocols during the election process, including wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing. The state registered its highest single-day spike of 15,889 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, while 57 more people succumbed to the virus. Voting is being held at 12,068 polling stations spread over nine assembly constituencies each in Murshidabad and Paschim Bardhaman districts, six each in Dakshin Dinajpur and Malda and four in Kolkata, including Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's home turf Bhabanipur.Polling will continue till 6.30 pm. Elections to two assembly constituecies - Samserganj and Jangipur in Murshidabad district - have been adjourned following the death of two coronavirus-positive candidates. The EC has fixed May 16 as the date for polling in these two seats. Six rounds of the eight-phased assembly elections in the state have already taken place, with the last phase scheduled for Thursday. Votes will be counted on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Dr Kafeel Khan appeals to not fall for fascists||Kafeel Khan, a Gorakhpur doctor and whistleblower who was arrested twice by the Uttar Pradesh government and has emerged as a symbol of resistance against State oppression, on Sunday urged Bengal’s voters not to fall prey to the “gimmicks of the fascists”. Speaking from Delhi, Khan sought to remind Bengal’s people ahead of the last two phases of the Assembly polls how the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh had failed to provide basic healthcare to citizens. “In UP there is anarchy. There is no governance. I just want to tell the people of Bengal that their state is a pillar,” Khan told The Telegraph. “The Prime Minister, the home minister and all the RSS big shots want to destroy the last fort that is standing tall against the fascist regime. The people of Bengal must not fall prey to the false propaganda and gimmicks of the fascists.” Khan had in 2017 exposed the truth behind serial child deaths at the state-run Baba Raghav Das Medical College and Hospital in Gorakhpur, the hometown of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. A private company had allegedly stopped its oxygen supply to the hospital over unpaid dues, and Khan had arranged for oxygen locally by paying out of his own pocket. Khan was, however, arrested a few days later – on September 2, 2017 -- charged under several penal code sections, and removed as the nodal officer in charge of the hospital’s encephalitis ward. He was accused of dereliction of duty and engagement in private practice. He was acquitted of all charges on September 27, 2019. But a special task force of the UP police re-arrested him in Mumbai on December 13 under the National Securities Act in connection with an anti-CAA speech he had made at Aligarh Muslim University. On September 1, 2020, Allahabad High Court dropped all NSA charges against him and he was released. Appealing to the “good conscience” of Bengal’s electorate, Khan said the state is known for its people’s intellect and achievements in literature and other fields of culture. He hoped the state’s voters would send out the message to the nation that they would not succumb to “the BJP’s falsehoods”. “Why were polls conducted in a single phase in Tamil Nadu, which has a population of 6 crore, whereas there are eight phases in Bengal?” he said. “They did the same thing in UP during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. They had the time (because of the heavily staggered voting) to manipulate (voters). The people of Bengal must have seen through this plan.” Khan’s appeal to Bengal comes at a time hospitals in several parts of the country have reported oxygen shortages that have led to a spurt in the deaths of Covid patients. “Health along with education and employment are the basic issues. I have done so many camps in Murshidabad, and also in Calcutta. I’ve asked people what they want and they’ve always mentioned these three things,” Khan said. “But instead of talking about that, everyone (among the BJP campaigners) is talking about shamshan-kabristan, Ali-Bajrangbali. The same chief minister who can’t control crimes against women in Uttar Pradesh is boasting in Bengal that if the BJP comes to power, women will be safe.” Adityanath has been one of the BJP’s star campaigners in Bengal, delivering his speeches with barely concealed communal overtones. He has declared that if the BJP is voted to power in Bengal, it will ensure women’s security by forming “anti-Romeo squads” – a discredited and abandoned experiment in his own state. Khan accused the Adityanath government of fudging figures to downplay the severity of the Covid situation in Uttar Pradesh. He said that while the Adityanath government counted 224 Covid deaths in the northern state in the past 24 hours, around 457 bodies were cremated in Kanpur’s crematoriums alone during the same period. Khan’s jibe at Adityanath comes a day after it was reported that the UP chief minister had, in a videoconference with select journalists on Saturday evening, appeared to attribute the charges of oxygen and medicine shortage in the state to a conspiracy. He said government officials had been directed to act under the NSA and the Gangsters Act against “antisocial elements” involved in “black marketeering” medicine, “spreading rumours” and “trying to spoil the atmosphere”. However, Dr O.P. Yadav, district president of the Indian Medical Association in Agra, on Sunday said that 10 hospitals in Agra city had had to discharge all their Covid patients on Saturday because they had no oxygen left. “People are dying and these people are still lying to us,” Khan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19 patient found hanging in East Midnapore||A 46-year-old state government employee, who had tested positive for Covid-19, allegedly committed suicide early on Sunday in East Midnapore’s Balarampur village under Tamluk, when he was in home isolation. Family sources confirmed that the deceased had been in “panic mode” with regard to the pandemic over the past year, a fear that was compounded when he was unable to get vaccinated owing to the supply shortfall. “All these factors came together and created a panic and a depression for him when he tested positive on Friday. Because of the diagnosis, his wife and small son shifted to their in-laws at a nearby village,” said a neighbour. “This was clearly a suicide, and would not have happened if there were better resources in place,” said the deceased's father, who is 78. Sources said the deceased worked as a clerk at West Midnapore’s Ghatal court. “We had been leaving his food at the door of his room every morning, but this morning (Sunday) he did not respond to calls so we opened the door by force to find him hanging from the ceiling,” said a family member. On Sunday, The Telegraph reported how East Midnapore was facing an acute shortage of Covid-19 beds in government hospitals. District officials said on Sunday that they were “trying and hoping for the best”. “We have started action and hope better resources will be available soon. We requisitioned the state for vaccine supplies, we have nearly no first doses left,” said a senior district official. The chief medical officer could not be reached for comment. Panchayat samiti functionary Joydeb Burman said the body had been attended to “according to protocol” and “pleaded with” district health officials to organise an “immediate vaccination drive”. “Today’s incident was extremely unfortunate, but it is happening everywhere. Younger Covid patients are succumbing now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Reliance Jute Mill shut, workers ransack two trade union offices||Groups of labourers attached to the Bhatpara-based Reliance Jute mill allegedly ransacked two trade union offices, affiliated to the INTTUC and the BMS, after the mill authorities issued an indefinite ceasework order on Sunday morning. The Reliance Jute Mill — no relation to the Ambanis — is one of the oldest jute mills in the country, founded in 1906. It is known as a pioneer of production and marketing of quality decorative fabrics and jute yarns suited for export. The indefinite ceasework rendered 5,000 workers jobless barely six months after it opened before Durga Puja following its closure in January 2020 owing to workers demanding gratuity and retirement benefits for at least 165 mill retirees. Mill authorities this time did not specifically cite a reason for the ceasework. Insiders attributed the closure to low production in the wake of a hike in raw material price. Workers blamed mill authorities and also the leaders of the Trinamul and BJP-affiliated unions for “playing with their lives” and causing a “survival crisis”. Angry workers allegedly ransacked the union offices and damaged furniture. They lot a bonfire of the furniture too outside the premises of the union office cluster. They tried to enter the mill, but were prevented by security personnel who kept the gates closed. A fire tender doused the blaze. Thwarted protesters later blocked the Kanchrapara-Barrackpore road for about an hour, demanding intervention from the administration in reopening the mill. The blockade was withdrawn only after the police assured protesters of taking up the matter with the administration. Rakesh Shaw, a mill worker, said he found the behaviour of mill authorities inexplicable. “They did not specifically give a reason for the closure. They refused to talk to workers. The management has been running the mill according to their whims.” Accusing trade unions of inaction, Shaw added: “We have six unions attached to this mill. But none appear to be bothered about the plight of workers. They use us to get votes.” Senior company officials  refused to speak despite repeated calls, claiming to be busy in meetings. An official on the condition of anonymity said: “Production was hampered because of a spike in the price of raw materials as well as agitation by a section of workers these last two weeks. Lack of maintenance hampered production and caused technical snags. We decided to stop work till normality is restored.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Four assembly segments in Calcutta  to vote on Monday||Four of 11 Assembly segments in Calcutta  — Calcutta Port, Bhowanipore, Rashbehari and Ballygunge — go to the polls on Monday. Voters in the remaining seven —  Chowringhee, Entally, Beliaghata, Jorasanko, Shyampukur, Maniktala and Kashipur-Belgachia — will exercise their franchise on Thursday, the last day of the eight-phase polls in Bengal. Of the 294 seats in Bengal, Calcutta has barely 4 per cent, but being the state capital, winning city seats is a matter of prestige for political parties. In the 2016 Assembly polls, Trinamul had won all 11 seats comfortably. The 2019 Lok Sabha polls, however, sent a warning signal to the ruling party as the BJP secured leads in Rashbehari, Jorasanko and Shyampukur Assembly segments. The BJP breathed down Trinamul’s neck in two more  — Maniktala where Trinamul had a slender lead of less than 1,000 votes, and Bhowanipore, a constituency represented by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, where the ruling party had a 3,500-vote lead. Ahead of the two-phase polls in Calcutta — where over 30 lakh people will cast their votes — The Telegraph takes a look at the factors that make the battle for the state capital so intense. Covid fear Calcutta recorded 3,779 new Covid cases and 18 deaths on Sunday and the steady northward climb in infections has created panic in the city. The casualty of this Covid-19 fear could be poor voter turnout. Calcutta records around 64 per cent voter turnout, but poll panel officials think the figure would be lower this time. “The effect of the pandemic has been seen in urban North 24-Parganas, where polling percentage declined significantly,” said a poll official. Against this backdrop, the poll panel has taken up several measures to build confidence among voters by splitting booths to bring down number of voters per booth, making wearing of masks mandatory and distributing gloves and sanitisers at booths. The Election Commission banned rallies, road shows and large meetings before the last two phases. The poll panel extended the silence period to 72 hours from 48 hours in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Leaders of Trinamul and the BJP said these last-minute changes threw their last-hour campaign plans awry. Trinamul insiders, however, said Covid-related curbs could help them. “The BJP’s traditional voters live in highrises and are unlikely to come out to vote. It will be a boon for us,” said a Trinamul source. Outsider debate Several political observers this reporter spoke to said that bohiragawto or outsiders — a tag that Trinamul had hurled at the BJP — will be crucial. With Trinamul repeatedly calling BJP star campaigners — like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and several other leaders visiting the state frequently or camping in Bengal for the election campaign — outsiders, the issue is a talking point. Trinamul had pitched the election as a battle between Bengal and outsiders trying to invade the state, but this has its pros and cons. The language used by many BJP leaders in campaigns has led many Calcuttans to believe the BJP has scant respect for Bengal’s culture. “It started with the demolition of the bust of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Then Amit Shah could not identify the statue of Birsa Munda. They don’t know where Rabindranath Tagore was born. I don’t feel safe when I see the BJP’s  all-out efforts to come to power in the state,” said Subhasis Pal, the owner of a sari shop in Bhowanipore. At the same time, the outsider campaign by Trinamul initially caused some worry among some non-Bengalis in Bengal. Trinamul realised this and Mamata tried to assure non-Bengali communities a couple months ago that the outsider tag was only for BJP leaders who came to the state ahead of polls. The results of Jorasanko and Shyampukur will depend on whether non-Bengali Calcuttans have accepted Mamata’s take on “outsiders”. Nearly 45 per cent of the residents of these areas are non-Bengalis. This is why the BJP is eyeing these two seats. Voter mindspace Trinamul has a strong base among the middle class in the city, who form nearly 40 per cent of Calcutta’s population. A retired bureaucrat, who served in important positions such as state home secretary, said most middle-class families in Calcutta are informed about what is happening in BJP-ruled states and are apprehensive of the saffron party. “(Urban) Bengalis usually don’t want problems over issues such as food habits or religion. They have seen troubles over these issues in some northern states where BJP has been ruling for years. This is why they are anti-BJP and Trinamul will benefit from this fear of the BJP,” he said. Also, Calcutta has no bitter  experience with Trinamul unlike in some rural areas. “A section of people in the rural Bengal are angry with local Trinamul leaders as they demand cut money for government benefits. The urban middle class does not have that experience as they hardly depend on government schemes like Banglar Awas Yojana or free bicycles,” said a political observer in the city. The urban middle class is largely happy with Trinamul’s  civic services in Calcutta. Another issue that has drawn the Trinamul closer to the middle class is its opposition to repeal the urban land ceiling act. “The BJP is in favour of doing away with the Act. If the act is withdrawn, no middle class family will be able to live in the city peacefully as outsiders will try to buy our plots forcibly,” said Adhir Das, a government employee who lives on Sarat Bose Road. The city has 3,000 registered slums with 18 lakh residents and Trinamul has an edge among this section. Trinamul insiders said slum dwellers got benefits under government schemes such as homes, pension or Swasthya Sathi cards. “This was possible for two reasons. First, the CMC actively monitored the projects. Second, city councillors did not demand money in lieu of these benefits,” said a Trinamul insider. Another issue that has made Trinamul popular in slums is the urban daily wage scheme on the lines of MGNREGA. Launched during the Left era with the active participation of Asok Bhattacharya, then urban development minister, the Trinamul-led government took it forward in a proper manner. “Every day, some 25,000 people get jobs under it,” said a source in the CMC. The Trinamul, however, is concerned about young voters. Urban Bengal has 1.25 crore people aged between 16 and 25 years, and a large number of them stay in Calcutta. “According to a rough estimate, 2 to 3 lakh voters of around 30 lakh voters in Calcutta are aged below 25. They are aspirational, they want corporate jobs. In the last Lok Sabha polls, we feel a large section of these voters went against us. This is why we have stressed in our poll promises things like IT,” said a Trinamul leader. Overall, Trinamul leaders seem sure of getting nine of 11 seats in Calcutta. However, Sayantan Basu, a state BJP general secretary, disagreed. “All these predictions regarding Calcutta will go wrong this time. The new government that the BJP would form will have representation from Calcutta as well,” Basu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee's leg injury 'substantially improved', plaster will be removed soon||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday indicated for the first time that her leg injury had “substantially improved” and her plaster would be removed soon. Mamata had suffered injury to the left ankle while she was campaigning in the Nandigram Assembly segment in East Midnapore on March 10. Speaking at a Trinamul Congress workers’ meet in Behrampore, the chief minister said: “For a month and 20 days in a row, I have not been at home. I have been outside roaming for the election campaign. I did not take a leave even on Poila Boisakh (April 15) as I held a rally in Calcutta. Otherwise, I could not get time to hold the rally in Calcutta.... I am sorry to say I could not campaign much in Murshidabad, Malda and Birbhum. But now, my injured leg has healed. I think I am doing better now.” “I have been out for 10 days at a stretch, so I could not even get the plaster removed. Now, I will return home and get it (the cast) removed,” she added. Trinamul Congress leaders had alleged conspiracy behind Mamata Banerjee’s injury. Nonetheless, the chief minister did not put a halt of more than a few days to her state-wide election campaign trail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: TMC candidate Kajal dies battling Covid||Trinamul’s Khardah candidate Kajal Sinha, who tested Covid-19 positive, died on Sunday morning, becoming the third person contesting the Bengal elections to die of complications related to the infection. Sinha tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to the Beleghata ID and BG Hospital on April 21. Expressing her grief over Sinha’s demise, Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Very very sad. Shocked. Kajal Sinha our candidate from Khardaha, succumbed to Covid. He dedicated his life to serving people & just fought a tireless campaign. He was a long-serving committed member of @AITCofficial (Trinamul Congress). We will miss him. My condolences to his family and his admirers.” Sinha was one Mamata’s trusted lieutenants and a party colleague since she was a Youth Congress leader. Mamata later at a news conference in Murshidabad’s Behrampore said Sinha would win the Khardah seat, which went to polls on April 22. Before Sinha, Jangipur’s RSP candidate Pradip Kumar Nandi and Samserganj’s Congress candidate Rezaul Haque died of complications from Covid-19. The election to these two seats were initially countermanded and rescheduled for May 16. For Khardah, since polls have taken place, a re-poll will be announced if Sinha wins. If someone else wins, there will be no re-poll, an Election Commission source said. Family sources said that Sinha was diabetic which multiplied his health complications.  “His condition deteriorated from April 23 when he was shifted to the ICU. The doctors tried their best, but failed,” a family member said. Trinamul had nominated Sinha for the first time from Khardah when finance minister Amit Mitra, who currently represents the seat, refused to contest the polls owing to his ill health. Party sources said, Sinha who was the administrator of the Khardah Municipality, was a natural choice this time for his popularity among people cutting across party lines. He was pitted against former party colleague and turncoat BJP candidate Silbhadra Dutta, who was shifted to Khardah from Barrackpore. Dutta mourned the death. “I lost one of my close friends...I was missing him on the day of the poll. I was on the road but he was on the bed fighting the disease. I had prayed for his recovery. But the God had other ideas about him in mind.” CPM’s Khardah candidate Debajyoti Das also took to Facebook to express his condolences. “…For his (Sinha) family, relatives, friends and political colleagues this loss is irretrievable. His untimely death is very painful for fellow citizens like us as well…” Union minister of state Babul Supriyo, who faced flak on Saturday for addressing a rally in Calcutta’s Entally where Covid-19 protocols were allegedly flouted, tested positive on Sunday for the virus for a second time. Supriyo took to Twitter to announce both he and his wife were positive. But his post had political innuendos: “V (very) sad that I won’t be able to vote in Asansol. I needed to be there on the road too for the 26th Polls where ‘desperate’ @AITCofficial (Trinamul Congress) Goons hv (have) already unleashed terror machinery to disrupt free & fair polls…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Retired soldier Subrata Saha's list of promises||Subrata Saha, a retired lieutenant general and the BJP’s Rashbehari candidate, has listed five changes he will bring about if he and his party are voted to power. ⚫ Security: That is most fundamental. Without ensuring that, nothing can thrive. The environment of fear and hooliganism must end. The associated point is to check infiltration: infiltration of ideas, techniques and people as well. ⚫ Employment: This must be the top priority. Irrespective of where the people live — a slum or a high-rise — without employment generation they’ll be finished. The middle order is being drained out and we will have to check that. This includes enhancement of skills and bringing in industries. ⚫ The Adiganga: All we need to do is revive the Adiganga and manage the Kalighat temple well. It can be the best spot for tourism to begin with. ⚫ Lake Complex: I believe the Lake area has tremendous untapped potential, divided into those multiple clubs. We just need to bring them together and bring an end to the divide-and-rule policy and synergise them. They will do wonders from all perspectives, including environment, tourism, culture and sports. ⚫ Hawkers: The hawkers of Gariahat cater to almost 30 per cent of the consumer needs of south Calcutta. It is an asset that is mismanaged. Even if they are relocated, more than 10 other people will fill up the vacuum. So there is competition and vested interests start working. It has to be dealt with in such a manner that none of the interests are hurt. It requires high-end management through committees of well-meaning and experienced people…. Help of institutions like IIM Calcutta can be sought. Unlike his rival, Trinamul’s Debasish Kumar who is a local, Saha doesn’t enjoy the advantage of familiarity, but the army veteran is confident that his courteous behaviour will earn him the trust of his electorate. “Communication is key. A lot can be done when we exchange looks with people. The moment I show them a thumbs up or gesture towards them, asking about their wellbeing, they immediately respond with a smile or a warm wave,” Saha says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee says Murshidabad and Malda will be a 'big factor' in election results ||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said Murshidabad and Malda would be a “big factor” in the election results and every vote of those two districts would help her party retain power in Bengal, with a mango — the fruit the two districts are widely famous for — allusion. “Murshidabad and Malda now are a big factor. Each vote from you (voters of the two districts) will help us stay in power in Bengal,” said the Trinamul Congress chief at a party workers’ meet here. “Remember, this time I need the aam (the mango fruit) and the aamshawtwo (fruit leather made out of mango pulp mixed with concentrated sugar solution, and sun-dried) this time. Given the situation this time, I want the aameyr achar (mango pickle) too,” said a smiling Mamata, to thunderous applause from her audience at the Murshidabad district headquarters. Trinamul leaders said Mamata was trying to say she wanted all 22 seats of Murshidabad and all 12 of Malda, two districts where voters of Muslim community — over 60 per cent in Murshidabad and over 50 per cent in Malda — play a decisive role in elections. “By claiming the fruit and its main by-products, she basically said she expected all seats from the two districts. In Bengali, there is a saying that talking about being left with the aameyr anti (mango seed), which basically means being left with nothing. What she requested the people in these two districts to ensure is that the others are left with the anti,” said a district leader who attended the meeting. Mamata specifically reached out to the migrant workers too, many of whom reside in Malda and Murshidabad. Sources said around 6 lakh migrant workers from Murshidabad and 4 lakh from Malda work in Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat. The presence of migrant workers is substantial in Birbhum and North Dinajpur too. “A large number of people from Murshidabad and Malda go to work in other states. You know how I stood by the migrant workers during their crisis (last year),” she said. “I stood by the families when migrant workers were gunned down by militants in Kulgam (in 2019) of Jammu and Kashmir…. I did that everywhere, whenever workers from our state died or suffered elsewhere,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: It’s time for Covid-er baat, Mamata Banerjee tells Narendra Modi||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Sunday that the nation had had enough of Narendra Modi’s “Mann Ki Baat” and some “Covid-er baat (talk about Covid)” was in order from the Prime Minister. Mamata once again mounted a scathing offensive against Modi, his party, his government at the Centre and the Election Commission of India (allegedly working at the behest of the BJP) for their part in letting the second wave of the pandemic in India get to the devastating stage for the sake of winning the Bengal election. “Vaccines are not available in our country. There is no oxygen and medicine. Amid such a situation, he (Modi) is continuing his Mann ‘Ki Baat’. Nobody is ready to listen to your ‘Mann Ki Baat’, there’s been enough of it… now, it’s time for Covid-er baat. Now is the time for you to give us vaccines, oxygen and medicines,” said Mamata at a Trinamul Congress workers’ meet at Rabindra Bhavan in Behrampore. The chief minister was referring to the Sunday edition of Modi’s Mann Ki Baat programme. “Covid-19 would not have had such a spike here if Narendra Modi and his ministers had taken action earlier. The fact is that they ruined the entire country in a bid to capture Bengal…. If there was a proper plan to vaccinate the people, Covid-19 would not have gone to such a state,” said the Trinamul Congress chief. “They had the option to resist (the second wave), but they did not, despite the five-month period in between when the infection numbers were not high,” she added. Mamata criticised Modi’s boasts of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), referring to his government’s decision to supply medicines and vaccines to 80-odd countries, thereby contributing to the domestic crisis. She claimed the 2 lakh central forces personnel, deployed untested by the Election Commission allegedly at the BJP’s behest, had contributed substantially to the spike in Covid cases in Bengal. “Two lakh central forces from states like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Delhi (some of the worst-hit states) have come here. They have been roaming freely, going from one district to another. They don’t even know themselves whether they are infected as they were never tested or screened,” she said. “If central forces come your homes, speak to them from a safe distance. If they come too close, I request the mothers and sisters to ask them to go for a test or treatment first,” she added. Mamata said the poll panel could not evade responsibility for the worsening of outbreak after forcing Bengal to go through an unprecedented eight-phase polling amid the pandemic. “When Covid cases started increasing after the third phase of the elections, I requested the commission to club the remaining phases. I kept requesting them. I also requested them to stop the campaign, for all. But they did not listen,” she said. “Many ministers and their large entourages from other states came and stayed at luxury hotels across Bengal. Over one lakh BJP cadres from outside were brought and they also spread Covid-19 rampantly Bengal,” Mamata added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Political parties trade charges of violence and violations before Malda vote day||Major political parties in Malda, a district where Assembly polls would be held in half of its 12 seats on Monday, traded charges of violence and violations of Election Commission norms before voting day. The BJP alleged Trinamul-backed goons had torched one of its election offices at Manikchak on Saturday night. Refuting the allegation, Trinamul leaders accused the BJP of bringing in over 1,000 people at a public meeting in Manikchak on Sunday, where party leaders like Locket Chatterjee were present, disobeying the EC’s Covid protocols that limit crowds to 500. Trinamul further alleged that Nishith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar, who visited Malda on Sunday, violated the model code of conduct by visiting BSF camps. The Congress accused Trinamul of offering money to women voters in Sujapur. Gobinda Chandra Mandal, the Malda district BJP president, said they set up an election office in Balutola under Manikchak police station, which “Trinamul supporters set ablaze”. “We filed a police complaint,” he said. Hemanta Sharma, a district Trinamul leader, dismissed the charge and pointed to the BJP’s crowd violations in the Locket Chatterjee meeting. J.P. Nadda, the BJP’s national president, virtually addressed the meeting while Chatterjee and some others gave speeches before those physically present. Trinamul said some 1,000 people had  come to the venue. The BJP put the number at less than 500. “Violating the model code of conduct and defying Covid-19 protocol is the BJP’s habit. On Saturday, BJP violated crowd protocol in Baishnabnagar (at Mithun Chakraborty’s rally). That meeting was stopped midway, but they have not learnt any lesson.” BJP’s Mandal claimed less than 500 people were present. “A few days ago, Trinamul claimed our venues stay empty. The party is now raising a totally opposite objection.” Isha Khan Choudhury, the Congress MLA of Sujapur who is contesting from the seat, filed a police complaint against Trinamul workers, saying they were calling up women of his constituency and asking them to get their Aadhaar cards registered with a mobile number to get Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 as monthly aid after elections. Ahead of polls, Trinamul had said in its manifesto that it would pay monthly aid to all distressed families of the state. “This is a bid to buy votes,” said Khan Choudhury. District youth Trinamul chief Prasenjit Das filed a complaint with the poll panel alleging BJP MP Pramanik visited BSF camps in Habibpur on Sunday. He said it was a ploy to exploit the central armed police forces during the polls. Administrative officials said they would look into each complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: For Scheduled Castes, a clue in the  teacup||Rajkumar Fulmani had been associated with the BJP since 1987. Now, he is a face of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign. Fulmani, a former BJP member of the Birbhum zilla parishad, has attended around 100 meetings where he has told people how the party is against the Scheduled Castes, whom the saffron camp has been assiduously wooing. Fulmali, 52, a non-teaching employee of a high school in Birbhum who belongs to an SC community, told The Telegraph: “I had been associated with the SC-ST Morcha of the BJP since 1987 and I was elected as a member of the Birbhum zilla parishad in 2008. I have seen how SC people are treated by the party. Upper caste leaders of the BJP used to keep a separate cup to serve me tea.” SCs make up around 23 per cent of Bengal’s voters. BJP leaders believe that one of the reasons behind the party bagging an unprecedented 18 seats in Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was the support of the SCs. Fulmani said he had also been highlighting how Dalits were being “tortured” in BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh. “I am telling the people about Hathras (where a Dalit teen was gang-raped and brutally murdered by upper caste men). The BJP is playing a game to polarise the SCs because they are very poor,” said Fulmani, who left the BJP in 2015. “I was an active leader of the BJP till 2014 and did not join any other political party after quitting. Today I am not asking anyone to vote for any particular party. I am only requesting them not to cast their valuable votes for a party that will ruin the culture of Bengal. I am also telling people how the BJP is trying to snatch the rights of farmers through the new farm laws,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress slips in Murshidabad, Trinamul gains||The Congress may have been in decline in many parts of the country but in Murshidabad, a minority-dominated district on the India-Bangladesh border, it has continued to enjoy support. Until now, that is. Ahead of the contest for Murshidabad’s 22 Assembly seats, which will go to the polls in the last two phases on April 26 and 29, there is a buzz that voters are planning something of a silent revolt against the Congress and its local veteran, five-time MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. If that happens, the 2021 elections could further impact the party’s dwindling fortunes in Bengal. The beneficiary, of course, will be Trinamul. “We are against the BJP. That is for obvious reasons. But we have had enough of waiting for the Congress to take any decisive action against the saffron party,” says Samser Ali Biswas, 56, a ration dealer from Hariharpara’s Jhajha village. Although Hariharpara is still a Congress stronghold, people like Biswas are looking to buck the trend. The reason behind this silent movement, several residents told this correspondent, is the fear of being ruled by the BJP. As per the 2011 census, Muslims make up around 68 per cent of Murshidabad’s population. “Our refrain now is that we are with Didi, for 2021. Not Trinamul, but Didi,” says one of Samser’s neighbours. “We are a little fed up with Adhir’s constant tirades against Didi instead of against the BJP. We need to do whatever possible to ensure that the BJP does not rule us,” Samser weighs in. People in Hariharpara, reflecting a district-wide trend, feel that the Sanyukta Morcha, the fledgling coalition of the Congress, Left and the ISF, does not hold much promise. They concur with Mamata Banerjee’s allegation that the ISF is actually a BJP front to split the Muslim votes. “The very day the BJP published its manifesto, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah asserted that they would enforce the new citizenship law in their first cabinet meeting. That was the last straw for me and I decided that I would do my bit in opposing the party,” says Samser, who has been campaigning for Trinamul candidate Niamat Sheikh. In Behrampore’s Nagrajol village, Rohim Sheikh, 28, is an unemployed graduate. Accustomed to cultivating his family land part-time for little or no income, his fortunes now reflect a change from his childhood when he claims his family would visit Adhir’s home and vice versa. “We have been a Congress family for generations. But not anymore. They are not a formidable force in opposing the BJP and that is much more important for us,” says the Beldanga constituency voter. In the same village, senior citizen Saifuddin Sheikh has been ill for a few months and has been advised rest. He was once a Congress worker who had rubbed shoulders with Adhir. Saifuddin, too, appears to have had a change of heart. Murshidabad has, historically, been no stranger to political trend-setting. In 1977 when the Left Front came to power in Bengal riding the anti-Indira Gandhi sentiment, Murshidabad gave six out of 19 seats to the Congress. Even in 2011, when Trinamul dethroned the Left, Murshidabad had been unimpressed, giving just one seat to Mamata’s party. In the 2016 Assembly polls too, Murshidabad accounted for only four of the 211 seats Trinamul won across the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, however, Trinamul made headway here by securing two of three seats in the district — Murshidabad and Jangipur. BJP leaders in Murshidabad are aware of their demographic limitations but are trying to put up a brave face. “Victory in six to seven seats in the district is our conservative goal and we will stand by it,” BJP district general secretary Shakharaf Sarkar says. Trinamul feels it will benefit from the BJP’s polarisation tactics. “We will get a larger vote share in Murshidabad because of the BJP’s communalism,” says district Trinamul chief and MP Abu Taher Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: 30 people arrested for not wearing masks in Siliguri ||Over 30 people were arrested in Siliguri on Sunday for not wearing masks in public spaces, following the Bengal government’s orders to the district and police authorities to strictly enforce its last year’s orders of enforcing social distancing and mandatory wearing of facial masks. This is the first time that people not wearing masks have been arrested from north Bengal after the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic. On Sunday, Darjeeling district recorded 203 new cases of which 17 were from the hilly region. Sources said the state chief secretary issued a fresh order on Saturday highlighting previous orders on punitive steps if Covid-19 protocols are violated and sought strict enforcement of the same by district officials. “Wearing facial masks in public was made mandatory in the pandemic situation by an order issued on April 12, 2020,” said a district official. Another order issued on June 2, 2020, had directed any police officer not below the rank of sub-inspector or equivalent, to ensure mandatory use of facial mask/cover in public and “to initiate appropriate legal action against any person” who violated the norm. “Over the past months there was general laxity on taking legal action. However, the fresh advisory from the state government has prodded the administration to take punitive steps,” said an official. Police and civil administration teams moved around Siliguri town on Sunday in busy areas of the town such as Naya Bazar, Pradhan Nagar, PC Mittal Bus Stand and Tenzing Norgay Bus Terminus. Sources in the police said around 30-odd people were arrested from various parts of the town till late evening. Priyadarshini S., the SDO of Siliguri, who also took part in the exercise, said: “We are enforcing the state government’s order. We are moving around and encouraging people to wear masks.” In Darjeeling hills, police held awareness events and asked people to wear masks but did not make arrests. Those flouting social distancing and masks norms can be booked under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. On conviction, the accused can be imprisoned for a year or be fined or both. In a separate notification, the state’s department of health and family welfare has stated that it has been brought to its notice that “there have been instances of hoarding of medical oxygen cylinders” and selling those without the valid prescription of a doctor. The notification has also stated that under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, medical oxygen cannot be sold without a doctor’s prescription.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Flavours of Bengal: Shola||The dazzling white look in which Ma Durga or her daughter Saraswati often appear in Bengal — the crown, the breastplate, the sari — are all made of a bright white material with intricate patterns that comes from shola (white sponge wood plant/Indian cork). The material used is actually the wood of the plant, among one of the lightest woods in the world. It can be shaped exquisitely, allowing for a whole range of designs that is a glorious Bengal craft. When the Goddess is dressed up in the white of shola, her look is called “sholar saaj”, in itself a Bengali tradition. It is a rival of “daaker saaj”, the style that has the Goddess wearing shimmering ornaments and clothes made with metal foil and wire. The shola plant grows wildly in marshy areas of Bengal, Assam, Odisha and the Deccan. Shaping its wood into finely detailed designs requires great skill. Shola is not only decoration for deities, but also an intrinsic part of Hindu rituals in Bengal. The chandmala hanging from the hand of an idol was traditionally made of shola. The mukut and topor, the headgear of the Bengali bride and groom, are made of shola. The Manasa chali, the backdrop of the snake goddess’s idol, can have a touch of shola at the top. String puppets are made from a shola base and a clay exterior. Marugacha of Nadia is famous for its shola puppets. Flowers are made with shola for both ritual and ornamental purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Ashok Lahiri's journey from AC rooms to Balurghat’s streets ||Over the years, most of his days have been spent in air-conditioned rooms in plush offices of the national capital, brainstorming, analysing data and working on policies. However, life has changed for Ashok Lahiri during the past couple of months. In his late sixties, he has had to hit the streets with leaders and workers of the BJP, touching different localities, interacting with people, delivering speeches and promising a “better Bengal.” The former chief economic adviser to the Government of India has been fielded by the BJP as the candidate in Balurghat seat of South Dinajpur district. “Sitting on a chair in an air-conditioned room and working in PCs with assistants… and here, running miles with enthusiastic youths who want me to run and cover as much area as possible… it is much different. I would say that contesting in the elections, meeting common people… altogether it is very educative,” said Lahiri, sitting at the BJP office in Balurghat. An alumnus of Presidency University, he has been fielded against Sekhar Dasgupta of the Trinamul Congress and Sucheta Biswas of the RSP. Balurghat, known to be an RSP bastion, was bagged by Trinamul in 2011. However, in 2016, RSP veteran and former state minister Biswanath Choudhury won it back. South Dinajpur, which borders Bangladesh, came on the BJP’s radar after 2016 when Trinamul won only two of the six seats in the district. “The saffron camp tried to polarise voters, drew support from a section of Left voters and managed to secure the Balurghat Lok Sabha seat in 2019. Another reason for its win was the acute infighting within the Trinamul in the district. The contest seems to be interesting this time,” said a veteran in Balurghat’s politics. Lahiri, who has served on the Asian Development Bank, had stints at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, and has taught at the Delhi School of Economics, said he backs the BJP’s policies. “Also, I the admire the BJP for its direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme and also its emphasis on infrastructure development. As the party asked me to contest, I found an opportunity,” said Lahiri. The direct benefit transfer scheme though was launched by the Manmohan Singh government in 2013. On Bengal, the BJP candidate said: “If you make an absolute judgement, then India is progressing and so is Bengal. But the question is always relative evaluation. After Independence, it was one of the advanced states but unfortunately, Bengal has lost its position. Look at the per capita income, the health parameters, industry parameters, education… there are things we have missed out.” “Being a coastal state, the utmost priority should be to develop a deep sea port in coastal areas. I believe we need a state-of-the-art port and there are locations like Tajpur and Sagar (Islands),” the economist said. The road infrastructure from north to south Bengal also needs improvement, he pointed out, adding that it takes 14 hours to travel 570km (between Calcutta and Siliguri). Lahiri, who has served as the chief economic adviser under the Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh, said: “Policymaking in government is a very complex process and the Prime Minister plays an important role. He is the ultimate decision maker….  I have worked under two Prime Ministers and both were very pleasant.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: No jobs but BJP focusing on polarisation, says Aishe Ghosh||The distance between the lush green campus of JNU in Delhi and the dusty roads of Jamuria, a small town in West Burdwan district, is more than 1,500km but the battle she had fought at the university and the one at hand in the Bengal elections are the same for Aishe Ghosh. “There are a lot of differences between JNU and the Jamuria Assembly area. But for someone like me, the fight is the same,” says Aishe, the firebrand SFI leader and JNU students’ union chief who is making her first appearance in politics beyond the campus. Aishe, 26, has been fielded as the CPM candidate of Jamuria, which votes on Monday (April 26). “Earlier, I had fought for students’ rights, now it is for the rights of all.” Aishe, the first sitting president of the JNU Students’ Union to contest an Assembly election, is taking on the BJP’s Tapas Roy and the Trinamul Congress’s Hareram Singh, a veteran trade union leader in this coal belt. Jamuria has both authorised coal mines run by Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) and several illegal ones that are controlled by pilferers. “It has been a CPM stronghold even after Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011. People here have elected our candidate, Jahanara Khatun, twice from this seat. Though elsewhere there will be a 1:1 contest between the BJP and Trinamul, this coal belt will witness a triangular fight,” says a CPM leader in Jamuria. Aishe says while campaigning door-to-door: “The public response has been overwhelming as the ordinary people here know about their rights.… We are telling people about employment, education and food for them and how the central and state governments are denying them their rights.” Campaigning, however, has not been easy for her. BJP supporters have on several occasions tried to disturb campaign meetings of Aishe by chanting Jai Shri Ram slogans, but the district’s youngest candidate is not bothered. “I did not react to their ploy and asked my partymen to remain indifferent. The people will understand us,” she says. Aishe has focused on scarcity of drinking water, pollution and bad roads and how illegal mining is causing subsidence and endangering the lives of ordinary people. She says the only solution to the problems of the locals is creation of employment, something she says both the Trinamul and BJP governments have ignored. “Several factories here, including the CPSUs, are closed. Neither the state nor the Centre has taken proper initiatives to solve the problems here. They are either busy blaming each other or making false promises,” she says. Aishe hails from nearby Durgapur, which is an industrial town and has several closed public sector units like Mining and Allied Machineries Corporation Ltd, Bharat Ophthalmic Glass Ltd, Bengal Chemicals and Hindustan Fertiliser Corporation. Aishe says she fails to comprehend why despite the bread-and-butter issues, the BJP is trying to polarise voters along communal lines. She, however, feels that most people have not been swayed by such attempts. “If we can make people understand the facts and what should be the actual duties and role of a government, we will be able to steer clear of this evil attempt at polarisation,” Aishe says. Jamuria is among the nine Assembly seats in West Burdwan where the BJP was ahead in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This Assembly segment has 2.22 lakh voters — of whom 27 per cent are Muslims. In 2016, the CPM-Congress combine had won four seats — Jamuria, Raniganj, Durgapur (East) and Durgapur (West). “I think I can repeat the 2016 performance,” Aishe says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Forest officials recover carcass of male adult leopard with a piece of wood in abdomen||The carcass of a male adult leopard was found at the plantation of a tea estate in Jalpaiguri Sadar block on Sunday. Foresters, on being informed by plantation employees, recovered the carcass. Post-mortem revealed the animal had a piece of wood in its abdomen. “We suspect it might have swallowed the wood with its food. This led to infection and death,” said Hari Krishnan, an official of Baikunthapur forest department. According to sources, some workers of Bhandiguri tea estate on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town spotted the carcass lying under a tree. “We were spraying pesticides at the plantation when we spotted the leopard. At first we were worried that it was a live animal but we soon realised it was dead. We informed garden officials, who in turn told the forest department,” said worker Shahjahan Ali. Another worker added there were no injury marks on its body. A team from the Belakoba forest range of Baikunthapur forest division took away the carcass. Fatal accident A youth died and some other persons were injured when a pick-up van loaded with vegetables turned on its side in Koranipara on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town on Sunday. Officials of Kotwali police station said some vegetable-sellers were going to Siliguri from Mondalghat in the pick-up van. On the way, one of its tyres exploded and the driver lost control of the vehicle near Koranipara. Residents rushed the occupants of the van to the super-specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri where doctors pronounced Sanjay Karati, 25, of Nandanpur, near Jalpaiguri town, dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
26-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee calls out for Covid warriors again||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday announced a proposal to re-enlist “Covid warriors” on the rosters of casual workers fighting the ongoing pandemic in the state, at a time most health districts are battling bed and vaccine shortages. The Mamata government last year had enlisted “Covid warriors” — mostly migrant workers who came back home with Covid, and then recovered from the infection — in Covid hospitals as casual labour. Addressing a workers’ meet in Murshidabad district’s Behrampore, Mamata stressed the need to revert to modes of work adopted during the first wave last year. “We are standing by all those Covid warriors who are either working or have contracted the disease. Remember, Murshidabad was the first place where the Covid Warriors club originated,” said Mamata, referring to the initiative of her government last year. “Many are still working with us. After the elections, we will enlist them into various employments including in the health department so they can make our fight against Covid better,” she added, speaking at Rabindra Bhavan in Behrampore. Sources said the move, if successful, would require reversals that were undertaken during the dip in cases last year. A casual worker at government hospitals is paid anywhere between Rs 300 and 500 a day. However, most such youths were let go when the government pulled out of leased private healthcare facilities at a time when Covid cases dipped to save costs. “The situation will need to go back to one where we have the maximum possible infrastructure and manpower,” said a district official. “Covid warriors need to be re-enlisted and we are going through rosters that are lying with healthcare or party workers,” they added. Murshidabad has a high number of migrant workers  as they are renowned across the country for their skills in masonry and agriculture. In Hooghly’s Arambagh, a group of 22 such youths are protesting outside the state hospital for over a week demanding their jobs back in light of the spike in Covid infections. “We will be very happy for the opportunity to serve people and to make a living. We are living without income,” said Jayanta Malik, one of the Covid warriors demonstrating in Arambagh. Sources said around 20 Covid warriors have been deployed at Covid hospitals and other places as the number of patients rose in Birbhum. Deputy chief medical officer-III (health) Jayanta Sukul confirmed tentative plans of the re-enlistment. “The recent spike is very worrying and we are working on possible solutions. We have reinstated few Covid warriors,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
