27-04-2021||West Bengal||Poll panel leash on Trinamul strongman ahead of last phase of voting ||The Election Commission of India has ordered that Trinamul Birbhum district president Anubrata Mondal be kept under strict surveillance from Tuesday evening till Friday, April 30, the day after the eighth and last phase of polling in Bengal. The CEC's order issued on Tuesday read: “… Anubrata Mondal, district president of AITC, Birbhum, should be kept under strict surveillance of Executive Magistrate and CAPF, round the clock from 5pm of 27th April 2021 till 7.30 am of 30th April, 2021 for ensuring free and fair election… Videography to be arranged with date time stamping.” As many as 11 seats in Birbhum will go the polls on April 29, in the last phase. This is third election in Bengal where Mondal, known for making outlandish comments and generally regarded as a Trinamul strongman, has been kept under surveillance. In the 2016 Assembly and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, EC had imposed similar restrictions on Mondal’s movements before and during the day of polling, a fact that did not go down well with his leader and chief minister Mamata Banerjee. During her visit to Bolpur on April 24, Mamata had advised Mondal to go to court if the EC attempted to curtail his movements on polling day. “They (BJP) are very angry with him. This time if they try to keep you under surveillance, go to the court. They cannot do this with anyone,” Mamata had said. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP had managed to take the lead in five of the 11 Assembly seats, which would be crucial in this election and Mondal’s absence from the field on the day of polling could make a difference. Mondal's rise in the Trinamul coincided with the CPM's downfall in 2009 when it was left licking its wounds in a district that it had made its own in the 32 years of the Left Front. The swing from the Trinamul to the BJP, in a district which takes pride in its association with Rabindranath Tagore and Tarashankar Bandyopadhyay, has been swift starting from the 2018 panchayat polls. In Birbhum, like in rest of the state, Trinamul won most panchayat seats uncontested, the backlash against which was seen in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP gained, leading in five Assembly segments of Birbhum. Now, as the reiging strongman of the Trinamul, Mondal's prestige is at stake. For, it is he who has to ensure Trinamul is able to regain lost ground. In the run-up to the 2021 Assembly polls, Mondal was served a notice by the central poll panel for his comment, “a dreadful game will be played,” referring to his party boss’ slogan, "Khela hobe (Game on)". The CBI had summoned Mondal on Tuesday in connection with an ongoing investigation in a cattle smuggling case. But, Mondal did not appear citing “elections”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Hint of minority loyalty’s shift to Trinamul in Congress bastion||The elections held in six of the 12 constituencies in Malda — a district with around 55 per cent minority population — on Monday bore broad hints that the battle was a direct contest between the BJP and the Trinamul Congress. Over 13 lakh voters went to the booths to exercise their franchise in the first phase of the elections in the district, which has always been a Congress stronghold. The rest of the seats in the district will vote on April 29. “Unlike earlier elections when the Congress always had an extra edge in most seats in the district, the political equations appear to be different this time. A considerable section of Muslims, who had been with the Congress for decades, seem to be siding with Trinamul,” said Najibar Rehman, an educationist and a political analyst in Malda town. “This is because of the sudden emergence of the saffron camp and its pro-NRC and CAA narrative, which is being strongly and consistently resisted by Mamata Banerjee,” he explained. According to him, in the six seats where elections were held today — Malatipur, Ratua, Harishchandrapur, Gazole, Chanchal and Habibpur — the concentration of minorities is higher in around four. “The presence of minorities is comparatively less in Habibpur and Gazole. It is evident that the BJP would have some advantage in those two Assembly segments,” he added. During the day, The Telegraph spoke to scores of voters. They said they had changed their mind and unlike in the past when they had voted the Congress, their preference was Trinamul this time. “The contest in the minority-dominated seats would be interesting this time. In some seats, the Congress might even slip into the third position,” said a Trinamul leader. Since 2011, when Mamata Banerjee came to power in the state, Malda has been one of the districts where Trinamul could not perform well, both in the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. In the Lok Sabha (there are two seats in Malda) polls, the party has never won so far. In the Assembly polls, Trinamul could win only one seat in 2011 but in 2016, the party drew a blank. During her visits to Malda, the chief minister time and again urged people to vote for Trinamul, while highlighting the development works carried out in the district. On Monday, however, the situation appeared to have changed to some extent. That the minorities preferred Trinamul to other anti-BJP parties was evident from the gatherings of voters at the election offices opened by the party near the booths in minority-dominated belts. “A sizeable portion of the minority population feels the Congress’s stand on the NRC and the CAA is much mellowed as compared to the unequivocal stand by Mamata Banerjee that she would never let the NRC, NPR or the CAA be implemented in Bengal. They feel it is the Trinamul supremo who can save them from any prospective inconvenience which will occur if these are implemented in the state,” said Hemanta Sharma, a district Trinamul leader. In Malda, votes of the minority community determine the election results in around seven of the 12 seats. Asif Mehebub, a three-time Congress MLA from Chanchal, however, claimed that minorities still believed in the Congress’s capability in fighting credibly against communal forces. “Wait for the results and you would see how Trinamul gets disillusioned,” he said. The booth offices of the BJP were seen only in some areas of the six constituencies where the concentration of minorities is comparatively less. Since 2019, after the BJP managed to win one of the Lok Sabha seats in the district, the saffron brigade has taken the task of polarising voters and has engaged organisations like the RSS and the Akhil Bharatiya Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram to drum up support from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. That the BJP is focussing on around five Assembly seats of the district where the concentration of minorities is less was evident as it did not conduct its ‘rath yatra’ in most of the remaining constituencies. Also, engaging hardliners like Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adhityanath for campaign and regular reference to issues like cattle smuggling and other crimes in areas near the India-Bangladesh border reaffirmed that the party intended to polarise votes. District BJP leaders, when asked about the poll results, claimed the minorities were with them and reiterated their narrative that the Congress and Trinamul had not done anything for the people. “No initiative was taken for their socio-economic development. Also, the infrastructure is poor in most areas of the district. There are no job opportunities and thousands of minority youths have to go to other states. This time, the results would be different,” said Gobinda Mandal, the district BJP president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Voter turnout affected in urban areas by raging Covid pandemic||Voter turnout in the penultimate phase of the eight-phase Assembly polls in the state was affected in the urban areas by the raging Covid-19 pandemic. According to the numbers released by the Election Commission of India (EC), voter turnout in the 34 Assembly segments across five districts, including four seats in Calcutta, till 5pm on Monday was 75.06 per cent. But a district-wise break up clearly brought out the rural-urban divide in Monday’s voting. The four Calcutta Assembly constituencies — Ballygunge, Rashbehari, Bhowanipore and Calcutta Port — that went to the polls on Monday recorded 59.91 per cent turnout till 5pm, significantly lower than the average turnout. West Burdwan district, which also has several urban constituencies, recorded a 70.34 per cent voter turnout, again, lower than the average of Monday, and its usual average pattern in elections where the turnout per cent touches 84 or so. On the other hand, South Dinajpur, Malda and Murshisaband, which are primarily rural areas, recorded 80.21 per cent, 78.76 per cent and 80.30 per cent turnouts, respectively, till 5pm. “It is clear Covid-19 concerns have taken a toll on the poll percentage in urban areas in the seventh phase of polling on Monday,” said a poll panel source, adding that the trend was witnessed first in the urban areas of North 24-Parganas in the sixth phase. According to the state health department’s bulletin, Bengal recorded a total of 15,992 Covid-19 lab-reported cases on Monday, of which 3,868 infections were reported from Calcutta and 770 cases from West Burdwan. “In both the areas where polling percentage was low, people are struggling with a huge number of daily positive cases. This is the reason for the comparatively lower turnout,” said a source. Poll panel sources also said that in the previous phases it was noticed that the voter turnout increased by about 4 per cent in the last 90 minutes with the elections on till 6.30pm. “It remains to be seen whether that trend holds true this time as well....If that happens, the turnout would be around the usual trend of 64 to 65 per cent in Calcutta,” said the source. A break-up of voter turnout of the four Assembly segments in Calcutta shows that Ballygunge recorded 59.59, Rashbehari 55.93, Bhowanipore 60.01 and Calcutta Port 64.09. High minority turnout Another trend — consistent with the earlier phases of Bengal elections this time — was the high turnout in the minority-dominated areas. “Districts such as Murshidabad, Malda and South Dinajpur, with a high percentage of minority voters, recorded higher polling percentage and these places can even surpass their average voter turnout. Even Calcutta Port, with many minority voters, recorded the highest voter turnout in the city. This may give a hint that ruling Trinamul would be in a better position in these Assembly segments,” said a political observer. Lower turnout in Calcutta till 5pm was attributed to lower participation of people in highrises. “This will surely help Trinamul as people living in these highrises are generally believed to be BJP voters,” said political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty. Campaigning for the eighth and final phase of elections, to be held on Thursday, also ended at 6.30pm on Monday. Thirty-five seats will go to polls on Thursday. Sitalkuchi repoll Repolling at booth 5/126 of Sitalkuchi Assembly seat of Cooch Behar will be held on April 29, the eighth and final phase of Bengal polls. Polling was halted here on April 10 when central forces opened fire to disperse a crowd, which left four youths dead. On Monday, Pawan Kadyan, the district magistrate and district election officer of Cooch Behar, said he had received instructions from the EC to conduct the polls at the booth on April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee casts vote at Mitra Institution in Bhowanipore||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee cast her vote at Mitra Institution in Bhowanipore, Calcutta, on Monday. Mamata, a two-term legislator from Bhowanipore, arrived at the polling station around 3.52pm amid loud cheers from local people who had gathered at the booth, where she had always voted. A wooden ramp, sources in the local administration said, had been set up for the wheelchair-bound chief minister. Mamata didn’t speak to journalists waiting at the entrance, but paused twice — once before entering the booth and again while coming out of it — to pose for photos. She displayed the victory sign on both the occasions, which sources close to her said was her confidence that she would return as the chief minister for the third time in a row. This time, Mamata’s close aide and long-time colleague Sovandeb Chatterjee has been fielded from Bhowanipore as she nominated herself as the Trinamul candidate from Nandigram to take on turncoat Suvendu Adhikari. The BJP has fielded another Trinamul turncoat and actor Rudranil Ghosh against Chatterjee. Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, a voter of the Ballygunge segment, didn’t cast his vote on Monday owing to health complications. Bhattacharjee has been suffering from respiratory problems for the past few years and couldn't exercise his franchise during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls either. Bhattacharjee’s wife Mira and daughter Suchetana cast their votes at the Pathabhavan School. “His health condition isn't suitable for him to cast his vote. Nothing can be done in that case,” Mira told journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Couple travels from Ayodhya to Bengal for oxygen||A middle-aged couple from Uttar Pradesh travelled 850km to Bengal and got admitted to a private hospital in Chinsurah after six hospitals turned them away in their home state, citing an oxygen scarcity that chief minister Yogi Adityanath refuses to admit. The couple are from Ayodhya, the theatre of the BJP’s ascent that is set to have a Ram temple to satisfy the party’s ambitions but whose people, like their peers elsewhere in Uttar Pradesh, find life-saving oxygen hard to come by in a crisis. Sources said Lalji Yadav, 50, and wife Rekha, 48, had begun their journey from Ayodhya by ambulance on Thursday after relatives in Mogra, Hooghly, advised them to come to Bengal and arranged two hospital beds in nearby Chinsurah. It was late Friday night when the couple arrived at the Ajanta Seva Sadan Hospital in Chinsurah. Hospital authorities said the patients were “gasping for breath” when they came. On Monday evening, Ajanta Seva Sadan officials said Lalji was critical but Rekha was recovering. Rekha’s brother Ravi Shankar Yadav, a Mogra resident, cited the incident as a cautionary tale about BJP rule at a time Bengal has just one phase of voting left before the Assembly poll results are announced on May 2. “I couldn’t have saved my sister and brother-in-law if I were not living in Bengal. I thank the state government and our Didi; our Bengal is far better than Uttar Pradesh,” Ravi Shankar said. Adityanath has consistently denied an oxygen shortage in his state and accused hospitals that publicise the crisis of “spreading panic”. He has asked his administration to crack down on these hospitals, a senior health official told this newspaper on Monday. Both Ravi Shankar, a garment trader, and Rekha were brought up in Bengal after their father migrated to the state from Uttar Pradesh. Rekha was married off to Lalji 28 years ago. Family sources said Lalji and Rekha had had fever and a cough for more than 10 days. They developed severe breathing problems a few days ago despite testing negative for Covid at a health centre. On Thursday, they informed Ravi Shankar about the scarcity of oxygen and hospital beds in Uttar Pradesh. He immediately asked them to come over and contacted Ajanta Seva Sadan. “My sister and brother-in-law visited at least six hospitals (in Uttar Pradesh) but none would provide oxygen support to them. But here, in my state, I managed two beds within minutes,” Ravi Shankar said. “They hired an ambulance at a cost of Rs 60,000 and arrived here on Friday evening, after travelling nearly 24 hours.” Rekha said from her hospital bed that she and Lalji had “suffered without treatment” in their home state. She said the oxygen was so minimal in the ambulance that the couple had to ration it through their long journey. “The low oxygen supply in the ambulance led to the deterioration in my husband’s condition,” she said. Ravi Shankar said: “Bengal is a hundred times better than any other state, including Uttar Pradesh. It’s pathetic that my relatives had to travel 850km by road to Bengal to receive treatment. I want to thank my state government for the infrastructure it has to combat Covid.” Ravi Shankar cast doubt on the testing process in Uttar Pradesh, too. “Just think, they were officially Covid-negative in Uttar Pradesh despite the severe symptoms but turned positive when tested in Bengal,” he said. Rekha said: “We were denied treatment at every hospital we went to and had no option other than coming to Bengal, my mother’s birthplace. We were saved only because we reached Bengal.” Ajanta Seva Sadan officials said a patient who had earlier been treated for Covid at the hospital had contacted them on Thursday and sought two beds with oxygen facilities. Since the beds were available, the hospital asked that the patients be brought immediately. “We had no idea that the patients were coming from Uttar Pradesh. Only after they arrived did we learn the entire story,” said Sanjoy Sinha, owner of Ajanta Seva Sadan, a 50-bed Covid hospital. “It’s pathetic that the couple, who were gasping for breath, had to travel almost 24 hours because their state government failed to provide them oxygen.” Sinha added: “We are feeling proud to have been able to provide treatment to patients from Uttar Pradesh. We are proud that other states are now depending on Bengal, and we have proved we have good healthcare facilities.” Ravi Shankar said the only thing he needed now was a single dose of remdesivir for Lalji that the hospital had on Monday asked him to procure amid a countrywide scarcity of the drug. “I’m looking. I’m sure I’ll get it soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: State BJP defends  Election Commission nod to political rallies||The Bengal BJP on Monday sprang to a gallant defence of the Election Commission of India — which had not yet defended itself — in the wake of scathing criticism in a Madras High Court observation about the Covid-19 second wave. The high court had slammed the EC for allowing political rallies amid the deadly second wave of Covid-19, holding the poll panel “singularly responsible” for the increasing numbers of infections across the country. The court observed that poll panel officials should be booked on “murder charges, probably”. In response, Bengal BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya did a U-turn of his normal non-controversial  style to issue a statement alleging a “conspiracy” and accusing the high court of echoing the Trinamul Congress. He lamented how the Indian judiciary was “tainted” and demanded investigation. “Is there an election ongoing in Brazil? In Germany? In Holland? In London? In Maharashtra? In Punjab? In Haryana? In Jharkhand?” asked Bhattacharya, questioning the timing of the observation by Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee of Madras High Court. “I’m saying this with full respect for the judiciary, this statement has tainted the entire judicial system. What the Trinamul Congress says in Bengal and what Madras High Court has said in its statement are almost set to the same tune. There must be an investigation into it,” said the BJP’s Rajarhat-Gopalpur candidate. “The judiciary has been set up for the people, courts have been set up for the people. Not the other way round. The place of democracy is the highest. Everywhere democracy will win,” said Bhattacharya. “The second wave… whatever artificial little crisis there is, is thanks to sections with vested interests, whom the incapable state government has not been able to act against…. That is being misutilised for the sake of petty politics amid ongoing elections,” he added. “What the court has said is extremely disheartening.... This is a conspiracy. I think the Supreme Court, if need be, will take suo motu action against this conspiracy.” Sections within the BJP state unit admitted in private that such a reaction from the party in defence of the poll panel, at a time it has repeatedly been accused of colluding with the party, was perhaps best avoided. “With such reactions, we are only legitimising Mamata Banerjee’s allegations against the commission of being hand in glove with us,” said a state  BJP functionary. Other BJP sources said Bhattacharya was following orders from “the very top”. They said the party’s stand was based on a Supreme Court judgment of 1954, where it purportedly said only an election tribunal and no other court — including the Supreme Court itself — could decide on disputes regarding elections to the Parliament or state legislatures. BJP chief J.P. Nadda, in Bengal for campaigning on Monday, indirectly urged the court to “keep in mind the dignity of sentences and words”. “This isn’t an order, I believe this is an observation… a comment that they’ve made,” said Nadda. “This is a constitutional obligation (conducting the polls) which the EC has to fulfill, and they are doing so,” he added. “...I have only one request… be it any institution, or the people sitting in that institution… they should keep in mind the dignity of sentences and words….” Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has been accusing the EC of having worsened the pandemic here with eight-phase elections, welcomed the observation. “First of all, I would like to welcome the Madras High Court’s observation. Madras High Court has very clearly said the Election Commission cannot avoid its responsibilities…. We had also repeatedly said so,” Mamata said. “We saw the Covid-19 spike from the third phase (of polls), we kept urging the commission to club the remaining phases. The commission kept refusing (as did the BJP)…. The second wave’s proportions are all because of the Prime Minister and the Union home minister’s desperation to conquer Bengal… coupled with the commission’s refusal to do the needful despite the alarm bells,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid surge: Mirik's Sumendu Lake will be closed from Tuesday||Sumendu Lake, the top tourist attraction in Mirik, will be closed from Tuesday, making it the first major tourist point to be closed in north Bengal after the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic. The lake is managed by Mirik municipality. L.B. Rai, chairman of the civic body, said: “We have decided to close the gates of the lake from tomorrow (Tuesday) as part of our effort to contain the spread of the virus.” The civic chairman said Mirik had recorded 11 Covid-19 positive cases in a single day on Monday. “Tourists are coming, local residents are also gathering (near the lake). This is why we decided to close the lake as it is the top draw among the tourists in Mirik,” said Rai. No government agency in Bengal has declared “a closure” yet. On April 19, the tourism department of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) had decided to close down all lodges and tourist spots under its authority but the order was withdrawn within hours the same day. There are around 30-odd properties including popular spots like Gangamaya Park in Darjeeling and lodges like Deolo in Kalimpong and Kurseong Tourist Lodge under the GTA tourism department. Sources said that there was “some confusion” in interpreting the intent of senior GTA officials as a result of which the closure order was “erroneously” issued. As of now there is no restriction on tourist travel in Bengal. However, from Monday noon, it is mandatory for flight passengers to have a negative Covid report, conducted 72 hours prior to departure, for those arriving from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana. Sikkim norms In the neighbouring state of Sikkim, no tourist point has been closed as yet but all tourists entering the state have to produce RT-PCR test 72-hour prior to departure. “However, those tourists whose 72-hour RT-PCR test has expired have to undertake a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) either at Rango, Melli (entry points) and Pakyong airport,” said a source. Travellers to Sikkim must register themselves in www.sikkimtourism.gov.in, the state tourism web portal. From Monday, residents of Sikkim entering the state will also have to produce a 72-hour RT-PCR test report. “If they fail to produce the report, they will have to go in for 10 days of quarantine either at home or at a paid centre,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: East Midnapore residents reel under drinking water crisis ||Over a lakh residents from East Midnapore’s 25 blocks are reeling under a drinking water crisis for the past fortnight but officials can’t implement solutions to it as the model code of conduct is in place in view of the lengthy eight-phase Bengal elections. People in Nandigram, Khejuri, Ramnagar, Bhagabanpur, Potashpur and parts of Contai are facing one of the worst water crises in the middle of a scorching summer and the pandemic. Elections in these places ended nearly a month ago, but as the model code of conduct stays in place till May 2, when results are announced, neither the panchayat authorities nor public health and engineering department who are tasked with drinking water supply here, can repair or install pumps and pipelines. Drinking water is mainly sourced from hand pumps in this area, and less commonly through motorised submersible pumps which feed pipelines in the area. However, groundwater level has gone down, like it does every summer. Pumps and pipelines need to be repaired or replaced, which comes under the ambit of tenders that are forbidden till the model code is in place. “Our elections ended weeks ago but we are still suffering from election restrictions and many of us have to lug buckets of water for a kilometre or more,” said Piyush Panda, 60, a farmer from Uttar Lakhi village where most tube wells can’t pump water anymore. “Women are using dirty pond water for cooking and washing the dishes. We are used to the problem of drinking water every summer but are not used to not having it resolved soon,” he added. Panda's fate is shared by several residents of neighbouring villages, where panchayat and zilla parishad authorities said they were aware of the problem and had petitioned district authorities “repeatedly” for two weeks to take some action. “But our hands are tied owing to the model code,” said one panchayat member. Zila parishad functionary and Trinamul nominee from Khejuri Partha Pratim Das admitted that “work was hard to get done during the elections”. “We have informed the district administration regarding the problem but they have not responded,” he said. Another senior Trinamul worker said public health and engineering officials were supposed to connect 10,000 new households with piped water but could not do so because of the elections. Asked, executive district engineer (Tamluk), Shaktipada Mondal, said: “We had contacted the departments concerned on the water crisis on April 1 but as far as we are aware no clearances have been granted. We are looking into temporary solutions to alleviate people’s problems for the time being.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Surge in Covid cases prompt Jalpaiguri officials to draw up new plans for May 2  ||The nationwide spike in Covid-19 cases has prompted officials of the Jalpaiguri district administration to draw up new plans to curb the spread of the contagion at the district’s three counting centres. On May 2, along with the rest of the state, votes of seven Assembly constituencies of the district would be counted in these centres. “Keeping in mind the current scenario, we have made some new plans to minimise the risk of infection in all the three counting centres,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri. “In each centre, sanitisation would be carried out every hour. Alarms would be installed to remind the concerned staff that they need to sanitise the counting centre premises. Also, it has been decided that transparent plastic sheets would be put in between seats at the centre where counting personnel, agents of political parties and officials would be present,” she said. She also said that a proposal to use “bust size” PPE kits — PPEs that cover the head and the shoulders — have been sent to the Election Commission. “If we get the approval, such kits will be provided to the counting staff and each of them has to use it when they count the votes,” the district magistrate added. In Jalpaiguri district, counting of votes of four seats (Dabgram-Fulbari, Rajganj, Jalpaiguri and Dhupguri) will be carried out at the second campus of North Bengal University that is located on the outskirts of the town. The counting of Maynaguri seat will be held at the campus of the Netaji Open University that is next to the second campus of NBU. “The third counting centre of the district is the Parimal Mitra College in Malbazar where counting of votes for Mal and Nagrakata seats will be carried out,” said a source in the administration. There will be 600 counting staff at all three centres. The largest counting centre will, however, be the North Bengal University second campus, so more personnel will be engaged there in comparision with the other two. “Initially, it was planned to count votes in 20-odd tables in a single round for each constituency. But to ensure adequate distance among the tables, it has been decided to reduce the number of tables. The final decision would be taken soon according to the recommendations of the Election Commission,” the source added. The administration has prepared a list of counting personnel who would be kept in reserve. In case any person or team is found to be infected with the contagion, the teams in reserve would be engaged. Oxygen supply plan The increase in the number of Covid-19 patients has made the Jalpaiguri district administration and the district health department install a network of pipelines so that medical oxygen can be directly given to patients who are under treatment at Covid hospitals that have been opened at the Biswa Bangla Kriranjan of the town and also at the night shelter of super-specialty hospital. The oxygen facility, sources said, would be available in 400-odd beds of these places. “Liquid oxygen would be stored in tanks at these hospitals from where it would be supplied to the beds through the network of pipelines,” said Godara Basu, the district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Restrictions between India-Bangla borders put Bangladeshis in a quandary||The sudden restriction on movement of people through land borders between India and Bangladesh put hundreds of Bangladeshis — most of whom had come to Calcutta on medical visa — in a quandary as they were not allowed to enter their country through the Petrapole-Benapole border on Monday. On Sunday, the Bangladesh Deputy High Commission in Calcutta issued a circular — following instructions from the foreign ministry in Dhaka —announcing that movement of foreigners and Bangladeshi citizens through all common borders between the two countries would remain suspended for two weeks from April 26 to May 9 “in view of the recent upsurge of the second wave of Covid-19” in Bangladesh and India”. The circular also stated that Bangladeshi nationals whose visa was close to expiry within the suspended period would be allowed to return on submission of a Covid negative report and subsequently by obtaining a ‘No Objection’ certificate from the Deputy High Commission’s office in Calcutta. Unaware of the sudden change in the immigration norms, a large number of Bangladeshi nationals gathered at the Petrapole immigration centre on Monday morning and they were not allowed to enter their country. “I came to know about the order only early this morning. A large number of people from Bangladesh came to India on medical visas. Our Deputy High Commission should have alerted us ahead with at least two days’ time so that we could have enough time to return. But people mostly accompanying patients don’t know where and how they would stay during this suspended period,” said Mohammed Habibur Rahaman, a Bangladeshi who reached India for the treatment of one of his relatives. “I appeal to the Bangladesh government to be kind enough and to allow us a minimum time to return home to save the life of the patients whom we brought to India for treatment,” Ramahan added. Another Bangladeshi citizen said: “Many of us are also running out of money after paying the cost of treatment as they came with serious patients. How could our authorities be so unkind to these patients?” The Bangladeshi nationals repeatedly appealed to the Indian Immigration authorities to take up their matter with the counterparts in the neighbouring countries. Tarun Biswas, chief immigration officer at Petrapole, said: “We are helpless. It is the Bangladeshi authorities who sealed the border.” An official at the Bangladesh Deputy High Commission in Calcutta said: “We have no directive for allowing people in general to cross the border. Only in some exceptions may permission be granted to return. People with visa expiring shortly will be considered to return on obtaining no-objection certificate and following the Covid protocol.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
27-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Sporadic incidents of violence erupts in small pockets||The seventh phase of the protracted eight-phase Bengal elections was largely peaceful, but sporadic incidents of violence did occur before or through voting day. Bomb kills student In the jute mill belt of North 24-Parganas, which had gone to the polls in the sixth phase, a first-year BA student was killed late on Sunday by a bomb, prompting outrage by residents of the area. The victim, Anurag Shaw, 20, an Indian army aspirant, was targeted by unidentified attackers with a crude bomb. The explosive hurled at Shaw landed on his shoulder. Drink raises brows The BJP has filed a complaint with the Election Commission, accusing the presiding officer of Banskopa polling station, under Durgapur East constituency, of having a drink with a Trinamul leader’s husband on the banks of a pond on Sunday night. Voter protest Over 1,200 voters at Harishpur village of Andal in the Pandabeswar Assembly seat abstained from voting on Monday to protest the “apathy” of the local administration regarding their proposed rehabilitation. Several residents of the village had last year their houses and land cracking up owing to nearby mining activities. Sources said the state government and the ECIL assured them of rehabilitation, but no action was taken. TMC on central forces Trinamul in Durgapur East constituency alleged that central force personnel ransacked one of its party offices, located 1km away from a polling station. Party sources alleged that a central force team arrived at the office and ransacked it when workers were preparing food on Monday afternoon, beat up the workers and locked up the building. A complaint was later lodged at Kanksa police station. In the same seat, Trinamul alleged false voting by the BJP, backed by central forces, at the Vidyasagar school polling station. They alleged that BJP workers offered the personnel drinks and incentivised them into false voting.  In Durgapur West, Trinamul accused central forces of ransacking its campaign office and beating up party workers at ward 22 in Durgapur town. Trinamul candidate Biswanath Pariyal rushed to the spot and sought a clarification from personnel about the alleged act. A complaint was registered with the Election Commission. In Malipara village, under Raninagar assembly constituency, Trinamul alleged that the central forces ransacked the home of Trinamul leader Mizan Hasan and assaulted women family members of the leader. Trinamul filed a police complaint later. Trinamul leader Rubel Ali had to be admitted to the Nabagram Rural Hospital on Monday after he was allegedly beaten by a team of central force personnel in Nimgram area, under Nabagram constituency. Asked about the incident, Rubel said, “My only fault was that I introduced myself as a Trinamul worker.” A police complaint has been registered. Cap controversy BJP candidate from Asansol South constituency, Agnimitra Paul, forcibly removed the cap of a Trinamul agent at the Baktanagar polling station after spotting a sticker with the ruling party emblem on it. Paul also lodged a complaint with the Election Commission, accusing the agent of influencing voters. Thrash complaint The BJP candidate from Gangarampur seat, Satyendra Nath Roy, lodged a complaint with the Election Commission and South Dinajpur district police claiming that one of his polling agents was picked up by a police team from their home and beaten up. Police refused to clarify the reason behind the detention of the agent. Attack finger A Trinamul worker and his wife were allegedly attacked with sharp weapons by miscreants, with suspected Congress links, while going to cast votes in the Chanchal area of Malda. Asked, Congress sources denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
