28-04-2021||West Bengal||Builders of Bengal: Kazi Nazrul Islam ||Kazi Nazrul Islam, known as Nazrul, was a leading Bengali poet remembered for his fiery words, restless, radical spirit and strident criticism of the British empire. He composed and set to music a large body of songs, called Nazrulgeeti, still a vital part of Bengali culture. When he was only 43, an illness deprived him of both his speech and memory, a condition he lived with till his death three decades later. He abhorred bigotry in every form. Nazrul was born into a Bengali Muslim Kazi family in Churulia in Burdwan district. Initially he received a religious education and worked as a muezzin at a local mosque in his early youth. He was part of a Letor Dal, a group that performed Leto, a kind of folk music. He worked for the British Indian Army from 1917 to 1920, rising from corporal to havildar, and was posted in the Karachi Cantonment. During this period, he read the great writers, from Tagore to Hafez. Nazrul had studied Bengali, Sanskrit, Arabic and Persian earlier and had also learnt Hindustani classical music, though he did not have a formal degree in education. After his army stint, he came to Calcutta and became a journalist, which he would remain for many years. Mukti was the title of Nazrul’s first published poem (1919), brought out by Bangiya Mussalman Sahitya Samiti. From 1922, he edited Dhumketu, a bi-weekly magazine. Nazrul worked closely with other young Muslim writers. Tagore remained a major influence on him, though Nazrul’s style was vastly different — rhetorical, declamatory, impassioned and unconcerned about formal niceties. His most famous work, the poem Bidrohi (The rebel), was published in 1922. His first anthology of poems was also published. He was charged with sedition and imprisoned by the British in 1923 for a few months. He was as critical of the Khilafat movement for its “religious fundamentalism” as he was of the Indian National Congress for its religious orthodoxies and soft position on the British. He fell in love with Pramila Debi, a resident of Cumilla (now in Bangladesh), and married her in 1924. The marriage was controversial because of religious difference. For some time he lived in Krishnanagar with his wife and young son, Bulbul. He brought to Bengali music many different styles: from classical to folk. Nazrul reintroduced the ghazal in Bengali songs and used Arabic and Persian words significantly. At the same time, he wrote Shyamasangeet, songs devoted to Kali, which still remain very popular. He co-directed the 1934 film Dhruva, composed music for it and played the character of Narada in it. He composed music for other films such as Mukti, Vidyapati and Tagore’s Gora. He suffered several tragedies in his personal life. He had four sons. The two elder sons died when they were very young. His wife suffered paralysis at a young age and would die before him. His illness was diagnosed as Pick’s disease, an irreversible neurodegenerative disorder, by a leading surgeon in Vienna, where his friends had sent him by raising money. Only his third son survived him. He spent many years in a Ranchi psychiatric hospital. In 1972, the new nation of Bangladesh brought Nazrul to Dhaka as a resident with consent from India and conferred on him the status of national poet. In 1976, he was made a Bangladeshi citizen His sons were named Krishna Mohammad, Arindam Khaled (Bulbul), Kazi Sabyasachi and Kazi Aniruddha. The names are a clue to his beliefs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Vote to  revive  glory||Name: Debasish Biswas Occupation: University teacher Age: 56 Education: PhD in economics, LLB Annual income: Rs 10 lakh Size of family: Wife and 20-year-old son Assembly seat: Raiganj, North Dinajpur Is there any one issue that is deciding how you will vote? Yes, there is the all-important issue of reviving the lost glory of Bengal through proper governance. The rule of law has to be reinstated. Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016? If so, why? Of course I will. After the mindless, well-orchestrated torching of railway coaches and ticket counters in December 2019 in different parts of Bengal in the name of anti-CAA protests, I have become apprehensive about the future of the state. The brazen declaration of leaders of the ruling dispensation that illegal collections must be shared with the party has only reinforced the conviction of people like us to stick to our earlier choice. Three things Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you? One, Setting up new universities. Two, setting up infrastructure for dialysis in Raiganj. Three, introduction of e-governance, though partially. Three things Mamata has done that hurt you? One, unleashing a reign of terror at educational institutions. Raiganj University has been the worst affected. Two, absolute institutionalisation of corruption in all spheres of administration. Three, unabashed appeasement of a section of religious minority leaders. Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? She is serving the neo-elites who have amassed wealth unscrupulously. People like (deposit mobilisation company owners) Sudipta Sen, Goutam Kundu and Binoy Mishra had all been operating with the blessings of those close to her. What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? Her every step seems fishy. “Pishi-culture” is just a part of it. Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefited you? One, the introduction of GST in 2017 has made our country more investment friendly. Two, the biggest socio-political movement — the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Three, fighting Covid-19 boldly and making vaccines available for all of us. Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you? One, the introduction of Rs 2,000 currency notes after demonetisation. Two, lack of initiatives to curb petrol prices. Three, non-availability of free LPG for all poor families. Is Modi working for his cronies? Most of his programmes are for the common people. The Ujjwala Yojana, Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and the PM Mudra Yojana to name a few, are for the poorer sections of the society.... Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? It is changing for the better no doubt. The goons who ruled the roost on the campuses of educational institutions are less aggressive these days. The new education policy (of the Centre) is going to be a ray of hope for upcoming generations. Even after the Covid-19 tsunami, our economy has bounced back. Last but not the least, the chief minister has started chanting Hindu mantras in public. I am feeling good. What do you think about the Left’s chances and about its alliance? There have been many changes in the Left. It shows their political bankruptcy when they have to clutch at the straw of mild radical Muslim fanaticism. They are playing second fiddle to the ruling party (in Bengal). Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? Definitely, a big yes. It is possible for the wonderful residents of Raiganj. I have seen common people fighting natural calamities like floods with profound conviction and togetherness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Caught in a war that pits every community against another ||With the BJP entrenched in Bengal, the real picture of the state has undergone a radical transformation. War zones and battle lines have been marked out, and even the Bengal Renaissance is up for grabs. What possibly could be the future of Bengal when both the contenders try to win over Tagore and Vivekananda? Eminent social scientist Ranabir Samaddar focuses on the battle and Bengal’s change as well as future. That was of course the age of innocence. Social faultlines were clearly marked, and the task of social transformation seemed fairly straight, though not simple. We felt that revolutionary will along with a correct class analysis of Indian society and a correct analysis of the Indian State will take us along the path of revolution. Now, evidently, we know that the revolutionary will was simply not enough, and our analysis, though it had quite a few strong points, failed on many counts. Today, the rise of the corporate class, the specific nature of social transformation of India, the growth of the organised sector and the masses of unorganised workers, primitive accumulation, nature of the evolution of caste as a factor in politics and economy, the emergence of cities as nodal points of logistics, and many other things tell us of a society and a country that we could not foresee in the mid-sixties and late-sixties. Yet, it is also true, that the BJP replacing the Congress as the main party of the Right is not an artificial outcome. The social map of the emergence of the BJP in Bengal tells us of the faultlines on the basis of which the party has acquired mass following. We must not also ignore the specific political and administrative tools deployed by the BJP here. They tell us of a different model of a general power that has emerged all over India. However, on one count, which is most important to me, is the fact that the sixties were certainly a time of war and our present-day reality is also experiencing a war of a different kind. The actors only have changed. Drawing a straight genealogy beginning with the Hindu Mahasabha and the Jana Sangh gives us some clue to the BJP’s current acceptability, but if we stress that too much we shall miss the specifics of this time. Take the refugee colonies. With the advance of globalisation and neo-liberalism, urban economy and politics have transformed noticeably. Land ownership in these erstwhile colonies, urban development, growth of the service sector, etc., have made a significant section of the population of these areas susceptible to neo-rich ideologies openly espoused by the Right. The dream of the Hindu Rashtra gains strength with the advance of this neoliberalism. The old unity of nationalism and liberalism, as was evident in Rabindranath’s Gora, does not work anymore. Monetarism, neoliberalism and globalisation have combined to turn the quest into a kind of nationalism that survives on hatred. In many cases refugees, particularly their later generations, became the flag bearers of hatred and revenge. The refugee as the flag bearer of the religious Right is not something new. Do not forget Israel. Usually they turn against minorities. It is a big challenge to emancipative politics as to how to combat hatred that has made many sections of the population subjects of a distinct kind of politics. One thing is sure: synthetic secularism will not be able to mount this struggle. The refugee colonies are a big testimony. But why blame the refugee colonies only? This you will find in so-called settled areas too. There were quite a few slogans in the past. They were battle cries of the insurgents. You can recall slogans like “Death to class enemies”, or “Long live the revolution” or “The decade of seventies will be the decade of liberation”. The slogan of this time, you mention, is also a war cry. It too aims at mobilising the followers for war — a war against supposed internal enemies, enemies of the nation, the enemies of the people. But we must not be surprised. As I said, Bengal is once again in the throes of a social war, almost transforming into a civil war. Each community is sought to be pitted against another, thus Hindus against Muslims, Indians against the immigrants, citizens against those who are considered as aliens, Matuas against Namasudras, Namasudras against other Dalits, Dalits against Muslims, indigenous people against settlers, and not to forget now, that a gender war has also been unleashed in Bengal. Your question is interesting. Therefore allow me to take it to a different direction. The question offers a different window to the question of legacy. Significantly, the famed Bengal Renaissance is once again a site of contest. The Bengal Renaissance by itself carries no authentic truth. The interesting point is why and when did we think that the Bengal Renaissance carries a truth — a story of progress. As you know, the highly educated Bengalis scoffed at the populists when the populists and their administration claimed that the nineteenth century was the historical basis of a new Bengal they want to build. So Tagore’s songs were sung at traffic junctions to keep the impatient pedestrians from getting down on the roads violating traffic signals. Likewise, the birthdays of Swami Vivekananda and other luminaries of the nineteenth century began to be observed. New figures, hitherto ignored, were added to the hall of fame. The nineteenth century and the Bengal Renaissance became, at least in the populist project, the foundation of an “eternal Bengal” that is home to all, and protects all. Now you may have Hindu devotees of Tagore, though to be truthful, Hindu leaders in Tagore’s lifetime did not like him so much as he was a Brahmo and belonged to a Brahmin family of lower order. More importantly, they did not like his views on Hindu-Muslim unity, stories on women in Bengal, etc. He was too much of a modernist for the Hindu babus of his time. But who cares for history? Today the Renaissance is a legacy that the Right must get hold of. To be nationalist in Bengal, the Renaissance must be shown as belonging to “us”. For the revival of Bengal’s glory, as the Right puts it, the claim to the nineteenth century must be made and secured. The stakes are really high. The populists will not leave an inch in this battle over Bengal Renaissance. Realistically speaking, I do not envisage the contentious time we are passing through will end very soon. The elections will be over in one way or another, but be sure, Bengal will see an exacerbation of contentions along lines of caste, wealth, language, religion. The contradiction between neoliberal authoritarian power, on the one hand trying to reorient the polity along an extreme religious-nationalist line, and the populist forces ensconced in the states and localities, on the other hand, defending the unorganised sections of labouring classes against the depredations of globalisation and pursuing policies of protection will sharpen further. We shall see a further rise in social conflicts. The social war is on; indeed, it has turn almost into a civil war. Perhaps on the occasion of the next Lok Sabha elections we may witness the next phase of the war, or even earlier. The radical change is not that a party of the Right has gained a stronghold here, but that contradictions have sharpened, the situation is radicalised. This new Bengal is like France in Europe. Marx had said somewhere, France is the land where politics is carried to its extreme. The challenge is, can the populists as the weaker party in the war that I am speaking of here survive in politics, make detours, maintain flexibility, but not surrender and carry on the battle? Possibly, we shall see a head-to-head confrontation in the near future. Given the all-India disposition of the Opposition forces, any head-to-head confrontation may have adverse consequences for the populists. It is a tough, protracted war that is intensifying everyday, particularly in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Kin’s Covid tag stirs poll pot||Political parties in parts of Bengal have started lodging complaints against rivals with Covid-positive kin in a bid to keep them off poll activities ahead of the final phase. In Birbhum, the BJP lodged a complaint against Trinamul leader Sibnath Hazra, accusing him of having participated in campaigns despite his wife and daughter being infected with the virus. Trinamul lodged a complaint against BJP’s Sainthia candidate Piya Saha, asking to stop her campaign as her husband tested positive. The block development officer and assistant returning officer of Sainthia Assembly constituency, Swati Dutta Mukherjee, sent a notice to Trinamul leader Hazra, asking him to get tested and stay isolated till his report arrives. Hazra accused the administration of bias. He also lodged a complaint with Dutta Mukherjee, saying she did not send a similar letter to Saha. BDO Dutta Mukherjee said she had sent a similar letter to the BJP candidate as well. Saha said she has been self-isolating for two days and was not planning to go out during polling on Thursday. She added she was yet to get tested in the absence of symptoms. Amid an exponential surge in the second wave of the pandemic, many south Bengal districts have started cracking down on those flouting safety norms, with hundreds of cases against political parties and organisers of social events like weddings and individuals. In Murshidabad and Birbhum, where elections are due on Thursday, police have initiated cases against around a hundred political leaders for crowds in campaigns. Nagendra Nath Tripathi, Birbhum’s poll panel-appointed police chief, said around 60 cases were initiated in the district, most of them against political parties. “We have started cases under the Disaster Management Act against organisers of political rallies. Cases against individuals have also been started,” said Tripathi. In Hooghly, police filed around 160 cases, including against the organiser of a wedding ceremony, for violating Covid-19 norms. “We have already started a case against a wedding gathering in Serampore…,” said Gaurav Sharma, the Chandernagore police commissioner. In East Midnapore, 326 persons were arrested in the past 24 hours for violating Covid-19 safety norms such as not wearing masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC bans victory processions on counting day||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday banned all victory processions on May 2 when results would be announced in Bengal and other states where polls were held and restricted to two the number of people who could accompany the winner candidates to collect certificates. The twin decisions came a day after the poll panel had been held “singularly responsible” by Madras High Court for the novel coronavirus resurgence in India. “No victory procession after the counting on 2.5.2021 shall be permissible…Not more than two persons shall be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or his/her authorised representative receive the certificate of election from the Returning Officer concerned,” a letter issued by the EC in favour of chief electoral officers of all states and Union territories read. The EC has also decided to increase the number of counting centres to 705 from 385 in Bengal in the wake of the coronavirus upsurge. The decision was taken during a video conference meeting of Bengal CEO Ariz Aftab, district magistrates and other polling officials on Monday. Sources said the number of counting venues were being doubled in order to ensure social distancing among the officials. “The CEO has asked us to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 protocols. Masks and sanitizers are must at the counting centres. To ensure social distancing, the number of centres are also being increased,” an official in the commission told The Telegraph. The new decisions, a source said, were taken as a section of polling officials was reluctant to report to counting duty in the backdrop of sudden rise in Covid-19 cases among officials and central force jawans. On Tuesday, Abdullah Naser (40), an employee of the CEO office at Calcutta, died and he was reportedly suffering from Covid-19. The turnout in the CEO’s office has dropped by 10 per cent in the wake of the uptick in the caseload. Two Election Commission observers in Murshidabad contracted the disease on Tuesday. “The commission had replaced the observers, who had tested positive for Covid, for poll duty. But many are contracting coronavirus after joining their duties. Replacing them is becoming difficult,” a source said. “We still have the last phase of the polls and the counting due. We poll workers face the risk of contraction,” this person added. The BJP lauded the EC’s ban on victory processions. BJP national chief J.P. Nadda sent out a direction to all BJP state units to strictly adhere to the norms. “I welcome the decision of the ECI banning celebrations and processions of electoral victories. I have directed all state units of BJP to strictly adhere to this decision. All karyakartas (workers) of BJP are using their energies to help the ones in need in the hour of crisis,” Nadda tweeted. Although the Trinamul Congress welcomed the EC’s decision, party spokesperson and MP Saugata Roy reminded that his party had taken a “political decision” to refrain from victory processions in 2011 itself. “If (the EC) can actually implement the ban they’ve announced, then good… (But) let the EC first ensure peace during the counting. Why are they talking about what happens later?” Roy added. Calcutta High Court asked the EC to ensure that the ban on processions was strictly adhered to. The interim order was passed by the division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee, which is hearing multiple litigations related to the issue of polls during the pandemic. The division bench has also sought a report from the state government on the status of beds and other medical facilities available at hospitals across Bengal. The government has to submit the report on May 2. Around 450 police personnel from Darjeeling district sat on NH12 in Malda town on Tuesday evening as they did not find accommodation and food. They had arrived in Malda to join duties during the eighth and final phase of the Assembly polls on April 29. After disembarking from buses near Pallishree Club, they squatted on the highway with luggage as none from district police was present to guide them. As a result, traffic came to a halt on the highway. Malda district administration officials arrived and shifted the police personnel to different places. “The police personnel did not block the road. All necessary arrangements have been made for them,” said Malda district police chief Alok Rajoria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission puts TMC’s Anubrata Mondal under strict surveillance||The Election Commission of India issued an order to keep Trinamul Congress’s Birbhum district chief Anubrata Mondal under strict surveillance from Tuesday 5pm to Friday 7am. Eleven seats in Birbhum are among the 35 to go for polling on Thursday, the last day of the eight-phase Bengal polls. “I am directed to state that in view of serious complaints and feedback received from various sources and as per the report of DEO (district election officer) and SP Birbhum, the commission has directed that Shri Anubrata Mondal, district president of AITC, Birbhum, should be kept under strict surveillance of Executive Magistrate and CAPF, round the clock from 5.00pm of April 27 till April 30, 2021, for ensuring free and fair elections as we had done during Assembly election in 2016 and the Lok Sabha election in 2019,” read a statement by Rakesh Kumar, a secretary of the EC, issued on Tuesday. A deputy magistrate, four central force personnel and a videographer will be with Mondal to monitor every activity of his. After the order was issued, Mondal said it had become a “predictable routine”. “I am used to it now. I am not worried about surveillance. I will do my work and they (the poll commission) will keep a watch,” he said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who anticipated the possibility of a re-run of the EC’s surveillance this time too, had told Mondal publicly on Saturday that he should move court if it happened this time. Mamata said it was “illegal” to keep any person under surveillance repeatedly and had asked Mondal — addressing him by his nickname Keshto — to seek protection from the court. Asked if he would move court following Mamata’s advice, Mondal said: “I will discuss it with her.” One of Mondal’s close aides said the leader was unwell and it was not certain if he would tour the district this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Special security for Nandigram on May 2||The Election Commission of India has deployed a company of central forces for Nandigram — the Assembly seat with the biggest prestige battle between chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari — to avoid any untoward incident during or after counting of votes on May 2. The district police have also set up five police camps in Nandigram alone considering its charged atmosphere. “Nandigram is highly sensitive and we have deployed enough security to avoid trouble after counting. If needed, more forces will be deployed,” said Sunil Yadav, the East Midnapore SP. Sources said areas such as Balrampur, Osmanchawk and Bhimkata were most vulnerable. Sources in East Midnapore said there are six counting centres in the district where six companies of central forces will be deployed. Seven companies of central forces will be deployed in the district ahead of counting. “There are areas near Nandigram that are also considered sensitive. Central forces will be deployed in Haldia, Khejuri, Bhagabanpur and Contai. But one company will be deployed in Nandigram alone,” said an official. Nandigram has been tense since March 10, when Mamata sustained an injury in her leg the day she filed her nomination. The situation turned volatile amid Trinamul’s narrative that the BJP conspired to injure her, countered by the BJP’s claims that it was an accident and she was holding the BJP responsible for sympathy. Ahead of polls in Nandigram on April 1, repeated clashes took place between Trinamul and BJP supporters. A Trinamul supporter, Rabin Manna, was injured in a clash and died later. Sheikh Sufiyan, Mamata’s election agent, said they did not have a problem with central forces, but they should be “neutral”. BJP leaders said central forces had played a key role in holding the polls peacefully.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||In Dooars, moonlight tea leaf plucking sets in||Majherdabri has become the first estate in the Dooars to pluck tea leaves in the moonlight which, according to the planter, is the right occasion to produce high quality brew in terms of flavour and fragrance. Around 100 workers plucked tea leaves on the full moon night on Monday in the plantation near Alipurduar. “It has been practiced in a number of tea gardens in the Darjeeling hills. But ours is the first estate in the Dooars to pluck tea leaves on a full moon night. The tea leaves which were plucked last night have been processed separately and we believe the produce would fetch us good prices like in the hills. This is because the tea produced thus would be superior in quality, both in terms of flavour and fragrance,” said Chinmoy Dhar, the garden manager. Majherdabri is known for making CTC tea. After sunset, Dhar said, evaporation stops on the surfaces of the tea leaf. “Besides, tea leaves are believed to gather large amounts of calcium, magnesium and some other vital nutrients from the soil during full moon,” said the manager. “We can smell the fragrance of any flower after the sunset because there is no evaporation. The same happens in the case of tea leaves also. That is why the tea processed from the leaves plucked on full moonlight is superior in flavour as it retains the nutrients and water content in higher percentage,” explained Dhar. The moon light plucking at Majherdabri started around 6pm on Monday. While some workers carried “mashal” or countrymade torches, others moved over an area of around 100 hectares and plucked 1,000 kilos of tea leaves in three hours. Around 9pm, the leaves were gathered and sent to the factory for processing. According to sources, 200-220 kilos of tea are likely to be made from those leaves. “It is a rare and exclusive activity which has been carried out in some hill tea gardens, including Makaibari. Those teas, which were of orthodox variety, were indeed of exquisite quality. But the Majherdabri management has tried moonlight plucking for CTC tea. We need to sip the brew to find out whether the quality is superior to the CTC tea that the garden generally produces,” said R.A. Sharma, a veteran in the north Bengal tea industry. Asked about the scientific basis of the claims made by the planters, tea researchers said they were yet to conduct a comprehensive study on moonlight plucking. “Whatever they have said about evaporation is correct. After the sunset, the tea leaf get swollen as the water content increases. Whether other vital nutrients are present in higher proportions can be affirmed only through proper tests and research,” said S. Vaishya, an advisor to the Tea Research Association at Nagrakata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘Will vote to reply to bullet that killed son’||Fifty-year-old Afsar Ali had vowed never to vote after a bullet killed his son Samiul Haque, 21, on April 10 when they were standing in queue in front of Amtali MSK (booth 5/126) in Jorpatki village under Sitalkuchi Assembly seat of Cooch Behar to exercise their franchise. But the “compassionate words” of an elderly woman in a wheelchair changed his mind. On Monday, the Cooch Behar district administration said repoll would be held in the Jorpatki booth, where firing by central forces on April 10 had left four youths dead, in the eighth and final phase of Bengal polls on April 29, as directed by the Election Commission. His grief still raw, Afsar said he would vote, only because “Mamata Banerjee asked us to reply to bullets with ballots”. “I had initially thought I wouldn’t vote but eventually decided that my vote will be my reply to those who fired at Samiul and other three boys of our village Jorpatki and to those who said there would be more incidents like Sitalkuchi,” said Afsar. After the firing, Mamata had rushed to Siliguri the same evening and planned to visit Mathabhanga subdivisional headquarters, under which Jorpatki village falls, to meet the bereaved families. She had to postpone her visit as the EC announced a 72-hour-ban on the entry of political leaders in Cooch Behar district. On April 14, when the ban lifted, Mamata rushed to Mathabhanga. No BJP leader turned up at Mathabhanga or reached out to the bereaved families. Many leaders of the BJP claimed Trinamul was not sympathetic to the family of Ananda Barman, who also died in a mob firing that same day in another booth of Sitalkuchi. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh had said “jaygay jaygay Sitalkuchi hobe” (Sitalkuchi will happen in other places), for which the EC barred him from campaign for 24 hours. Young Rahila Begum, who lost her husband Maniruzzaman Mian, is also determined to cast her vote on April 29. “My vote will be against the atrocities of the central armed forces. They killed my husband for no reason. I will also vote with the hope that those who fired at villagers will be punished,” said Rahila. On Tuesday, district administration officials reached the village with a dhaaki (drummer) and in an e-rickshaw, to announce the repoll date. “Necessary arrangements will be made to ensure that the election stays peaceful, free and fair,” said a source in the district administration. Local Trinamul leaders, when asked about the repolling, said they expected a higher turnout. There are around 960 voters in the booth. “People remember what happened to the youths. Ramazan is on and many are fasting, but there is vigour among people to speak up against atrocities by casting their votes. They also want to vote for peace,” said Alizar Rehman, a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bangladesh nod for medical visa holders to return||The Bangladesh deputy high commission here on Tuesday issued no-objection certificates to around 300 countrymen, who had arrived in India on medical visas, so that they could return home. But in the absence of any clear decision on Bangladeshis in India with long-term visas, thousands remained stuck. On Sunday, the deputy high commission had announced suspension of movement of foreigners and Bangladeshi nationals through all land borders between the two countries for two weeks from April 26 to May 9 in view of the surging Covid cases. It also announced suspension of visa service during the period. In a circular issued in this regard, the deputy high commission said Bangladeshi nationals whose visa was close to expiry would be allowed to return on submission of a Covid negative report and on obtaining NOCs from it. However, the deputy high commission eventually made an exemption on Tuesday as they began issuing NOCs for people who had arrived for medical treatment. Hundreds turned up at the deputy high commission since  Monday early morning to obtain the NOCs to cross the land ports. Mofakkharul Iqbal, press secretary of deputy high commission, said: “It had been decided that the people whose visa would be expiring soon would be issued the NOC for return. Nevertheless, we made some exemptions today on humanitarian grounds for people who came for treatment in India. Many of them are undergoing dialysis and other life saving medical care. For such patients, we offered the exemptions because their survival is also important to us.” But Iqbal failed to offer any good news for others eager to return home. “We are not encouraging the students and businessmen to return now. There is no such order to allow them now,” he told The Telegraph. The denial of movement has put a large number of Bangladeshi nationals, who are in India on long term education visas or those who regularly visit the country for business purposes, in trouble. Sources said more than 1,000 people had been crossing the border everyday to enter India via Petrapole in North 24-Parganas or Gede in Nadia before the land ports were sealed. Farid Hossain, an exporter from Dhaka, who was stranded at Petrapole because of the suspension of movement, told The Telegraph: “It’s a very shocking decision. The deputy high commission should have alerted us in advance”. “It is good that they are considering the cases of my countrymen who came for medical treatment. But how can they ignore the need of others to return home. The sudden decision not only stalled my business but also put me in a vulnerable situation amid a surge in Covid cases in Bengal,” Farid Hossain said, adding he had been compelled to book accommodation at a hotel in Bongaon for the next two weeks. Mahiuddin Mollah, 60, a Bangladeshi national from Char Bhadrasan of Faridpur, who got an NOC on Tuesday, said: “I am thankful to the authorities of my country as they saved the life of my wife who underwent a surgery in Vellore last week. But the authority should also allow others to return because of the pandemic.” A university student in Calcutta who failed to return on Monday said: “The deputy high commission put us in an uncertain situation. It is quite unsure whether they would withdraw the order after two weeks or not. It will be difficult for me even to stay here since I will run out of money soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court rap for illegal structures by the Teesta ||A single bench at the Jalpaiguri Circuit Bench of Calcutta High Court on Tuesday ordered the demolition of all illegal constructions, including eateries, that have come up on the banks of the Teesta river in Jalpaiguri to prevent crowding. Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj, who had taken suo motu cognisance of crowding in eateries on the banks, particularly because of the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, held a hearing on Tuesday. The assistant solicitor general of the central government and the additional public prosecutor of the circuit bench were present. In his order, Justice Bharadwaj stated there were encroachments along the right bank of the river and on its bed. The area is close to the residences of judges, and among encroachments are a number of restaurants and pubs. “The court stated that every evening, more than 500 people assemble in these places for refreshment. This is also affecting the biodiversity of the river were as many as 72 different species of birds can be sighted. Covid-19 safety protocols are not being maintained and such gatherings can cause serious health hazards,” said a source. In his order, the judge said the state should take appropriate steps and the district magistrate and the superintendent of police of Jalpaiguri should demolish illegal constructions on the Teesta riverbed and near the residential building of the judges. “The order has to be followed within 24 hours and tomorrow (Wednesday), the DM and the SP and other state government officials have been asked to file their reports before court,” said Aditishankar Chakraborty, the additional public prosecutor of the circuit bench. DM Moumita Godara said they had received the order and would take appropriate steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal stresses on more Covid beds||A sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in Darjeeling district, particularly in Siliguri sub-division, and in the Dooars has prompted the administration to increase beds for Covid patients in the district. According to sources in the administration, it has been decided that around 500 new beds would be readied in Siliguri and in the hills within a week. “It has been decided to allot 65 beds at the Darjeeling district hospital and 18 beds at the Kurseong sub-divisional hospital for Covid patients. Also, 30 more beds will be added at the Covid hospital in Triveni near Kalimpong,” said an official of the state health department. At present, there are 345 beds at the Darjeeling hospital, 120 beds at the Kurseong sub-divisional hospital and 150 beds at the facility in Triveni. In another development, authorities of 22 private nursing homes in Siliguri have assured the district health department that they will provide extra beds for Covid patients within a week. “In total, there are 136 beds in 22 nursing homes across Siliguri. The authorities of these clinics have assured that they will increase the total capacity to 443 beds,” said state tourism minister Gautam Deb. He mentioned that the indoor stadium of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation will be handed over to the chief medical officer of health, Darjeeling, on Wednesday where 70 beds would be kept ready —  six of which will have oxygen supply. A similar healthcare facility, operational at Hatighisa in Naxalbari block, will also be upgraded, said Deb. “We will soon set up a second safe home in Siliguri. The district administration is planning to convert some government guesthouses as safe homes for treatment of Covid patients,” he added. The minister informed that two helplines — 8016277748 and 9883206017 — to extend support to Covid patients and their families will be launched tomorrow. “The helplines will be operational from 8am to 8pm. Family members of patients can seek guidance and help through the helplines and also call for ambulance and other services,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Litmus test for once-powerful duo||Once-powerful Trinamul leaders and former ministers Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury and Sabitri Mitra, candidates of Englishbazar and Manikchak in Malda, are using the 2021 polls to try and reclaim their position in the party with the district getting extra attention from Mamata Banerjee because of its demography. “They were prominent Trinamul faces but these past four-five years, particularly after both lost the 2016 Assembly polls, they got sidelined,” said a party insider. Mitra, who has many  health issues, stayed away from party’s events. Choudhury was apparently upset with the rise of Nihar Ranjan Ghosh, who had defeated him as an Independent but later joined Trinamul. Choudhury also lost the chair of the civic chief of the Englishbazar municipality to Ghosh. But as Assembly polls drew near, the party brought both the leaders to the forefront as part of Mamata’s strategy to put up a united fight in the district. Choudhury was made the chairman of the district committee headed by Mausam Noor (the district president).  Mitra was made the block president in Manikchak. Also, as the Trinamul supremo announced the candidates, it was found that Choudhury had been fielded from Englishbazar, his old seat. Sitting MLA Ghosh was asked to contest from Chanchal. Mitra was fielded from Manikchak, her old turf. “These decisions have bolstered the confidence of both these senior leaders as they felt the party supremo still has confidence in them. Earlier, we had never seen them campaign so extensively. This time they tried to reach out to every household, interacted elaborately with people and were benevolent in their approach, which was also rare,” said a district Trinamul leader. In Malda, both Mitra and Ghosh are also known for regularly getting involved into squabbles on trifle issues with each other. Even Mamata has time and again reprimanded them in open for such acts. “I always tried to deliver the responsibilities given to me by Didi. I worked hard day and night for Malda residents. I am familiar with them and this time, people will stand by me as we have to thwart BJP that has been trying to divide people in this district on religious lines,” said Choudhury, who is in his early 60s. Unlike earlier years when they had to contest against Congress and the Left, their principal contenders are from the BJP that has played the polarisation card and disseminated the Hindutva narrative. Malda is a district with around 55 per cent Muslim population, whose votes decide the results in around seven of 12 Assembly seats. Choudhury’s key contender is yet another Choudhury — Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury of the BJP — who had contested from Malda South Lok Sabha seat in 2019 and secured a lead of over 94,000 votes in the Englishbazar Assembly segment. For Mitra, the contest is no less tough. In the Manikchak Assembly segment, BJP was ahead by 34,000 votes in 2019. Gour Chandra Mandal, the sabhadhipati of Malda Zilla Parishad who recently did a turncoat and walked into the BJP, is pitted against her. But the retired primary schoolteacher sounded confident. “It is the time to prove that Sabitri Mitra, the politician, is not yet finished. It is a struggle to uphold amity and peace in Malda,” she said. An observer said both were tough seats, among the five on which the BJP had been focussing since 2019 after winning the Malda north Lok Sabha seat. “It would be interesting to see if these two old Mamata loyalists succeed in making a comeback.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
28-04-2021||West Bengal||Land Rovers, homestays to skip booking||Land Rover operators and homestay owners have decided not to accept tourist bookings for sometime in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 sweeping the country and in the absence of a government-announced lockdown. The Land Rovers take tourists to Sandakphu, the highest point in Bengal situated at around 11,900-feet, from Maneybhanjyang, a small town on the fringes of Singalila National Park. Other taxis are reluctant to travel to Sandakphu given the difficult terrain. Chandan Pradhan, the secretary of the Singalila Land Rover Owners’ Welfare Association, said on Tuesday: “Our members decided not to take tourists to Sandakphu from today given the surge in Covid19 cases in our region. These days, we do not know who is carrying the virus.” A total of 80 Land Rovers are registered with the association. Tourists visiting Darjeeling from the rest of Bengal do not have to produce Covid19 negative test results unlike travellers to Sikkim. In Bengal, only air passengers arriving from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana have to produce reports of RTPCR tests conducted within 72 hours of taking flights. However, in neighbouring Sikkim, all tourists entering the state have to produce the RTPCR report and register on the state government’s portal. Even residents of Sikkim entering the state from outside need to have the test results or else, they have to go in for 10 days of quarantine. “We will start plying Land Rovers for tourists only after the situation gets better,” said Pradhan. The Singalila National Park is open to tourists till June 15 every year. After a three-month closure, the park is again opened to visitors from September 15 onwards. Not just the Land Rovers’ operators, many homestay owners have also decided not to take bookings for some time. There are 337 registered homestays in Kalimpong, which is the highest for a district in Bengal. This is fol¬lowed by South 24Parganas’s 78 and Darjeeling’s 63 registered homestays. “We cannot expose our fa¬milies, villagers to outsiders,” said a homestay owner. A hotelier in Darjeeling said tourist flow had come down in the hills over the past few days. “We just have some business clients, who have to visit town for official work. Those bookings are just for a night or two,” said a hote¬lier. Darjeeling district registered the highest spike in Covid19 cases on Tuesday with 424 people being tested positive. They included 191 in the Siliguri Municipal Corporation area, 21 in Darjeeling municipality and 41 in other hill areas like Sukhiapokhri, Bijanbari, Takdah and Mirik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
