29-04-2021||West Bengal||Exit polls predict Mamata  win in tight race||Exit polls coming at the end of the eighth phase of polling on Thursday in Bengal predicted Mamata Banerjee’s return to Nabanna for a third term albeit with much reduced seats. Most  polls predicted BJP coming in second with over 100 seats, while the Left and the Congress, in alliance with the rookie Indian Secular Front, appeared not to have made much of an impact with the Bengal voters. The ABP C Voter exit poll prediction indicated that the voting pattern in Bengal had not changed much since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Trinamul Congress, according to ABP C Voter, is projected to win 152-164 seats in the state with a vote share of 42 per cent, a sharp decline from the 211 seats that the party had won in 2916. The major difference between then and now has been the spectacular rise of the BJP in state’s electoral politics since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when the party won 18 seats. On the other hand, the BJP is expected to win 109 to 121 seats with a 39 per cent vote share in the state and emerge as the main Opposition party in the state. For several decades in Bengal politics, the main Opposition party had not crossed the 100-seats mark. For example, in 2006, Trinamul Congress emerged as the main Opposition with only 29 seats and bagged another in a bypoll. In 2016, the Congress and Left Front contesting the polls together had managed 77 seats between them. The Sanyukta Morcha, that includes the Left, the Congress and the Indian Secular Front, is projected to bag 14 to 25 seats in Bengal with a 15 per cent vote share. For the 292 seats in Bengal where polls were held (election for two seats will be held on May 16), 85,000 voters were quizzed on their voting preferences. The ABP-CNX exit poll projected 157-185 seats for the Trinamul and 96-125 seats for the BJP. The Congress-Left-ISF alliance is likely to get 8-16 seats. The NDTV exit polls too predicted Mamata’s return to power with 149 seats, just one above the majority mark, while the BJP is expected to get 116 seats. The exit poll gave 16 seats to the Congress-Left-ISF alliance. The Times Now C Voter exit poll too gave a clear majority to Trinamul with 158 seats, and 115 to the BJP, while the Sanyukta Morcha to get 19 seats. On the other hand, the Republic CNX exit poll indicated at a hung Assembly with 138-148 seats to the BJP and 128-138 seats for the Trinamul. The Sanyukta Morcha, according to Republic CNX, is likely to get 11-21 seats. The Jan KI Baat exit poll predicted a comfortable majority for the BJP with 174 seats, followed by 112 for Trinamul and six for the Left-Congress alliance. "The exit polls give a trend... Nobody can say decisively. Trend is clear. We are winning," Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra told a television news channel. "I won't get into numbers. Exit polls won't be reflected when the actual votes are counted on May 2. We will form the government in Bengal,"  said Dilip Ghosh, state BJP president. CPM leader and Chanditala nominee Mohamad Salim refused to comment on the exit polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Stray incidents of violence reported during last phase of Bengal polls||A voter turnout of 76.07 per cent was recorded in the eighth and final phase of the West Bengal assembly elections, the Election Commission said on Thursday. The turnout figure is provisional as it was recorded at 5 pm when voting was still on. The commission said that "peaceful" polling was concluded across 11,860 polling stations in 35 assembly seats in the last phase of the elections. Repolling in Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra polling station in Sitalkuchi assembly constituency was also held on Thursday. Polling was suspended at the centre in Cooch Behar district on April 10 after five people were killed as central forces allegedly opened fire after coming under attack from locals who "attempted to snatch their rifles". In the eighth phase of the West Bengal polls, 11,860 Ballot Units (BUs), 11,860 Control Units (CUs) and 11,860 VVPATs were used. "Non-functioning rate of EVMs and VVPATs during the poll was comparable to what was experienced in the last few polls," the commission said in a statement. One control unit, at least one ballot unit and one paper trail machine makes for one electronic voting machine. During the West Bengal elections, seizure of Rs 339.45 crore has been reported till Thursday. The seizure figures, which includes seizure of cash, liquor, narcotics and freebies, is 7.65 times of the total seizure of Rs 44.33 crores in the 2016 assembly polls, the commission said. Earlier in the day, one person was killed and two others injured as a car hit them in Murshidabad district, triggering tension in the area, a police officer said. The CPI(M) alleged that its member Kader Mondal (42) was killed, and two others -- Asim Al Mamoon (43) and Lal Chand Mondal (42) -- sustained injuries after TMC candidate Jafikul Islam ran his car over them. Islam, the TMC's Domkal seat candidate, rubbished the allegation, claiming that he was nowhere near the site of the incident. Chief Election Officer (CEO) Aariz Aftab has sought a report from district authorities in the matter. In the city's Beliaghata area, clashes broke out between two groups of people, following which the police restored to mild lathicharge to disperse them. Two persons, who identified themselves as BJP activists, alleged that they were roughed up by TMC workers during the melee. In Jorasanko constituency of central Calcutta, crude bombs were hurled outside Mahajati Sadan, the police said. BJP candidate Meena Devi Purohit alleged that the bombs were thrown at her vehicle while she was touring different polling booths. A huge police contingent was rushed to the spot to control the situation. In Nanoor constituency of violence-prone Birbhum district, BJP candidate Tarakeshwar Saha reportedly suffered injuries after his vehicle was ransacked. Saha accused TMC cadres of attacking him, but the allegation was dubbed as "baseless" by local leaders of the state's ruling party. In Maniktala constituency of Calcutta, BJP candidate Kalyan Choubey was gheraoed by a group of people during his visit to the polling booths. Choubey said "TMC-backed anti-socials" tried to create disturbances "so that they could rig the polls". TMC candidate Sadhan Pande, however, alleged agents of his party were beaten up by the BJP cadres in several booths. Long queues were seen outside most polling booths since early morning, raising concern over the spread of COVID-19, even as the Election Commission gave assurance that all precautionary measures are in place. Bengal registered its highest single-day spike of 17,207 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, while 77 more people succumbed to the disease. Over 84.77 lakh voters will decide the political fate of 283 candidates in this phase. Security measures have been heightened in view of the violence in the previous phases, an EC official said. The poll panel has deployed 641 companies of central forces in the final phase to ensure fair voting, he said. It has also placed TMC's Birbhum district president Anubrata Mondal under strict surveillance till 7 am on Friday, as the CEO received "several complaints against him". The voting exercise will continue till 6.30 pm. The eight-phase elections to the 294-member Bengal Assembly began on March 27. Votes will be counted on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Mamata needs to hold on to Murshidabad to keep Congress at bay||For Mamata Banerjee to create a "Congress-mukt" Bengal, it is imperative she establishes her hegemony in Murshidabad, the land of the nawabs. And the 2021 Assembly polls provides her with that opportunity when 11 seats in the district votes on Thursday. In 2011, the year of "poribartan", Murshidabad, with a 68 per cent Muslim population, sided mostly with the Congress. Mamata could win only one seat. Mamata handed over the reins of Murshidabad district to her then trusted aide, Suvendu Adhikari, in 2015. Dissension within the Khan Chowdhury family had made it easier for Mamata to make inroads in neighbouring Malda. Incidentally, the rise of the BJP in Malda also coincides with the weakening of the Congress and the CPM in the district. Murshidabad, the capital of Bengal during the days of the nawab, is the district with the highest Muslim population in Bengal. It is the last bastion of the Congress. Murshidabad and neighbouring Malda is where the Congress has some presence even now in 2021, 44 years since it was ousted from the administration headquarters of Writers’ Buildings and 23 years since Mamata Banerjee left the party. The Congress in Bengal has been bleeding since 1998, losing local satraps one after another to the Trinamul Congress. Yet the party remained alive, breathing. That oxygen support came from Murshidabad. The threat to the last Congress citadel became imminent in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In the three years from 2016, when Congress had won 18 of the 22 Assembly seats in the district, the Suvendu effect had come into play. Trinamul wrested the Murshidabad and Jangipur Lok Sabha seats, and left the Congress trailing in 17 Assembly segments of the district. Between 2016 and now, Murshidabad legislators Apurba Sarkar, Abu Taher Khan, Shaoni Singha Roy, Ashis Marjit, Akhruzzaman, Rabiul Alam Chowdhury were among the Congress winners who joined Trinamul. Mohammad Sohrab, the former Congress legislature party leader, also joined Trinamul after losing the Assembly elections in 2016 from Jangipur. Needless to say, Congress lost the Jangipur Lok Sabha seat to the Trinamul as well, while Abu Taher Khan, who had come from the Congress, won the Murshidabad Lok Sabha seat. Their departure, especially those from the Muslim community is significant, as the Muslims in the district were divided between the Congress and the Left partners, CPM and RSP, till 2016. “That many of our MLAs who left were Muslims has given rise to a perception of an anti-Muslim bias within the Congress. It is also a fact that since Abdus Sattar and ABA Ghani Khan Chowdhury, we have not been able to project a single Muslim leader in state politics,” said a Congress leader from South Bengal. In the predominantly Muslim district, the threat of the NRC-CAA has further consolidated voters on the basis of communities with Muslims looking at Mamata as the saviour, instead of the weakened Congress. This time, Mamata herself camped in Murshidabad for three days ahead of the seventh phase of voting. Her presence was discomforting enough for state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to shoot of f complaints to the Election Commission. For Murshidabad, Mamata had to step in as she owes the district’s turning the Trinamul way to Suvendu Adhikari, her bitter rival now in the BJP. Since his departure, she hadn’t had time to groom anyone else to take charge of the district. In the Trinamul scheme of things, Mukul Roy, when he was Trinamul’s general secretary, had played a similar game of poaching. Politicians who joined Trinamul, like Saumitra Khan, left the party along with Roy. Since most of the current contenders on Trinamul tickets in Murshidabad were brought in to Trinamul by Adhikari junior, Mamata can never fully trust them. Within the Congress-Left-Indian Secular Front alliance too there are signs of trouble as state Congress chief and Berhampore MP  Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury refused to leave any seats for the ISF. Voting will be held on Thursday in as many as 35 seats on Thursday, bringing the curtains down on the arduous eight-phase assembly elections in Bengal. Elections to 11 of the Assembly seats in Murshidabad district were held on April 26. The remaining 11 seats will go to polls on Thursday , along with parts of North Calcutta, Malda and Birbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Letter shows central-state rift in BJP||The friction between the BJP’s state and central leaders kept under wraps over the past few months has been exposed by Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh’s denial of having issued a letter that barred party functionaries from speaking to the media till the last phase of the Assembly polls got over on Thursday. The letter dated April 25 and signed by state BJP vice-president and election office in-charge Pratap Banerjee has been circulating in the WhatsApp group of party leaders. “This is to notify all concerned that the Hon’ble State President Shri Dilip Ghosh has instructed all senior BJP Leaders, Office-Bearers of Morcha’s & Cells not to make any statements on any Print or Electronic Media till 29th April 2021,” read the letter which mentioned that only official spokespersons were allowed to comment on behalf of the BJP during this period. Ghosh has called the letter a fake one. “I’ve not issued any such diktat. I’ve seen the letter though. A lot of fake letters are doing the rounds these days. This could be one of them,” the Midnapore MP said. As the denial has triggered several questions on why the letter found its way in the WhatsApp group of BJP office-bearers, multiple sources told this correspondent that Amit Malviya, the party’s IT cell chief and co-minder for Bengal, was behind the diktat. “The letter has been issued in Dilipda’s name and he didn’t even have any idea that something like this was being prepared. This indicates again that a lot of things are happening in Bengal without the knowledge of local leaders,” a source said. Several other sources said such interference by leaders deputed from Delhi in the state unit’s day-to-day affairs was demoralising workers, especially before the last phase of the polls. “All of us have received this letter on the party’s official WhatsApp group. If the letter was fake, why would it be shared officially?” asked a BJP office-bearer. A state Yuva Morcha (BJP’s youth wing) leader said Ghosh was livid when he had come to know about the letter and even blasted a member of the party’s media cell inquiring why such an order had been issued in his name without his consent. “Then, he came to know that it was Malviya’s decision. So, he immediately decided to distance himself from the letter,” the young leader said. According to a Morcha office-bearer, the fight between the leaders deputed from Delhi and local functionaries was under wraps because of the polls. “There have been several such cases, but B.L. Santosh, the national general secretary (organisation) of the party, managed them. This one, however, could not be kept under wraps,” said a source. The reason behind the gag order, according to sources, is the backlash facing the Union government in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19. “Narendra Modi and Amit Shah have been pilloried for continuing their poll campaigns in Bengal even as patients died gasping for oxygen in Delhi. The gag order was issued to ensure that no state leader spoke on the issue as it could damage the BJP in the polls,” another source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Drives to collect blood and plasma||The rush to register for vaccination has started but social workers from Darjeeling hills and plains have launched campaigns to urge people to donate blood before being jabbed and provide plasma if one has recovered from Covid-19 infection. Mukesh Sharma, secretary of Kalimpong District Voluntary Blood Donor Forum, fears of a crisis in blood banks in the months to come if people do not donate blood before being inoculated with the vaccine. “We have started a campaign in Kalimpong requesting people to donate blood before taking the vaccine. This is because one cannot donate blood for some days after receiving the jab,” said Sharma. P.D. Bhutia, general physician, said it is being advised that people should donate blood only 28 days after the second dose of the vaccine. According to the Centre’s guidelines, the second dose of Covaxin should be taken between 28 to 42 days, while the second jab duration for Covishield should be between 28 to 56 days. This means those who take the jabs will not be able to donate blood for over two months. The Centre plans to vaccinate everyone aged above 18 years from May 1. Most blood banks depend on blood donation camps which is bound to dry up at a time when the pandemic is surging. “Even in normal times, less than 1 per cent of the area’s population donate blood. The Kalimpong district hospital requires about 100 to 120 units of blood per month,” said Sharma stating that the restriction on blood donation could pose problems for patients during the vaccination drive. In Siliguri of Darjeeling district, social workers have launched a  drive to seek plasma donors. Abhijit Dey, member of Covidwin Sahayata Siliguri, said their group had started seeking plasma donors in Siliguri from Tuesday. “We started the drive one day ago and have been approached by four people to help them with plasma. However, we have not yet got a donor,” said Dey. The group is looking for patients who have recovered from Covid-19 during the last 90 days so that plasma can be extracted from their blood as it would contain antibodies to the virus. “Plasma therapy has worked for some. It is part of a rescue therapy and not a permanent solution. Some people are coming forward for plasma donation in Siliguri,” said Dr. Bhutia. Dey and his organisation want to bring seekers and donors on a common platform. “We are also helping patients with oxygen and ambulances. During the first wave, we were into distributing mask and sanitisers but this time the need is different,” said Dey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Erosion victims find shelter in toilet ||For Jaydeb Mandal of Golap Mandal Para village under Baishnabnagar Assembly constituency of Malda, the toilet is a place to stay. In his early thirties, Jaydeb, who will vote on Thursday, has been living for the past two years with his wife and 60-year-old father in a community toilet built by the Farakka Barrage Authority (FBA) that controls the flow of the Ganga. A classic victim of the Ganga’s erosion, Jaydeb used to own a piece of land and had a modest house in the same village even a few years back, and could eke out a livelihood on the proceeds of the sale of their agricultural produce. “But because of Ganga’s erosion, we started losing our agricultural land, but by bit. Gradually, the entire land of around 2 bighas was swallowed by the mighty waters. I and my father started working as a daily labourer in other people's fields,” said Jaydeb, sitting a cot inside the toilet. But the worst blow, he said, came two years back when the river gobbled up their house. Like hundreds of others, they moved to a safer place with whatever belongings they could save when their house collapsed. Initially, Jaydeb could not find any accommodation to move in with his family. After some days, he spotted the toilet built next to a Sishu Siksha Kendra. “The Ganga hadn’t spared the Kendra building but somehow its toilet remained intact. As it wasn’t in use anymore, I shifted my family to it,” said the youth, who also changed his occupation from farmer to fisherman. The toilet, with around 50 square feet of floor area, has two booths where he started living with his family. “A few months back, my father managed to convince a neighbour to let him stay in the verandah of his house at night. So every night, my father goes there to sleep,” said Jaydeb. Residents of the village, under the Pardeonapur-Shobhapur panchayat in Baishnabnagar Assembly constituency, said that over a hundred families had faced similar consequences because of erosion. “Forget us common folk, even Swadhin Sarkar, the sitting MLA (of the BJP) had lost his ancestral house because of the erosion. Every year, the Ganga gobbles up several acres of land, and people become both landless and homeless. Elections keep on coming but the fate of people like us hardly changes over the years,” said Bishu Mandal, another resident of the village and also an erosion victim. Jaydeb, these days, only prays that the Ganga does not erode their area any more. The river flows only a few metres away from the toilet. “I do not want to lose my shelter. If the toilet is eroded by the river, we will be homeless again,” he said. On whether local panchayat representatives had approached him so that he gets a house from the government, the youth answered in the negative “No one has turned up in my place so far even though they know I live in a toilet. We badly need a house,” he said. But he and his family will definitely vote this time, he said. “Casting our franchise is our duty. But I don’t anticipate that things will change for me (if I vote). We will have to struggle to earn our living like always,” he said. Sarkar, the local BJP MLA, when asked about erosion victims such as Jaydeb, was quick to pass the buck to the state government. “The responsibility lies with the state government and the zilla parishad. There is no reason why an erosion victim will not get a house. Earlier, a number of such families have been rehabilitated. It is a pity that a couple has to stay in a toilet. Once the elections are over, I would surely look into it,” Sarkar said. Hemanta Sharma, the Malda district coordinator of Trinamul, said that several erosion victims had been rehabilitated by the state schemes. “Once the elections are over, I will see to it that the local panchayat looks into why a genuine victim has been overlooked,” Sharma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Mirik homestays brave the second wave of Covid||Homestay owners in Mirik, a tiny town in Darjeeling hills, are trying to run their accommodations despite the second wave in Covid-19 cases. Mirik subdivision — the smallest in the hills — has around 70 homestays. On Thursday, homestay owners of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts, who have floated the Darjeeling-Kalimpong Himalayan Tourism Confederation, a joint forum of homestay owners, will hold a meeting in Kurseong to work out standard operating procedures on running accommodations amid the pandemic. At a time homestay owners in other locations, including the Dooars, and hotel and resort owners, are worried about the consequences of the rise in Covid cases, homestay owners in Mirik are steadily running their properties while ensuring the staff and visitors adhere to safety protocols. Kalyan Rai, the working president of Mirik Rambhang Homestay Owners’ Association, said there was no point in shutting their accommodations when there are no transport curbs. He said in 2020, lakhs of people associated with tourism, including homestay owners, suffered severe losses amid the first wave of the pandemic and the lockdown. “We are trying to run our services in this new normal. Many of our members have good bookings for May, some are booked till October. Why should we discourage visitors, as long as we and our guests adhere to all safety protocols?” said Kalyan. During the past couple of years, around 12,000 homestay accommodations in the hills and foothills have become new tourist attractions. Since the onset of the pandemic, many tourists prefer homestays, which are standalone properties in isolated places, over hotels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Widow of TMC candidate complains against EC||The wife of Kajal Sinha, deceased Trinamul candidate from Khardah, has lodged a police complaint against the Election Commission and its Bengal-in-charge Sudeep Jain, holding them responsible for her husband’s death from Covid. Nandita Sinha’s complaint comes two days after Madras High Court castigated the commission for allowing campaign rallies, held it “singularly” responsible for India’s Covid resurgence, called it the “the most irresponsible institution” and said its officials might be booked for murder. Nandita’s complaint, dated April 27 but registered on Wednesday, urges the officer-in-charge of Khardah police and the Barrackpore police commissioner to take immediate steps against Jain, a deputy election commissioner, and other commission officials responsible for “acts/omissions” that led to 59-year-old Kajal’s death on Sunday morning. “I… am writing to you today with a bleeding heart and unparalleled pain, to inform you about the negligent actions/ inactions on the part of the Election Commission of India… which has led to my husband’s untimely demise,” says the complaint, lodged under penal code sections 269, 270, 304 (Part II) and 120B. Sections 269 and 270 deal with negligent and malignant acts, respectively, that are likely to spread life-threatening infections; Section 304 with culpable homicide not amounting to murder; and 120B with criminal conspiracy. Jain, 51, had been in charge of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bengal too. When he was appointed Bengal-in-charge again for this election, Trinamul had formally sought his removal, accusing the 1994-batch IAS officer from the Tamil Nadu cadre of a pro-BJP bias. But the commission had defended Jain, endorsing the 2019 decisions attributed to him by Trinamul. “He (Kajal) contracted the coronavirus on April 20, 2021, and succumbed to it on April 25, 2021, while being compelled to carry out his public duties and election campaign as a candidate due to the self-serving blind motives of the ECI,” Nandita’s complaint says. On Monday, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy of Madras High Court had asked commission officials if they were “(living) on another planet”. The high court’s observations were hailed widely by the medial fraternity and ordinary citizens on social media but came under attack from the Bengal BJP, which aggressively defended the commission, alleged a “conspiracy” and accused the bench of echoing Trinamul. The BJP claimed the high court’s observations had “tainted” India’s judiciary and demanded an investigation. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has steadfastly questioned the commission’s motives, accusing it of colluding with the BJP and functioning at Union home minister Amit Shah’s behest. She has accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the poll panel and Shah of allowing the second wave of Covid to reach devastating proportions in their desperation to win the Bengal election. Nandita’s complaint mentions the death of three other Bengal candidates from Covid and censures the commission for “malignantly” continuing with the unprecedented eight-phase polls in the state amid a surging pandemic, causing widespread deaths. The commission had refused to budge in the face of Trinamul requests to club the final three phases. Nandita noted that the commission had the widest possible powers over elections, including the authority to pass directions wherever any unforeseen situation emerged during any polls. “However, the ECI has deliberately ignored to act and completely disregarded its obligations to public health and safety,” she wrote. Shortly after the complaint became public on Wednesday, Trinamul accused the commission, BJP and the central government of having the “blood of Covid-19 patients on their hands”. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy said Modi and Shah had together addressed at least 50 rallies in Bengal in April alone despite the skyrocketing Covid infections. “With the commission refusing to club the final three phases, over 1.4 crore people can be expected to be exposed to the virus in the last two phases (Monday and Thursday) alone,” the Dum Dum MP said. The BJP defended the commission again and described Nandita’s complaint as a “gimmick”. “A lot of people have died, in Bengal and elsewhere… not Kajal Sinha alone,” said Barrackpore MP and Trinamul turncoat Arjun Singh of the BJP. “The Election Commission does not have the infrastructure to carry out this or that order by the courts. This is a political gimmick, nothing else.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Illegal structures on right banks of Teesta river razed||The district administration and police in Jalpaiguri on Wednesday acted on the order issued on Tuesday by a single bench of the circuit bench of Calcutta High Court to clear illegal structures on the right banks of the Teesta rover near Jubilee Park of Jalpaiguri town. The court, while issuing the order, had expressed concerns of crowding on the banks, particularly in view of the mounting cases of Covid-19. In the morning, a team of police officers, along with officials from the district administration reached the spot close to the residences of Calcutta High Court Judges. They were accompanied by other policemen, workers and excavators. At Jubilee Park area, a resort, some cottages, houses and shops that had mushroomed on the riverbank were demolished. Though none of the affected residents protested, some have demanded rehabilitation. “I used to run a small stationery shop that was demolished. I am clueless as how to run my family. The administration help us in our rehabilitation,” said Malati Roy, one of those to be affected by the demolition. On Tuesday, Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj of Calcutta High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the crowding of people at the Teesta river bank. In his hearing, he observed that every evening, over 500 people assemble in the location, and that such gatherings were precarious when Covid-19 cases were on the rise. He had instructed the administration and the police to clear illegal structures within 24 hours and submit reports to him on Wednesday. Subir Kumar Saha, the additional government pleader, on Wednesday submitted the reports filed by the district magistrate and the superintendent of police of Jalpaiguri before the single bench. Justice Bharadwaj, after hearing the case, said that state authorities had initiated steps to maintain Covid protocol. He also ordered the registrar of the circuit bench to send all the records of the case to the registrar general of Calcutta High Court, who in turn, would place the records before the Chief Justice, said sources. The development earned appreciation from a number of Jalpaiguri residents. Rajesh Dutta, a resident of the town, said it was needed to clear the area. “Hundreds would turn up at the site every day…which was not only a health hazard amid Covid-19 but also polluted the riverbank,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid vaccine: Queues start at 3am||High demand and low supply of vaccines, along with an increasing rush for Covid-19 tests, have come as a major challenge for Bengal’s health infrastructure amid the second wave of Covid-19. Sources said at every hospital in south Bengal districts, people, including senior citizens, are queuing up for vaccines from as early as 3am or 4am, fearing they will miss out on the jab if they come at 10am when counters open, or later. Health department sources said that as of Wednesday morning, around 1.02 crore vaccine doses had been administered in Bengal, the fifth on the list of states with most doses already administered. Health officials said those coming in for their second doses are also facing problems now, even though many hospitals have stopped providing the first dose altogether. On Wednesday, over 250 people queued up at the Bolpur Subdivisional Hospital from the wee hours, seeking vaccines for first and second doses. However, the infrastructure at the hospital could only handle the vaccination of 150 persons as many staff members had tested positive for Covid-19. “After the second wave of the pandemic acquired lethal proportions, demand for vaccines shot up. Plus, at least four of our staff members got infected. It is a challenge for us to vaccinate all the people in the lines,” said a health official at the Bolpur hospital. The scenes were similar  at hospitals in Hooghly, Murshidabad and East Burdwan, as many elderly persons had to return without getting vaccinated despite hours of waiting. Ujjwal Mondal, 62, a resident of Khagra in Murshidabad, had to return home for three days after queuing up for seven hours each day for his second dose. He finally got the vaccine on Tuesday after queuing up from 4am at the Behrampore Sadar Hospital. “I was in queue from 4am. I got a coupon at 8am. My serial number was 241. So I went home, but returned at 1.30pm....I got the injection later in the afternoon,” said Mondal who had taken the first dose of the vaccine 52 days ago. Health officials said such harassment was the result of low supply in the face of ever-increasing demand. “We try to keep stocks for emergencies, but the demand is so high now, that everything is falling short,” said a senior health official in Murshidabad. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy lambasted the BJP-led Centre for the pan-India crisis. “The crisis is a result of low supply and improper planning of the Centre… it could have and should have been better handled,” he said. On Wednesday, Bengal reported 17,207 new cases detected in a day, 77 deaths and active cases crossing 1.05 lakh. Vaccines apart, health officials have also been struggling to test a far higher number of people at the same time. “Exactly a month ago, 26,545 tests were needed to be conducted in a day in Bengal. Today, 54,936 tests had to be conducted. That should tell you how much the pressure has increased (on us),” said a health department official. He said when the capacity of an RT-PCR unit is to test 300 samples in a shift, at least 1,200 samples come in now. “It is impossible for technicians to test four times the capacity. We are trying to get more rapid tests done,” he said. Prior to this, if a person was found negative in a rapid test, a sample would be sent for an RT-PCR test for confirmation. “But now, we are going by whatever the rapid tests say, except in seriously symptomatic cases,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP faces ‘twin odds’ in Malda||The BJP that has been promoting the “double engine” narrative in Bengal is now fighting against “twin odds” in Malda in the concluding lap of the Assembly elections. First, two BJP candidates — Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, fielded from Englishbazar, has been detected with Covid-19, while Gopal Chadra Saha contesting from Maldaha was shot at by miscreants on April 18 and is recuperating at home — have had to pull out of the campaign trail in the last leg. Second, the candidates in five seats — Baishnabnagar, Sujapur, Englishbazar, Maldaha and Manikchak — out of the six segments where elections would be held in the district on Thursday will have to compete with dissidents contesting as Independents. “We are majorly hamstrung because of these two developments and our poll prospects are suspect,” said a senior district BJP leader. Malda is a district that has a minority population of around 55 per cent and 12 Assembly seats. Elections were held in half of the seats on April 26. Since the commencement of the poll campaign, the BJP has played the polarisation card in Malda consistently to consolidate Hindu votes in constituencies like Englishbazar and Maldaha with a high concentration of Hindus. “The absence of the candidates from the campaign and also on the poll day would be a loss,” said Gobinda Chandra Mandal, the Malda district BJP president. “But ours is an organised party and our supporters vote looking at the symbol,” he added, putting up a brave face even as reports from the ground level are different. The absence of the candidates from the campaign trail, however, is not the only woe facing the BJP that had high expectations from the district. Unlike earlier years, a number of disgruntled BJP leaders have filed nominations as Independents in five seats. “Only the Mothabari seat has no BJP dissident... There is always an apprehension of vote split and we have to ensure that our supporters vote for the official candidates and not dissidents,” said a district BJP leader. He said two former BJP leaders had filed nominations in Manikchak in protest against the party’s decision to field Gour Chandra Mandal, the sabhadhipati of Malda zilla parishad who had left the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP earlier this year. “He is contesting against veteran Trinamul leader Sabitri Mitra. If these dissidents draw votes, the contest would be tougher for our candidate,” the leader said. That the dissidents are hell-bent on defeating the BJP was evident during their campaign as they went all out attacking the party’s state and central leadership. “We want to teach the BJP a lesson here for embracing a turncoat who had tormented innocent BJP workers when he was in Trinamul,” said Anil Chandra Mandal, a dissident BJP leader who is contesting as Independent in Manikchak. Other dissident candidates like Harendranath Sarkar of Baishnabnagar and Aditya Prakash Dasgupta, a veteran RSS activist who is contesting in Englishbazar, spoke on similar lines. “Old-timers were neglected. The BJP leadership is so adamant on a win now that they have not cared for principles and ideals which we used to boast of earlier,” said Dasgupta. The district BJP chief, however, said the dissidents would not have any impact on the hustings. Total constituencies: 35 Districts: 4 — Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Calcutta Number of booths: 11,860 Central forces: 641 companies Key contests: Bolpur, Jorasanko, Shyampukur, Maniktala and Behrampore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC issues safe counting norms, TMC flags posers||The Election Commission of India on Wednesday issued detailed guidelines to ensure Covid-19 protocols are obeyed at the 705 counting centres in Bengal, to which Trinamul responded by saying the four-page directive had several “contradictions” needing immediate redress. Counting of votes of the Bengal, Kerala, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Assembly elections will be held on Sunday, May 2. The EC, following a recent prod from the Madras High Court, has been trying to ensure adherence to Covid-19 protocols in the last phase of polls in Bengal on Thursday, and Sunday’s counting process. For this, the poll panel issued a set of guidelines signed by Sumit Mukherjee, a senior principal secretary of the EC, which said that candidates and counting agents would be allowed inside the counting centres only if they produce a negative RT-PCR or RAT test report or have taken both doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus. “No candidates/agents will be allowed inside the counting hall without undergoing RT-PCR/RAT test or without having 2 doses of vaccination against Covid-19 and will have to produce Negative RT-PCR report or RAT report or Vaccination reports within 48 hours of start of counting…”the list of instructions issued by the poll body read. To this, Trinamul quickly reacted by flagging several inconsistencies in the poll panel’s directive. “…the time mandated for providing such a negative report has been stated as ‘within 48 hours of start of counting’, which effectively means by 4 May 2021. Please clarify your intentions,” a letter written by Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member and national spokesperson Derek O’ Brien to the commission, read. Speaking to The Telegraph, Election Commission sources said there was “nothing confusing” about its guidelines. The commission has specified that the RT-PCR or RAT test report cannot be older than 48 hours from May 2, a source said. Trinamul, in the same letter, also asked for a clarification on the time frame and procedure of replacement of a counting agent who tests positive in the RT-PCR or RAT test. The EC’s set of guidelines mandated candidates to submit the list of counting agents by 5pm on April 29 and kept a provision for their replacement, in case they are found Covid-positive. Multiple officials at the Bengal chief electoral office have said that following recent observations of the Madras High Court related to the EC’s role in allowing rallies, among others, amid the second wave of the pandemic, it had become an immense challenge for the poll panel to adhere to Covid-19 safety norms during counting. District electoral officers (DEOs) have been assigned the charge of nodal officer at each counting centre. It will be the responsibility of each DEO to arrange the RT-PCR or RAT tests of candidates and agents. According to guidelines, agents will be made to sit in an arrangement so that between two counting agents, one will be wearing PPE. Sufficient number of PPEs will have to be arranged for this, the poll commission  said. Along with these, there were usual instructions on the use of masks and sanitisation. On Tuesday, the EC had disallowed any victory procession after counting. On Wednesday, it barred any kind of “public gathering outside the counting venue” when counting is on. The commission’s guidelines released on Wednesday came after several rounds of discussions, but Trinamul’s queries have to be addressed soon, said a source at the chief electoral office. “If the issues aren’t taken care of, the inconsistencies will be taken to the court and the Election Commission’s prudence will be questioned yet again,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission team loses sight of Anubrata Mondal ||The Election Commission of India’s team deployed to keep round-the-clock watch on Birbhum’s Trinamul Congress chief Anubrata Mondal struggled to keep up with the leader for two-and-a-half hours on Wednesday when he travelled extensively in the district and gave instructions to party workers with regard to the polls to 11 Assembly seats on Thursday. Only after Mondal visited Trinamul leaders and workers at Nanoor, Labhpur, Sainthia and Mallarpur was the surveillance team headed by an executive magistrate able to track him down to the Tarapith temple. Apart from the executive magistrate, the surveillance team comprised a videographer and four central force jawans. The videographer’s job was to record every move of Mondal. The EC had kept Mondal under surveillance in the 2016 Assembly polls and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The surveillance team was waiting outside in a car when Mondal left his home in Bolpur around 11.30am on Wednesday. As soon as Mondal started out, the team followed him. “He was on the way to Nanoor. But suddenly, his car took a bypass that the officials could not follow,” said a close aide to Mondal. Mondal first met Trinamul workers in the four key areas before reaching the Tarapith temple to offer prayers. Sources said after he had reached Tarapith, the executive magistrate asked him to wait till the surveillance team reached. Although the commission’s officials claimed Mondal had not been able to do anything special, Trinamul insiders said he had given last-minute advice to the party’s election managers at the grassroots, which was of crucial importance the day before the polls. “Keshtoda did exactly what he had planned, outside the EC’s vigil. His tours the district the day before the polls and it has become routine that the commission’s team struggles to keep up with him or understand his methods,” said a Trinamul leader. In the evening, the commission served him a showcause, alleging he had escaped the surveillance. “He had been under strict surveillance since yesterday (Tuesday) evening. Today (Wednesday), he skipped the surveillance for some time. However, we tracked him over the phone and were informed about his location. The executive magistrate warned him in writing not to avoid the surveillance in future,” said Birbhum district magistrate Devi Prasad Karanam who also functions as the district election officer under the EC. Mondal, however, said it was the duty of the commission to keep him under surveillance, in which the panel had failed. “If the team failed to find me, then it is their fault. What can I do? I waited for the team at Tarapith and called up the district magistrate, asking him about the team. He said they were on the way,” said Mondal. Senior officials said the surveillance team and the magistrate were not adequately aware of how Mondal functioned and what he had done the last two times he was kept under watch by the EC. “In 2016 and 2019, when Mondal was kept under similar surveillance, he had moved around the district for hours. But then, the teams did not lose sight of him altogether for hours, at least. This time, the team failed to do what it was sent to,” said a senior official. Mondal alleged that police had asked many active Trinamul leaders to visit police stations, forcing them to stay there. “I have no problem with surveillance…. But I had never seen such a biased poll panel before this,” he said. “At their (the commission’s) behest, the police are summoning our leaders, but nothing is done about the BJP’s goons despite repeated complaints,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: ‘State needs BJP to arrest this advanced decay’||If you compare the West Bengal of today to the West Bengal of the early 1960s, you will perceive the downward slide that the state has seen so far. This has happened because of continuous povertarian, anti-development, anti-industry, anti-prosperity rule first by the Left Front government and then by the Trinamul Congress (TMC), led by Mamata Banerjee whom I call a medhabi chhatri or diligent pupil of the Leftists. During this process, there has been an exodus and closure of industries, climaxed by the driving out of the Nano factory from Singur. The second aspect is infiltration — Bangladeshi infiltration and right now Rohingya infiltration — that has imposed a burden on this state. Our state has been the receptacle of Hindus who have been driven out of East Bengal because of religious persecution. Now, we are getting the persecutors here and our governments have welcomed them with open arms because they vote in a block. Third, because of Leftism pervading the entire body politic and the minds of the people, our value system has been warped. We have lost the common sense concept of good and bad. On the other hand, we have concepts of good and bad based on what is good for the party, what is approved by the party. The CPM pushed it down our throats and thereafter, it became a part of our DNA. The TMC has simply followed it. I call Mamata Banerjee medhabi chaatri because she figured that if the Leftists could stay in power for 35 years this way, then so could she. All she had to do is copy them; she didn’t have to do any original thinking. Now we have come to a stage that no industrialist will touch this state with a 10-foot pole. Yet manufacturing is what can create a large number of jobs. The service industry has enormous potential but manufacturing has to form the core. That is why manufacturing is necessary and Bengal was the hub of manufacturing. The communists have systematically driven them out. But even at this stage, this advanced stage of decay, if proper political will is employed the state can turn around. Only the BJP can do this because the party’s political idiom is diametrically opposite to this povertarianism, opposed to the anti-prosperity stance, opposed to Bangladeshi infiltration and, of course, minority appeasement. This is why the state needs the BJP; there is no alternative. People are people, they have not lost track of their innate sense of good and bad. In spite of the communists teaching them the contrary. Which is why the communists have gone out of favour. That Mamata Banerjee is a communist in some other garb people will take some time to understand. But eventually they will understand. There is a very famous saying attributed to Victor Hugo, “No one can stop the passage of something whose time has come.” The time for the BJP has come. Mamata, the communists, the “secularists” can do nothing against it. People have seen all these things, people have seen through them, now the time has come for the BJP, the only ones who can save this state. Many say that the BJP has no roots in this state but that is wrong, its founder was from this state. Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee founded the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, which eventually metamorphosed into the BJP. The only thing is in the interregnum the BJP did not have an existence in the state because Mookerjee could not anoint a proper successor. It is difficult to say how many seats we will win but I’m fairly sure — and my belief has hardened into conviction based on Mamata’s body language in Nandigram on polling day — that we will get the predicted 200 seats. It is difficult to say how long it will take the BJP to get Bengal out of the financial mess, but I will say that we will have to do it within five years or perish. At least we will have to show tangible results and for that we will have to do surgical operations. Some very, very drastic measures will be necessary. There is jute, there is tea, there is coal, there is steel and there is still an engineering industry, though a pale shadow of what it used to be. Among agricultural products there is potato, which the state can export. Apart from that there is manpower; this state has exported quite a lot of manpower to all the states in the fields of IT, management, performing arts. All these are things that the state can monetise. As for those who accuse the BJP of polarising the people, let me say that extreme polarisation has already been caused by Mamata’s antics. Ever since she has come to power there have been as many as five major communal riots — at Dhulagarh, Kaliachak, Naliakhali, Hazinagar and Baduria —and several minor ones. And Gujarat, the state that is continuously bad mouthed by the “seculars”, has not seen a single communal riot since 2002 because the state has administered law and order without fear and favour and not pandered to certain sections of the population, which give birth to criminals. (As told to The Telegraph)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls 2021: ‘A TMC govt  will suit the ethos  of Bengal’||There’s a host of reasons why Bengal needs the Trinamul Congress (TMC). First, the TMC is a Bengal-centric party; it originated in Bengal and remains confined only to Bengal. So the party is quite capable of looking after the needs and aspirations of the people of Bengal. The TMC is a relatively new party, having been set up only 23 years ago. In this time, it has borne the brunt of the actions of a very violent CPM. Many party workers have lost their lives, many more have been forced out of their homes and so on and so forth. This is common knowledge. Also, the TMC was the party that led the fight against land acquisition in both Singur and Nandigram. The Trinamul Congress has a leader whose face is known throughout Bengal and throughout India; the TMC has the advantage of an established leadership, unlike other parties. And the need of the hour today is leadership that can fight against the authoritarian, communal regime currently at the Centre. Keep in mind that the TMC was the first party to protest against demonetisation — a unilateral decision taken by the Centre; it also protested the hasty implementation of the GST. It has supported the farmers’ movement against the anti-farmer legislation brought in by the central government. The TMC has also protested against the riots fomented by the BJP in different parts of the country, and against the communal policies of the central government. It was at the forefront of the fight against the divisive Citizenship Amendment Act, which the TMC has said it will not allow to be implemented in Bengal. Bengal needs a TMC government to suit the ethos of the state and its traditional exceptionalist politics. The TMC has ruled in this state for the last 10 years without excessive use of the police force and police firing. It has brought peace to the Darjeeling hills and to the erstwhile Maoist-dominated Jungle Mahal. In view of what is currently happening in Chhattisgarh, this deserves a lot of credit. The Mamata Banerjee-led TMC government has initiated a multitude of extremely pro-people programmes. Take, for example, Kanyashree Prakalpa, which is for girls between 14 and 18 years of age; it has benefited 69 lakh girls. Under Sabooj Sathi, free cycles have been distributed to school students; it has benefited 84 lakh students. This year, the TMC government has given Rs 10,000 each to nine lakh students of Class XII to enable them to buy smartphones so they can attend online classes during the pandemic. The Khadya Sathi Scheme is benefiting eight-and-a-half crore people with cheap — and now free — rations. The Swasthya Sathi will be benefiting the whole population of the state. The TMC government is granting a pension to all Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) people above 60 years of age, it is giving allowances to imams and muezzins of mosques and also to Brahmin purohits. The TMC government has maintained communal peace in the state where there have been no riots. Bengal needs the TMC government for a progressive, democratic setup to further the development of the state peacefully and to take steps for enhancing employment. The TMC has stood like a rock against the pro-capitalist policies of the central government, which is selling all public sector and government assets. Bengal needs the TMC as a beacon of light in the face of communal, capitalist and authoritarian politics unleashed by the BJP throughout the country. All over India, elections have been done in one day, at the most in three days. Here, for some unknown reason, they conducted elections in eight phases. Nearly 2 lakh central forces have come here. They have come from different states and they are travelling all over the state. They are spreading the coronavirus. For the Prime Minister’s meetings, workers are coming from Gujarat and so on. That too is spreading the corona. We had requested that the last three phases be completed in one day but that did not happen. As a result, people are being infected. This is entirely the fault of the Election Commission and they have done it at the behest of the ruling party at the Centre, particularly Modi and Shah. This has been a unique election. In the sense that in my whole life, in almost 60 years of elections, I have never seen so much pressure being brought on a state. The pressure of the central forces, the use of central agencies like the CBI, ED, and the income tax department before the elections, the high pressure campaign by the Prime Minister spending the nation’s money, the amount of money BJP used in every constituency — this is unique. Even during national elections, I have never seen Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah visit so many times. The number of outsiders coming to the state, I have never seen this. This has become a fight between Bengalis and outsiders and I think the Bengalis will win. We have been an exceptional state, we practise exceptionalism right from Netaji Subhas’s days, I think we will be an exception this time too. (As told to The Telegraph)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
29-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls: If none recognises, Shersabadia will speak for itself||On January 21, Abdul Wahab, who teaches English at Samsi College in Chanchal in Malda district, received an award for Kafer Kobityar Poshalu (A picnic with infidel poetry), his collection of poems written in Shersabadia. It was a rare honour. Not only because it was discerning, but also because hardly any books have been written in Shersabadia. Which is surprising, considering about an estimated 50 lakh people — or more — speak it in Bengal. Shersabadia is a Bengali dialect spoken extensively in the Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur districts of Bengal. But it remains obscure because the people who speak it also remain obscure, though they constitute almost 1/20th of the population of Bengal. This collective linguistic identity has hardly ever been recognised and this is now being addressed from within the community. A significant section of Shersabadias — the people and the language share the same name — is Muslim, but Hindu communities such as that of the Chain Mandal and the group that now identifies as Kishan Sampraday are also a part of it. They are obscure for historical reasons. A conscious, organised effort to get the dialect the recognition it deserves began only two years ago. Wahab, who in January received the literary award from BASE — Bengal Academia of Social Empowerment, a collective of academicians, scholars and professionals, working, among other things, for the social and cultural development of Bengali Muslims  — is a moving force behind a movement that aims at establishing Shersabadia on the cultural map of Bengal. The Shersabadia Bikash Parishad has been established in Malda town for the development of the dialect . Wahab attempts to explain why Shersabadia, though so widely spoken, is not known beyond its speakers. Its origin lies in the conquest of Bengal by Sher Shah Suri, the commander of Mughal emperor Babar’s army, and the history of its decline seems to foreshadow that of mainstream Bengali. Sher Shah was appointed the governor of Bihar. In 1538, when Humayun was emperor, he conquered the capital of Bengal, Gaur. The next year, he defeated Humayun in Chausa in Bihar. Bihar and Bengal came under his rule then. He divided his kingdom into several divisions called Sarkars, and each Sarkar into several smaller units called Parghanas. Shersabad was one of the Parghanas. The people who lived in Shersabad — the fertile doab region between the Ganges and the Mahananda, north of the Rahr region and south of the Barendra region — came to be known as Shersabadias. The community is spread over Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur in Bengal, adjoining areas in Bihar and Jharkhand, Rajshahi and other places in Bangladesh, and in Nepal. The language shows regional variations. The total number of people speaking Shersabadia, including in the places outside Bengal, is about 3 crore. The earliest reference, however, says Wahab, came in early 20th century, when G.A. Grierson mentioned it in the Linguistic Survey of India (1898-1928). The next time it was mentioned properly was by linguist Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar in his book The Science of Language (1989). It has not been discussed in the landmark linguistic studies on Bengali, says Wahab. Class and caste played a major role in keeping Shersabadia on the margins. The Shersabadias were originally peasants. From the time of Sher Shah through the Mughal era to the era of the Nawabs of Bengal, the community prospered. Gaur, from where king Shashanka, the Palas and the Sens ruled, from the 7th to the 13th century, and Murshidabad, the capital of the Nawabs later, were located in the area where they ruled. The Muslim Shersabadia community were mostly converts: lower caste Hindus who had converted to Islam to escape oppression by the Sen rulers who would also not spare Buddhists. The Muslim Shersabadias have been given OBC status,  too, a few years earlier. The description Shersabadia had stuck more to the Muslim section. The Hindu Shersabadia speaking groups were often named after their caste. The language can be traced to the earlier times as well, feels Wahab. “Shersabadia resembles the language of Charyapada,” says Wahab, who belongs to the community. Charyapada is a collection of mystical poems and songs, written between the 8th and 12th centuries, which show Buddhist influence, and is supposed to be the origin of Bengali. But with the advent of the British, and the defeat of the Nawabs and a new capital founded in Calcutta, history took another course. The shift of the capital city — as all Bengalis know, not only Shersabadias — also means the shift of financial capital. Peasants, in any case, were being oppressed by British rule. The Shersabadias, in addition, would suffer two huge blows — the Partition of Bengal, 1905, when parts of the Shersabadia settlement areas went to Bihar; and the Partition of India, when parts of the region went to East Pakistan, now Bangladesh. These hit hard, fracturing the already fragile Shersabadia cultural identity. Some from the community went away to East Pakistan, but many remained. The community had also been branded “criminal”, but was decriminalised later. “In fact, in a way, we were not ‘colonised’ enough,” says Wahab. Colonial education did not reach the community. “The language was unconnected with education.” It remained like it was, always, more or less, and without even a script. It still does not have one. Meanwhile, in the 18th and 19th centuries, Bengali was standardised. The formal version, which would produce several highly accomplished literary works in the years to come,  was very different from a dialect. “It was an exercise conducted in the city,” says Wahab. Sanskrit was a major influence on it. “Shersabadia is part of the Bengali language family, but quite distinct both in structure and sound,” says Wahab. The final syllable in a word is elongated and accented, a feature that is used with great effect. “Since Shersabadia was only spoken, it had no formal literature.” A language does not grow without a literature. Literary works in Shersabadia are very recent. Like Wahab, others are also writing poetry in Shersabadia. “Books are still few in Shersabadia,” says Wahab. But online, there are several videos on Shersabadia history, culture and songs, presented by animated young men. Abdus Samad is another noted activist for Shersabadia, as is Rezaul Karim. “Shersabadia as a dialect is comparable to Kamtapuri in north Bengal a few years ago. Kamtapuri became officially recognised after the political movement,” says Wahab. But the Shersabadia movement will not tread that path. “Ours is a linguistic, cultural movement, affiliated to no political party, with no political agenda,” stresses Wahab. “The problem has to be addressed intellectually,” says Wahab. Poetry is essential. The title of his book, which was awarded, takes its name from a poem that says art is above morality. Obviously, above electoral politics, too, and narrow sectarianism. Abid Hassan, a documentary filmmaker and BASE member, agrees. He also feels that the Shersabadiya community and the dialect remain invisible because of the lack of a political agenda. “We are trying to create a script,” he says. But as Wahab points out, all struggles are political in a fundamental way because they are struggles for existence, for a people, for a language. Tthont kaamraaichhey kaalo daihya, Jitthi kohe tthik tthik. Haami taakaai tomaar ghaanta,  Dhhoirya thaaki jaanlar shink. Tumi aaisbya kobe koho tthik. A black ant has bitten my lips  And a lizard sounds “yes, yes”. I am looking at the path of your retreat While catching the iron bars of my window. When will you return? Please tell me now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
