30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal goes into shutdown mode to curb spread of Covid||The Bengal government ordered the shut down of a number of public places, including shopping complexes and malls, cinemas, bars and sports complexs, in the wake of rising Covid cases in the state. As per an order signed by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, restaurants, beauty parlours, spas, gyms and swimming pools would also be closed. While pharmacies, medical equipment shops and groceries have been  exempted from the closure order, markets will be allowed to remain open twice a day from 7am to 10am in the morning and 3pm to 5pm in the afternoon. The government has also ordered a clampdown on any gathering for social, academic, entertainment or cultural purposes. The order, the chief seceratary noted, would come  into effect and from Friday evening and continue for an indefinite period. The decision was taken following an advisory from the Union health ministry that reached Nabanna on Thursday. The restrictions come in the wake of rising Covid cases in the state amid acute paucity of hospital beds and medico-technical support for  patients. Till Thursday evening, Bengal had recorded 17, 403 fresh cases, and 89 deaths. For over two months, with the eight-phase Assembly polls on, there were no attempts to prevent large gatherings in Calcutta and the districts. While Covid cases spiked nationally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi gloated over “unprecedented crowds” in an election campaign meeting in Asansol. For Sunday’s counting of votes, the Election Commission has already banned victory rallies across the state. This apart,  candidates, their agents and even media personnel would not be allowed entry to counting centres without a Covid “negative” report. On Friday, ITC helped the Medica Hospital set up a 200-bed Covid hospital at Jadavpur’s Kishore Bharati Krirangan. This apart, AMRI Hospitals is starting a 50-bed safe home at the Salt Lake Stadium which is likely to be operational from Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata pep-talk to ring-fence Trinamul nominees||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee held an online meeting with 290 party candidates on Friday afternoon, assuring them that the Trinamul Congress would win the Assembly elections with no less than two-thirds majority, her outreach coming a day after exit polls indicated that her rerturn to Nabanna would by no means be a cakewalk. “Didi said she expected good performance in North Bengal and Jungle Mahal. She sounded confident of a win with two-third majority,” said a candidate from a south Bengal district. The Bengal Assembly has 294 seats. Elections were held in 292 seats. Congress's Shamserganj candidate Rezaul Haque and RSP's Jangipur nominee Pradip Kumar died of Covid. Voting in these two constituencies will now be held on May 16. Trinamul's Khardah candidate Kajal Sinha succumbed to Covid after voting was over in the constituency.  A fourth candidate, Sameer Ghosh, who was contesting as an Independent from Baishnabnagar, died earlier this week. Voting in the seat was held on Thursday. Counting votes for Bengal, along with Assam, Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu, will be held on May 2. Despite exit poll projections to the contrary, Mamata said that the BJP would not win more than 70-80 seats. “She told us not to worry, the BJP won’t cross 70-80. We are coming to power,” the candidate said. Incidentally, North Bengal and Jungle Mahal are the two areas which had turned into the BJP’s mainstay in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Out of the 54 Assembly seats in the eight districts of North Bengal, the BJP led in 37. Likewise in Jungle Mahal and its surrounding areas in south Bengal, the BJP was ahead in 30 of the 40 Assembly seats. Most exit polls have indicated that the finish this time could be tighter than what leaders of the two primary contenders, the Trinamul Congress  and the BJP, would have us believe. Mamata, as well as Narendra Modi and Amit Shah,  have all claimed that they will come to power with more than 200 seats. While exit polls are known to go terribly wrong, most have indicated that both the Trinamul and the BJP will be well below 200. None of he polls has, however, indicated a hung Assembly. According to Trinamul sources, at Friday's meeting, Mamata warned her party candidates that the BJP would try to create confusion at the counting centres. “Didi said, the BJP controls the media, so only leads of BJP will get prominence, but the candidates should not lose hope or worry. She instructed all of us to stay at the counting centre till the last vote was counted and tallied with the VVPAT,” said a candidate. The chief minister made it clear to all party nominees that the electoral battle would not be over till the last vote was counted and all candidates would have to remain alert throughout the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Six exit polls give edge to Trinamul, three to BJP||At least six of 10 exit polls have projected a third consecutive term as chief minister for Mamata Banerjee with her party getting past the majority mark of 148. Three exit polls predicted a first-ever conquest of Bengal for the BJP while the remaining one projected a seat band with a maximum of 156 for Trinamul and 160 for the BJP. The ABP Ananda-C Voter poll that had surveyed 50 “VIP seats” gave Mamata the edge from Nandigram after categorising the contest as “close”. A poll of the exit polls, conducted by NDTV, gave Trinamul 152 seats, the BJP 130 seats, and the Sanyukta Morcha of the Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front 12 seats. The six surveys that forecast a Trinamul victory conveyed little change from the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, where Trinamul secured leads from 164 Assembly segments, the BJP from 121 and the Congress from the remaining 9. Bengal has 294 Assembly seats. All 10 surveys portrayed the Morcha as a distant third, with 0 to 26 seats. ABP Ananda-C Voter gave Trinamul 152-164 seats, the BJP 109-121 and the Morcha 14-25. It predicted a 42.1 per cent vote share for Trinamul, 39.2 per cent for the BJP, 15.4 per cent for the Morcha and 3.3 per cent for the rest. This too largely mirrored the vote shares of 2019, when Trinamul polled 43.69 per cent of the votes, the BJP 40.64 per cent, the Left 6.34 per cent and the Congress 5.67 per cent. In 2019, the Left and the Congress had not been in alliance. Between them, the surveys by ABP Ananda-C Voter, ETG Research, Polstrat, P-MARQ, Ipsos and Today’s Chanakya gave Trinamul between 152 and 180 seats. In 2016, Trinamul had won 211 seats. These six surveys gave the BJP a minimum of 105 seats and a maximum of 132. Axis My India projected a band of 130-156 for Trinamul and 134-160 for the BJP. The surveys that went the other way were CNX, People’s Pulse and Jan Ki Baat. CNX gave the BJP 138-148, keeping Trinamul tantalisingly close with 128-138. Given the margin of error for such surveys, the CNX projection indicates all three possibilities — a victory for either or a hung House. Jan Ki Baat gave the BJP 162-185 while predicting 104-121 for Trinamul. People’s Pulse gave the BJP 173-192, with 64-88 for Trinamul. An exit poll analyst said the variance in the predictions owed primarily to differences among the pollsters in their estimations of the extent of religious polarisation among the voters. “If one assumes that the surveys have caught the general drift, the narrowness of the gap between the two main contenders suggests that polarisation wasn’t as pervasive as the BJP would have liked,” he added. Trinamul said the surveys had underestimated the size of Mamata’s victory while the BJP said no exit poll had gone in the party’s favour since its inception. Exit polls elsewhere largely projected a BJP victory in Assam, a DMK sweep in Tamil Nadu, a Left rerun in Kerala and a win for an alliance in which the BJP is a partner in Puducherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung jumps queue of senior citizens to get first Covid vaccine||Bimal Gurung on Thursday walked inside the Gorkha Rangamanch Bhavan in Darjeeling and allegedly jumped the queue of waiting senior citizens as health officials broke protocol to administer Gurung him first Covid vaccine dose though vials were reserved only for people waiting for their second dose. Gurung is 56 according to his voter card and is eligible for the ongoing vaccination but the manner in which health officials broke protocol to pamper the hill leader left many fuming. According to the Centre’s guidelines, the second dose of Covaxin should be taken between 28 and 42 days of the first dose, and the second dose for Covishield should be taken between 28 and 56 days. “Since time for the second dose is running out for many, we decided to administer only the second dose till April 30,” admitted a health official. Some at the vaccination centre questioned why Gurung got his first dose. “What stopped health officials from telling him he is not eligible for vaccination today?” asked one. Gurung could not be contacted but his Morcha faction’s second-in-command Roshan Giri said Gurung got his first jab. On the out-of-turn preferential treatment to Gurung, Giri said: “He was busy campaigning....He got time today so got vaccinated.” Gurung’s rivals were quick to ridicule him. “This shows his real character. He is only bothered about himself,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, MLA candidate of the Morcha’s Binay Tamang faction. The jab was administered to Gurung before noon. When this reporter spoke to chief medical officer of health, Darjeeling, Pralay Acharya, after 5pm, he said he was unaware of the incident. “What is his age, who has given it I don’t know. Give me the data I shall take care of it…Give the data, his age and when he took the vaccine and if there is any discrepancy, I shall take care of it,” said Dr Acharya, without explaining what he would take “care of”. Some health officials are trying to verify whether a nurse who had not been assigned at Gorkha Rangamanch Bhavan was actually brought to administer the vaccine to Gurung. “We have been caught by surprise by the development. We are trying to verify various details,” said a health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Jorpatki residents “reply to the bullets with ballots”||Residents of Jorpatki in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi Assembly segment walked up to Amtali MSK (booth number 5/126) on Thursday to “reply to the bullets with ballots” as polling was held for the second time. “Around 84 per cent voters (814 out of 966) turned up at the booth to cast their votes, including family members of the three of the four youths who had fallen to the CISF’s bullets on April 10. The attendance indicates they were determined to reply to the injustice that was delivered to them around 20 days back…..we are confident that they have replied in the most appropriate manner through their ballots,” said Alizar Rehman, a local Trinamul leader. Since morning, over 50 CAPF personnel were sighted at Jorpatki, guarding the booth and surrounding areas. Along with them were state police personnel, led by a number of senior police officers. As the day rolled, voters came out in groups, walked up to the booth and exercised their franchise. Among them were the families of Maniruzzaman Mian, Samiul Haque and Hamidul Mian, the three youths who lost their lives in the April 10 firing. “Family members of Nur Alam Mian, the fourth youth, are voters of 5/125 booth. That is why they didn’t turn up,” said a resident. Mamata Bibi, the mother of 28-year-old Maniruzzaman, reached the booth with her husband Amzad Hosain, two sons and Rahila Khatun, her daughter-in-law who was seen cradling her one-and-a-half month-old daughter whom they have named Mariam. As they walked to the booth, Mamata could not control her emotions and burst into tears. “It is this ominous booth that has claimed the life of my son. I can never forget it,” the old woman said. After some time, she managed to control herself and stood in the queue. Gradually, each of them went inside to cast their votes. Afsar Ali, Samiul’s father, who was equally morose as he stood in the queue, recalled the horrifying incident. “On that day, I was standing in the queue with my two sons…. I saw how my son was gunned down. Our only hope is that justice is delivered to us once the new government comes to power. So far, not a single CISF man who fired at our boys has been arrested,” he said. Candidates of different parties — Partha Pratim Roy of the Trinamul Congress, Barendranath Burman of the BJP and Sudhangshu Pramanik of the Left Front — visited the booth. Roy, who is also the district Trinamul chief of Cooch Behar, said: “Our party supremo has made it clear that we will not let the deaths of these local youths go in vain. We are confident of forming the government and all necessary legal steps would be taken against those who fired at them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP leader killed, finger at party worker||A BJP leader, Manabesh Das, 48, who was a booth committee president in Gangarampur of South Dinajpur, died in hospital on Thursday, two days after he was allegedly attacked by a new BJP worker and his aides. Pinaki Pramanik, who recently joined the BJP from Trinamul, has been absconding since April 27, when he allegedly attacked Das over a “trifle”. The president of BJP’s booth 60 under ward 11 of Gangarampur town, had got involved in an altercation with Pinaki. In the ensuing clash, Pramanik and his aides allegedly attacked Das and beat up Tarak Das, another local BJP leader. Both suffered serious injuries and Das was shifted to the NBMCH where he died on Thursday morning. Tarak is admitted to the Gangarampur subdivisional hospital. Police said Pinaki has absconded. “Both (Manabesh Das and Tarak Das) were attacked at a food stall. We have urged the police to take legal steps against the attackers. No matter who from which party is involved, he should face legal consequences,” said Bapi Sarkar, a BJP district general secretary in South Dinajpur. In another incident, the home of Meghnad Debnath, a BJP leader who worked as a polling agent in the elections, was torched on Wednesday around 11.45pm. Debnath, who lived in Keshrail village under Harirampur Assembly seat of South Dinajpur district, had to flee with his family. On Thursday, Sukanta Majumdar, the BJP MP of Balurghat, who visited the spot, accused Trinamul. “Trinamul leaders have realised that they will lose in South Dinajpur, that’s why they are attacking our party colleagues who toiled hard....” he said. Subhash Chaki, a district coordinator of Trinamul, denied the charges. Police have started a probe. In neighbouring North Dinajpur, three Trinamul supporters were injured by pellets. Sources said for the past few days, two groups of Trinamul supporters in the Bhadrakali of Islampur subdivision were having disputes over the possession of a tea plantation. On Thursday, they got into an altercation that soon led to a clash. Pellets were shot from one group, injuring the trio who are now admitted to the Islampur subdivisional hospital. Police have started a probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Didi asks TMC candidates, leaders to join her in meeting for counting day vigil||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, for the first time ahead of counting in a crucial election, instructed all candidates and key leaders of her party to join her in a virtual meeting on Friday. This, said sources, is in view of the Election Commission’s new instructions for counting agents and candidates for counting Sunday amid the second wave of Covid-19. Sources said the Trinamul chief is fearful whether the tweak in rules is aimed at helping the BJP in close contests. “Our estimates suggest scores of seats with narrow margins. We all know, from Bihar’s example last year, that the BJP in cahoots with the EC is capable of turning close contests in its own favour at counting centres,” said a Trinamul vice-president. “That’s what she wants all candidates to prepare against. Awareness, alertness, and not yielding an inch till the end of the process in counting centres....” According to him, this is the first such instance of a pre-counting meeting with all candidates convened by Mamata in Trinamul’s history. The EC issued on Wednesday rules for Covid-19 safety at the 705 counting centres in Bengal, such as candidates and counting agents would be allowed inside counting centres only if they produce a negative RT-PCR or RAT report or have taken both doses of the Covid vaccine. Trinamul had immediately flagged inconsistencies in language. “…the time mandated for providing such a negative report has been stated as ‘within 48 hours of start of counting’, which effectively means by 4 May 2021,” it wrote. On Thursday, Trinamul shot another missive to Nirvachan Sadan, pointing out that while strict adherence to Covid testing was being expected of election agents, counting agents and candidates, no such provision was made for poll officials inside counting halls or 24,000-odd central force personnel to be deployed that day. Trinamul also demanded that postal ballots — in greater numbers because of the pandemic — be counted first. “The chief minister is wary of what the BJP may be up to, because of its desperation to win Bengal by hook or by crook, on counting day at counting centres. The many possibilities of malpractice by them is what she will try to keep us ready for. That is why Friday’s meeting is very important,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Serpents in Tagore’s garden||Visva-Bharati was founded in 1921 by Rabindranath Tagore on many ideas. One of them was freedom and another was openness. Tagore did not believe in walls. In his play Raktakarabi (Red Oleander), the king lives in a dark chamber behind an iron wall that cannot be broken down, running an empire in which people die to create wealth for him. Walls condition the mind, keeping it from growing, he felt. Visva-Bharati, located in Santiniketan, Birbhum, was “a seat of learning” where classes were held in open air. It offered other freedoms too: the freedom of being, of thought, of knowledge, and from fear. “Tagore was a conscious advocate of a democratic community. The school, Patha Bhavana, has a formal students’ council known as Ashram Sammilani. The constitution for this council was written by the founder himself,” says Sudripta Tagore, a Tagore family descendent and former student and teacher of Visva-Bharati. He is now principal of an English-medium school in Santiniketan. “We also know about his support for the Alapini Mahila Samiti, a women’s organisation that was an integral part of the Ashram community,” he adds. One hundred years later, in its centennial year, which is also a state election year for Bengal, Tagore’s university and its institutions lie in a shambles, broken down by a brutal use of authority, almost reminiscent of the king behind the iron curtain of Raktakarabi. To be fair to that king of darkness, the stakes are far less grand, but no less hideous. Visva-Bharati, which became a central university in 1951, has declined steadily through the years. From an avant garde place, where the best minds of the world met from the fields of art, languages, music, literature, technology and sciences, it slowly turned into another demoralised, in many ways commonplace campus through the decades, because of the declining standard of academics, lack of financial and other resources, a less-than-satisfactory administration, which became a frequent feature and a problem that has intensified in recent years, the excessive intervention of arm-twisting, ruffian political agenda. The campus retains its landmarks, the Chhatim Tala, which had enchanted Tagore’s father Debendranath, who bought a lot of land around it; the exquisite stained glass Prayer Hall; and Kala Bhavana, the art department, where sculptor Ramkinkar Baij worked and taught. But after the first five decades of glory, the campus and its life and aesthetic became enveloped, at least in parts, in a mist of tedium and gloom. What has been happening, however, to the campus since the current vice-chancellor took over in November 2018 is a carnage, a systematic, total and continuous breaking down of all the structures and institutions that hold up any seat of learning, especially Visva-Bharati. Moreover, the air has taken on more than a tinge of saffron with a certain brand of politics having been invited in. Most of all, no employee can speak without the approval of authorities. Which reminds us of Taasher Desh, Tagore’s satirical dance-drama about a kingdom where every move of a citizen is dictated. In fact, reporting Visva-Bharati today is like reading Tagore upside down. Bidyut Chakrabarty, the vice-chancellor, has been accused of so much that it is hard to enumerate all the allegations. With him at the helm, the campus began to reel from a spree of transfers and suspensions, especially of key members of students’, teachers’ and employees’ bodies, even as it began to extend invitations to representatives of Right-wing organisations. In August 2019, ABVP national secretary Sunil Ambekar and the then state tourism minister Goutam Deb became the first political leaders to be invited to Halakarshana at the Sriniketan campus. The event had been started by Tagore in 1929. There had been other quite un-Tagorean firsts already. In June 2019, the university, for the first time, had decided not to hold Pous Mela on environmental grounds. It is one of the two biggest cultural events in Santiniketan, the other being Basantotsav. The Pous Mela decision — though it was held in 2019 — alienated the local craftspeople and traders as the event contributes in a major way to the local economy. In January 2020, when Covid was yet to become the threat that it is, the university decided not to hold Basantotsav, which too keeps the local economy alive. From the latter part of 2019, a deluge of events announced the intent of Chakrabarty’s administration. In December 2019, protests had erupted on the campus against a proposed lecture by Swapan Dasgupta, who later became a BJP candidate in the Assembly elections, on the communally divisive Citizenship Amendment Act passed by the Centre. When Dasgupta finally arrived in January 2020 for the lecture, he faced protests from students at the lecture venue, where a lot of BJP leaders were present along with the vice-chancellor. Chakrabarty later shifted the programme to Sriniketan, where he and Dasgupta were gheraoed again. In January 2020, a student was evicted from the hostels for recording a speech by Chakrabarty. In the video recording, the speaker is questioning the validity of the Constitution, saying “(only) 293 people met at the Constituent Assembly and drafted the Constitution”. In January-end, all the administration’s efforts to contain protest and difference of opinion culminated in a gag order. Visva-Bharati barred all employees from interacting with the media with immediate effect and asked them to air their views, if any, through the university’s officiating public relations officer, an unthinkable act of censorship in any institution of education in a country that claims to be democratic. No one can speak today in Visva-Bharati. Strange, given it was founded by Tagore. Protests followed. In August, 2020, the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association sent a letter to Chakrabarty, accusing him of ignoring academics and destroying the democratic environment. It came in the middle of another controversy: Visva-Bharati was building a boundary wall on the Pous Mela grounds. In a hundred years, things have come full circle at Visva-Bharati, from open space to walls being set up where none is required. Since then, other events have followed: Visva-Bharati has suspended Sudipta Bhattacharyya, an economics professor and president of the Visva-Bharati Faculty Association, assistant professor of drama Rajesh K.V., also the general secretary of the Adhyapak Sabha. Bidyut Sarkar, secretary of the non-teaching employees’ association, had been transferred earlier and then suspended in July 2020. In February this year all 10 teachers of the English department were “confined” and later showcaused regarding their “absence” from the university based on their “identical undertakings” admitting to their absence. They were all attending a work-related Zoom meeting, sources said. Around eight teachers of the physics and philosophy departments — who were earlier showcaused — were chargesheeted for alleging that their English department colleagues were illegally confined for filing what varsity authorities termed “false police complaints” in the matter. All these bodies mentioned by Sudripta Tagore, which made for a community, have been undermined. “Add to that the fear of suspension, gag order and such measures against the teaching community of the institution,” he adds. At this point, Visva-Bharati begins to look a bit like a very dark version of Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland, where the Red Queen charges, apparently for no reason at all other than megalomania: “Off with their heads!” But to be fair to the Red Queen, like we were fair to the Iron King, she had no ideological leanings. The vice-chancellor has also been seen hobnobbing with the BJP candidate from Bolpur, party think-tank member Anirban Ganguly. But sources said that the saffron party, embarrassed by Chakrabarty’s rampage on the Visva-Bharati campus and its surroundings, is now trying to distance itself from him. Does Visva-Bharati have any hope? “Rabindranath Tagore called for a ‘swadeshi samaj’. He wanted to see self-reliance in agriculture, commerce and business, art, literature, etc. Tagore wanted the entire humanity to benefit from India’s spiritual awakening. The vision for a self-reliant India is also a derivative of this sentiment. The call for a self-reliant India is for the world’s benefit too,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Visva-Bharati convocation in December last year. The Prime Minister of India is the Chancellor of Visva-Bharati. And Tagore may have spoken of self-reliance, but “atmanirbhar” is Modi’s slogan. Tagore’s vision has been vandalised in Santiniketan, or appropriated to play petty power games, with or without the support of political parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Flavours of Bengal: Shankha||Shaankha is the white bangle made from conch shell that is traditionally worn by Hindu married women in Bengal. It is generally paired with pola, or bangles made of coral. A set of shaankha and pola are worn on both hands, with a loha or iron bangle between the two on the left hand. Shaankha and pola are not worn by many women these days, especially in the city, often because women find it problematic to have to demonstrate their marital status this way, as they have to with sindur. But the bride often wears them still, if only for the wedding. The shaankha-pola ceremony at the wedding takes place early in the morning and is part of the ritual called Dodhimangal. Both bangles are slipped on to the bride’s wrists by seven married women of the family. These shaankha-pola are presented to the bride by her mother. Pola is a polished smooth bangle, shaankha generally has intricate carvings on it and sometimes has gold worked into it. The shaankha comes in various thicknesses. A thick shaankha with very fine designs is a coveted thing, as is a shaankha carved out without a joint from the conch shell. Shaankha can be quite expensive. The designs can be abstract or in the pattern of leaves, lotuses or a cluster of grapes or flowers. The contrast of the white shaankha and red pola, which mirrors that of the red-bordered white sari, is a special feature of Bengali tradition. White stands for purity, red for auspiciousness. One account traces the shaankha to Bengali fishermen who used to collect conch shells as gifts for their wives. Later they began to powder the shells and make bangles out of them. They were greatly skilled. The bangles went on to become an important Bengali wedding ritual. Today shaankhas are made at factories where a huge pile of conch shells is broken. A special saw is used to cut a shell with water continuously being poured over it. Later the crude bangles are chiselled and buffed and elaborate designs are carved on them. If there are joints, they are concealed with designs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021 | Teacher’s lament: Did I raise bigots?||In her 60s, speaking in a polished, aristocratic accent, she recalls with pleasure her decades of being a teacher. Then she frowns. “I was shocked to see recent comments made by some of my former students on social media. Did I raise a bunch of bigots or is it just these past few years or past few months?” A Muslim woman born to privilege in Calcutta, she is unapologetic about wanting to be “surrounded by lovely things, little comforts and people of taste”. But she confesses she could not escape the hate narrative before and during the Bengal polls. “Before this, one took some things for granted. But now, one can’t. For example, my nephew, who’s 19, wasn’t bothered about news or news channels before, but he was very troubled by how the Tablighi Jamaat was shown on TV last year at the start of the pandemic. He said that for the first time he felt different from his non-Muslim friends. I feel angry when Mamata Banerjee is dubbed Mumtaz Begum. Why are you insulting the Mamatas and the Mumtazes of Bengal?” Sabir Ahamed, a National Research Coordinator at the Pratichi Institute, which was set up by Amartya Sen with his Nobel endowments for research in gender equity, health and education, knows well the barbs at Bengal’s chief minister are to remind the voters of her “Muslim appeasement”. But Ahamed, who has been writing in many English and Bengali newspapers on this subject that’s close to his heart, wonders where exactly the much-touted appeasement happened. “Many cite the state government’s stipend to imams, lavish iftar parties, I’ve even heard some people crib about free sugar given during Ramazan, but those are symbolic gestures. What about education, jobs, soft skills for Muslim youths?” Muslims in Bengal constitute 27 per cent of the state’s population — almost double the national average of 14 per cent. And yet, according to the staff census data of the Bengal government, only 6.08 per cent of the nearly 3.5 lakh state government employees are Muslims, Ahamed says. “The Muslim creamy layer is very, very thin. Look around you, there’s poverty and illiteracy. Only we are caught up in the discourse of appeasement when we should have been talking empowerment.” “Ask me for a silver lining, and I’ll point to the great work done by the Al-Ameen Mission,” Ahamed says, referring to the social institution run by Muslims that imparts exam-based coaching to the community’s economically deprived youngsters. “For instance, many poor Muslim girls and boys have done well in medical entrance exams because of Al-Ameen. Otherwise, where’s the level playing field?” The Jadavpur University alumnus, who before the pandemic helped run community walks to facilitate peaceful coexistence called Know Your Neighbour, said many things had changed since he was in college. Being trolled on social media just for being a Muslim is something that he’s taken aback by. There’s more, he said. “Right now, we seem to be living together separately. When I was young, my friends and I never bothered about religious identities. But now, many Hindu youngsters from elite colleges, if asked to come to Mominpur, where I stay, or Kidderpore or Park Circus, they say, let me ask my mother. The implication is that these places are unsafe. Once they come, they change their minds. In fact, the worst thing anyone has said to me about these places is that they are too crowded.” Ahamed believes many things added up to make Bengal a “fertile ground” for religious polarisation this time. “The Left addressed the issue of class but not religion. Trinamul addressed the issue of religion with symbolism. With the rise of the Rightwing, religion burst into the public discourse. Nationally too. And with the rise of social media and WhatsApp, everyone had some opinion or information to share on religion. The momentum just grew,” he said. “Hate and lies are easier to peddle,” said communications consultant Mudar Patherya when asked about this bitter election campaign on communal lines. “The truth is most Muslims are poor, they’re thinking about their next meal, not about planting a bomb. For an educated Muslim, there are two choices. To pitch in and fight this narrative (of hate) or to just get fatigued and leave. If you have money, you can have a great lifestyle anywhere in the world. But this is my country, my umbilical cord is joined to my people here — of all communities.” A passionate Calcuttan, Patherya thinks the Bengali identity is so strong that it wraps everyone who stays here, no matter what one’s ethnicity or religion. A practising Muslim who has non-Muslims in his family, and like Ahamed, a wide social circle with many non-Muslim friends and colleagues, he still believes this hatred is “artificial”, but worries that it has the “potential to be turned into a long-term DNA”. Like the retired teacher and Ahamed, Patherya steers clear of poll predictions. But he feels there are many Narendra Modis in one man. “This is a not a government that believes in pluralism, it believes in being pro-big business, it is arrogant, but some of the things that this government is doing, in the field of city gas, ethanol blending and renewable energy, is incredible. Some parts of Modi are incredible,” he says. “I also don’t buy this crony capitalism theory (of Modi’s detractors) because the market is a ruthless beast. A company must deliver shareholder value. Being a crony won’t help if you can’t deliver.” Still, the “noise of the past five months”, as he refers to this election campaign, has left him shaken. “I’ve heard Jai Shri Ram change from being a gentle, benevolent greeting to a rallying cry for hate.” The retired teacher agrees. “If they can communalise the virus, they can do anything,” she said. “I haven’t forgotten the hurt on the face of my nephew.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Final phase witnesses 80% voting  in three rural districts||The eighth and final phase of Bengal Assembly elections in which voting was held in 35 constituencies on Thursday witnessed 76.07 per cent turnout till 5pm, but the polling was less in seven north Calcutta seats. Sources in the Election Co­mmission of India said Birbhum had recorded 81.87 percent voter turnout till 5pm, followed by Malda with 80.06 percent and Murshidabad with 78.07 percent. The seven city seats recorded only 57.53 per cent polling till 5pm, which suggested that the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases kept the voters away from the booths. This captured the urban-rural divide in terms of voter turnout. “Although the polls continued for another one-and-a-half hours, it seems the average voting percentage in seven Assembly segments of north Calcutta would not be close to the average of 64 per cent witnes­sed in previous elections.… Primarily, it appears the pandemic has cast a shadow on voter turnout in Calcutta and its surrounding areas,” said a poll panel source. Although Assembly segment-wise voter turnout in Calcutta was not available till the late evening, sources in the Trinamul Congress said seats like Jorasanko, Shyampukur and Maniktala recorded lower turnout and it would help the ruling party. “Our booth-level reports from the polling agents suggest people living in high-rises in these areas did not come out to vote. This will work as an advantage for us as majority of the high-rise occupants are non-Bengali voters and they are pro-BJP,” said a Trinamul insider. A poll panel source said there was a reason behind the residents of high-rises turning out in lower numbers. “Calcutta is reporting almost 4,000 Covid-19 cases everyday and 75 per cent of the patients are being reported from high-rises. So, people living in the high rises are afraid of going out to cast their votes,” said a source. Unlike in the past, when poll percentage had occasionally dropped because of violence, Thursday didn’t witness any major incident of the kind. Police and central force ja­w­ans resorted to baton-charge in areas like Tangra and Maniktala in Calcutta to disperse gatherings while there were also reports of crude bombs exploding near Mahajati Sadan in the morning. The EC, however, said some firecrackers had been burst, which led to panic. The common factor in the rural districts was that a high polling percentage was reco­rded in minority-dominated areas. For example, Murshida­b­ad, which has the minority population of about 65 per cent, recorded 78.07 per cent till 5pm. “Trinamul thinks minority voters back it across the state to prevent the BJP from wresting power in Bengal. It appears Mamata Banerjee’s appeal to vote for Trinamul heavily during her visit to Behrampore recently wor­k­ed,” said a political observer. Violent incidents were reported from Domkal, Hariharpara and Ra­ninagar where workers of Trinamul and the Congress-Left combine clashed. The picture was no different in Malda where 80.06 per cent turnout was reported till 5pm. The contest in Malda is equally interesting as the BJP has been eyeing only four to five seats where Hindu voters are in majority. In the remaining seven-eight seats, the battle was between Trinamul and the Congress-Left combine. “Here also, the minorities apparently stood behind Trinamul to prevent the BJP. It would be a huge gain for the ruling party as it did not get a single seat from the district in the 2016 Assembly polls,” said a source. In case of Birbhum, where the polling percentage was 81.87 percent, the turnout in minority-dominated areas of Birbhum like Muraroi, Nalhati, Hasan and Nanoor was very high. Although Trinamul had an organisational advantage in the district, police sources said there was an even fight between the BJP and Trinamul for the 11 Assembly segments. “Trinamul left no stone unturned to keep its machinery running in the areas where it has a strong support base. The BJP also tried to organise its machinery in areas with its dominance,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Poor turnout in three city seats raises alarm in BJP ||A strikingly poor turnout of Hindi-speaking voters in three of the seven seats — Jorasanko, Maniktala and Shyampukur — in Calcutta on Thursday raised an alarm in the state BJP, said a senior office-bearer of the party. Hindi-speaking population is considered the traditional vote bank of the BJP which had been claiming it would sweep most seats in Calcutta. According to the Election Commission of India, the seven seats recorded 57.53 per cent turnout till 5pm. “We weren’t prepared for this. The fear of contracting the novel coronavirus has prevented these people from coming out to vote. The party depends massively on the Marwari and Bihari communities in these areas. We were hopeful of bagging a chunk of the votes of these communities, but their turnout has been unexpectedly low,” a BJP worker in the Jorasanko constituency and a Marwari himself said. The Telegraph visited several booths in Jorasanko, Maniktala and Shyampukur, especially the ones located in areas with considerable Hindi-speaking population, and witnessed low turnouts. Although the BJP has never won Jorasanko seat, certain pockets of this segment are traditional BJP strongholds. “This isn’t a municipal election. To secure the seat, we need the participation of the entire community which spreads across Burrabazar and Posta. To my opinion, that wasn’t satisfactory,” the source said. The turnout was so poor at a makeshift polling station near Kalakar Street in Burrabazar under Jorasanko constituency that an ITBP jawan on election duty started joking about it. “There are three booths here. Number of agents sitting inside the booths is five times the number of voters going inside to exercise their franchise,” the jawan told this correspondent. Another central force jawan joined the conversation and said he had witnessed the lowest turnout at the particular booth near Kalakar Street during the current Assembly polls. “We were posted in another part of Calcutta during the seventh phase. Even there, the number of voters were more,” the second jawan said. A few kilometers away, the Shree Maidh Kshatriya Sabha Bhawan on Kali Krishna Tagore Street wore an equally deserted look all day. This community hall housed two booths and leaders said they were attending to a maximum of five voters in an hour. A Hindi-speaking family — two male members and a young woman — arrived around 12.30pm to exercise their franchise at the Purwachal Vidyamandir under Maniktala constituency. Each of them had their masks on and the woman was wearing gloves also. Neither did the family want to be photographed nor did they reveal their names. But they said they had come to vote only after thorough deliberation in the family. “I’ve come with my father and brother,” the young woman said. Later, a BSF jawan deputed at this polling station accompanied this correspondent to the five booths inside. No voter could be sighted at three booths. The polling station is located near Kankurgachhi, which has substantial Marwari population. State BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, however, said irrespective of the low voter turnout, the party would win those three seats. “In 2016, Jorasanko had witnessed a turnout of 45 per cent. This time, it is more by at least by 15 per cent. The margin might be lesser than other seats but the BJP will win Jorasanko, Maniktala and Shyampukur.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Leaders of Congress, BJP accuse TMC’s Malda leadership of 'manipulation'||Congress and BJP leaders accused Trinamul’s Malda leadership of “manipulation” on Thursday, as voters of six of the 12 Assembly seats of the district exercised their franchise in the eighth and final phase of Bengal polls. Political observers, however, saw in these charges a hint that poll results in these six seats — where Trinamul performed miserably in 2016 — could be different this time. Isha Khan Choudhury, the sitting MLA and Congress candidate of Sujapur seat, accused Trinamul of “trying to manipulate polling in all possible ways”. In the past five decades, only the Congress won from Sujapur. Isha’s reaction prompted political observers to wonder if the Congress leader was rattled. “In earlier elections, we never saw such a reaction from the Congress. Party leaders may have sensed a change (in Trinamul’s favour) which is why they appear rattled,” said Najibar Rehman, a political observer. BJP accused Trinamul of “violence” and “scare tactics”. “They attacked our polling agent, and in many places, didn’t allow our agents at booths or scared (our) voters with threats,” said Swadhin Sarkar, the BJP MLA of Baishnabnagar, contesting from the same seat. In Malda, the BJP has played the polarisation card to consolidate support and focussed in five of the 12 seats of the district, among which include two seats that polled on Thursday. A veteran in politics in Malda said that it also seemed that the Congress camp sensed that minority votes were slipping out of the party’s hands. In Malda, around 55 per cent of the population are from minority community. “There are indications that many minority voters who always voted for the Congress are shifting to Trinamul. They believe only Mamata Banerjee can help them stay safe if the NRC and CAA are implemented in the state,” he said. In 2016 Assembly elections, Congress had won four seats while an Independent who later joined Trinamul and a BJP candidate the remaining two. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, there had been a swing in votes in favour of the saffron camp and the BJP had managed to secure leads in four Assembly segments while the Congress led in the remaining two segments. “In these past two elections, Trinamul’s performance was not up to the mark. But today (Thursday), leaders of both Congress and BJP camps appeared distressed and they raised baseless charges at us. Their reaction indicates they have sensed defeat,” said Dulal Sarkar, a district Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission fails to implement Covid protocols at booths ||The Election Commission largely failed to implement Covid protocols at hundreds of booths in the last phase of polls at 35 Assembly seats across four districts, mostly for lack of infrastructure and health workers. Sources said Covid protocols were not followed in the booths mainly in the morning when a huge number of voters turned up to vote very early to avoid the blazing April sun. Officials said it was hard to ensure social distancing and check if people were wearing masks when voters in districts started turning up by 6am. “There is only one health worker giving sanitisers and also masks to voters without one. The number of masks provided by the Election Commission is one-fourth of the total voters. It also becomes tough to monitor 500 people at a time. If we ask voters to maintain physical distancing, the queue will go up to 5km,” said a Birbhum district official. At a booth in Baruipur primary school, Bolpur Assembly segment, a group of women huddled close, with six not wearing masks. A woman without a mask simply said: “I forgot.” A policeman at the booth said it was a Herculean task to make people listen to pleas of physical distancing. At Sankoa Primary School in Murshidabad’s Nowda, around 400 women at the booth violated physical distancing and most wore no mask early in the morning. Nargis Begum, a middle-aged woman, said she came early as she was fasting because of Ramazan. “I had no idea that there would be such a crowd at 6am,” she said. On why she wasn’t wearing a mask, she said: “I sweat a lot.” Such scenes at booths came when Bengal reported 17,403 fresh infections and 89 deaths in the past 24 hours. Officials said they tried to follow Covid protocols strictly but voters had to be responsible too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
30-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: My players are performing well, says Anubrata Mondal||“The game is over and my players are performing well,” Trinamul’s Birbhum strongman Anubrata Mondal told reporters on Thursday afternoon, as his district’s 11 Assembly seats were among the 35 that polled in the eighth and final phase of elections. The Election Commission’s surveillance notwithstanding, Mondal spent a busy day speaking on the phone, issuing directives to party leaders from across the district. He kept checking with Trinamul leaders how people were voting for the party as the day progressed. In between intermittent telephonic conversations in an air-conditioned party office in Bolpur town, came his quips and guffaws. “The BJP is nowhere. I am sure that they will not get a single seat in my district. The game was with a new team but my players have played well,” Mondal said and broke into loud laughter. As Mondal spoke, a person in his office kept calling up block and panchayat level leaders to keep the Trinamul leader up to date with the latest booth-level information. “What are you saying? It is fantastic. Ask people to vote for our party in maximum numbers,” Mondal was heard telling a leader over the phone. Trinamul insiders said the recent talks of the BJP grabbing at least six seats in the district had left Mondal extremely worried. After getting information from the ground level, Mondal got in direct contact with leaders he felt might work to sabotage Trinamul’s chances. The exercise continued till almost midnight on Wednesday. “Dada (Mondal) did not go to sleep before 4am for the past one week as he was busy handling leaders who the party suspected were working at the behest of the BJP. Trinamul’s disgruntled leaders were summoned to the party office and Dada managed to turn them around,” said one of Mondal’s close aides. “The BJP had no one to work for them on poll day. So, they started to lure our men to work for them. I spoke to those leaders and managed to convince them (to stay loyal),” Mondal said. Asked how he could manage the turnaround, if it is finally revealed to be so on counting Sunday, Mondal hid a mischievous smile.  “That’s why Mamata Banerjee trusts me as a good player. I will win all the 11 seats (for Trinamul in Birbhum district).” However, Trinamul insiders said even after Mondal’s claims, the BJP would win at least two seats. For his reportedly aggressive comments and derogatory speeches, the Election Commission had kept him under strict surveillance this year too after 2016 Assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Around noon on Thursday, Mondal rode pillion on a motorbike to reach his booth — a short way from his home — to cast his vote. His daughter Sukanya also reached the same booth in a different motorcycle to cast her vote. Mondal’s aides rode the bikes. The executive magistrate, who has been assigned to keep a vigil on Mondal by the poll panel, had arranged a scooter for the surveillance, and rode it with a central force jawan sitting pillion, to follow Mondal to the booth. On Wednesday, the commission’s surveillance team’s car had a tough time keeping up with Mondal. So on Thursday, they even arranged a high-speed SUV for the surveillance team. They were asked to keep a motorbike ready to follow Mondal if he entered a narrow lane. However, Mondal said that he only went to the booth and then to the party’s office on polling day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
