07-12-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda: Nurses seek pay parity||Staff nurses under the banner of the Nursing Association Punjab, started an indefinite strike here at Bathinda Civil Hospital on Monday.They raised slogans against the state and sought that anomalies in pay parity be removed and all allowances cut as per the new pay panel report must be revived on priority basis soon. Swaranjit Kaur, association chief, said: “We must be given the status of nursing officers on the lines of other states.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nurses-seek-pay-parity-347250
07-12-2021||Bathinda||Malout con woman marries three men, flees with valuables||A woman, in her forties, allegedly married three men on different occasions without their knowledge and fled with cash and valuables from their houses.At press meet on Monday, kin of the three men said con woman Manjit Kaur of the Malout area demanded money from them and threatened of dire consequences in case they failed to do so. They alleged the police were neither taking any action nor registering a case against the woman despiterepeated complaints at Maur police station.Action as per law I’ll get the matter probed and whosoever is found guilty, action will be taken against them as per the law. — Ajay Maluja, Bathinda SSPJoginder Singh, brother of Mahinder Singh, one of the victims, said, “She is a professional con artist who has a team. They target families that are not well-off and hence can’t pursue the case later. Manjit first married Kala Singh from Burj Hari village of Mansa in May 2018, left him within a month and fled with valuables. She then married Balwinder Singh of Fazilka and then my brother in November 2019. She fled both times with valuables.”Maur DSP Paramjit Singh said, “The woman’s location is unknown. We have asked the SHO to record the victims’ statements so that if any substantial evidence is found against the woman, then an FIR will be lodged and search initiated.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malout-con-woman-marries-three-men-flees-with-valuables-347243
07-12-2021||Bathinda||Regularisation: Guest faculty burn Punjab Govt's effigy||Demanding regularisation of services, members of the Guest Faculty Assistance Professors’ Association staged a protest and burnt effigies of Education Minister Pargat Singh and CM Charanjit Singh Channi here before Government Rajindra College on Monday.Reeta Aggarwal, association president, said: “As per the HC’s December 3 directions, there is a restriction on recruitment of professors in colleges. But, it has been observed that the government is still busy in the process. We will intensify our stir if we don’t get a written confirmation for our jobs. We have been working for the past over 15 to 20 years, but our services have not regularised.” — TNSRoadways, PRTC staff’s strike from todayPatiala: Passengers will be on the receiving end as contractual staff of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and the Punjab Roadways will go on an indefinite strike from Tuesday. Around 7,500 employees will remain off duty to press for regularisation. The protesting employees claimed around 80% of the buses would not ply. Meanwhile, the PRTC administration has already told the contractual staff that they would be liable to action if they participated in the strike. TNSClass C, D workers go on mass leaveFazilka: Contract and outsourced Class C and D staff went on a mass leave here on Monday. As a result, patients, using opioid medicines, could not get rehab drugs, forcing them to protest outside Jalalabad Civil Hospital on the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway. Sukhdev Singh, a patient, said he covered 12 km, but had no info about the strike. Nodal officer Dr Sidharath Kalucha said it was necessary to provide medicines to the patients on priority, and assured of making the arrangements soon. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/regularisation-guest-faculty-burn-govts-effigy-347242
