09-12-2021||Bathinda||Revenue staff's protest halts registry work in Bathinda||As tehsildars have been on mass leave for the last two weeks over the alleged high-handedness of the Vigilance Bureau, residents are perturbed over the suspension of work at the Revenue Department offices.Tehsildars under the banner of the Punjab Revenue Officers’ Association have been holding protests across the state against the arrest of a naib tehsildar and a registry clerk by the Vigilance Bureau in Hoshiarpur on November 22. Employees of the DC office, kanungos, patwaris and district revenue officers have extended their support to the protesters.A group of visitors at the Bathinda tehsil office said they had been running from pillar to post, but could not get the registry of land purchased done for the last 10 days. All main tehsil and sub-tehsil offices, including Rampura Phul, Talwandi Sabo, Maur, Goniana, Sangat, Bhagta, Nathana and Ballianwali, have been lying closed. Gurdev Singh, chief, Punjab Revenue Officers’ Association, said, “As long as the Vigilance Bureau does not cancel the case registered against the naib tehsildar and his reader, we will continue our protest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revenue-staffs-protest-halts-registry-work-347973
09-12-2021||Bathinda||Heritage street for Takth Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today announced construction of a heritage street at Takth Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo on the lines of already existing in Amritsar and Sri Chamkaur Sahib.Channi also announced Rs 5 crore for laying link roads, 50-bed hospital and a model school at Rama Mandi. He also claimed he had already cleared Rs 15-crore grant for the development works in Talwandi Sabo.Addressing a rally at Rama Mandi, he accused Badals of neglecting the religious town. He said concerted efforts would be made to develop the town. He also announced the construction of a flyover in Rama Mandi to solve traffic problems.He questioned his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal as why he promised Rs 2,500 assistance for women in Goa and not the same for Punjab. He said AAP were outsiders who have done nothing but only false promises. He said pink bollworm-hit farmers would get Rs 17,000 compensation by next week. — TNSAllow all channels to telecast GurbaniThe CM on Wednesday appealed to Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to direct the SGPC to grant rights to all TV and radio channels for the direct telecast of live Gurbani kirtan from the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heritage-street-for-damdama-sahib-347989
