13-12-2021||---||It's a mixed feeling, say farmers heading home||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 12The farmers who reached Bathinda city today were accorded a warm welcome on their return from the Delhi protest sites.Dev Aulakh, who hails from Rameana village in Faridkot district, reached Bathinda today. He said, “I am returning to the village after one year. It is a mixed feeling. We are happy that we coming back after winning. We made many friends at the protest site and we don’t want to lose them.”He also said the farmers’ protest had given many good memories, which would stay with him throughout life, but at the same time, they were sorry for those who died during the stir.Farmer Swaran Singh of Bathinda said, “We have created history as we sustained the longest protest peacefully and forced the government to accept our demands. We are happy that we have returned after winning, but this protest has changed me as a person. Earlier, I didn’t do any household chores, but now, I do such tasks daily.”Farmer Bur Singh of Mansa district said, “Over the phone, my children would always ask when I would come home. I am glad it is happening today.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/its-a-mixed-feeling-say-farmers-heading-home-349565
13-12-2021||Bathinda/Ludhiana||Farm workers disrupt rail services in Punjab||Train passengers had a tough time today with rail traffic being disrupted for four hours (noon to 4 pm) due to a ‘rail roko’ protest by farm workers demanding repeal of amendments to labour laws, Rs 700 a day & 200 days work under MGNREGA, waiver of pending electricity bills and restoration of connections, and free plots to farm workers.Key demandsWorkers from Mazdoor Mukti Morcha, Pendu Mazdoor Union, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, Rural Mazdoor Union, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Sabha, Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union and Punjab Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union participated in dharnas across Punjab.Protesters alleged the demands made in the meeting of the Joint Workers' Front with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on November 23 were not met despite repeated assurances. They warned the Punjab Government that if the demands of the workers were not met they would intensify their struggle.Mazdoor Mukti Morcha, Punjab, president Bhagwant Singh Samao and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union state secretary Lachman Singh Sewawala said if the government did not meet the demands, Congress leaders would be opposed in villages.Railway officials said protesters had squatted on tracks at Phillaur, Phagwara, Beas, Ajitwal, Gangsar Jaitu and other railway stations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-workers-disrupt-rail-services-349562
13-12-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Assembly elections: Banking on Punjabi singers to woo youth||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 12Ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections in Punjab, parties are turning to popular folk singers to woo young voters. In the 2017 elections, the 18-39 age group comprised 53 per cent of the total electorate. Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala has joined the Congress. All set to contest from Mansa, he drew large crowds at a rally last week where the CM was present too.AAP has fielded two singers — Balkar Sidhu from Rampura Phul and Anmol Gagan Maan from Kharar. There is speculation it may field singer Balbir Chotian from the Bathinda-Rural constituency. Also, Bollywood actor Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika has announced she will be contesting from hometown Moga. Sonu Sood has held meetings with leaders of all major parties, but his sister is yet to join a party.The entry of singers in the electoral arena has made party workers aspiring for the party ticket uneasy. Moosewala faced a protest by Youth Congress workers as he got up to deliver a speech at the Mansa rally. That the CM was on the dais was no deterrent.In the past, several singers and artistes— Mohammad Sadiq, Hans Raj Hans, Gurpreet Ghuggi, Jassi Jasraj and Satwinder Bitti — have tried their luck in politics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/banking-on-singers-to-woo-youth-349556
