16-12-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Thick blanket of fog affects normal life in Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Faridkot, Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceMoga, December 16A thick blanket of fog affected normal life in Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Faridkot, Bathinda and other districts of the Malwa belt in Punjab on Thursday morning.According to the details available from the meteorological department, the minimum temperature in the Malwa belt hovered below normal by 1 to 3 degrees Celsius at almost all places.The maximum temperature recorded at 10 am on Thursday at Moga was 13 degrees Celsius, Ferozepur 12, Fazilka 12, Faridkot 13, Muktsar 12, , Bathinda 13, Mansa 14, Ludhiana 13, Barnala 13 and Sangrur 14 degrees Celsius.       The Met office has predicted severe cold and dry weather conditions at most places in the Malwa belt with minimum temperatures likely to fall by a few notches.The relative humidity in the morning at most places in the Malwa belt varied from 69 to 80 per cent.Agro-scientists said the chilly and foggy weather conditions will prove useful for rabi crops, especially wheat and barley. The farming community is upbeat owing to the beginning of the cold wave in the region.“It is the most conducive weather for the growth of wheat plants at this stage,” said Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, a senior agro-scientist of the state agriculture department. He said that further fall in temperature by a few notches would be beneficial to the wheat crop.Dr Brar said the foggy weather would also help in natural irrigation of wheat and other rabi crops. Though the weather is foggy, it is free from frost; therefore, the farmers should do light irrigation in the wheat fields, he added.Interestingly, the difference between the maximum and minimum temperature is shortening, which means the region will witness chilly days ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thick-blanket-of-fog-affects-normal-life-in-moga-ferozepur-fazilka-faridkot-bathinda-351013
16-12-2021||Archit Watts||Kinnow crop production falls, prices increase||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 15The kinnow crop is expected to remain almost half as compared to the production last year, but the growers are happy as the prices are good. They say the prices are almost double this year and traders are entering into agreements for January at Rs 25 per kg.Mohit Setia, a kinnow grower, said, “The coloured fruit has started arriving in the market. The production is less this year due to weather vagaries. However, the growers are getting a good price. The traders are paying between Rs 20-25 per kg kinnow of average quality. The prices are expected to go up.”Avneet Brar, a horticulturist, said, “The growers are having a good season and the consumers will have to pay more money. The prices are likely to shoot up in the coming days.”Meanwhile, Rajinder Kumar, a trader said, “The kinnow crop is 50 per cent less than the production last year. The hot weather in February-March affected the crop in its flowering stage. In Delhi, a box of kinnow weighing about 10 kg is fetching Rs 300-450. The orange crop is also expected to be less this year, thus the demand of kinnow will remain in the market.”Balwinder Singh Tikka, state-awardee kinnow grower, said, “As per majority of growers, the yield has decreased due to weather, but I think the plant has heavy bearing. So, it gives bumper fruit one year and the next year, the fruit decreases. The state government with the help of the Horticulture Department and the Punjab Agricultural University should develop some more varieties.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kinnow-crop-production-falls-prices-increase-351002
16-12-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Immigration processing delays leave many Canadian Punjabis in limbo||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 15The immigration process for Canada has been hampered by the Covid pandemic and has left many Canadian Punjabis in limbo.Parminder Kaur is tired of waiting for her permanent residency (PR) application to make its way through Canada’s immigration system. Parminder, who is living in Canada, said: “It’s been three years that I haven’t met my family. I applied for PR in 2019 but my file is still under processing.”Similarly, Deepak Talwar left his well-established business, sold his house in India, and immigrated to Saskatoon in Canada in 2017. Talwar submitted PR applications for his family and himself, but no progress has been made on it since January 29 last year. He now regrets immersing his family in uncertainty.Canadian MP Jasraj Singh Hallan had raised the issue in the Canadian Parliament and tweeted: “Immigration backlogs are at 1.8 million. These aren’t just numbers; these are families that remain separated.”Appreciating Hallan for raising the issue, Anchal tweeted: “I had applied for PR in July 2020 and so far, eligibility review has not been done. There is no response to any messages, tweets or calls.”Another immigrant, Kanwaljeet Singh, had tweeted on Hallan’s wall: “My wife is alone in Canada and is going under depression. She is emotionally weak. I request Canadian immigration authorities to look into spouse visas and clear all backlog as many spouses are waiting to meet their loved ones for long time.” Similarly, Ravneet Kaur tweeted: “I am waiting for spousal visa since last 2.5 years and have not got any response even after medical and biometrics have been done.”Amanpreet Singh of Charlottetown said he had applied for PR in November last year but had yet not received it. Singh had come to Canada on study permit on August 14, 2017. When his father died soon after, Singh was not in a position to return home and now his grandfather is ill and wants Singh to visit home. “The thought of not being able to do so is heart breaking,” he said, adding that he knew some 25 other applicants in Charlottetown stuck in similar situation.A large number of Punjabis, living in Canada or India, have been separated from their families due to this delay in immigration system. Before the pandemic, processing time for PR applications averaged six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/immigration-processing-delays-leave-many-canadian-punjabis-in-limbo-351001
16-12-2021||Bathinda||Nurses seek pay parity, hold march in Bathinda||Staff nurses under the banner of Nursing Association of Bathinda carried out a protest march in the city as their indefinite strike entered the 10th day on Wednesday.Swaranjit Kaur, union president, said, “As per the 6th pay commission report, many of our allowances were either curtailed or discontinued completely. The government must restore all these allowances immediately.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nurses-seek-pay-parity-hold-march-350875
