17-12-2021||Bathinda||Bravehearts of 1971 India-Pakistan war remembered||Lieutenant General JB Chaudhari, Chetak Corps commander, paid homage to fallen bravehearts on victory day of 1971 India-Pakistan war.As part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations, on the occasion of golden jubilee of 1971 war, Lt Gen Chaudhari paid homage in a solemn wreath laying ceremony at "YodhaYaadgar", the Chetak Corps War Memorial.Vijay Diwas is celebrated on December 16 every year as a remembrance of the victory of India over Pakistan during 1971 war which resulted in liberation and creation of an independent Bangladesh.On the occasion, Lt Gen Chaudhari urged all ranks to rededicate themselves in the service of the nation and announced that a large number of events are being organised by the Chetak Corps at various places in Punjab and Rajasthan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bravehearts-remembered-351156
17-12-2021||Bathinda||Health workers burn Punjab Govt's effigy in Bathinda||Members of the Taalmel Committee and Paramedical and Health Employees’ Union took out a protest march, raised slogans and burnt an effigy of the state government at Civil Hospital in Bathinda on Thursday.The protesting health workers demanded that the state government must revive their allowances which were discontinued recently.Taalmel Committee chief Gagandeep Singh Bhullar said: “We demand that the state government must revive rural area allowance among other allowances which were discontinued by it in recent times.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-workers-burn-govts-effigy-351153
17-12-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda: No end to NHM staff's stir, cancer patients suffer||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 16Cancer patients in the region have been suffering as an indefinite strike of the NHM Joint Front, Punjab, is going on for the past over one month now. With the work suspended, treatment of cancer patients visiting the NCD clinic situated on the premises of the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, is getting affected. Besides Bathinda, patients from other districts of south Malwa region and adjoining districts of Haryana and Rajasthan also visit the OPD and IPD sections of the NCD clinic for treatment.Notably, under the Centre’s National Health Mission (NHM) programme, free treatment is provided at the NCD (non-communicable diseases) clinics established under the National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular diseases and Stroke (NPCDCS) scheme.As per the scheme, patients do not have to pay even for medicine here. Cancer patients get examined, get chemotherapies done, and are administered medicines and blood transfusion here. Two doctors, four staff nurses, two lab technicians, one counsellor and a clerical staff have suspended work. As a result, the NCD unit is lying non-functional for the past one month. The unit here provides treatment for diabetes and BP patients too. Started in 2011, the NCD unit here received an average of 25 to 40 patients at its OPD.Gagandeep Kaur, attendant of Palwinder Kaur (65), a breast cancer patient from Jhumba village, said, “We got two cycles of chemotherapy done at the NCD clinic but after the strike, we had to go to a private hospital, which charged us exorbitantly for the chemotherapy, medicines and other treatment expenses. She is a stage-3 patient and since her condition had started improving, we cannot afford to discontinue her treatment at this juncture. She needs to undergo eight more chemotherapy sessions. We are from a humble family and cannot afford to bear the expensive treatment but will have to manage somehow.”Amar Kaur, wife of Amandeep Singh, a 29-years-old cancer patient from Bareta in Mansa district, said, “We had been getting treatment at the NCD clinic for the past two years. But with the strike on, now we are forced to seek treatment elsewhere where we have to pay for medicines and other treatment charges.”Sources said an Advanced Cancer Hospital is also located in Bathinda but patients who cannot afford to pay often opt for the NCD clinic.Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, said, “Overall work has got affected due to the strike by staff members. We have asked the Advanced Cancer Institute authorities to provide treatment to cancer patients sent from the Civil Hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-end-to-nhm-staffs-stir-cancer-patients-suffer-351148
17-12-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda: Bank employees strike work||Bank employees, who have been on a two-strike on a call given by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), staged a protest in front of a branch of the Union Bank in Bathinda.The protesting employees raised slogans against the union government’s alleged decision that would pave way for privatisation of banks.Union secretary Amandeep Singh said: “The union government wants to privatise public sector banks and a Bill has also been tabled in the parliament to that effect. Nationalised banks have played a major role in the development of agriculture, small trade, small business, transport and uplift of weaker sections of the society. Way back in 2008 when the world economy was plunged into a deep financial crisis and meltdown, it was PSBs, which helped the Indian economy to sustain and privatising them means handing over people’s money to private vested interests.”“Bad Loans and NPAs in the banks have been increasing each year because of corporate defaulters. Instead of taking action on them, the government wants to white wash the balance sheets by shifting these bad loans from the books of the banks. This will only benefit corporate defaulters and remove all bad loans from public glare and silently write them off,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bank-employees-strike-work-351146
