24-12-2021||Archit Watts||Lambi: VIP seat developed like no other||BEING the home turf of the Badals, this constituency is considered a VVIP constituency. It has given the Chief Minister to the state, some Cabinet ministers and some Union Ministers as well.This is a rural constituency, which shares its boundaries with neighbouring states of Rajasthan and Haryana. Locals say: “A large number of development works are carried out by Badal sahib, but no other village is developed like Badal village. Similarly, poor have become poorer and rich have become richer in this constituency. Earlier, Badal sahib regularly toured this constituency to get the ground report, but due to the Covid pandemic and his old age, he, too, has mostly remained indoors for the last about two years.”SAD activists claim that during the SAD government, no stone was left unturned for the development of this constituency. “A number of schools have been upgraded and infrastructure developed. Besides, some government-run educational and skill development institutes have been opened.” The leaders of other political parties, however, say a number of criminal cases were registered under vendetta politics during the previous Akali government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lambi-vip-seat-developed-like-no-other-353741
24-12-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||5 years on, no headway in Maur blast investigation||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 23Security at the court complex and district administration complex has been intensified in Bathinda after the court blast in Ludhiana today.A similar blast had occurred days before the 2017 Assembly elections at Maur Mandi, killing seven persons, but nearly five years have gone by and there is no headway in the probe. A special investigation team (SIT) headed by DIG Harjit Singh Kehra had claimed two persons had driven the explosive-laden car from Sirsa. An unexploded pressure cooker was found at the scene. Investigators later claimed they had found a possible link of the blast with the Dera Sacha Sauda and named three suspects — Gurtej Singh Kala, incharge of the workshop where the explosives were allegedly fitted into the car; Amrik Singh, a security guard of dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh; and Avtar Singh, a Kurukshetra electrician who allegedly helped fix the batteries used in the bomb.In May 2018, a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court asked for handing over the probe to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).In October 2019, the Punjab and Haryana High Court asked the state police to institute a new SIT for the investigation. The new team headed by ADGP Ishwar Singh began investigating dera’s alleged role in the incident. The SIT later named the three suspects in a chargesheet submitted in a Talwandi Sabo court.Naveen Singla, member of the Maur Bomb Blast Virodhi Sangharsh Committee, said: “The families that lost their loved ones in the car explosion on January 31, 2017, still await justice as the police are yet to arrest the three suspects involved in the case.”Two months ago, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the Home portfolio, had levelled serious allegation against former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, claiming the probe in the Maur case was hushed up during his tenure and had asked him to explain why the inquiry was halted.Dera role under lens||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-years-on-no-headway-in-maur-blast-investigation-353747
