November 1, 2020||Rising-pollution-levels-covid-scare-seasonal-flu-prepare-yourself-to-keep-health-woes-at-bay||Rising pollution levels, COVID scare, seasonal flu: Prepare yourself to keep health woes at bay||Air pollution levels in the city are again on the rise and the nip in the morning air indicates a season change. With winter round the corner, the fear of COVID cases going up looms large at a time cold, cough and sneezing become a common concern. But this is also the time for festivals and the wedding season is right ahead of us. Clearly not a good time to fall sick and miss out on all the fun, isn’t it? With Kolkata’s Air Quality Index (AQI) hovering between moderate and poor of late, the current season change triggering flu symptoms and winter knocking on the door, taking guard against imminent health issues is prudent. Here’s a guide from experts who tell you how to prepare your mind, body and soul for the days ahead. Crackers, construction work, more vehicles on road bother Kolkata environmentalistsThe city’s deteriorating AQI, which breached the 200-mark on Wednesday, has got environmentalists worried. Identifying the harmful activities that are adding to existing pollution woes, environmentalist Biswajit Mukherjee says, “The first and foremost action should be to ban crackers during Diwali this year. We have already appealed to the state government for this. Another major reason for air pollution is the construction work happening across the city. Air quality surrounding those areas is even more worrisome and needs to be controlled. Since local trains are not running currently, the number of vehicles on road emitting harmful gases has also gone up. People from the outskirts are now commuting to the city by road. Besides, a lot of solid waste from municipalities is being burnt along the highways, contributing to air pollution.” ‘Winter season might have a prevalent environmental influence on COVID. Also, COVID cases are likely to go up if pollution rises. Besides, all viral infections have seasonal increments. To guard against these, strengthen your immunity and make your immediate environment less conducive to diseases. For that, living in well-ventilated rooms is important. Avoiding indoor pollutants, like use of too many gadgets, chemicals, sprays, smokes and fumes, is essential. Balanced diet and exercise help. Screenings and medicines for COVID should not be avoided. Keep masks and sanitisers handy and socially distance yourself in public.’  — Dr Parthasarathi Bhattacharya, founder and consultant, Institute of Pulmocare and Research Healthy living begins with healthy eatingEver since the pandemic struck us, everyone has been looking for ways to improve their immunity levels. However, according to experts, the focus should be on making the right lifestyle choices. Explaining how that can be done, clinical nutritionist Hena Nafis says, “All the claims about ‘this food is going to keep COVID at bay’ are false. Immunity can’t be built in a day or two. It’s partly what you’ve inherited genetically and partly what your lifestyle is. A balanced diet over a long period is the key. Junk food lowers acquired immunity. Not eating enough, not exercising and too much stress can also lower immunity. If you have a robust immune system and further boost it, you may get auto-immune diseases too. Your active immune system can’t differentiate between the good and the bad, it attacks all cells. Make your immune system function well with enough sleep, by avoiding dehydration, eating right, keeping stress at bay and refraining from tobacco and alcohol.” Lifestyle goals Stick to a balanced diet  Avoid junk food  Keep stress at bay  Get enough sleep  Make sure you eat enough  Avoid tobacco and alcohol  Stay hydrated Yoga and exercise must for a holistic lifestyleWith rising pollution, those with respiratory conditions will be more susceptible to breathing troubles. There is no alternative to regular exercise that can help keep your body and mind sound. Yoga specialist Ravi Shankar Pandey thinks it’s the synergy between our body, mind and soul that helps keep illnesses at bay. “And what better way to attain that than India’s age-old magical forms of yoga. It increases the oxygen levels in your blood, giving you more energy to perform day-to-day work. The oxygen supply goes up since the length of your breath increases with yoga. Both asanas and pranayams (breathing exercises) are helpful in developing a healthy body. Ujjayi breathing, like an infant breathing that sounds like light snoring, is helpful for any kind of throat infection. It increases your metabolism and strengthens the immune system. Rapid breathing or bhrastrika pranayam gives more oxygen to the lungs and expels more carbon dioxide. Nadi shodhan pranayam purifies the energy channels in your body like blockage in the heart, impure blood or cancer. It cures hormonal and circulatory imbalances. It is slow, soundless and controlled breathing,” he said, adding that bhujanga asana, paschimottanasana and bhrastrika pranayama are also very helpful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rising-pollution-levels-covid-scare-seasonal-flu-prepare-yourself-to-keep-health-woes-at-bay/articleshow/78972390.cms||Debolina Sen
November 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru’s Arjun Kamath bags top honour at International Photography Awards||City-based photographer and filmmaker Arjun Kamath, whose still-photography series called The Anxiety Series that put the spotlight on anxiety and the feeling of disquiet and uneasiness that comes with it was widely appreciated, is back in news. The photographer has been awarded the first place at the International Photography Awards (IPA 2020) in the professional category of ‘Still in Motion/Video- Editorial’ for a short film made from the first photo series called Coming Out. Featuring Sarah Harish and actress Shraddha Srinath, the series touched upon homosexuality and the stigma that comes with it. Not just this, Arjun's Anxiety Series was also awarded an Honourable Mention Award at the IPA 2020. Talking about the coming out series, Arjun says, "The 2015 photo series went viral and was made made into a video in 2016 with original score made from the scratch and mixed and mastered by a sound engineer." Not new to creating visually moving photo essays, Arjun's more than a decade-long career has many such series, including Avani (2016), Color of our Skin (2016) and The Awakening (2017). Each of these touched upon important subjects like female infanticide, skin colour discrimination and women’s safety. So, what made him submit his first photo series for this award? "One of the criteria was that it had to be under five minutes (IPA guidelines) and I felt the theme was relevant even now and deserved an audience," says Arjun. The 30 picture series, he adds, came out of a random conversation he was having with a friend while travelling to shoot a documentary film in Scotland in 2015, which led him to think about how no one from his all-boy school ever came out of the closet. Speaking about the win, Arjun adds, "It is actually a very prestigious award and professional photographers from all around the world participate in it. I am thrilled to be recognised and the theme getting the merit." Up next, Arjun is working on a series titled 'Uneasy', which is about how negativity and pessimism has become an integral part of our daily lives, almost like a default setting. "It is about the scary prospect of what happens to humanity if we lose hope from planet earth altogether," he signs off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-arjun-kamath-bags-top-honour-at-international-photography-awards/articleshow/78972020.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
November 1, 2020||Bengaluru||African students face harassment in the wake of Bengaluru's crackdown on drugs||As officials continue to combat the drug racket in Bengaluru, an uneasy feeling has set in among the city's African students. This, many say, is the effect of the ongoing crackdown on the city's drug menace, where two Nigerians, one Senegalese and one Congo national were arrested recently. Random document checks become a menaceStudents living in areas like Kothanur and Hennur say that police officials randomly knock on their doors. "I live with my family in Kothanur and we have had officers come to home as early as 5 am asking for my documents. This has increased in the past 4-5 months. These are confidential details and we are not allowed to share such details with everyone. If local officials need such information, they should have the required permission from the immigration authorities," says Gbahi Lohouri Gouedanco Yvan Christ, a student from Ivory Coast, pursuing his BBA from Kristu Jayanti College. Similarly, an office bearer of the Association of Ivorians in Bangalore (AIB), found cops outside her residence early one morning. "I was shaking because we were asked to produce documents at six in the morning. We were taken to the station and were asked to wait for hours for no reason. It was humiliating for us," she says, adding that when the cops found nothing on them, they apologised and let them go. Owners weary of African tenantsThere has always been a notion among many house owners that African nationals indulge in illicit activities and this has made it difficult for these students to find houses on rent in the city. "Most owners say they don't want to rent out their homes to African nationals because they do drugs. That is just wrong. Not all of us indulge in such activities. We are here to pursue our higher studies, and many students come from well respected families. Some are children of Ambassadors or those in government services back home," she says. Kiran Jeevan, public relations officer at St Joseph’s College (Autonomous), recalls an incident involving a student two months ago. "A Nigerian student from our college was asked to leave her rented accommodation in the middle of the night, without any prior notice. We had to intervene because the owner was being adamant. Our pleas fell on deaf ears but we managed to get the advance that the student had paid. Such incidents are not new," he shares. Officials should be sensitisedStudents feel that local authorities need to have awareness on how they treat foreign nationals. "Officials need to be made aware that not all black individuals are criminals or are here to create problems. Many of us live here with our families. We encourage students from Ivory Coast to join us and become members of AIB, because we teach our members what they should and shouldn't be doing in the city. We tell our members to stay out of problems and tell them how to get help if they ever find themselves in any situation," says the AIB office bearer. 'Youngsters treat us like equals'Gbahi says that though things have been rough since the drug scandal broke, not everyone treats Africans like criminals. "The younger generation sees us as equals and treats us well. It is the elders who have a preconceived notion about our community and that needs to change. They need to be made aware that we are here to earn a degree or a living, and wish to live respectfully," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/african-students-face-harassment-in-the-wake-of-bengalurus-crackdown-on-drugs/articleshow/78971895.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
November 1, 2020||India||Three-member panel to identify works of art, artifacts and archival record of Ladakh||JAMMU: A three-member panel is being set up to identify works of art, artifacts and archival records pertaining to Ladakh, as assets, liabilities and administrative posts of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir were apportioned between the union territories of J&K and Ladakh on Saturday, according to a notification. The apportionment was notified by the Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha-led Jammu and Kashmir administration. On August 5 last year, the Centre had abrogated the special status of the erstwhile state and divided it into the two union territories (UTs). "With regard to art, artifacts and archival record, a three-member committee shall be set up to identify works of art, artifacts and archival record currently in the UT of J&K. One of the members of the committee shall be an expert from the Ministry of Culture, while there shall be one member each from the UTs of J&K and Ladakh respectively," the government notification read. The notification, issued by commissioner secretary to the Jammu and Kashmir government Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, said that the items pertaining to Ladakh, which are identified by the committee, would be transferred to the UT or any entity designated by it. It said all immovable assets belonging to the erstwhile government of Jammu and Kashmir, excluding those belonging to entities such as corporations and boards, and except where explicitly provided for, stand apportioned to the UTs. On immoveable properties located outside the erstwhile state, the notification said the UT of Jammu and Kashmir will have the "right of usage" of the third floor of Block B, which has suites, at the Chanakyapuri Guest House in Delhi till December 31, 2021, after which it will be transferred to Ladakh. The J&K House at 5 Prithviraj Road, Delhi; the Rajaji Marg property at Delhi, the guest house, BRIL, Shalimar Bagh, Delhi, the J&K Emporium at Baba Kharak Singh Marg, Delhi, the Guest House at Amritsar, and a property in Chandigarh will remain with the UT of Jammu and Kashmir, it said. The notification said that a house in Chandigarh, a flat in the Adamant Building, Mumbai, the fourth floor of the 11-Engineering Building, Sleater Road, Mumbai, and all properties of the LAHDC at Jammu and Srinagar will remain with Ladakh while guest houses and circuit houses in Jammu and Kashmir will remain with it. Other immoveable properties located outside the erstwhile state and not mentioned specifically would remain with the UT of Jammu and Kashmir, it said. On apportionment of moveable assets, the notification said all moveable assets stand apportioned on an "as is where is" basis between the two UTs. "Unpaid liabilities/bills shall be discharged, after due process/scrutiny, by the respective UT where the works/projects were executed or expenditure incurred. Investments in capital works/projects indicated in the statement of financial assets under 'Other Capital Expenditure', amounting to Rs 1956 crore stand transferred to the UT of Ladakh,” it said. The notifications said that the funds and pension liabilities stand apportioned as required following the actual allocation of employees between the UTs. Financial liabilities of Rs 2,504.46 Crores stand transferred to the UT of Ladakh at the rate of two per cent of the total liabilities. The book value of capital assets of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir will be transferred on a notional basis to Ladakh on the principle of as is where is basis, it said. With regard to the arrangements for the Jammu and Kashmir Bank Limited, the notification said the bank would continue its operations as a going concern in both the UTs. "The UT of Jammu and Kashmir shall continue to have majority share holding in the bank. Fifty-one per cent of the shareholding in the bank shall remain with the UT of J&K, while the remaining 8.23 per cent shareholding (approximately 13.89 per cent of the existing shareholding of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir), shall be transferred to the UT of Ladakh,” the notification said. It said a post of director on the board of the J&K Bank would be earmarked for Ladakh. "A reasonable proportion of employees of the bank shall be recruited from the UT of Ladakh, details of which will be worked out by the bank," the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-member-panel-to-identify-works-of-art-artifacts-and-archival-record-of-ladakh/articleshow/78975076.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Chennai||Doraikkannu, Tamil Nadu agriculture minister, dies||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu agriculture minister R Doraikkannu died on Saturday night while undergoing treatment in Chennai’s Kauvery Hospital. He was 72. He was declared dead at 11.15pm. The minister is survived by wife D Banumathi and four children. Doraikkannu was on ECMO and ventilator support in an intensive care unit in the hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. He was brought to Kauvery Hospital from Villupuram General Hospital in an advanced life support ambulance on October 13. Doraikkannu complained of breathlessness and uneasiness while he was travelling by road to Salem from Chennai to offer condolences to the CM whose mother, Thavusayammal, died in the early hours of October 13. His health condition deteriorated on October 25. A medical bulletin issued by Kauvery Hospital executive director Dr Aravindan Selvaraj on Oct 25 evening said the viral infection had invaded 90% of the minister’s lungs. "Maintaining the functions of vital organs continues to be a challenge considering his comorbidities. He is on maximal life support and his response to treatment over next 24 hours will determine the prognosis," the hospital said the next day. On Saturday afternoon, a medical bulletin said the health condition of the minister was “extremely critical.” It said the minister had suffered a significant deterioration in vital functions.  Doraikkannu was a three-time MLA representing the Papanasam assembly segment in Thanjavur district since 2006.  A native of Rajagiri near Papanasam, Duraikkannu graduated from Raja Sarfoji Government College in Thanjavur. After completing his studies, he worked in a cooperative society for some time. Then he joined the AIADMK. A close associate of AIADMK’s Thanjavur strongman and Rajya Sabha member R Vaithilingam, Doraikkannu worked his way up the ranks to become a minister. He had been Papanasam union secretary for more than a decade before being given a ticket to contest in Papanasam constituency in 2006. He was one of the 61 AIADMK MLAs, who were elected. He defeated his Congress rival, M Ramkumar twice, in 2006 and 2011, by a margin of 7,001 and 18,007 votes respectively. When former AIADMK general secretary J Jayalalithaa chose to field him in Papanasam for the 2006 assembly election, he did not disappoint his leader and won with a margin of 24,365 votes. A senior among the three MLAs in the delta district of Thanjavur, Doraikkannu was rewarded with agriculture and animal husbandry portfolio in May 2016. He was one of the 13 new members in the cabinet. The unified party of O Panneerselvam and EPS offered him the post of Thanjavur North district secretary when the incumbent, M Rengasamy, a relative of V K Sasikala, moved to her nephew T T V Dhinakaran’s camp. With Doraikkannu as agriculture minister, the AIADMK government enacted crucial laws, including the one to declare the Cauvery delta as protected special agricultural zone. In his last interaction with reporters at the secretariat on September 25, Doraikkannu strongly backed the Centre’s farm Acts, saying they would not affect farmers in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/doraikkannu-tamil-nadu-agriculture-minister-dies/articleshow/78976036.cms||Pushpa Narayan
November 1, 2020||Delhi||Fitness enthusiasts limit outdoor exercise as pollution rises in NCR||Amid the COVID-19 pandemic and increasing air pollution in the city, doctors say that going out for a run or for cycling can cause you more harm than good. Cycling and running enthusiasts say that with the air quality likely to worsen later this month, they’re planning to reduce their exposure to outside air. Limit outdoor activities to stay safeMahua Bose, who jogs at Lodhi Garden, says, “We’re a group of seven friends and we walk together or exercise. After four months of staying indoors, we started going out for walks in July. My friends and I belong to the vulnerable age group (60 and above), and have been complaining of itchy eyes, cough, headache and heaviness in the chest (due to rising pollution). So, we’ve reduced our daily walks to four days a week to ensure we don’t fall sick either because of pollution or coronavirus.” Experts advise people to avoid venturing out if the Air Quality Index crosses the 300 mark Kavish Kashyap, who cycles at India Gate, says, “I went to see a doctor as my eyes were watering, which I thought was due to increased screentime. But my doctor suggested that I exercise indoors, as my eyes may be watering due to pollution, and told me to stop going out completely post Diwali.” He adds, “In the last couple of years, we’ve started to monitor the air quality before we step out. I don’t want to stop cycling, but there’s no reason to exercise if the harm caused by pollution outweighs health benefits. Plus, this year’s concerns are worse (due to COVID).” Long-term exposure to air pollution may be linked to 15% COVID deaths globally: ReportsOn October 27, Reuters reported that according to a new study, published in the journal Cardiovascular Research, long-term exposure to air pollution may be linked to 15% of COVID-19 deaths globally. The research from German and Cypriot experts analysed health and disease data from the US and China relating to air pollution, COVID-19 and SARS – a respiratory illness similar to the new coronavirus disease. Places like Lodhi Garden are overcrowded as people try to walk and jog as much as they can, before pollution levels worsenParks overcrowded as people worry about no exercise as pollution levels risePlaces like Lodhi Garden are overcrowded these days, and people tell us they are out for walks right now as in a month, pollution levels will worsen. Naman Gole, a jogger, says, “People are so concerned about not being able to exercise outdoors due to pollution levels that parks are overcrowded in the morning.” Rachit Mandal, a regular at Nehru Park adds, “People want to go for walks as long as they can before it becomes a health hazard (due to rising pollution).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fitness-enthusiasts-limit-outdoor-exercise-as-pollution-rises-in-ncr/articleshow/78968702.cms||Niharika Lal
November 1, 2020||Varanasi||Festivities in the air||Bringing in a feel of festivities, a dandiya night was organized by a club recently. The dress code was ethnic, so the members turned up all dressed up for the occasion. The men wore colourful kurtas while the ladies were in bright Indian wear. Keeping the current situation in mind, face masks were distributed to all the members and their hands were sanitized. Dev Pramod Agrawal (L) and Manish (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Dev Pramod Agrawal (L) and Manish (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) As the music started, the members came on the dance floor. They danced on the popular numbers like Dholi Taro and Chogada Tara and remix of retro numbers. (L) Shipra and Rachna (R) Poonam and Sachin (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Shipra and Rachna (R) Poonam and Sachin (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Sanjeev and Mamta Taksali were given the award of best dancing couple Deo Pramod was given the title of Jhoomta Banka Chhora. Rachna was declared as Sajeli Chhori, Priya as Sajeli Banki Chhori, Supriya and Shipra Bhargava as Jhoomti Naachti Chhori, respectively. Sachin Jain, President of the club, welcomed the members. Rachna (L) and Supriya (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Rachna (L) and Supriya (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Shalini (L) and Dharani Gupta (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Shalini (L) and Dharani Gupta (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Vijay Agrawal (L) and Rajiv (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Vijay Agrawal (L) and Rajiv (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L) Shiva (R) Vijay Kapoor (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Shiva (R) Vijay Kapoor (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/festivities-in-the-air/articleshow/78972578.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||Won't accept any attempt to unilaterally change LAC: Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: India will not accept any attempt to unilaterally change the Line of Actual Control (LAC) said foreign minister S. Jaishankar on Saturday evening. The pandemic, he said, had put “severe stress” on the India-China relationship. Delivering the Sardar Patel Memorial Lecture, he said, ties with China had been stable for three decades, “as the two nations addressed inherited challenges and new circumstances. " "Peace and tranquillity in the border areas provided the basis for expanded cooperation in other domains. But as the pandemic unfolded, the relationship has come under severe stress. To restore normalcy, agreements between the two countries must be respected scrupulously in their entirety. Where the Line of Actual Control is concerned, any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo is unacceptable.” India, Jaishankar said, “will approach the world in a more proactive way in the aftermath of the pandemic.” “Indian diplomacy will be more integrated with our defence and security needs, more supportive of our economic and commercial interests, more aware of our technology capabilities and offerings, and more sensitive to the diaspora.” Acknowledging the difficulties of two civilisations, India and China, growing side by side, Jaishankar said, “the relationship cannot be immune to changes in the assumptions that underpinned it."  "Large civilizational states re-emerging in close proximity will not have naturally easy ties. Their interests are best served by a sustained engagement based on mutual respect and mutual sensitivity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wont-accept-any-attempt-to-unilaterally-change-lac-jaishankar/articleshow/78976076.cms||Indrani Bagchi
November 1, 2020||Goa||On railway double tracking route, coal dust and heritage homes||Starting today, TOI brings to you reports from Ground Zero on three ambitious Centre-funded infra projects that have turned contentious.MARGAO: Galdinius De Sousa was busy troubleshooting a networking issue on his computer two months ago when he got a call from a close friend that ignited a spark in him. The friend’s three-year-old child was admitted in a private hospital in Margao with respiratory problems. Just a year ago, the child’s sibling, a year-old infant, had to be hospitalised for a similar health issue. De Sousa instantly knew what lay at the root of the problem. The family was staying close to the railway tracks in Margao, and the pollution caused by coal transportation had taken a toll on their children’s health. “The reality hit me hard,” De Sousa says. Until that moment, De Sousa, a resident of Varca—a coastal village known for its pristine beaches—had not been the one to hit the streets for any protest. But this was different. He felt a sense of foreboding about the grave threat to public health if the double tracking project was allowed to be “bulldozed”. So, the next day, De Sousa bought a poster board and some markers and made a sign that read, “We plead, don’t choke our lungs with coal”. Sparked by a sense of urgency to take a stand and fight for his fellow Goemkars and a desire to find camaraderie among people who could relate to his fears, the 24-year-old television and computer technician soon jumped on the anti-coal bandwagon and is now a familiar face at the protests that are under way in the villages of South Goa. The agitation reached a flashpoint recently when hundreds of protesters gathered at the office of the Vasco deputy collector where hearings were scheduled to be held on the objections filed by people against land acquisition for South Western Railway’s (SWR) double tracking project—the project that would facilitate increased volume of coal transported through open wagons. The hearing was called off after chief minister Pramod Sawant said the issue will be further discussed and directed Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai to put the hearings scheduled from October 19 to 27 on hold. What’s significant is that former environment minister and BJP’s Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha was among the politicians, who led the people’s march on the deputy collector’s office. With the assembly elections hardly 16 months away, political observers say Sawant can ill-afford to let an agitation threaten to metamorphose into a state versus people battle. “No matter how many times the government tries to push the project, we will protest every time,” activist Abjijit Prabhudessai defiantly told reporters after the authorities kept the hearing on hold. The Railways has requisitioned acquisition of 1.2 lakh sqm of land in Goa to facilitate laying of the new track parallel to the existing one from Collem to Vasco, out of which 60,000 sqm has already been acquired. The protesters are determined to stop the Rs 2,127-crore project that envisages transporting 51 million tonne of coal cargo from Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) to steel plants in Karnataka through rail wagons by 2035, as per the project projections. “The project should be scrapped before it takes shape,” says De Sousa. “Today it is the railways, tomorrow it will be the roadways, and then the waterways. As it is, today people staying close to the tracks in Vasco and neighbouring villages can’t keep their doors and windows open, lest the walls and floors are plastered with soot, they need to keep everything packed. If the volume of coal to be transported is increased exponentially as is projected, even the beaches of South Goa won’t be spared of the coal dust and literally everybody will be affected.” Read AlsoDouble tracking will boost local economy: RailwaysMARGAO: The South Western Railway (SWR) says that the double tracking project will, besides helping transport of ore and coal, also improve tourism potential for Hospet and Goa. The project is expected to provide temporary employment to 1.46 lakh people. “The project will boost economic developmentThe SWR is facing objections to land acquisition particularly along the Margao-Vasco stretch, where at least 52 plots are earmarked for acquisition under the Railways Act. But at the core of the issue lie matters beyond forcible land acquisition—crony capitalism and imminent damage to heritage houses are the arguments against it. But the threat to public health owing to largescale coal pollution has turned out to be a rallying point for the protesters. “I am not remotely affected by the project, not by land acquisition either, but that’s not the point,” says Laurence Fernandes from Sancoale. “The point is that people’s health is at stake. And if anybody proves to me that there isn’t going to be a health hazard, I would go all out for it and support the project. But don’t force the project down our throats.” Ella Mascarenhas from Arossim points out how her ancestral house, located close to the tracks, had to be razed after it was rendered unsafe for habitation owing to the vibrations caused by the fast-moving trains. “Homes alongside the railway track are covered in dust throughout the year, the vibrations rattle our homes which develop cracks and finally collapse,” Mascarenhas says. Coal is transported through freight trains in open wagons covered with thin tarpaulin sheets which flap in the winds and soon get ripped apart exposing the residents to coal dust. “Residents who live alongside the track suffer from respiratory ailments, heart diseases, stroke, insomnia, hearing loss due to dust, sleepless nights with the noise of goods trains rushing throughout the night and loud blaring horns. Villagers are opposing the double tracks because it will lead to an increase in the frequency of trains, increase in speed of trains, increase in volume of coal transported, resulting in increase in pollution, and their lives will be a living hell,” Mascarenhas explains. To drive home her point, she points out that Vasco had emerged as the epicentre for Covid-19 cases in Goa and had the highest number of deaths due to comorbidities such as COPD and other pulmonary diseases due to weak lungs. Destruction of cultural and architectural heritage is also what works up Mascarenhas. “Besides destroying farms, properties, lakes, flora and fauna in its path,” she adds, “the doubling of railway tracks will demolish our ancestral homes, heritage houses, religious structures and monuments which are a part of our rich history and culture. Lands belonging to former chief minister Luis Proto Barbosa and former tourism minister the late Matanhy Saldanha, who was a staunch environmentalist himself, also figure in the land acquisition notices. Their families are shocked to discover that their homes, which are hundreds of years old, will be damaged in the process.” She points to the Bossuet Barros Pereira home built in 1828 and listed as a “protected heritage home”, and the St Lawrence Chapel at Arossim built in 1598, as just two of the several heritage monuments which will not stand the cruelty of the second track. The protesters are clear that the cost-benefit ratio of the track doubling project is skewed against Goans. “Goans use Konkan Railway to travel interstate and the existing single SWR track is sufficient to run the three local trains per day,” says Mascarenhas. “Goans don’t want to sacrifice their land in favour of few crony capitalists to transport their coal.” The anti-coal campaign tugs at the heart strings of Goans. “The project may well be a game-changer for the MPT and a revenue-earner for the state, but that’s secondary,” says De Sousa, who sums up the campaign’s bottom line: “Health of Goan population is non-negotiable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-railway-double-tracking-route-coal-dust-and-heritage-homes/articleshow/78976333.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
November 1, 2020||India||PM Modi uses Pakistan's Pulwama boast to roast rivals at home||KEVADIA (NARMADA): Armed with a Pakistan federal minister’s admission in parliament that the February 2019 Pulwama attack was the Imran Khan government’s doing, PM Narendra Modi on Saturday tore into rivals at home who, he said, had indulged in “dirty politics” even as the nation mourned the loss of 40 CRPF personnel. “Now that the Pakistan parliament has admitted to the truth, all such people stand completely exposed. What they said and did in the wake of the Pulwama attack are glaring examples of the extent to which such people can go for their selfish interest and ego,” he told a gathering of probationary civil servants under the giant Statue of Unity in Gujarat’s Kevadia. The PM said he had then “silently tolerated” the allegations levelled at his government because he was too pained by the deaths to respond. His comments came two days after Pakistan’s science and technology minister Fawad Chaudhry touted his government’s role in the terror attack as a “major achievement”. Putting national interest above everything else, Modi appealed to his adversaries to “eschew such politics” since it neither serves the purpose of nation-building, nor benefits the parties themselves. “Merely for petty political motives, you are knowingly or unknowingly playing into the hands of anti-India forces and becoming their pawns,” the PM said, also reminding them of how this impacts the morale of the armed forces and drives a wedge through the country’s unity. “Some countries are openly supporting terrorism. They have now become a cause for global concern. Terrorism and violence serve no good, and the need of the hour is to unite with the inherent Indian values of peace, harmony and mutual respect preached by the likes of Budhha and Gandhiji.” Alluding to the ongoing border stand-off with China, he said the NDA government was not just determined to stave off the threat but also adequately equipped to give a befitting response to anyone eyeing India’s territory. He said the country’s defence sector was fast becoming “atmanirbhar (self-reliant)” in keeping with its evolved world view and standpoint on border issues. “Our jawans are building hundreds of kilometres of roads, bridges and tunnels,” he said. Earlier this month, the PM had inaugurated the 9.02km Atal Tunnel built at Rohtang in Himachal Pradesh by the Border Roads Organisation. It is currently the world’s longest all-weather highway tunnel and connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti. Watch Pulwama attack: Truth revealed after claims in Pakistan Parliament, says PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-uses-pakistans-pulwama-boast-to-roast-rivals-at-home/articleshow/78976556.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Diwali bazar ready, hopeful about weekend sales||After recording over 97,000 cases per day in September, the corona curve in India seems to register a fall this month. The less number of cases per day gave hope to the light markets in Kolkata this festive season. From strings of fairy lights to Chinese lanterns, pineapple danglers, LED candles and crystal LEDs — the electric light alleys of the city, Chandni Market and Ezra Street, are decked up to welcome the Diwali and Kali Puja crowd. “Thank god the market is open and buyers are coming. New stocks are here. Perhaps the market will not be as busy as previous years. But we are hopeful that the next two weekends are going to be good,” said MD Selim, a seller from Chandni Market. Is it Indian? Or is it Chinese?Though the sellers claim these items to be of Indian make, most of the fancy lights, including crystal LEDs, metal lanterns, LED candles and others, are goods from China. “How do we know where the lights have come from? We get it from the suppliers and they say the lights are acquired from Delhi and Mumbai,” said MD Mansoor Alam, who has been in this business for decades in Chandni. “I stock up from Burrabazar. The suppliers are charging us more, citing a poor supply. Most of the boxes have ‘Made In China’ stickers on them. How do we know? We don’t make them,” he reasoned. So, which are the lights of Indian make, we asked MD Anwar, one of the sellers. “Candles and earthen diyas are primarily made in India,” said the seller, who also has a lot of fancy candles in stock. “But scented candles, mini hurricane lamps seem to be Chinese products,” he added. Corona lights? No wayThe buzz around the light market is the introduction of corona lights. However, even after a thorough search, corona lights are nowhere to be spotted. “We’ve heard about those corona lights. It is nothing but a green sphere with spikes. But we did not stock that light. Who would want to buy that grotesque thing that impacted our lives so badly? Diwali is an auspicious occasion. Why put a corona shadow on it?” said Ranjan Prasad, a light seller from Ezra Street, who was seen selling a variety of fairy lights, disco lights, LED lantern, crystal balls et al. According to S Ahmed, a seller on Ezra Street, the price of the items hasn’t increased this year. “The market is yet to pick up. Hence, we did not increase our prices even when the suppliers were charging us more. We are incurring a bit of pain today for a better tomorrow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/diwali-bazar-ready-hopeful-about-weekend-sales/articleshow/78969239.cms||Ruman Ganguly
November 1, 2020||Goa||Double tracking will boost local economy: Railways||MARGAO: The South Western Railway (SWR) says that the double tracking project will, besides helping transport of ore and coal, also improve tourism potential for Hospet and Goa. The project is expected to provide temporary employment to 1.46 lakh people. “The project will boost economic development and provide gainful employment avenues to Goans,” an SWR official said. As a part of the SWR’s double tracking project, several stations along the Goa stretch of the route will be redeveloped to have more platforms and new station buildings. The SWR is also considering redeveloping the Chandor railway station, taking into consideration the historic importance of the place, sources said. “All this will have a spill-over effect on the local as well as the state’s economy,” an SWR spokesperson said. While nearly 80% of the double tracking work on the Margao-Sanvordem stretch has been complete, railway sources said it has been planned to complete the Sanvordem-Kalay stretch between June and December 2021. The opposition by the locals along the Margao-Vasco stretch is the only bottleneck in the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/double-tracking-will-boost-local-economy-railways/articleshow/78976660.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
November 1, 2020||World||France's Macron to Muslims: I hear your anger, but won't accept violence||PARIS: French President Emmanuel Macron said on Saturday he respected Muslims who were shocked by cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad but that was no excuse for violence, as his officials ramped up security after a knife attack in a French church that killed three people this week. An assailant shouting "Allahu Akbar" (God is Greatest) beheaded a woman and killed two other people in a church in Nice on Thursday, in France's second deadly knife attack in two weeks with a suspected Islamist motive. The suspected assailant, a 21-year-old from Tunisia, was shot by police and is now in critical condition in a hospital. Police said on Saturday that another person was taken into custody in connection with the attack. That person joins three others already in custody on suspicion of contacts with the attacker. Macron has deployed thousands of soldiers to protect sites such as places of worship and schools, and ministers have warned that other Islamist militant attacks could take place. Read AlsoMacron vows defiance after 'Islamist' knife attack in church kills threeNICE: French president Emmanuel Macron vowed his country would stand firm against religious extremists after a knife-wielding man killed three people at a church, in the country's second attack blamed on Islamist terrorism this month. France will not "give up on our values," Macron said in Nice,The Nice attack, on the day Muslims celebrated the Prophet Mohammad's birthday, came amid growing Muslim anger across the world over France's defence of the right to publish cartoons depicting the Prophet. On Oct. 16, Samuel Paty, a school teacher in a Paris suburb, was beheaded by an 18-year-old Chechen who was apparently incensed by the teacher showing a cartoon of the Prophet Mohammad in class during a civics lesson. Protesters have denounced France in street rallies in several Muslim-majority countries, and some have called for boycotts of French goods. France, on edge in anticipation of more possible attacks, was jolted on Saturday evening when a Greek Orthodox priest was shot and wounded in his church in the south-eastern city of Lyon. But officials gave no indication that terrorism was suspected. Macron outreachIn an effort to rectify what he said were misapprehensions about France's intentions in the Muslim world, Macron gave an interview to Arabic television network Al Jazeera that was broadcast on Saturday. In it, he said France would not back down in the face of violence and would defend the right to free expression, including the publication of cartoons. But he stressed that did not mean he or his officials supported the cartoons, which Muslims consider blasphemous, or that France was in any way anti-Muslim. "So I understand and respect that people could be shocked by these cartoons, but I will never accept that one can justify physical violence over these cartoons, and I will always defend the freedom in my country to write, to think, to draw," Macron said, according to an interview transcript released by his office. "My role is to calm things down, which is what I'm doing, but at the same time, it's to protect these rights." Suspect's journeyFrance's chief anti-terrorism prosecutor has said the man suspected of carrying out the Nice attack was a Tunisian born in 1999 who had arrived in Europe on Sept. 20 in Lampedusa, the Italian island off Tunisia. Prosecutors in the Sicilian city of Palermo, in Italy, are investigating the man's subsequent passage through the island, including the people he might have been in touch with there, and are requisitioning phone records, judicial sources told Reuters. Investigators are looking into the possibility that the suspect arrived in the Italian city of Bari in early October, on a ship used to quarantine migrants, before leaving for Palermo, the sources said. Watch Prophet cartoon row: "I hear your anger, but won't accept violence"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/frances-macron-to-muslims-i-hear-your-anger-but-wont-accept-violence/articleshow/78976703.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||Potato prices up 92% in one year, onions by 44%||NEW DELHI: The average retail prices of all essential food items, except that of wheat, have increased in the past one year with potatoes witnessing the steepest rise of 92%, followed by onions at 44%. High food inflation has emerged as a policy worry although experts say it is temporary and will taper off as supplies improve. The comparative analysis of data by the consumer affairs ministry shows that in average wholesale prices, potato prices have gone up by 108% in the past one year from Rs 1,739 per quintal to Rs 3,633 per quintal. The wholesale price of onions as on Saturday was Rs 5,645 per quintal compared to Rs 3,846 a year ago, an increase of 47%. Along with the two kitchen staples, pulses have emerged as a major worry for household budgets. For the past few months, the trend was also captured in wholesale and retail inflation numbers, which showed how food prices were exerting pressure on the overall numbers. The comparison of retail potato prices of the past five years also shows that there has been a 158% increase from Rs 16.7/kg to Rs 43/kg. Sources said though the government has the option to impose a stock limit on potatoes, if prices increase further, it would first take all possible measures, including import of potatoes, to put a check on prices. Both retail and wholesale price inflation data have shown the impact of high food prices, particularly of vegetables, meat & fish and pulses. The Reserve Bank of India has paused its interest rate cutting cycle due to the sticky inflation numbers. "While inflation has been above the tolerance band for several months, the MPC (monetary policy committee) judges that the underlying factors are essentially supply shocks which should dissipate over the ensuing months as the economy unlocks, supply chains are restored, and activity normalises," the MPC said in its statement earlier this month. The central bank has said that pressures on prices of key vegetables like tomatoes, onions and potatoes should also ebb by the third quarter with kharif arrivals. On the other hand, prices of pulses and oilseeds are likely to remain firm due to elevated import duties, the RBI has said. Recently, the consumer affairs ministry had ordered a stock limit for onions. "There is a difference between potatoes and onions. There were enough indicators that the availability of onion was more and the prices were being pushed artificially. But in the case of potatoes, there has been reduction in the harvest and during the lockdown there was increased stock and consumption of potatoes. The government will consider several options to deal with the situation," said an official. The potato harvest this year has decreased significantly. In UP, which is the largest producer, the total harvest was around 12.4 million tonnes compared to 15.5 million tonnes in 2019. Similarly, in West Bengal, the second-largest producer, the harvest had reduced to 8.5-9 million tonnes compared to 11 million tonnes last year. The government on Friday relaxed the import of this key kitchen item from Bhutan by removing the requirement of licence and allowed import of another 10 lakh tonnes under the tariff rate quota scheme. The successful bidder will need to import and the consignment must reach Indian ports on or before January 31 next year. On the onion front, import of 7,000 tonnes by private players has reached India and another 25,000 tonnes will reach by November 16. The government cooperative Nafed on Saturday floated a tender inviting bids for import of 15,000 tonnes of red onion by November 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/potato-prices-up-92-in-one-year-onions-by-44/articleshow/78976709.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 1, 2020||India||Amid gold, drug probes, CPM says will punish all wrongdoers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: If a government servant or individual keeps wrong company, he should face the consequence, said CPM politburo member M A Baby. “This is applicable even to those who have worked in the chief minister’s office and close relatives of CPM leaders,” he said in a social media post on Saturday, without naming M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to Kerala CM, and Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. Bineesh and Sivashankar have been arrested in criminal cases. The social media post, which largely criticises investigation by central agencies in Kerala, also promises that CPM will discuss and adopt corrective measures if there were lapses. Baby and senior member S Ramachandran Pillai responded to the recent political developments after the conclusion of CPM central committee meeting on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-gold-drug-probes-cpm-says-will-punish-all-wrongdoers/articleshow/78976734.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Business||Quit due to lack of reforms, run-ins with FM: Ex-finance secy Subhash Garg||NEW DELHI: Former finance secretary Subhash Chandra Garg on Saturday said differences with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and the government’s reluctance to push through reforms in the initial months of returning to office prompted him to seek voluntary retirement. In a blog, he said Sitharaman had sought his transfer in June 2019, within a month of taking over as FM. “The government did talk about making India a $5-trillion economy by 2024-25 after the elections and winning a great majority. But the reform agenda and the investment plan for attaining the goal of $10-trillion economy articulated in the interim budget 2019-20, however, got sidetracked and was virtually forgotten. The government was turning populist as well. As part of a 100-day programme, a number of announcements were made aimed to please specific constituencies. Reform agenda was acquiring tinge of being more short-term and tinkering type,” he wrote, a year after retiring. The Rajasthan cadre officer, who by his own acknowledgment had “several run-ins” with seniors and ministers during his 36-year stint in IAS, also said working with Sitharaman was difficult and accused her of coming with pre-conceived notions about him. “It became quite apparent very early that working with her was going to be quite difficult and it might not be conducive to undertaking necessary reforms for the attainment of the objective of building a $10-trillion economy,” Garg said while listing RBI’s economic capital framework, a package for NBFCs and partial credit guarantee scheme as areas where there were differences. Government sources said during the last six years, Sitharaman had worked with over a dozen secretaries across three ministries but Garg was the sole person to have spoken of differences. “This makes it clear as to who had the problem,” said a source. While his differences with ex-RBI governor Urjit Patel over the capital framework led the government to take the unprecedented step of issuing a directive, there were occasions when the Centre frowned upon Garg publicly joining issue with RBI. “Very soon, not only had our personal relationship soured, but the official working relationship also became quite unproductive,” Garg wrote. He praised ex-FM Arun Jaitley, saying he focused on broader policy issues and left the running of the departments and implementation of policies to secretaries. “He genuinely encouraged contribution on major policy issues to come from secretaries. He made the secretaries present policy proposals to the PMO as well as to the media and public. He was a very magnanimous and broad-minded person,” Garg wrote. While Garg had planned to seek VRS from October 31, he filed it on July 24 within hours of being shifted to the power ministry. Garg said he was unwilling to work in any other ministry, although he had been given the option to move to any other department or regulatory body by the PMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/quit-due-to-lack-of-reforms-run-ins-with-fm-ex-finance-secy-subhash-garg/articleshow/78976750.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||Opposition will lose face if I speak up: Rajnath||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday rejected former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi’s claims over Chinese transgression in Ladakh as “baseless” and said he should rise above politics in matters of national interest. “He shouldn’t even be discussed given the kind of statements he makes. These allegations are totally baseless and lack substance. He should look at China’s history from 1962 till 2013. When the question is about India’s national interest and integrity, one should rise above politics,” the minister said in an interview to India TV news channel. Singh reiterated that India is under no pressure and that it wants good relations with all the neighbours. “Neither we want even one inch of anybody’s land nor we will let anybody take an inch of ours. China has also said it wants to talk to India. However, we can’t say how much time this may take, but we are ready,” he said. Later, at a poll rally in Patna, Singh hit out at Congress for its repeated attacks at the Centre over the India-China tensions and said it will be difficult for the opposition to save its face if he makes disclosure on the matter. “The opposition parties and Congress are questioning the bravery of our soldiers. It’s being said China has captured 1200 sq km of land. It will be difficult for them to save face if I make disclosure,” Singh said. He lauded the Indian soldiers who sacrificed their lives in clashes with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley and said they showed exemplary courage and valour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-will-lose-face-if-i-speak-up-rajnath/articleshow/78976757.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||What Rajnath said & what US heard were different things||NEW DELHI: A single phrase in the opening remarks of defence minister Rajnath Singh during the recent 2+2 meeting sent the ministry of external affairs and the United States’ state department tossing translations back and forth like the proverbial hot potato. An early transcript by the American state department of the four opening remarks by the principals quoted Rajnath Singh saying “in the area of defense we are challenged by reckless aggression on our northern borders … (inaudible)”. Of the two ministers, Singh was the only one to make a reference to China. Foreign minister S Jaishankar did not refer to China in his public remarks at all. However, the video of the remarks did not have Rajnath saying these comments. He is heard saying: “Aaj ke samay mein jo challenges hum face kar rahe hain, unki wajah se hamari partnership aur bhi mahatwapurn ho jaati hai.” For many conspiracy theorists, it was America putting words in the Indian defence minister’s mouth. Questions from journalists yielded no clarity. Behind the scenes, though, the external affairs ministry told the American side, they had to fix the problem. The American side pointed to the interpreter provided by the Indian government, who had said these lines, translating Rajnath’s Hindi into English. The MEA and the defence ministry lobbed the ball into the US’ court, which it struggled to clarify. A US embassy spokesperson in New Delhi said: “The original American transcript of the 2+2 opening statement was prepared from an audio recording of the Indian government interpreter’s English-language delivery to American participants.” Basically, what seems to have happened is that Rajnath strayed from the prepared remarks. The interpreter was slow to pick up and make changes on the fly. It was a storm in a teacup. The American state department inserted the clarification into their transcript as did the department of defence. The final transcript read: “Excellencies, in the area of defense we are challenged by reckless aggression on our northern borders — (inaudible).* (As delivered by Indian Government English-langu-age interpreter.) The MEA officially washed its hands of the affair — at least in public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/what-rajnath-said-what-us-heard-were-different-things/articleshow/78976761.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||On Day I, 500 trainers get home-isolation care tips||KOLKATA: Close to 500 doctors on Saturday got training on the nitty-gritties of how to take care of Covid patients in home isolation, when to shift them to hospital or a safe home and how such shifting could be facilitated. This was the first training session of trainers who in turn will train local doctors/family physicians who will be tagged to each patient in home isolation. The IMA doctors who were trained in the first batch were from Kolkata, North and South 14 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. They will start training physicians of their respected localities from Sunday. TimesViewThis programme can help a lot of people and save many lives if executed properly. Long-term planning is essential for managing this disease.“A treatment protocol for patients in home isolation has also been framed so that all doctors follow a uniform guideline. The trainers have also been told about how and when to transfer a patient from home to either a hospital or a safe home run by the government,” said radiologist Santanu Sen, secretary of IMA-West Bengal chapter. The state health department has roped in state IMA branch in the project to ensure that all Covid-positive patients in home isolation are monitored by local doctors. The primary objective is to help patients reach hospitals without delay, which will, in turn, reduce the mortality rate. A group of doctors, including Debasis Bhattacharyya, Bibhuti Saha, Santanu Sen, Soumitra Ghosh, Jyotirmoy Pal, Dipankar Maji and Pallav Bhattacharya, trained and shared the treatment module from Swasthya Bhawan with the trainers online. Around 10,000 doctors across the state are expected to be part of this project to take care of patients in home isolation. Even as several private hospitals already have their own home care services for Covid patients who do not need immediate hospital admission, this is the first time the state health department has taken such an initiative. The doctors will send an alert to health officials if they find a patient in need of hospital care and arrangements will be made to rush him/her to the hospital without delay. The doctors have been asked to charge a nominal fee but most who have been enlisted to be part of the home care services have volunteered to provide free services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-day-i-500-trainers-get-home-isolation-care-tips/articleshow/78975193.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 1, 2020||---||Rivals wary of Bihar’s lone ‘kinnar’ candidate in Hathua||PATNA: Ram Darshan Prasad, alias Munna Kinner, has become a talking point for people in Gopalganj's Hathua assembly seat where he is contesting as an LJP candidate. The 42-year-old resident of Selar Kala, the native village of former CM Rabri Devi, is the state’s lone transgender contesting the assembly polls this year. However, Prasad, who is hogging the limelight for his different style of campaigning and his poll promises, mentions his gender as male. A member of the Gopalganj district board, he has emerged as a candidate with a difference in the high-profile constituency. He is contesting against state social welfare minister and JD(U) candidate Ram Sevak Singh and Rajesh Kumar Kushwaha of RJD. JD(U)’s Singh is trying to make a hat-trick this time. However, both Singh and Kushwaha, who are locked in a close contest, are now finding the going tough. “Prasad’s entry has made the contest interesting. He is familiar to all for being a member of the district board from Mirganj ward number 18 and is also active in politics for two decades. He is always ready to help the poor and the needy. Moreover, he is fearless and outspoken,” said Satya Prakash, a resident of Hathua Bazar. Although there are 15 contestants in the fray, Prasad’s style of campaigning is unique. His supporters start clapping when he touches the feet of elderly residents seeking their blessings for success in the electoral battle. His appeals to vote for a 'kinner' turns people emotional. He never misses mentioning that a ‘kinner’ or a transgender coming to the doorstep of a person is considered auspicious. “Vote hamre ke deve ke baa. Humane ke aawal shubh manan jala (Vote for me. Our arrival is considered to be auspicious),” a resident Aman Kumar quoted Prasad as saying. Prasad has promised to donate his entire salary as a legislator, if elected, for people’s welfare. “It is not a political gimmick. I am telling the truth,” he said, adding he is satisfied with whatever is offered by the people in a traditional way for his survival. He has also promised to set up a shelter home for orphans in the district besides building a hospital. “People will not have to go to Gorakhpur in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh for better treatment,” he added. Prasad was elected as a member of the district board for the first time in 2012 from Phulwaria, the native village of former CM and RJD chief Lalu Prasad, and then from Mirganj in 2015. “I am contesting among people known for their muscle power,” he said. Reshma Prasad, who runs an NGO for transgenders--Dostana Safar--, hopes that political parties would give tickets to more transgenders in the coming elections. “I can only express my good wishes for Prasad in the elections,” she told this newspaper. Hathua constituency will go to the polls in the second phase on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rivals-wary-of-states-lone-kinnar-candidate-in-hathua/articleshow/78980788.cms||Ramashankar
November 1, 2020||Patna||Man thrashed, held for rape in Katihar||PATNA: One Mohammad Mihnaz (37) was thrashed after the family members of a married woman allegedly caught him in her bedroom at a village under Azamnagar police station area of Katihar late Friday night. The villagers held a meeting on Saturday and handed him over to police. SHO Manish Kumar Rajak said Mihnaz was arrested on the charge of raping the 37-year-old woman, whose husband is a daily wager in Delhi. He said Mihnaz was earlier the BJP head of Azamnagar block. He said the woman lodged an FIR in this connection against Mihnaz on Saturday evening. Rajak said the woman alleged that Mihnaz had been raping her for the last six months while promising to marry her. He also threatened her not to tell anyone about their relationship. “She used to remain quiet due to his political influence,” the SHO quoted the woman as saying. Rajak said the woman’s medical examination would be conducted and her statement would be recorded before judicial magistrate on Monday. He said further investigation was going on in the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-thrashed-held-for-rape/articleshow/78974446.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 1, 2020||Allahabad||Parents kill pregnant daughter, throw body on railway track, held||PRAYAGRAJ: Pratapgarh police have arrested a couple on the charges of killing their young pregnant daughter whose body was found on the railway tracks in the district recently. Police claimed that the couple, parents of the victim, committed the crime after discovering that their unmarried daughter was pregnant and unwilling to share the name of the person who impregnated her. The axe used in committing the murder has also been recovered, police said. SHO of Nawabganj police station Akhilesh Pratap Singh informed that the body of an unidentified young woman, aged 20 years, was found on the railway tracks bear Alapur on October 25. Even as efforts were underway to identify the woman, one Kamlesh Kumar Yadav, a resident of Kishundaspur village of the area identified the body as that of his daughter. He also alleged murder and submitted a complaint to the police against an unidentified killer. An FIR was registered at the Nawabganj police station, he added. The SHO said that investigations revealed the possible hand of Kamlesh Kumar Yadav and his wife Anita Devi in the crime and the duo was arrested on Friday. During interrogation, the two told the police that on October 24, they took their unwell daughter to Unchahar and got an ultrasound done on the advice of a doctor. The test showed that the daughter was six-months pregnant. Taken aback, they tried to find a doctor for getting an abortion done but could not succeed. They then returned home and asked the girl to name the person who impregnated her. She refused to reveal the name. “The duo then took their daughter to the railway tracks in the night near Alapur and murdered her. The two threw the body on the tracks hoping for it to get run over by trains in the night hiding the real cause of death,” Singh said. He said that the murder weapon had been recovered based on the information provided by the couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/parents-kill-pregnant-daughter-throw-body-on-railway-track-held/articleshow/78975047.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Patna||Man shot by brother over land dispute in Bhagalpur district||PATNA: A man shot dead his elder brother and seriously wounded his sister-in-law and niece over property dispute at Kelabari under Ismailpur police station area of Naugacchia in Bhagalpur district on Friday evening. SHO Mani Paswan said the deceased was identified as Upendra Mandal (55). Those injured included his wife Samhola Devi (50) and their daughter Reshmi Kumari (16). He said the accused, Prakash Mandal alias Fuddal Mandal (50) is evading arrest. Upendra and Prakash had another brother who had died long back. “The three bothers had three bighas of agricultural land. However the death of one brother, Upendra used to say that he owned the share of deceased. Prakash opposed it saying the land should be equally divided between the two,” the SHO said. Both had also lodged cases against each other. He said Upendra, Samhola and Reshmi were working in their field at around 6pm when Prakash reached there with his supporters. “He entered into an altercation and shot his elder brother in the head, killing him on the spot. When Samhola and Reshmi rushed to his rescue, Prakash shot his sister-in-law and hit his niece hard in her head with a blunt object,” he said, adding that three empty cartridges were recovered from the spot. Paswan said Samhola and Reshmi were rushed to Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Bhagalpur where they were in critical condition. Police could not record their statements. He said Upendra’s body was handed over to family after postmortem on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-shot-by-brother-over-land-dispute/articleshow/78974707.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 1, 2020||Patna||Life limps back to normal in Munger||PATNA: Life returned to normal in Munger town on Saturday with all business establishments functioning as usual and common people engaging in their routine activities. Three police stations and two outposts were torched on Thursday by a rampaging mob over death of a 22-year-old youth in alleged police firing during Durga idol immersion procession on Monday. Seven civilians and 13 police personnel were injured in Monday’s violence. On Thursday, 21 police personnel were injured when an angry mob went on the rampage and pelted them with stones. Munger SP Manavjeet Singh Dhillon on Saturday said the situation in town was normal. “Flag march was conducted at some places on Saturday as a precautionary measure. Altogether 13 FIRs have been registered till now against large number of unidentified people. Seven FIRs have been registered in connection with Thursday’s violence and six for Monday’s unrest,” Dhillon said, adding no one has so far been arrested in connection with Thursday’s violence. The SP said the Election Commission has been recommended to take action against several police personnel in connection with the twin incidents. “We are awaiting commission’s direction to take action,” he added. Dhillon said 140 live cartridges of self-loading rifle along with a magazine, which went missing from Purabsarai police outpost after the violence, is yet to be recovered. “A separate FIR will be lodged in connection with the missing ammunition,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/life-limps-back-to-normal-in-munger/articleshow/78974595.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 1, 2020||Patna||Doctors discuss new techniques for patients with disabilities||PATNA: Specialist doctors on Saturday suggested a host of new initiatives, including use of technology, for treatment of hundreds of children with cerebral palsy and other people with physical disabilities like spinal cord and brain injuries an unable to visit hospitals and rehabilitation centres in the Covid era. Participating in a two-day national webinar of the Indian Association of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation on ‘Rehabilitation of Divyangjan in Covid era’ organized by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P), they said as the pandemic brought unexpected miseries and demanded physical distancing, many patients had to suffer a lot and now the medical fraternity needed to take up their cause with utmost priority. Over 450 doctors from different medical colleges participated, virtually, in the programme which was inaugurated by AIIMS-P director Dr PK Singh. Dr SY Kothari, former director general of health services, government of India, said the rehabilitation centres needed to extend their services to far off areas for reaching out to the needy persons on their doorsteps. Dr RK Shrivastav of New Delhi pleaded for inclusion of the rehabilitation in some accidental cases under the Ayushman Bharat scheme.Since the cases of spinal cord injury due to road accidents or other causes needed neuro rehabilitation at home, Dr Anupam Gupta of Bengaluru suggested inclusion of neuro rehabilitation under the government disaster management scheme. Dr Amit Ranjan of AIIMS, Gorakhpur and Dr Madhushree Sengupta of Kolkata highlighted the role of television rehabilitation with the use of new technologies in the Covid era. Dr Sanjay Kumar Pandey of AIIMS-P and organizing secretary of the online event said rehabilitation covered a wide area and as the pandemic had its impact in various ways, even leading to some problems in those who recovered from the Covid virus, medical fraternity was looking for new approaches to deal with them. Dr Judy Ann John of Christian Medical College, Vellore, said the new technology of brain stimulus and training was of great help to bring patients of brain injury back to life for performing their daily routine. In cases of brain injury, patients lead a distressful life and required other’s help for any activity. The new stimulant technique would ease their living and require little or no support from others. Dr AK Joy Singh of Imphal stressed the need for inculcating disability etiquette in medical and paramedical staff so that the patients did not feel offended psychologically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctors-discuss-new-techniques-for-patients-with-disabilities/articleshow/78974720.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Paramilitary to guard 89 polling stations||Hyderabad: The administration has identified 89 out of 315 polling stations in Dubbak as critical. Paramilitary forces will be deployed in these polling stations to prevent any untoward incidents. Siddipet police commissioner Joel Davis announced that section 144 would be in force from 6 pm on November 1 to 6 pm on November 4. Those who are not voters in Dubbak constituency have also been asked to leave the constituency and go to their native places from 6 pm on November 1. Siddipet district collector, district election officer Bharati Hollikeri and Davis on Saturday said that all steps had been taken for a free and fair poll. One company of CRPF and three companies of AP Special Police (APSP) have been drafted for the bypoll. Polling officials have been drafted from Sangareddy, Nalgonda, Mahbubnagar, Vikarabad, Jogulamba Gadwal, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Suryapet, Nagarkurnool and Wanaparthy. On election day, 32 mobile parties, 20 striking forces team and 15 special striking forces teams will be at the disposal of the police to be rushed wherever a law and order issue arises. The administration has also set up checkposts at 10 places. So far, Rs 37.29 lakh unaccounted money has been seized in Siddipet and Rs 20.70 lakh in Medak in connection with the polls which will be held in five mandals of Siddipet and two mandals in Medak. As many as 132 election-related cases have been booked in Siddipet and 41 cases in Medak. November 1 is the last day for campaigning. The ruling TRS is seeking to retain the seat which fell vacant due to the demise of Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy. The BJP has fielded M Raghunandan Rao and Cheruku Srinivas Reddy is fighting the election on Congress ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/paramilitary-to-guard-89-polling-stations/articleshow/78974961.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 1, 2020||Patna||RPF women squad deployed at 8 stations||PATNA: Members of the women squad of Railway Protection Force (RPF), christened ‘Meri Saheli’, have been deployed at eight major stations falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) to provide security cover to women passengers travelling in passenger trains. The RPF women squad teams have been deployed at Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Danapur, Barauni, Samastipur, Muzafarpur, Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction and Dhanbad. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said as part of women safety drive launched by the railways, RPF women squads will escort any woman passenger up to her destination point if she feels insecure during journey. Railways has also launched a woman security helpline number, 182, through which a woman passenger can seek assistance from ‘Meri Saheli’ RPF women squad members. This number has been directly linked to the central control room of the ECR headquarters at Hajipur and divisional control rooms. Meanwhile, at least five RPF and RPSF teams have been deployed on election duty in Bihar from Danapur division alone. As a result, the RPF is escorting all night passenger trains with depleted strength.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rpf-women-squad-deployed-at-8-stations/articleshow/78974564.cms||Kumod Verma
November 1, 2020||Allahabad||Artisans resort to social media, online stores to promote craft and boost sale||Prayagraj: With Diwali round the corner, the local artisans making decorative items, such as hanging lamps, paper lanterns, puja thali sets, designer diyas and Ganesh-Laxmi idols, are making use of social networking sites and online stores to exhibit their craft and expand sale. The artists are asking customers to visit their websites or reach out to them on their WhatsApp numbers as well as other e-commerce sites for promotion and sale of their products. Forty nine-year-old city-based handicraft artist, Alok Kumar Srivastava, who designs hanging lamps and chandeliers on paper, has also resorted to social media to promote his products and connect with more and more people across the country. Alok also plans to exhibit his handicraft products on popular online stores to boost sale. “After designing hanging lamps, table lamps and chandeliers on paper, I decided to display my work on social media platforms to gain recognition across the country amid the Covid crisis when not many residents are willing to step out of their homes for Diwali shopping. I even developed my own website for the purpose,” said Alok, adding “Now, I have planned to approach several online stores to ensure better customer response as most of the customers are resorting to online shopping this time.” He has set up his workshop at his house in Sulemsarai area where he designs hanging lamps, table lamps, cellphone and pen/pencil stands of different sizes and shapes with bamboo sticks and clothes. He has also got registered with the Department of Handicrafts, Ministry of Textiles. Radhika, another local artist who makes designer diyas and other decorative items, has also found social networking sites and online stores a better platform for marketing and selling her products. “Buyers seeking diyas and other decorative items are connecting with artists through online as well as offline modes. Social media has undoubtedly proved to be a better medium for promoting our craft among customers whose feedback help us improve our skills.” Khushi, who makes unique items related to Diwali decor, said, “We are able to cater to a far larger number of customers through social networking sites and online stores.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/artisans-resort-to-social-media-online-stores-to-promote-craft-and-boost-sale/articleshow/78975018.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Woman dies after sari catches fire during puja||Kolkata: A 63-year-old woman died at her Ibrahimpur Road residence in Jadavpur after her silk sari caught fire from the lamp she had lit during Lakhsmi Puja on Friday evening. According to police, the deceased — Dola Mitra — and her husband were preparing for the puja on Friday evening. “At the time of the incident, Dola was downstairs and performing the puja. Her husband had gone upstairs along with a couple of relatives. Hearing her cries for help, he rushed downstairs to find Dola in flames. Even neighbours rushed in,” said an investigating officer from Jadavpur police. “There are two probable reasons behind the accident — one, she was so deep into worship that she did not notice the fire. By the time she realized, it was too late. Two, she might have become unconscious as she was fasting and landed on the lamp. We are carrying out a postmortem to ascertain the exact cause of death,” the officer added. Mitra had 85% burn injuries when her husband rushed her to Calcutta National Medical College with the help of locals and relatives. She was shifted to the burn ward for treatment around 4:20am but she succumbed to her injuries around 6am. “We have not received any complaint. An unnatural death case has been initiated,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. Forensic experts may be roped in to know the exact sequence of events. This is the third death in the same fashion in the past 45 days. Forensic experts said the trend to wear silk saris near flames was dangerous. “Most are overcome by fear. Since the fire starts from below (unlike an immolation attempt where the fire begins from the top), most people — by their natural instinct — are not able to remove their apparels immediately,” explained an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-dies-after-sari-catches-fire-during-puja/articleshow/78975204.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 1, 2020||Goa||Patients of Covid-19 reporting unusual symptoms: GMC doc||Covid-19 symptoms no longer appear to be restricted to the respiratory system. Patients are presenting with many atypical symptoms, head of department of preventive and social medicine at the Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, Dr Jagdish Kakodkar, said. “We have seen patients experience only loss of smell. One complained of only loose motions and no fever at all. A woman experienced urinary disturbances and another complained of pain in the abdomen that could have easily been mistaken for acidity,” Kakodkar said during a webinar held on Saturday. “Some present with just a rash, particularly children. There were those who came to the eye specialist with conjunctivitis and others with joint pains, calf pains, hiccups, tiredness, malaise, body ache and some with only an episode of dizziness. All these are now considered symptoms of Covid-19,” he said. The GMC changed its screening protocol last week after it was observed that fewer people were presenting with typical symptoms of Covid-19 such as headache, fever, cough and the general signs of a common cold. Kakodkar advised consulting one’s doctor either in person or telephonically to ascertain whether the symptoms being experienced by the patient could actually be those of Covid-19.  “Doctors keep educating themselves. Covid is now a masquerading agent and comes in different forms. People who have these kinds of symptoms are under the false impression that they don’t have Covid. They stay at home and land up in hospital only when they develop complications. Sometimes, they die within minutes and hours,” he said. He also cautioned people not to neglect any symptoms and advised that those who come into contact with a positive person, get tested. Kakodkar said it is particularly risky for those with cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, hypertension and cancer who test positive, to be managed at home. “The death rate is several fold higher in people with these diseases. Such patients can be managed at home only if the treating doctor monitors their parameters three times a day, checking sugar, blood pressure, ECG and oximeter readings frequently,” he said. He appealed to people to take special care of the elderly, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 during the pandemic. Dr Kakodkar was speaking at a webinar, ‘Covid-19; Safety and Prevention’ organised by Damodar College of Commerce and Economics, Margao, as part of Vidya Vikas Mandal’s golden jubilee celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/patients-of-covid-19-reporting-unusual-symptoms-gmc-doc/articleshow/78976635.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections 2020: Tejashwi Yadav ‘seeks blessings’ of family citadel Raghopur||PATNA: As the campaigning for the second phase of polling draws enters its last leg, Mahagatbadhan chief minister candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday landed in Raghopur — the Yadav family citadel — which he represents as an MLA in the state assembly. Raghopur has deep connections with the Yadav clan and the constituency has seen both Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi represent it. “You have given love and blessings to both my parents and also gave that love to me. We have an old relation with Raghopur and I need your support and blessings again,” Tejashwi said addressing a large gathering at Ramanandan High School ground in Bidupur. “I am working to win Bihar and you have to manage Raghopur for me,” he added. This constituency is going to polls on November 3 and he addressed his constituency for the first time, apart from a roadshow held earlier. On Saturday, he addressed altogether 17 rallies, the last one in Raghopur and said he had broken his father’s record. His parents, Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi had earlier won from here while they were chief ministers of Bihar. “Raghopur does not choose an MLA, but a CM. You have earlier also elected a deputy CM,” said Tejashwi talking about his 18-month tenure as deputy CM and road construction minister. He said as deputy CM, he had done a lot of work for entire Vaishali. “Be it the construction of a six-lane bridge, or road network at the expense of Rs 600 core, an engineering college and a medical college in Mahua. We even arranged for fire tenders to tackle fire in agricultural fields. So how can Raghopur be behind when I become the CM?” Reiterating his promise of 10 lakh government jobs, Tejashwi said, “This is not an election, but a movement against unemployment. I will fulfil my promise of 10 lakh government jobs and will take along all my brothers and sisters of any caste and religion.” His main rival is BJP’s, Satish Kumar. In the 2015 election, Satish got 68,503 votes and was defeated by Tejashwi who managed 91,236 votes. But in 2010, Satish defeated Rabri Devi on JD (U)’s ticket. LJP has also fielded its candidate here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-seeks-blessings-of-family-citadel-raghopur/articleshow/78975296.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 1, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar govt has failed on all fronts: Congress||PATNA: All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev on Saturday hit out at the state government, accusing it of failing on all fronts, such as health, education, nutrition and women welfare. Talking to media persons here, Dev slammed the JD(U) for giving ticket to former minister Manju Verma, who was earlier arrested in an Arms Act case. “It is unfortunate that senior JD(U) leaders are campaigning for her,” Dev said. She, however, failed to answer how RJD, a key Mahagathbandhan ally, has given tickets to rape convict Rajballabh Yadav’s wife Vibha Devi and rape accused Arun Yadav’s wife Kiran Devi. “It is not possible for me to give a politically correct answer to this question. I leave it to people,” she said. In another press conference, Congress national spokesperson Ragini Nayak slammed NDA governments at Centre and in state over sufferings faced by migrant workers during the Covid-induced lockdown. Nayak said the electoral fight in Bihar has become one-sided and NDA’s efforts to divert from the main agenda were not going down well with the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-govt-has-failed-on-all-fronts-congress/articleshow/78975198.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Satellite widow duped of Rs 26 lakh by 2 cloth merchants||AHMEDABAD: A widow in Satellite locality of the city has been duped of Rs 26 lakh by two alleged fraudsters. Rita Patel (46), the widow of Vishal Patel of Asavari Tower in Satellite, lodged a complaint with Kagdapith police station on Friday against Rikin Raval of Shahibaug and Pankaj Agrawal of South Bopal. Rita alleged that Raval and Agrawal had borrowed Rs 45 lakh from her husband in 2019 saying that in return they would supply him cloth. “When Vishal was alive, he used to run a trading company named Rahil Textile at New Cloth Market in Raipur. He died of a cardiac arrest in February, 2020. The accused returned cloth worth Rs 18.39 lakh and cheated her late husband and her of Rs 26.62 lakh by not returning the money nor the cloth,” said an official of Kagdapith police station. Kagdapith police station has registered an FIR under Section 420, 406, 506(2) and 120 B against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/satellite-widow-duped-of-rs-26l-by-2-cloth-merchants/articleshow/78974924.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Trio arrested for setting 2 bikes on fire||COIMBATORE: The city police on Friday arrested three men for setting two motorcycles on fire at Kamarajapuram on Sanganoor Road on Thursday night. The arrested people were identified as M Tamilarasan, 28 and S Arun, 21, of Kamarajapuram and S Unni, 24, of Ganapathy. They were working as labourers. J Gopinath of Kamarajapuram had parked his wife’s scooter in front of his house on Thursday night. “When the trio sat on the motorcycle, Gopinath confronted them, resulting in an altercation. Late in the night, Gopinath neighbours woke him up and told him that the scooter had caught fire. Though he tried to put out the fire, the vehicle was gutted,” a police officer said. “On Thursday around 8.30pm, the trio, who was under the influence of alcohol, made a ruckus in front of the house of M Murugapandi of Kamarajapuram. When Murugapandi, who is working for the city municipal corporation, questioned them, the trio attacked him and threatened him with dire consequences,” the officer added. The men also set the motorcycle owned by R Rajashankar of Kamarajapuram on Fire on Friday morning. Rajashankar, who runs a grocery shop, had parked the vehicle in front of his house on Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/trio-arrested-for-setting-2-bikes-on-fire/articleshow/78976063.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Test 5,000 people in Coimbatore daily for Covid-19: Minister||COIMBATORE: The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district dipped to 2,049 on Saturday when 605 patients were discharged from treatment centres, even as the tally rose to 43,252 with 241 people testing positive for the virus. At least 40,646 patients have recovered from the virus attack so far in the district, where the recovery rate has improved to 93.9%. The toll increased by one to 557 on the day, with a 68-year-old diabetic woman succumbing to the virus at the ESI Hospital on Friday. She was hospitalized on Monday (Oct 26) and died of Covid-19-induced pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Despite the number of fresh and active cases coming down, municipal administration minister S P Velumani has instructed officials to continue testing around 5,000 people a day and maintain a bed capacity of 10,000. The minister conducted a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in his office at Kuniyamuthur on the day. He reviewed the positivity rate, which has fallen to 5.5% from the past week’s 6%, thanks to the drop in the number of cases. On Friday, the positivity rate was just 4.2%. Velumani has urged the city corporation officials to be vigilant during the festive season. He instructed them to regularly disinfect public places, especially the ones that are likely to be crowded and ensure adherence to safety norms by all establishments. He also appealed the public to continue to take all precautions like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The minister took stock of the immune booster kit distribution. The kits have reached 12 lakh families so far. Each kit contains vitamin and zinc tablets, arsenic album 30 and kabasura kudineer powder for four people in a family. Velumani also appealed the people, who have come from other states and districts, to seek medical help immediately if they develop Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/test-5000-people-daily-for-covid-19-minister/articleshow/78976072.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Rajkot||Affordable housing projects of Rajkot civic body bag IGBC award||RAJKOT: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Saturday bagged the green building concept award from Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) for its affordable housing projects for the urban poor. RMC is the only civic body in the state to have got the award in the category ‘Government Organization Leading the Green Affordable Housing Movement’. The civic body has 32 ongoing projects under the Pradhanmantri Awas Yojna (PAY) and Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana (MAY). The RMC had applied for green building criteria for 15 of the under-construction projects most of them in the west zone of the city. These areas include Mavdi, Vavdi and Raiya. “There were seven award categories out of which RMC was chosen for ‘Government organization leading the green affordable housing movement in India’. We had applied for 15 projects which fulfil all the basic criteria like reducing carbon emission in a housing project,” said RMC in a statement. RMC city engineer Alpna Mitra said, “These housing projects are being constructed in approximately 41 lakh square feet area according to the criteria of green building. Rajkot is the only city to get an award in the housing sector.” “This recognition by IGBC further reinforces our belief and commitment towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals of making cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable,” said RMC commissioner Udit Agarwal. The Rajkot smart city project is being constructed across 930 acres has also bagged the IGBC certification in July this year. The entire smart city is being constructed on the concept of green building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/affordable-housing-projects-of-rajkot-civic-body-bag-igbc-award/articleshow/78973990.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Several flood victims continue to protest for financial assistance||HYDERABAD: Claiming that they have not received any aid despite suffering heavy losses due to the floods, hundreds of victims on Saturday had protested in front of the houses and offices of deputy speaker Padma Rao, Amberpet TRS MLA Kaleru Venkatesh and four corporators. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has also temporarily stopped distribution of the Rs 10,000 aid. A person (Venkatesh) tried to self-immolate in front of Amberpet MLA’s house by dousing himself with petrol. Thankfully, he was stopped by other protesters. To pacify the enraged victims, minister of municipal administration and urban development KT Rama Rao, tweeted that the government will ensure proper distribution of the aid. “I assure all those flood-affected citizens, who are complaining of being left out of flood relief exgratia, that we will ensure that all affected families shall be covered Have instructed MA&UD Principal Secretary @arvindkumar_ias to personally monitor and ensure the same,” tweeted Rao. Protestors blocked the road in several places, including Moosarambagh, Champapet, Ramanthapur, Malakpet and Madanapet. Citizens living in Goshamahal, Nampally, Karwan and Mehdipatnam gathered at the GHMC Khairtabad zonal office. Similar incidents were witnessed at Chandanagar GHMC zonal office. At some places people raised slogans against the GHMC. “If the government had announced financial aid, why hasn’t it reached us in five days? Only selected people were provided with financial aid ,” said a woman, at the Serilingampally zonal office. Hyderabad: Traffic was thrown out of gear in parts of city after protesters thronged GHMC zonal and circle offices. At Abids , Koti and Pool Bagh traffic moved at snail’s pace as protesters gathered there. In Ramanthpur protesters sat on the road connecting Ramanthapur and Uppal Stadium. “I was stuck on Ramanthapur main road for 40 minutes as several protesters blocked it,” said T Vinay, an employee working with a private company. Khairtabad zonal office vans were kept on standby and the area was barricaded. Cops were deployed at multiple locations around Khairtabad. TNN r. The protesters were arrested and traffic was cleared. “ I was stuck in traffic jam near Malakpet onion market or more than 30 minutes and missed an important meeting. I saw children running on main roads who accompanied the protesters. I was primarily concerned about their safety,” said Vishnu Vardhan Reddy a marketing executive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/several-flood-victims-continue-to-protest-for-financial-assistance/articleshow/78974946.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Patna||Coordination in NDA was better in past, says Bihar BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal||PATNA: Differences between the two major NDA partners – BJP and JD(U) – came to the fore when Bihar BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal made a startling claim that the coordination between the two parties was better in the past when BJP’s Nand Kishore Yadav was the state coordinator of the alliance between 2005 and 2013. Jaiswal told a section of the press that BJP functionaries were not accommodated in various committees at the district and block levels by the JD(U), which led to dissatisfaction. Jaiswal admitted that BJP has been facing a rebellion in the state as several party rebels are contesting polls on the ticket of another party. He said like BJP, the JD(U) has also been facing rebellion. Several BJP rebels have joined Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) to contest elections in the state. The LJP has fielded its candidates mainly against JD(U) nominees. However, Jaiswal refrained from taking LJP’s name while talking about rebellion in LJP. This newspaper could not contact Jaiswal despite repeated attempts. BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel declined to comment on Jaiswal’s remarks. Countering Jaiswal’s claims, state JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “The JD(U) does not believe in what Jaiswal has said. In fact, the NDA constituents have been coordinating at the ground level. The official NDA candidates are getting public support. What Jaiswal has said could be his personal opinion and not that of the BJP,” Prasad said. “In JD(U), number of rebels is very few. However, they have not affected the poll prospects of the party,” Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coordination-in-nda-was-better-in-past-says-jaiswal/articleshow/78975213.cms||Abhay Singh
November 1, 2020||Patna||Ashwini Kumar Choubey attacks Tejashwi Yadav, says he can’t even spell ‘cabinet’||PATNA: As the campaigning for the second phase of assembly election in Bihar draws to a close, NDA leaders have intensified their attacks on Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav even questioning his education credentials. “That person (Tejashwi) couldn't even clear his class 10th exam. He can’t even spell the word ‘Cabinet’ correctly, but is criticizing CM Nitish Kumar who is a qualified engineer,” BJP leader and Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey said taking a dig at Tejashwi. Choubey, who represents Buxar seat in the Lok Sabha, also alleged, “His (Tejashwi) father’s first cabinet decision promised that one lakh jobs will be provided but he collected money from them and the applications for the jobs are still there in the dustbin.” Choubey’s stinging remarks came days after top NDA leaders, including PM Narendra Modi, BJP chief JP Nadda and Bihar CM and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar took a jibe at the RJD leader’s mega poll announcement to provide “government jobs to 10 lakh youth by his first signature at the first cabinet meeting.” While addressing an election rally in Bihar a few days ago, PM Modi launched a sharp attack on Tejashwi, asking electors to beware of the “Yuvraj of jungle raj”, and alleged Tejashwi’s party had the “copyright over kidnappings”. Modi asked the electors to view the assembly elections as “an opportunity to re-elect those who pulled Bihar out of the darkness”. Nadda was harsher on Tejashwi. Addressing an election rally in Bihar, the BJP president said, “Recently, I was just listening to Tejashwi Yadav, he said ‘Bihar is landlocked’. It’s not landlocked, your mind is locked,” the BJP national president said while referring to the Mahagahtbandhan’s CM face’s persistent attack on Nitish over his remark that Bihar could not be industrialized mainly because the state is “landlocked”. “In recent days, Tejashwi Yadav has been saying ‘we will do this, we will do that.’ But who can trust you in an election? Those who have done something good in the past will do so in the future. In the past, they (RJD) held ‘Tel Pilawan, Danda Bhanjawan’ rally and in future too they will only wield ‘lathis’ and do nothing else,” Nadda said addressing a series of election rallies in Bihar on Friday. Even Bihar CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar does not lose any chance to attack the “inexperience” of Tejashwi. “He does not have either knowledge or experience in executing the works. He is just making big promises of providing government jobs to 10 lakh people. Where he will bring money to pay salaries to so many new employees. Will the money come from the skies?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/union-minister-attacks-tejashwi-says-he-cant-even-spell-cabinet/articleshow/78975274.cms||Madan Kumar
November 1, 2020||Patna||Covid kills 6 more in Bihar, tally rises to 2.16 lakh||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state went up to 2,16,764 on Saturday with 800 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. As the virus claimed six more lives on Saturday, the state’s Covid toll has risen to 1,090. However, with 2,07,811 recoveries, active cases in the state stand at 7,861. As per the data shared by the state health department, three more people have succumbed to the virus in Patna, taking the district’s toll to 267. East Champaran, Sheikhpura and Rohtas districts recorded one death each in the last 24 hours. AIIMS-Patna has reported five more deaths. The victims included a 45-year-old man from Barakar village in Nalanda, a 36-year-old man from Jalalpur village in Gaya, a 55-year-old man from of Kharpur village in Araria, a 46-year-old man from Raksa village in Muzaffarpur and a 75-year-old man from Chhoti Balia in Begusarai. As per the information shared by hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar, 20 patients were admitted and 19 discharged on Saturday. Altogether 179 Covid patients are currently undergoing treatment in the hospital. Those admitted to the hospital on Friday were also from different localities of Patna like Raja Bazar, Gola Road, Khajpura, Harnichak, Salimpur Ahra, Pataliputra and Chitragupta Nagar. Of 800 new Covid-19 patients, 258 were from Patna. With this, the Covid tally of Patna district has increased to 35,929. However, with 33,408 recoveries and 268 deaths, there are 2,253 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Gaya recorded 53 fresh Covid cases on Saturday, Nawada 40, Saharsa 38 and Muzaffarpur 24. बिहार में विगत 24 घंटे में 1,186 मरीज हुए स्वस्थ, सूबे में कुल स्वस्थ मरीजों का आंकड़ा पंहुचा 2,07,811 एवं रिकवरी द… https://t.co/5n46DL5zBe— Mangal Pandey (@mangalpandeybjp) 1604143057000State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1,186 people have recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate, according to the minister, has touched 95.87%. “At least 1,46,940 samples have been tested in the last 24 hours. So far, 1.09 crore samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus,” the minister tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-kills-6-more-in-bihar-tally-rises-to-2-16-lakh/articleshow/78974754.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 1, 2020||Patna||Real issues like jobs, healthcare, crime at centre of Bihar polls this time: Tejashwi||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav doesn't regret his party's earlier alliance with JD(U) that made it possible for Nitish Kumar to become state's CM. He also says talk about his camaraderie with LJP's Chiraj Paswan is 'planted gossip'. Excerpts. Five years after you campaigned together and formed a coalition government with the JD(U), what do you think has changed now? JD(U) co-opted the BJP's ideology and the style of government functioning became dictatorial. The government became apathetic and discriminatory towards the poor, which was evident most recently in the Covid-triggered lockdown and then during the passage of anti-farmer bills. We are a pro-people’s party. We fight for the rights of farmers. People are by and large fed up with the rising unemployment, inflation, day-to-day corruption, deteriorating law and order, and crumbling healthcare. We are fighting on these issues and I am glad these have become the fulcrum of this election. With JD(U) as ally, your party got 80 seats in 2015. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, you allied with Congress but results did not go in your favour. Congress is our oldest ally and we fought the 2014-2015 elections together too. The situation in 2019 was different and state elections are mainly fought on local issues... LJP and its chief Chirag Paswan are coming into their own. Some say you have struck a bond with him and have found a strategy to attack Bihar CM Nitish Kumar. Is there scope for a post-poll alliance? This is all gossip, planted by JD(U)-BJP. Chirag openly says he is with the BJP and wants to see a BJP CM in Bihar. I can tell you that our Mahagathbandhan will comfortably form a government. Your hypothesis has no basis. Do you regret that in 2015 your party allowed Nitish Kumar to become CM when you had won more seats? Lalu ji is someone who keeps his word...He had given his word to Nitish ji, that he would make him CM, and that he did. We don’t have any regrets. We fulfilled our commitment. Your manifesto focuses on 10 lakh jobs for the youth, higher MSP. BJP offers 19 lakh jobs, free vaccines, appointment of 3 lakh teachers. How does it compare? I am glad to see that the BJP is at least agreeing to the fact now that unemployment is the most critical challenge facing Bihar. But, sadly, in the last 15 years of its rule in partnership with the JD(U), it did absolutely nothing to address this problem. Finding opportunity in a pandemic is a singular skill. Not surprising to see them (BJP) seeking votes promising free vaccines. Ours is a collective resolve to provide jobs, restore dignity of Bihar and bring the state to the top five in the country. Thirty-three of RJD's candidates are Yadavs, and the BJP has more than 50 upper caste candidates. Your comments. We are fighting on 144 seats. Can you please look into the castes of candidates put up by the other parties too? Ours is the most inclusive and equitable ticket distribution this time. It has taken care of all sections. We are the party of A-Z. How do you look at your brother Tej Pratap's candidature? Any memories of playing cricket together? He nurtured and developed Mahua, from where he fought the last election, and I am sure Hasanpur will embark on a new development journey. Cricket will always be my everlasting love.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/real-issues-like-jobs-healthcare-crime-at-centre-of-bihar-polls-this-time-tejashwi/articleshow/78975287.cms||Rohan Dua
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Govt tables bills, to make MSP mandatory for contract farming||Jaipur: Forcing a farmer to enter a contract of sale of his agricultural produce at a price below the minimum support price (MSP) may lead to imprisonment for three to seven years and/or a fine up to Rs 5 lakh, says one of the six amendment bills tabled in the Rajasthan assembly on Saturday. ‘Harassing’ farmers may also invoke the same punitive action, says another bill, which defines harassment as traders not accepting delivery of farm produce agreed upon or not making payment within three days from the date of receipt of delivery. At the same time, Rajasthan’s amendment bills do not make MSP mandatory for purchases made by individuals or brokers outside contract farming, but it will be mandatory for contract farming. “That is outside the state’s purview. Only the Centre can make MSP mandatory for individual or non-contractual buying,” Congress state president and cabinet minister Govind Singh Dotasra told TOI. Punjab, on the other hand, made MSP mandatory for the sale and purchase of wheat and paddy recently. Four of the six amendment bills tabled in Rajasthan assembly are related to farmers — including the one proposed to amend the Code of Civil Procedure — and seek to ‘override’ the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September. The amendment bills introduced “to restore the safeguards for farmers” in Rajasthan are likely to be passed on Monday. The state assembly session, which was adjourned in August but not prorogued till date, has been reconvened specially to counter the Centre’s farm laws, as already done in the two Congress-ruled states of Punjab and Chhattisgarh. Soon after the House assembled on Saturday, parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal tabled the bills skipping the customary question hour at 11 am. Once that was done, Speaker CP Joshi read out obituary references for former President Pranab Mukherjee and other political leaders who passed away recently and promptly adjourned the House for the day. The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (promotion and facilitation) (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, which provisions jail and/or fine for harassing a farmer, allows disputing parties to seek resolution through civil courts under the state’s Rajasthan Agricultural Produce Markets (APMC) Act. The Farmers (empowerment and protection) agreement on price assurance and farm services (Rajasthan Amendment) bill states that “no farming agreement for sale or purchase of a crop shall be valid” unless the price paid for the crop is “equal to or greater than” the prevailing MSP. It further says a fee/cess under the Rajasthan Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961 shall be charged on the farming agreement but will not be charged from the farmer and will be utilized for the welfare of farmers and development of market infrastructure. This bill defines “harassment” as compelling a farmer “to enter into a sale under contract of agricultural produce in his possession at a price below the MSP” or “refusing to accept produce or take delivery of goods under a farming agreement within a week from the date of intimation by the farmer of the produce being ready for delivery”. The Essential Commodities (special provisions and Rajasthan amendment) bill empowers the state government to regulate production, supply, distribution, and impose stock limits to protect consumers against hoarding and black-marketing of agricultural produce under extraordinary circumstances. The Code of Civil Procedure (Rajasthan amendment) amends section 60 of the Central Act of 1908 and bars the attachment or sale of a debtor farmer’s land up to 5 acres. Leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore said the BJP would oppose the bills during the debate on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-tables-bills-to-make-msp-mandatory-for-contract-farming/articleshow/78976099.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
November 1, 2020||Pune||Teen arrested 6 years after stealing cash||Pune: The railway police arrested a youth six years after he stole cash and a cellphone belonging to a passenger aboard the Koyna Express. Inspector Maula Sayyed from the railway police crime branch said, “We have launched a drive to arrest absconding and wanted criminals on the run. The drive led to the arrest of Mustafa Irani (19) from his residence at Shivajinagar. Irani was taken into custody because he was wanted in the theft case registered with the Pune railway police station.” Sayyed said, “In 2014, Irani had stolen cash and a phone belonging to Salim Shaikh from Chinchwad when the train slowed down near Wakdewadi bridge and fled. Irani’s name surfaced during the investigation but his whereabouts were not known.” “During the drive, we prepared a list of wanted criminals. It helped us arrest Irani. His custody was transferred to the Pune railway police for further action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teen-arrested-6-years-after-stealing-cash/articleshow/78974917.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar govt has failed on all fronts: Congress||PATNA: All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev on Saturday hit out at the state government, accusing it of failing on all fronts, such as health, education, nutrition and women welfare. Talking to media persons here, Dev slammed the JD(U) for giving ticket to former minister Manju Verma, who was earlier arrested in an Arms Act case. “It is unfortunate that senior JD(U) leaders are campaigning for her,” Dev said. She, however, failed to answer how RJD, a key Mahagathbandhan ally, has given tickets to rape convict Rajballabh Yadav’s wife Vibha Devi and rape accused Arun Yadav’s wife Kiran Devi. “It is not possible for me to give a politically correct answer to this question. I leave it to people,” she said. In another press conference, Congress national spokesperson Ragini Nayak slammed NDA governments at Centre and in state over sufferings faced by migrant workers during the Covid-induced lockdown. Nayak said the electoral fight in Bihar has become one-sided and NDA’s efforts to divert from the main agenda were not going down well with the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-govt-has-failed-on-all-fronts-congress/articleshow/78977891.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 1, 2020||Vadodara||Baglamukhi priest raped me as a minor: Survivor||VADODARA: Self-styled godman Prashant Upadhyay, who used to call himself Baglamukhi Jyotish, is in trouble again. This time around a young woman has alleged that he had raped her repeatedly when she was a minor. The 21-year-old woman claimed in her complaint to Gotri police that Upadhyay had raped her in 2015 when she had gone to stay at his ashram during the vacation after her Class X exams. According to the complainant, three other women – Disha Sachdeva, Diksha Jaswani and Unnati Joshi – had aided Upadhyay in the act. The complainant has stated that her father was under the influence of Upadhyay and was his staunch follower. The rape survivor used to go to congregations held by Upadhyay with her father. She also had some problems with her hair that Upadhyay said he could treat. According to the complaint, the girl and her father went to Upadhyay’s ashram in the Gotri Road area and stayed there for 15-20 days. She claimed that Disha had asked her to go to Upadhyay’s room under the pretext of giving him water. Upadhyay also asked her to press his legs once. He did the same again the next day and eventually made advances towards her. When she rushed to the other women and mentioned the incident, Diksha and Unnati tried to convince her saying that whatever Upadhyay was doing was for her good. The women even threatened the complainant the Upadhyay could ruin the lives of her family members. When she went to Upadhyay’s room on another day, he allegedly raped her after giving her a sedative tablet and allegedly recorded the incident. He then raped the girl who was around 16 at that time multiple times in the ashram during her stay. After she returned home, Upadhyay allegedly told her father that she was having an affair and asked him to bring her to the ashram. Whenever the victim visited the ashram, she was allegedly raped. Frustrated with Upadhyay’s acts, the complainant stopped going to the ashram. In response, Upadhyay gave her father a memory card and asked him to hand it over to the complainant saying that it had spiritual material. When the complainant accessed the card, it had her nude video. She eventually mentioned everything to her family, but they decided against filing a complaint fearing social stigma. Gotri police inspector S V Chaudhary said that the complainant stated that she came to know about the other offences registered against Upadhyay recently and decided to approach the police. He added that Upadhyay’s phone is with forensic experts and data is being retrieved. Upadhyay has already been accused of cheating and a rape case earlier. Chaudhary said that he is in judicial custody and attempts will be made to seek his custody in connection with the present offence. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/baglamukhi-priest-raped-me-as-a-minor-survivor/articleshow/78974056.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Coimbatore||When you see animals in distress, dial 1962||COIMBATORE: When his cow developed tick fever and stopped taking food and water, V Vishwanathan, of Kinathukidavu, didn’t think twice to contact the 1962 animal ambulance service. In fact, that was the first thing that came to his mind. On Friday evening, Dr Kousalya, a veterinarian with the animal ambulance service, was seen tending to the animal. The cow is being treated free of charge. “Had I called a private veterinarian, I would have ended up spending at least Rs 4,000. It would have cost me the same to rent a small van to take the animal to a primary veterinary centre twice,” says Vishwanathan. Introduced on November 5 last year, the 1962 animal ambulance has become very popular in the district within a short span of time. It has treated and rescued at least 1,696 animals as on October 27 free of cost. It receives at least nine to 10 calls a day from the district and has made 998 trips in the past 12 months. Prasad, incharge of the animal ambulance at the Emergency Management and Research Institute, says, “We prioritize animals based on that provide farmers a livelihood. Hence, 75% of rescued animals comprise cattle, goats and poultry.” It, however, doesn’t mean they would turn down emergency calls from pet owners. He said 50% of the calls they receive was from pet owners and they had rescued or treated 410 such animals in the past one year. In fact, on Friday, the ambulance first stopped at Vadavalli to treat a cat that was having continuous diarrhea, before proceeding to handle four other cattle emergency calls. The only animals they do not rescue are stray dogs, because they often rush to the spot to find the animal and caller missing. “We divert them to NGOs like Blue Cross,” says Prasad. The ambulance, manned by a driver and veterinarian, is equipped with antibiotics and painkillers, plaster of paris, delivery kits, equipment to collect blood and phlegm samples and all types of intravenous fluids. Dr Kousalya says, “At least 35% of the calls we get pertains to accidents that happen on the road. In such cases, we need to ferry the animal to either the owner’s house or hospital, depending on its condition. Other cases include delivery, fever or severe diarrhea with weakness, anorexia or other infections.” While one could reach the number round the clock, rescue team would be available only from 8am to 8pm. The calls would be attended by a team in Chennai. The ambulance makes at least three trips a day. However, administrators say one vehicle is not enough for a district as large as Coimbatore with 11 taluks. “If we attend to an animal at Pollachi, we won’t be able to attend any emergencies at Mettupalayam and Annur. Most of the calls are from rural areas that are far away from the office of joint director of animal husbandry, where our vehicle is stationed,” said an office staffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/when-you-see-animals-in-distress-dial-1962/articleshow/78976073.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata may get light showers today: Met||KOLKATA: The city remained cloudy on Saturday under the influence of a low-pressure trough. While the northern fringes of Kolkata received rain, the city may be drenched by light showers on Sunday even as the trough extends from central Bay of Bengal to Bangladesh across south Bengal.  “The wind direction changed from south-easterly to north-westerly, with the end of monsoon. It led to easterly waves in Bay of Bengal that led to temperature rise and moisture incursion. This led to clouds,” said RMC director G K Das, adding, “Kolkata, Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas, Hooghly and Nadia may receive light rain on Sunday.” The mercury will drop from Tuesday. Kolkata recorded a minimum temperature of 22.8°C on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-may-get-light-showers-today-met/articleshow/78975248.cms||---
November 1, 2020||---||Bihar elections 2020: Tejashwi Yadav ‘seeks blessings’ of family citadel Raghopur||PATNA: As the campaigning for the second phase of polling draws enters its last leg, Mahagatbadhan chief minister candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday landed in Raghopur — the Yadav family citadel — which he represents as an MLA in the state assembly. Raghopur has deep connections with the Yadav clan and the constituency has seen both Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi represent it. “You have given love and blessings to both my parents and also gave that love to me. We have an old relation with Raghopur and I need your support and blessings again,” Tejashwi said addressing a large gathering at Ramanandan High School ground in Bidupur. “I am working to win Bihar and you have to manage Raghopur for me,” he added. This constituency is going to polls on November 3 and he addressed his constituency for the first time, apart from a roadshow held earlier. On Saturday, he addressed altogether 17 rallies, the last one in Raghopur and said he had broken his father’s record. His parents, Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi had earlier won from here while they were chief ministers of Bihar. “Raghopur does not choose an MLA, but a CM. You have earlier also elected a deputy CM,” said Tejashwi talking about his 18-month tenure as deputy CM and road construction minister. He said as deputy CM, he had done a lot of work for entire Vaishali. “Be it the construction of a six-lane bridge, or road network at the expense of Rs 600 core, an engineering college and a medical college in Mahua. We even arranged for fire tenders to tackle fire in agricultural fields. So how can Raghopur be behind when I become the CM?” Reiterating his promise of 10 lakh government jobs, Tejashwi said, “This is not an election, but a movement against unemployment. I will fulfil my promise of 10 lakh government jobs and will take along all my brothers and sisters of any caste and religion.” His main rival is BJP’s, Satish Kumar. In the 2015 election, Satish got 68,503 votes and was defeated by Tejashwi who managed 91,236 votes. But in 2010, Satish defeated Rabri Devi on JD (U)’s ticket. LJP has also fielded its candidate here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/tejashwi-seeks-blessings-of-family-citadel-raghopur/articleshow/78977756.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 1, 2020||---||How star campaigner Tejashwi Yadav became ‘lone crusader’ for Mahagathbandhan||PATNA: The Mahagathbandhan’s CM candidate, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, appears to have become the lone crusader not only for the RJD but for the entire alliance, crisscrossing the state in his chopper pulling massive crowds wherever he is going. Tejashwi is not only tirelessly campaigning for RJD candidates but is also dedicatedly canvassing for his allies as his crowd-pulling abilities have made him the most sought-after campaigner among the candidates fielded by Congress, or Left contestants. On Saturday, Tejashwi held 17 public rallies, breaking his previous record as well as that of his father Lalu Prasad, whose record was 16 rallies in a day. No wonder many are comparing Tejashwi's campaign-style with his father's ability to connect with the audience. “We used to prepare the plan for Lalu Ji’s rallies, and I remember 16 was his highest in a day. But Tejashwi Ji has gone beyond that today,” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said. More on Bihar pollsComplete coverageNitish MeterData HubThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again ...30 years of 25 CMs or 30 years of 3 CMs: Bihar keeps getting poorerGagan explained that the reason for Tejashwi holding so many rallies is the demand from all candidates across Bihar to campaign for them. “Be it our candidates or our alliance partners all of them want him to visit their constituency and hold rallies for them no matter which part of the state it is,” Gagan said. Read AlsoNitish Kumar's credibility is completely destroyed: Tejashwi YadavPATNA: Mahagathbandan's chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday said that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has lost his credibility and the JDU-BJP alliance is all set to lose this election. "Nitish Kumar's credibility is completely destroyed. After the first phase of polling, there“And Tejashwi Ji is campaigning for Congress and Left party contenders with the same dedication as those of RJD’s,” he added. Follow TOI's live blog on Bihar pollsAn RJD state leader said contestants are making a beeline to get Tejashwi to be in the state with them. A senior Congress leader also accepted that Tejashwi is playing a big role in Mahagatbandhan and his brand of politics and campaigning was giving benefits to other partners. “We will also benefit because of him,” he added. Read AlsoBihar poll race tightens as Tejashwi puts up a tough fightPATNA: With the first phase of the Bihar assembly election over, the narrative appears to be changing with the polls becoming a close contest between the ruling NDA and the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, defying pre-poll odds. Those who dismissed RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as noThe All India Congress Committee secretary, Ajay Kapoor, admitted that Tejashwi was in huge demand everywhere in Mahagatbandhan. “The winds of change are blowing in Bihar, and Mahagatbandhan is sweeping. Tejashwi is our CM face. So it is natural that everyone will want him in their rallies. You can understand this from the fact that there is always a huge crowd at his rallies,” Kapoor said. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwary said Tejashwi has caught the imagination of the young people, which is the reason for the huge crowd in his rallies. Tiwary cited various examples of how movements started by one person catches on, and people follow them turning the leader into a hero. “During Independence struggle, Gandhi Ji started alone, and people joined him, during the JP Movement people followed Jayaprakash Narain. This is the trend in our country when a large number of people start following a leader,” Tiwary said, adding he is not comparing him with the great leaders but explaining how movements catch on. Tiwary hailed Tejashwi for not getting deterred from "real issues" that affect the common man. “Union minister Nityanand Rai brought Kashmir and terrorism here while Griraj Singh talked of Jinnah. But Tejashwi kept his focus on the agendas of employment and youth issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/how-star-campaigner-tejashwi-yadav-became-lone-crusader-for-mgb/articleshow/78977712.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 1, 2020||Patna||How star campaigner Tejashwi Yadav became ‘lone crusader’ for Mahagathbandhan||PATNA: The Mahagathbandhan’s CM candidate, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, appears to have become the lone crusader not only for the RJD but for the entire alliance, crisscrossing the state in his chopper pulling massive crowds wherever he is going. Tejashwi is not only tirelessly campaigning for RJD candidates but is also dedicatedly canvassing for his allies as his crowd-pulling abilities have made him the most sought-after campaigner among the candidates fielded by Congress, or Left contestants. On Saturday, Tejashwi held 17 public rallies, breaking his previous record as well as that of his father Lalu Prasad, whose record was 16 rallies in a day. No wonder many are comparing Tejashwi's campaign-style with his father's ability to connect with the audience. “We used to prepare the plan for Lalu Ji’s rallies, and I remember 16 was his highest in a day. But Tejashwi Ji has gone beyond that today,” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said. More on Bihar pollsComplete coverageNitish MeterData HubThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again ...30 years of 25 CMs or 30 years of 3 CMs: Bihar keeps getting poorerGagan explained that the reason for Tejashwi holding so many rallies is the demand from all candidates across Bihar to campaign for them. “Be it our candidates or our alliance partners all of them want him to visit their constituency and hold rallies for them no matter which part of the state it is,” Gagan said. Read AlsoNitish Kumar's credibility is completely destroyed: Tejashwi YadavPATNA: Mahagathbandan's chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday said that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has lost his credibility and the JDU-BJP alliance is all set to lose this election. "Nitish Kumar's credibility is completely destroyed. After the first phase of polling, there“And Tejashwi Ji is campaigning for Congress and Left party contenders with the same dedication as those of RJD’s,” he added. Follow TOI's live blog on Bihar pollsAn RJD state leader said contestants are making a beeline to get Tejashwi to be in the state with them. A senior Congress leader also accepted that Tejashwi is playing a big role in Mahagatbandhan and his brand of politics and campaigning was giving benefits to other partners. “We will also benefit because of him,” he added. Read AlsoBihar poll race tightens as Tejashwi puts up a tough fightPATNA: With the first phase of the Bihar assembly election over, the narrative appears to be changing with the polls becoming a close contest between the ruling NDA and the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, defying pre-poll odds. Those who dismissed RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as noThe All India Congress Committee secretary, Ajay Kapoor, admitted that Tejashwi was in huge demand everywhere in Mahagatbandhan. “The winds of change are blowing in Bihar, and Mahagatbandhan is sweeping. Tejashwi is our CM face. So it is natural that everyone will want him in their rallies. You can understand this from the fact that there is always a huge crowd at his rallies,” Kapoor said. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwary said Tejashwi has caught the imagination of the young people, which is the reason for the huge crowd in his rallies. Tiwary cited various examples of how movements started by one person catches on, and people follow them turning the leader into a hero. “During Independence struggle, Gandhi Ji started alone, and people joined him, during the JP Movement people followed Jayaprakash Narain. This is the trend in our country when a large number of people start following a leader,” Tiwary said, adding he is not comparing him with the great leaders but explaining how movements catch on. Tiwary hailed Tejashwi for not getting deterred from "real issues" that affect the common man. “Union minister Nityanand Rai brought Kashmir and terrorism here while Griraj Singh talked of Jinnah. But Tejashwi kept his focus on the agendas of employment and youth issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/how-star-campaigner-tejashwi-yadav-became-lone-crusader-for-mgb/articleshow/78975323.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 1, 2020||Rajkot||To nurture amity, cows fed on Eid-e-Milad||RAJKOT: In the Covid-beaten world, humanity has emerged as the biggest shield against the onslaught of the pandemic. Intrinsic values of love and respect for communal harmony and brotherhood have evoked among men pathos for the animal world too. To strengthen this bond further, Muslim community of Savarkundala in Amreli district celebrated the birthday of Prophet Muhammad on Friday by gifting grass to various cattle pens in the region that are home to hundreds of bovine. Members of the Sunni sect donated 700 kg grass to different gaushalas of Savarkundala as a mark of respect to the mute animal that helps the human race thrive on its unconditional love and sacrifice. “Islam propagates love and care for the animals, while Hindus worship cows as Gau Mata. On the auspicious occasion of Prophet Muhammad’s birthday we carried out a ‘gau seva’ whereby the service to the cattle is also a part of our goodwill gesture to our Hindu brothers,” said Saint Dada Bapu Qadari, who guided the entire event. Hindus welcomed the goodwill gesture shown by Muslims with equal ardour. Sant Bhaktiram Bapu Hariyani of Manav Mandir said, “It is indeed a noble move by our Muslim brothers. And what better can befit the grand occasion of Prophet Muhammad’s birthday than service for the mute animals? They have produced a perfect example of communal harmony and I wish them well on the auspicious occasion.” Irfan Qureshi, one of the leaders of the Sunni sect in Savarkundala, said that the day also was celebrated by distributing fruits among patients in different hospitals of Savarkundala. “Our love and pursuit of bonhomie and brotherhood among communities didn’t restrict itself in providing fodder to the cows, but we also wanted to serve the humanity in need and helped patients with nutritional supplements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/to-nurture-amity-cows-fed-on-eid-e-milad/articleshow/78974066.cms||---
November 1, 2020||---||Ashwini Kumar Choubey attacks Tejashwi Yadav, says he can’t even spell ‘cabinet’||PATNA: As the campaigning for the second phase of assembly election in Bihar draws to a close, NDA leaders have intensified their attacks on Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav even questioning his education credentials. “That person (Tejashwi) couldn't even clear his class 10th exam. He can’t even spell the word ‘Cabinet’ correctly, but is criticizing CM Nitish Kumar who is a qualified engineer,” BJP leader and Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey said taking a dig at Tejashwi. Choubey, who represents Buxar seat in the Lok Sabha, also alleged, “His (Tejashwi) father’s first cabinet decision promised that one lakh jobs will be provided but he collected money from them and the applications for the jobs are still there in the dustbin.” Choubey’s stinging remarks came days after top NDA leaders, including PM Narendra Modi, BJP chief JP Nadda and Bihar CM and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar took a jibe at the RJD leader’s mega poll announcement to provide “government jobs to 10 lakh youth by his first signature at the first cabinet meeting.” While addressing an election rally in Bihar a few days ago, PM Modi launched a sharp attack on Tejashwi, asking electors to beware of the “Yuvraj of jungle raj”, and alleged Tejashwi’s party had the “copyright over kidnappings”. Modi asked the electors to view the assembly elections as “an opportunity to re-elect those who pulled Bihar out of the darkness”. Nadda was harsher on Tejashwi. Addressing an election rally in Bihar, the BJP president said, “Recently, I was just listening to Tejashwi Yadav, he said ‘Bihar is landlocked’. It’s not landlocked, your mind is locked,” the BJP national president said while referring to the Mahagahtbandhan’s CM face’s persistent attack on Nitish over his remark that Bihar could not be industrialized mainly because the state is “landlocked”. “In recent days, Tejashwi Yadav has been saying ‘we will do this, we will do that.’ But who can trust you in an election? Those who have done something good in the past will do so in the future. In the past, they (RJD) held ‘Tel Pilawan, Danda Bhanjawan’ rally and in future too they will only wield ‘lathis’ and do nothing else,” Nadda said addressing a series of election rallies in Bihar on Friday. Even Bihar CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar does not lose any chance to attack the “inexperience” of Tejashwi. “He does not have either knowledge or experience in executing the works. He is just making big promises of providing government jobs to 10 lakh people. Where he will bring money to pay salaries to so many new employees. Will the money come from the skies?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/union-minister-attacks-tejashwi-says-he-cant-even-spell-cabinet/articleshow/78980830.cms||Madan Kumar
November 1, 2020||---||NDA in disarray, says CPI (ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya||PATNA: CPI (ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya on Saturday said the Election Commission should ensure that the code of conduct prescribed for electioneering is observed in letter and spirit. He raised questions over PM Narendra Modi recently addressing a rally in Patna even as polling was in progress in parts of the district. Talking to media persons here, Bhattacharya said high security and transparency should be maintained in and around the strongrooms where EVMs have been kept. Bhattacharya said there was tremendous support for the Grand Alliance in the state and it was evident in the first phase of the polls which concluded on October 28. “The NDA is in disarray in the state,” he added. “There is mutual distrust in the rank and file of the two major NDA allies – JD(U) and BJP. The BJP has adopted the strategy of blaming JD(U) for all wrongdoings,” Bhattacharya said. On PM’s remark that coronavirus was the “one danger” to which people of the state are vulnerable, Bhattacharya said, “If there is a surge in Covid cases in the state after the elections, the central and state governments should be held responsible for it. The elections should not have been conducted amid pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nda-in-disarray-says-dipankar/articleshow/78980869.cms||Abhay Singh
November 1, 2020||Patna||NDA in disarray, says CPI (ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya||PATNA: CPI (ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya on Saturday said the Election Commission should ensure that the code of conduct prescribed for electioneering is observed in letter and spirit. He raised questions over PM Narendra Modi recently addressing a rally in Patna even as polling was in progress in parts of the district. Talking to media persons here, Bhattacharya said high security and transparency should be maintained in and around the strongrooms where EVMs have been kept. Bhattacharya said there was tremendous support for the Grand Alliance in the state and it was evident in the first phase of the polls which concluded on October 28. “The NDA is in disarray in the state,” he added. “There is mutual distrust in the rank and file of the two major NDA allies – JD(U) and BJP. The BJP has adopted the strategy of blaming JD(U) for all wrongdoings,” Bhattacharya said. On PM’s remark that coronavirus was the “one danger” to which people of the state are vulnerable, Bhattacharya said, “If there is a surge in Covid cases in the state after the elections, the central and state governments should be held responsible for it. The elections should not have been conducted amid pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-in-disarray-says-dipankar/articleshow/78975176.cms||Abhay Singh
November 1, 2020||Rajkot||Infant’s body found wrapped in jute bag in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Body of an infant boy was found from a piece of agriculture land near Kothariya on Saturday. The body was spotted by a labourer Chagan Siyani. It was wrapped in a jute bag. Siyani informed the police and also called 108 ambulance service. Bhaktinagar police registered an offence under IPC section 318. The police suspect that the child might have died soon after birth and somebody dumped it in the farm near a water drain with the intention to dispose it off. Police is also going through CCTV camera footage in nearby areas to find the culprit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/infants-body-found-wrapped-in-jute-bag/articleshow/78974039.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||28-year-old hangs self in IIM-Calcutta hostel||KOLKATA: A 28-year-old woman from Baguiati, Payel Khandelwal, was allegedly found hanging from the ceiling fan in her hostel room at the MDC building on the Joka campus of Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta, on Saturday morning. She had joined the one-year Post Graduate Programme for Executives at the institute. Sources in IIM-C and Kolkata Police said when she remained out of contact throughout the day and didn’t even leave her room, her friends raised an alarm. The administration broke into her room. Cops were immediately informed. “Khandelwal committed suicide by hanging. The room was bolted from the inside. The management authorities broke in after getting no response from her. No complaints have been received till now and the body has been sent for post-mortem. No suicide note has been found yet. Her laptop, phone and belongings are being checked. It is too early to say why she took this decision. Inquest proceedings have been initiated,” said DC Behala Nilanjan Biswas. An IIM-Calcutta spokesperson said, “We are deeply shocked and saddened with the demise of a resident student. Investigations are being conducted by the police and we are cooperating with the authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/28-year-old-hangs-self-in-iim-c-hostel/articleshow/78975218.cms||---
November 1, 2020||---||Coordination in NDA was better in past, says Bihar BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal||PATNA: Differences between the two major NDA partners – BJP and JD(U) – came to the fore when Bihar BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal made a startling claim that the coordination between the two parties was better in the past when BJP’s Nand Kishore Yadav was the state coordinator of the alliance between 2005 and 2013. Jaiswal told a section of the press that BJP functionaries were not accommodated in various committees at the district and block levels by the JD(U), which led to dissatisfaction. Jaiswal admitted that BJP has been facing a rebellion in the state as several party rebels are contesting polls on the ticket of another party. He said like BJP, the JD(U) has also been facing rebellion. Several BJP rebels have joined Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) to contest elections in the state. The LJP has fielded its candidates mainly against JD(U) nominees. However, Jaiswal refrained from taking LJP’s name while talking about rebellion in LJP. This newspaper could not contact Jaiswal despite repeated attempts. BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel declined to comment on Jaiswal’s remarks. Countering Jaiswal’s claims, state JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “The JD(U) does not believe in what Jaiswal has said. In fact, the NDA constituents have been coordinating at the ground level. The official NDA candidates are getting public support. What Jaiswal has said could be his personal opinion and not that of the BJP,” Prasad said. “In JD(U), number of rebels is very few. However, they have not affected the poll prospects of the party,” Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/coordination-in-nda-was-better-in-past-says-jaiswal/articleshow/78980733.cms||Abhay Singh
November 1, 2020||Patna||Rivals wary of Bihar’s lone ‘kinnar’ candidate in Hathua||PATNA: Ram Darshan Prasad, alias Munna Kinner, has become a talking point for people in Gopalganj's Hathua assembly seat where he is contesting as an LJP candidate. The 42-year-old resident of Selar Kala, the native village of former CM Rabri Devi, is the state’s lone transgender contesting the assembly polls this year. However, Prasad, who is hogging the limelight for his different style of campaigning and his poll promises, mentions his gender as male. A member of the Gopalganj district board, he has emerged as a candidate with a difference in the high-profile constituency. He is contesting against state social welfare minister and JD(U) candidate Ram Sevak Singh and Rajesh Kumar Kushwaha of RJD. JD(U)’s Singh is trying to make a hat-trick this time. However, both Singh and Kushwaha, who are locked in a close contest, are now finding the going tough. “Prasad’s entry has made the contest interesting. He is familiar to all for being a member of the district board from Mirganj ward number 18 and is also active in politics for two decades. He is always ready to help the poor and the needy. Moreover, he is fearless and outspoken,” said Satya Prakash, a resident of Hathua Bazar. Although there are 15 contestants in the fray, Prasad’s style of campaigning is unique. His supporters start clapping when he touches the feet of elderly residents seeking their blessings for success in the electoral battle. His appeals to vote for a 'kinner' turns people emotional. He never misses mentioning that a ‘kinner’ or a transgender coming to the doorstep of a person is considered auspicious. “Vote hamre ke deve ke baa. Humane ke aawal shubh manan jala (Vote for me. Our arrival is considered to be auspicious),” a resident Aman Kumar quoted Prasad as saying. Prasad has promised to donate his entire salary as a legislator, if elected, for people’s welfare. “It is not a political gimmick. I am telling the truth,” he said, adding he is satisfied with whatever is offered by the people in a traditional way for his survival. He has also promised to set up a shelter home for orphans in the district besides building a hospital. “People will not have to go to Gorakhpur in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh for better treatment,” he added. Prasad was elected as a member of the district board for the first time in 2012 from Phulwaria, the native village of former CM and RJD chief Lalu Prasad, and then from Mirganj in 2015. “I am contesting among people known for their muscle power,” he said. Reshma Prasad, who runs an NGO for transgenders--Dostana Safar--, hopes that political parties would give tickets to more transgenders in the coming elections. “I can only express my good wishes for Prasad in the elections,” she told this newspaper. Hathua constituency will go to the polls in the second phase on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rivals-wary-of-states-lone-kinnar-candidate-in-hathua/articleshow/78974384.cms||Ramashankar
November 1, 2020||Vadodara||Modi shows his Tamil prowess||Kevadia (Narmada): Prime Minister Narendra Modi also recited poems of sage Valmiki and legendary poets and social reformers — Subramania Bharathi of Tamil Nadu and Bihar’s Ramdhari Singh ‘Dinkar.’ He flawlessly recited the Tamil verses of Subramania’s poem and even expounded its meaning which, he said, hailed India’s cultural, geographical and social unity and diversity. He said that the legends championed cultural unification ages ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/modi-shows-his-tamil-prowess/articleshow/78973907.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Delhi||SDMC plans doorstep collection of property tax||NEW DELHI: To help citizens file their property tax in a time-bound manner, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has planned to engage mobile sahayaks in each zone. These sahayaks will visit residences of taxpayers and help them fill the form and pay the tax online. The move is aimed at increasing the tax collection as well as the number of taxpayers. TimesViewFor an organisation engaged in online tax collection for years, SDMC’s inability to fix its own website is hard to understand. Even harder to comprehend is their proposal to go for door-to-door collection, a health hazard for the staff of the outsourced company to be engaged as well as the taxpayer.The proposal was approved by the south corporation’s standing committee on Thursday while it would need the House’s nod for implementation. The standing committee chairman, Rajdutt Gahlot, said that SDMC was planning to hire an agency for providing the doorstep service. “A call centre will receive a request and a unique token number be generated and shared with the citizen for all future references. On successful completion of the property tax transaction, mobile sahayaks shall collect a nominal facilitation fee from the taxpayer.” The facilitation fee has been capped at Rs 100 per successful transaction. “Working hours of mobile sahayaks will be from 8 am to 8 pm. The return can be filed through mobile or web application only,” stated the proposal. “SDMC has been maintaining collection but unsuccessful in increasing tax net. To create an authentic database of taxpayers and dwelling units, a new software has been developed. But efforts are being taken to also assist those who are not familiar with technology.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-plans-doorstep-collection-of-property-tax/articleshow/78976122.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Suspense over retirement of CS Swarup continues||JAIPUR: The suspense over the retirement of chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup continued till late Saturday night. The department of personnel website showed his status as ‘retired’ but officials refused to confirm the move. He was due to retire on Saturday. The state government had sought an extension for him from the Central government but the official orders from the Centre have not yet been received. Even the new chief secretary was not announced by the state till the last report came in. Swarup, a 1985 year batch IAS officer, was appointed as the CS on July 2 barely three months before his retirement. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot was keen to retain him for some more months and had been making efforts in Delhi for the same. Born in 1960, Swarup started his career as a SDM in Pali. He has served on various posts in the state including as collector of Barmer and Sawai Madhopur. Swarup was elevated to the top post from the ACS of the home department. During the lockdown, he has played a crucial role in maintaining law and order in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/suspense-over-retirement-of-cs-swarup-continues/articleshow/78976113.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Water board suffers Rs 60 cr loss in floods||Hyderabad: The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) suffered losses to the tune Rs 60 crore due to the recent floods. Water board officials arrived at this figure after assessing the damage to its property. For instance, water pipelines were washed away at Peerzadiguda, Balapur and some other areas of the Old City. At several areas, valves of water lines were severely damaged as waste material got piled up after Musi overflowed and the floodgates of Himayatsagar were opened. Not only this, compound walls at service reservoirs and at the sewerage treatment plants (STPs) got damaged. “Board had submitted a report on the damaged properties to the central team that visited the city to assess the situation after the floods,” sources in the HMWS&SB told TOI. “The municipal administration and urban development department sanctioned Rs 30 crore towards immediate relief to repair the water lines,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-suffers-rs-60-cr-loss-in-floods/articleshow/78974950.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Delhi||For many in Delhi, it’s still not easy to get death certificate||NEW DELHI: Ramveer’s (name changed) son recently died in a road accident. When he reached the Karol Bagh municipal zonal office for a death certificate, he was told that his son lost his life while being taken to a hospital, which fell under the jurisdiction of South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s West zone. After hours of wait, he was advised to visit the West zone office in Rajouri Garden. Ramveer told TOI that he visited the Rajouri Garden office following the directions of north corporation officials, but the ordeal continued for him for another two hours as officials there too remained busy in discussing the issue of location and jurisdiction. He was then told to go back to meet the north corporation officials again. The father returned home and a week after, he is yet to get the certificate. Ramveer’s is just a case in point. Relatives of thousands of people who die outside hospitals continue to run from pillar to post in order to get a death certificate. Despite the tall claims of transfer of death registration service to the digital mode, the relatives are often forced to run around to avail the basic civic service. The jurisdiction limits are not clearly defined, often leaving the grieving relatives at sea over which office to visit—the one in the area where the death took place, or where the hospital is located, or where the cremation ground is situated. In case of Ramveer’s son, the accident had occurred near Moti Nagar flyover (Karol Bagh zone) and he was taken to Acharya Bhikshu Hospital (West zone). A senior civic official told TOI that they would look into the matter. Another civic body official said that a new portal had been launched by SDMC for birth and death certificates. “People visiting zonal offices feel harassed because of the manual processes involved there.” The average number of deaths daily in Delhi is around 400.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-many-its-still-not-easy-to-get-death-certificate/articleshow/78976120.cms||Paras Singh
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan municipal elections: Fate of 1,287 candidates to be decided in Phase 2||JAIPUR: The fate of 1,287 candidates will be decided as the second phase of elections to three municipal corporations — Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South — for the post of 310 councillors will be held on Sunday. The polling will begin at 7.30am and will continue till 5.30pm. The counting of votes will be held on November 3. Covid positive persons will be allowed to cast their votes in the last hour of polling. State election commissioner P S Mehra has appealed for ‘safe and peaceful’ elections while urging the voters to exercise their franchise adhering to the Covid guidelines. Appealing the voters to wear masks, he also urged them to come out and vote in large numbers. Polling will be held for 150 wards of Jaipur Greater, 80 in Jodhpur South and 80 wards in Kota South. Mehra informed that voters will decide the fate of 686 candidates in Jaipur, 312 in Jodhpur and 289 in Kota in the second phase of polls. He also said 19.45 lakh voters will be able to exercise their franchise at 3,211 polling booths. In the second phase, there are 12.29 voters in Jaipur, 3.4 lakh voters in Jodhpur and 3.76 lakh voters in Kota. The elections will be conducted through 3,662 electronic voting machines (EVMs). Transportation facilities will also be available for persons with disabilities (PwDS). For any poll-related enquiry or queries related to polling stations, voters can visit the election commission’s website or can obtain information through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also send SMS on 7065051222. They are required to type: SEC VOTER_Epic No, to get details through SMS. In all, 60.42% voters exercised their franchise in the first phase of elections to three municipal corporations — Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North — for the post of 250 councillors on Thursday. Only 64 Covid patients voted in 1st phase: As per data shared by state election commission, in the first phase of elections to three municipal corporations, 46 Covid patients voted in Jodhpur, only 14 patients voted in Jaipur and 4 voted in Kota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fate-of-1287-candidates-to-be-decided-in-phase-2-elections/articleshow/78976125.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, Sada Bainama for agri properties||Hyderabad: After announcing regularising property transactions on Sada Bainama (transactions on plain paper) in rural areas, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced that the government will regularise sale and purchase of agricultural land through the same procedure in villages which were merged with municipalities and corporations free of cost. The CM instructed officials to give people a week’s time to apply for regularisation. He has already extended by one week completing transactions in rural areas. KCR directed chief secretary Somesh Kumar to issue the necessary orders in this regard immediately. The CM held a meeting with ministers, MPs, MLAs and MLCs from the united Warangal district after inauguration of Rythu Vedika at Kodakandla on Saturday. The public representatives have requested the CM to regularise Sada Bainama land parcels in Warangal Municipal Corporation areas. Responding to their request, the CM assured that regularisation of Sada Bainama land parcels in other municipal jurisdictions, where the villages were merged, would also be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-sada-bainama-for-agri-properties/articleshow/78974977.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bhagwat in Ahmedabad for 2-day RSS meeting||AHMEDABAD: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat and other top RSS functionaries will be in Ahmedabad on Novermber 2 and 3 for a brainstorming session of the western zonal unit of the organization. A statement issued by the RSS said that normally, the national working committee of the body meets before Diwali. However, owing to the pandemic situation, there has been a change in the format. It has been decided to hold separate meetings in various zones of the country. Accordingly, the western zone (comprising Gujarat, Maharashtra and Goa) meeting will be held at Hedgewar Bawan in the city on November 2 and 3. Apart from the RSS chief, others including sarkaryavaah (general secretary) Bhaiyyaji Joshi and office-bearers of the three state units will participate in the session. Various issues related to the organization will be discussed, a RSS release read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bhagwat-in-city-for-2-day-rss-meeting/articleshow/78974976.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Shivraj Singh Chouhan drums up support for Lodhi in Bada Malhera||BHOPAL: A day after BJP candidate from Bada Malhera constituency for the by-poll, Pradhyuman Singh Lodhi fell sick and was hospitalized in Bhopal, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made an appeal to the voters of Bada Malhera seeking their support for Lodhi. In a video message for the people of Bada Malhera constituency Chouhan said, “Lodhi resigned as Congress MLA for the sake of Bada Malhera’s development. Lodhi has only one goal and passion— development of Bada Malhera constituency. This is the reason why BJP made him the party candidate in the by-poll. But all of a sudden, fell sick and had to be hospitalized in Bhopal. He (Lodhi) is physically not present with you (people of Bada Malhera), but his heart and soul is in Bada Malhera. Lodhi’s pledge for the development of Bada Malhera would be fulfilled by Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Bada Malhera is also the Karmabhoomi of Uma Didi. Me, Uma Didi (Uma Bharti) and Lodhi would together take Bada Malhera to new heights of development. I appeal to vote for BJP in elections and ensure Lodhi’s victory with a huge margin”, Chouhan said in the message. BJP candidate from Bada Malhera constituency for the by-poll, Pradhyuman Singh Lodhi was shifted to a private hospital in Bhopal from Damoh on Friday after he took ill. Lodhi fell ill during his campaign in Bada Malhera, a day ago and was hospitalised in Damoh from where he was referred to Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-drums-up-support-for-lodhi-in-bada-malhera/articleshow/78973934.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Look for alternate land, Centre tells Uttarakhand govt||DEHRADUN: In a move that has brought cheer to several residents and nature-lovers — who had protested against expansion of the Jolly Grant airport in the city at the cost of cutting around 10,000 trees of the adjacent Shivalik Elephant Reserve -- the Centre has directed the Uttarakhand government to find alternative land for the expansion.  It also turns out that the directions sent by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) in this regard had come around a month ago, but authorities had kept mum. The ministry’s letter, which was accessed by TOI, has revealed that soon after the issue of felling of over 10,000 trees for the expansion of the airport was highlighted in a report by TOI on September 30, the assistant inspector general of forests in MoEF&CC had written to the additional secretary (environment) of the Uttarakhand government about the issue on October 9. The letter starts by saying that “the area proposed for diversion for the airport expansion falls under high conservation value area” and it will “cause fragmentation of the riverside forests which is situated between the existing runway and the river...and therefore, the state government may explore alternatives for the proposal such as acquiring area lying north of the existing runway.” “The entire proposed forest area for diversion falls within the Shivalik Elephant Reserve and elephant corridors within its 1km radius. Moreover, the notified Kansaro-Barkot Elephant corridor is located within a 5km radius. The state government should consider avoiding these sensitive areas and explore alternative lands,” the letter says. The letter also seeks clarifications from the state government on a number of points such as wildlife clearance by chief wildlife warden as well as the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s comments on the project (as the the proposed forest land is located within a 10km radius of Rajaji Tiger Reserve); forest type (which is proposed to be cut), muck disposal plan (as a large amount of excavation will take place for the expansion and construction) etc. The state government also failed to submit the maintenance plan for next 10 years in lieu of diverting such a huge tract of forest land, and an explanation is sought regarding that. Also, clearance for forest land of 82.15 hectares given earlier by the ministry for the existing air strip at the airport in February, 2003 was not submitted while seeking clearance and the ministry sought status of the compliance report from the state through the letter as well. Further, the ministry asked for a ‘digital map’ of the land which is sought to be taken over for the expansion as well as details of the total financial losses which will be incurred due to surrender of forest land, employment generation potential of the project and other estimates. The ministry also pointed out that the DM’s letter which indicates that there is no civil soyam land available for compensatory afforestation (CA) “is not accessible.” It added that “certificate from the chief secretary regarding non-availability of non-forest land for CA is required.” However, even after almost a month of the letter being sent, the state government has not replied to the environment ministry’s queries. When TOI contacted the additional secretary of the state forest department, he refused to comment on the matter. To recall, protests against the loss of the huge chunk of green cover for the airport expansion had started around mid-October with residents terming it “a second Chipko movement.” The state government though had expressed its intent to go ahead with the proposed expansion and CM Trivendra Rawat had termed it as “a project of national importance.” The CM had also called the protests against the project as “part of a political conspiracy.” On Saturday, activists who were involved in the protests termed it as a ‘victory’ and said that they welcome “the central government's nudge to Uttarakhand government asking them to explore other land for the Jolly Grant airport expansion project.” A statement issued by Doon-based student activist group, Making a Difference by Being the Difference (MAD), said, “We are not against development but only advocate sustainable development. We urge all the instrumentalities of the state — both at the level of bureaucratic and political leadership — to be sensitive towards the environmental concerns of the eco-sensitive Doon valley.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/felling-of-10k-trees-for-doon-airport-expansion-look-for-alternate-land-centre-tells-ukhand-govt/articleshow/78973940.cms||Shivani Azad
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Without adequate cover, vehicle owners in city grapple with high cost of repairs||Hyderabad: Mohammad Abdul never imagined in his wildest dreams that his car would get washed away in flood waters, that too in a city like Hyderabad. That’s perhaps the reason why he never bothered to opt for a comprehensive motor policy that covers natural calamities. “The insurance that included damages due to natural calamities was a little expensive so I decided not to take it, but I am regretting it now,” laments Abdul. With the receding flood waters leaving a trail of destruction in their wake, the high cost of vehicle repairs is burning a hole in the pockets of vehicle owners like Abdul. Several authorised service centres are reporting a rise in number of vehicle owners trooping in to find out if their policy will cover flood damages. While motor insurance is mandatory and vehicle owners are expected to have at least a 'third party liability' motor cover, the major issue with this cover is that it does not offer protection against damages caused by natural calamities. “We have often been flooded with inquiries for comprehensive motor insurance policy during natural disasters. Also, there are times when customers with only a motor third party liability policy approach us with a claim of damage to the vehicle without the knowledge that their policy doesn’t cover it,” Aditya Sharma, business head – motor, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance said. He pointed out that it is important for people to know whether it is moving on the roads or lying idle in the parking area, their vehicle is always at a risk and hence, it is crucial to buy a comprehensive policy. As per insurance players, people do not do the required due diligence before getting a motor cover. Sajja Praveen Chowdary, head-motor insurance, Policybazaar, pointed out that about 30% of vehicles in the country would only have a third-party cover and these are generally old vehicles where minor accidental damages aren't cared about much and they don't expect a total loss situation. Even, Shreeraj Deshpande, COO, Future Generali India Insurance, said for vehicles beyond 15 years, vehicle owners opt for standalone third-party policy. Chola MS General Insurance MD V Suryanarayanan said all purchasers of new cars, under the long-term policy, buy comprehensive cover for the first year and only third-party liability cover for three years. Such buyers have to renew ‘own damage section’ for vehicle, either with same insurer or other insurers. “Due to lack of awareness, about two-third of new car purchasers, do not renew their own damage section after the expiry of the first-year cover, resulting in the vehicle remaining without cover for own damage. Similarly, in the case of new two-wheelers, about 85% do not renew their own damage section after the expiry of the first year,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/without-adequate-cover-vehicle-owners-in-city-grapple-with-high-cost-of-repairs/articleshow/78974972.cms||Moulika.KV
November 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Residents fail to adhere to waste segregation plan||Mangaluru: The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) had launched the new waste segregation plan on October 2 with a lot of expectations, but people in many wards seem to have not accepted the new norms. When the waste collection vehicles of the Antony Waste Handling Cell, which go right up to the doorsteps of residents, did not accept wet waste on Friday as per the new waste segregation plan, people in many wards of the city quietly dumped it by the side of the road. MCC environment engineer Madhu Manohar told STOI that he received many complaints of people throwing waste by the side of the road on Friday and Saturday. “We have commenced a door-to-door campaign to create awareness in the city on segregation of waste. A campaign is being held at Mary Hill, and it will be held in other areas too,” he said. When asked if the city corporation has plans to modify the rules and accept wet waste on all seven days of the week, instead of six days, Madhu said, “It is not possible to take a decision immediately. We will have to study the impact of the implementation of new waste segregation plan for some more time. Later, the issue will be discussed based on the impact.” Jagadeesh Shetty, corporator of Boloor ward, took a lead role in holding a door-to-door campaign with the help of like-minded people in his ward on Saturday, as he received many calls from people complaining about waste being dumped by the side of the road. “Though the city corporation has implemented the waste segregation plan, many people have not adhered to it. As per the new plan, the city corporation will collect only dry waste. However, people have thrown wet waste at the nearest public place available to them on Friday. We have held a cleanliness drive and door-to-door campaign to create awareness in our ward on Saturday. We have explained to people about the significance of door-to-door waste collection and segregation of waste,” he said. Meanwhile, citizens have complained about irregularities in the door-to-door collection of waste in the city. “Yesterday, we had kept dry waste ready in our house, but they did not come here to collect it. Today we had to hand over dry and wet waste together to them, since it was their mistake,” said a resident from Jeppu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/residents-fail-to-adhere-to-waste-segregation-plan/articleshow/78973938.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Collectors of 8 dists empowered for preventive detentions in Raj||Jaipur: In view of the statewide agitation called by Kirori Singh Bainsla-led Gujjar community on Sunday, the state’s home department issued notification empowering/authorizing district magistrates/collectors of Bharatpur, Dholpur, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa, Tonk, Bundi, Jhalawar and Karauli to exercise Section 3(2) of National Security Act for three months that allows preventive detentions of individuals. Under Section 3(2) of the NSA, the Centre or the state government may, if satisfied with respect to any person that with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the security of the state or from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order or from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the community it is necessary so to do, make an order directing that such person be detained. Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code has also been imposed in Bharatpur and Karauli districts as a precautionary measure, ahead of the reservation protest by Gujjars on Sunday, informed district collectors Nathmal Didel (Bharatpur) and Sidharth Sihag (Karauli). Meanwhile, the state government has requested the Centre to put 10 companies of central forces — 2 RAF (rapid action force) and 8 CIF (counter insurgency force) — on alert in view of the agitation, said home secretary N L Meena. Eight companies of police forces have already been deployed in Bharatpur district. Jaipur divisional commissioner Somanth Mishra has extended the order to suspend internet services in Jaipur district’s Kotputli, Paota, Shahpura, Viratnagar and Jamwaramgarh areas up to November 1. The suspension orders have also been extended in Bharatpur and Karauli up to November 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collectors-of-8-dists-empowered-for-preventive-detentions-in-raj/articleshow/78976127.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Almost 1,000 tourists visited Valley of Flowers in 3 months||DEHRADUN: Nestled in the lap of western Himalayas, the Valley of Flowers draws thousands of tourists, both from India and abroad every year for the limited time that it is open — from June 1 to October 31 (the valley remains snow-bound for the rest of the year). However, due to the pandemic, it was open just for three months instead of the usual five this year – from August 1 to October 31. Despite the small window, the valley received a surprisingly good footfall of 916 tourists. This year’s visitors were not the usual mix of adventure sports lovers and conservationists. Instead, many professionals, who sought to work in a tranquil, open place, flocked to the valley, according to forest officials. “Unlike yesteryears, when a majority of the visitors were adventure enthusiasts, this year, over 50% of the visitors were of the working class, a majority of them from Delhi and Mumbai. They wanted to work while enjoying the scenic view of the valley, as most workplaces are now operating remotely. We were not expecting this much footfall amid the threat of Covid-19,” said divisional forest officer (DFO), Nanda Devi National Park Division, Nand Ballabh Sharma. Speaking about her trip, Sakshi Rana from New Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, who stayed at the valley for 10 days in September, told TOI,“We wanted an open and free space where we could roam around comfortably without the looming fear of the virus. Nothing fit the bill better than the Valley of Flowers and the pristine hills of Uttarakhand.” This year, the valley managed to generate Rs 1.36 lakh in revenue in a short span, which is close to a fifth of last year’s Rs 27.6 lakh and a sixth of the previous year’s Rs 24.12 lakh. Due to restrictions on international travel this year, only five foreigners came to the valley, which is usually visited by over 500 foreigners every year, according to data accessed by TOI. Incidentally, ever since Uttarakhand was formed in 2000, the Valley of Flowers witnessed the lowest number of tourists in 2014-15 just after the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy, when barely 181 tourists came and the revenue was just Rs 29,400. The valley, which is now a national park and has over 300 species of flowers, was discovered by British mountaineer Frank S Smythe, who stumbled upon the beautiful alpine meadow after losing his way while returning from an expedition to Mount Kamet in 1931.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/almost-1000-tourists-visited-valley-of-flowers-in-3-months-that-the-valley-opened-for-tourists-this-year/articleshow/78973952.cms||Shivani Azad
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Speeding car leaves one dead, another hurt||DEHRADUN: A speeding car hit a two-wheeler on the EC Road in the late evening hours of Friday leaving one dead and another injured. The driver of the car, identified as Tejwasi Thakur, was arrested and subsequently sent to jail under judicial remand. According to the Dalanwala police, the car hit the two-wheeler from the rear side at a location, which is less than 100 metres away from Aaraghar police outpost. The two persons on the motorcycle — Sahdev Kaushi and Swetang — sustained serious injuries. The two were taken to a nearby hospital, from where they were referred to a higher centre after being administered initial treatment. Later, Sahdev was declared dead by doctors. Meanwhile, the condition of Swetang is said to be critical. A police communication confirmed that on the complaint by Sahdev’s brother Deepak, a case under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) 304 (causing death by negligence), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or upwards) of the IPC was registered against Thakur, who after being produced before the court was taken to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/speeding-car-leaves-one-dead-another-hurt/articleshow/78973964.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 1, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Three held for making fake trust in PM’s name||VARANASI: The Cantt police on Friday booked 10 persons and arrested three of them for raising funds in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The group had formed a trust called ‘Adarsh Narendra Damodar Das Modi Jan Kalyankari Trust’ and got it registered fraudulently. They had created a letter pad of the trust and used a photo of PM Modi on the letterhead. Cantt inspector Rakesh Kumar Singh said that they have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of document), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the IPC. Those arrested include kingpin Ajay Pandey, resident of Kabir Nagar Dayal Tower in Durgakund locality, Ravindranath Pandey of Ballia district and Shahbaz Khan of Orderly Bazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/3-held-for-making-fake-trust-in-pms-name/articleshow/78975122.cms||Binay Singh
November 1, 2020||Allahabad||Drive against fake sanitisers in all dists||Prayagraj: Maintaining appropriate hand hygiene plays a pivotal role in battling Covid-19. However, counterfeit and substandard hand sanitizers which have flooded the city market play a havoc with your health. Now, the excise department has been ordered to analyse sanitisers in all the districts on behalf of the additional chief secretary, excise. A team of the drug control department and excise department has jointly undertaken a drive against the illegal trade, which is risking thousands of life. This comes after a team of the excise department recently bought a sanitizer from a medical store at Balson Crossing and analysed it at its headquarters at Mumfordganj. The test revealed that the alcohol content in the sanitizer was only 51%, while the bottle claimed to have 80% alcohol. Recently, a factory manufacturing fake sanitisers was unearthed in Kautaula area of the district under Pipri police station limits and one person was arrested in this connection. The excise department uses a digital meter to determine the volume of alcohol in hand sanitizer. The department has labs in five districts in the state, where the quality of sanitizer can be checked. The districts include Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Agra and Meerut. Excise inspector Indrajit Garg said any company earns crores of rupees by reducing the amount of alcohol to 30%. The companies get alcohol at Rs 300-400 per litre. If anyone is selling a sanitiser at Rs 500 per litre, the alcohol content should be 80 to 70%. However, there are instances where people are buying alcohol at Rs 120 per litre, so one can very well imagine the quality, he added. “Virus does not die if the alcohol content is less than 70% in the solution. Whatever you eat or drink, the virus will enter the body,” said Dr OP Tripathi, senior consultant, Beli Hospital. Sandeep Bihari Modwell, district excise officer, said, “A letter is being written to the departments for this. The matter will be investigated at every level and an intensive campaign will be carried out to make the seller and buyer more aware.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/drive-against-fake-sanitisers-in-all-dists/articleshow/78975091.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Surat||Duplicate clothes of branded companies worth Rs 1 crore seized||SURAT: A team of CID crime raided a warehouse in Mota Varachha area and nabbed 11 persons for allegedly dealing in duplicate clothes of branded companies on Saturday. Garmets worth Rs one crore including T-shirts, track pants and shorts with brand names of Adidas, Reebok, Levi’s and Calvin Klein were seized in the raid. Those arrested used to sell the garments in the city as well as different parts of state and neighbouring states as well, police said. The racket of duplicate products with logos of top brands and names was being run through social media, investigation revealed. They got the products manufactured in Tirupur or Telangana. Police arrested Hitesh Sihor (23) and his 10 partners and booked Santosh Kumar, owner of Indigo Trends and resident of Tirupur, for supplying the garments to the accused. “They were selling these clothes at almost one-fourth price of the actual products and supplied to distributors who sold them to retailers,” said an officer of CID crime. The retailers sold the products through websites, WhatsApp groups, Instagram and Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/duplicate-clothes-of-branded-companies-worth-rs-1-crore-seized/articleshow/78974003.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre grants Rs 224 crore for flood-hit in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The central government has decided to pre-release Rs 224 crore under the state disaster response fund to Telangana to take up rescue and rehabilitation in the flood-affected areas in Hyderabad and also for farmers who lost crops in the recent rains. This grant comes close on the heels of Rs 202 crore released by the central governemnt for repairs and maintenance of roads in Telangana. Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy spoke to authorities at the Centre for facilitating the early release of the fund, sources said. Expressing his gratitude to the Centre, the Secunderabad MP said he would try to get maximum support for Telangana to meet immediate exigencies. The fund is meant to be released in February-March 2021. This grant comes close on the heels of Rs 202 crore released by Centre for maintenance of roads in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-grants-rs-224-cr-for-flood-hit-in-state/articleshow/78974978.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Daily Covid-19 cases down, but still above 5,000||NEW DELHI: After reporting spike for several days, Delhi recorded a dip in daily Covid-19 cases on Saturday when 5,062 persons tested positive because of a decline in the number of total tests. 44,330 tests were conducted on Saturday, 15,311 less than the total tests conducted a day ago (59,641). Despite the dip in number of positive cases, the positivity rate rose to 11.4% from 9.8% a day ago, indicating that the spread of the infection continued to grow. A health official said the number of tests continued to fluctuate because of the changing demands. “Authorities in districts largely carry out all the tests they are expected to do like testing traced contacts of the positive cases, but decline in demands for tests leads to dips. On weekends and on gazetted holidays, the demands are low,” said a health official. The number of deaths declined to 41 from 47 reported on Friday, taking the total number of deaths to 6,511. At 4,665, more people recovered on Saturday as compared to 4,433 a day before. For the last eight days, the single-day Covid cases were consistently rising except on Monday when only 2,832 cases were reported—for the last four days, the single-day cases are above 5,000. Health minister Satyendar Jain listed the ongoing festive season, season change and spike in pollution among the reasons for the surge in cases besides carelessness among people towards Covid-appropriate behaviour. “We are all waiting for the vaccine and we hope that it will be available soon, but until then, I request you to wear your mask whenever you step out. Consider the mask as your vaccine. It will protect you from Covid as well as from the pollution,” Jain said. The government stressed that there was no immediate crisis of beds or health infrastructure. Till now, Delhi has reported 3.8 lakh Covid-positive cases, of which 3.4 lakh people have recovered. The number of containment zones stands at 3,274. The Covid-19 management was reviewed in a meeting with the chiefs of Delhi government hospitals on Saturday. Despite the spike in cases, the city has nearly 16,000 Covid beds vacant (9,505 in hospitals and 6,455 in Covid care centres). Just a marginal increase in the beds occupancy in hospitals was reported on Saturday. The share of RT-PCR tests among total tests continued to remain high in city, though at 15,424, the RT-PCR tests were 2,000 less compared to a day before. As compared to 42,583 rapid antigen tests on Friday, 28,906 tests were conducted on Saturday. Delhi has so far conducted 46.8 lakh Covid tests. The city’s cumulative positivity rate was 8.2%, case fatality rate 1.6% and death rate based on last 10 days data 0.83%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/daily-cases-down-but-still-above-5k/articleshow/78976126.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 1, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Lookout notice for Bhadohi MLA's son in rape case||VARANASI: The Bhadohi police on Friday issued a lookout notice for jailed muscleman MLA of Nishad Party Vijay Mishra’s son Vishnu Mishra, suspecting that he may flee from the country to evade arrest in cases of rape and property grabbing. Bhadohi SP RB Singh told TOI that a lookout circular has been issued against Vishnu on an information that he might leave the country to evade arrest. “He is wanted in cases of rape and land grabbing. A letter has been sent to the Bureau of Immigration in this regard,” he added. The MLA was arrested from Madhya Pradesh on August 14 in these cases and is presently lodged in an Agra jail. Other accused, including his MLC wife Ramlali Mishra and son, are on the run. The MLA, his son and a nephew Vikas Mishra were booked in a gang rape case on October 18 for allegedly raping a 25-year-old singer, who lodged an FIR against them under sections 376D, 342 and 506 of IPC. The singer had alleged that in 2014, the MLA had called her to his house for a programme where he raped her and threatened to kill her if she ever spoke about the incident. The singer alleged that in 2015, she was again raped by the MLA at a hotel in Varanasi. She further claimed that once after raping her, Mishra told his son and nephew to drop her home but both of them raped her before taking her back. Earlier, the MLA was booked under Goonda Act on July 18 for issuing threats to a contractor at Lalanagar toll plaza on national highway-2 in Aurai area. On August 8 Krishna Kanth Tiwari, a relative of the MLA lodged an FIR against him, his MLC wife and son with Gopiganj police station alleging that they forcibly got his property registered in their names. While the MLA was arrested in Madhya Pradesh in the same case, his wife and son are absconding. The MLA has 71 criminal cases in his account and 10 cases being heard in MP/MLA court. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/lookout-notice-for-bhadohi-mla-son-in-rape-case/articleshow/78975125.cms||Binay Singh
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Retired IPS officer named Intel chief||Hyderabad: State government appointed retired IPS officer T Prabhakar Rao, who already obtained an extension, as the chief of Telangana Intelligence. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar in a government order issued on Saturday said: “T Prabhakar Rao IPS (Retd), chief of operations (Intelligence) (SIB), shall look after the work of IGP (Intelligence) until further orders”. Though it has been widely speculed within the police department that the incumbent intelligence chief Naveen Chand, an inspector-general rank officer of the 1996 batch, might get an extension following his retirement on Saturday, but the government appointed retired IPS officer Prabhakar Rao. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/retired-ips-officer-named-intel-chief/articleshow/78974979.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Early Diwali vacation points to 40-day longer 2nd session||AHMEDABAD: The 21-day Diwali vacation for schools in Gujarat has been advanced by about two weeks this year. The vacation is from October 29 to November 18. One of the main reasons for this is that the government is plans to have a much longer second academic session, stretched over 150-155 days, to make up for lost time. The state government plans to re-open schools after the Diwali vacations in a staggered manner, beginning with Classes IX to XII. The board exams which are usually held in March, are likely to be held in May next year, said a source. For other classes, annual school exams that are conducted in April are likely to be pushed to June, the source added. The Diwali vacation comes at a time when all schools and colleges have been closed for seven months and institutions are conducting classes and exams online only. Gujarat State School Management Association president Bhaskar Patel said this was the first time in fifty years that the Diwali vacation has begun two weeks before the festival. “This could be an indication that schools could reopen after Diwali,” he said. School affiliated to the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) usually run in two sessions in an academic year. The first session starts in June and is for 105 days. It ends with a 21-day break for Diwali. In a normal year, the vacation starts two to three days before Diwali day and ends around Dev Diwali. “The government’s announcement of Diwali vacation dates shows that there are plans to have a second session which will be longer by about forty days. While online classes may be going smoothly in urban areas, rural areas face connectivity issues and other problems, making it difficult for students to study online,” said Jatin Bharad, vice-president of Self-Financed School Management Association. According to him, schools could reopen after the Diwali vacation. The government, after announcing a 30% reduction in syllabus, seems to be making all-round efforts to see that the curriculum is completed at schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/early-diwali-vacation-points-to-40-day-longer-2nd-session/articleshow/78974982.cms||Bharat Yagnik
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Unidentified body found in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: The body of an unidentified man was found about 200 metres from Kolhu Khet on the Mussoorie-Dehradun road on Saturday. The body has been kept in the mortuary. Speaking to media persons, sub-inspector Neeraj Kathait said that the body was found on the hill side on Saturday. “The deceased was likely 40-to-45 years of age and based on the condition of the body, it appears that the person had died several days ago,” Kathait told. He added that the body has been sent to the mortuary in Dehradun where it would be kept for 72 hours for the purpose of identification. Subsequently, it would be sent for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unidentified-body-found-in-mussoorie/articleshow/78973979.cms||Anmol Jain
November 1, 2020||Kanpur||MP’s wife robbed of Rs 3 lakh on Rajdhani Express||KANPUR: Rs 3 lakh belonging to the wife of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Muzaffarpur (Bihar) Ajay Nishad was stolen from her purse while she was on board Patna-Rajdhani Express that was in between Kanpur and Delhi stations. The MP, Ajay Nishad, in his complaint stated, “On October 27, while we were travelling in AC -I coach of Patna-Rajdhani Express, at around 2.30 am my wife found Rs 3 lakh missing from her handbag. At the time of the incident I was asleep on my berth while she had gone to the washroom. Later, we alerted RPF and GRP and lodged a complaint at GRP station in Kanpur.” SP (GRP) Manoj Jha said, “An FIR has been lodged following a complaint at Kanpur GRP. Further investigations are underway in this regard.” “We are coordinating with the Railway Protection Force to zero in on the suspect. Examination of CCTV footage in railway stations of October 27 night is under way. We have some suspects and will hopefully apprehend the right one soon,” the SP added. Security at all railway stations has been enhanced and constables will be on duty on every platform, mainly at night, added SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mps-wife-robbed-of-rs-3l-on-rajdhani-exp/articleshow/78975172.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||In-principle approval for 248 new schools in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) has given an in-principle nod for 248 new self-financed schools to come up in the state. “All the 248 secondary and higher secondary schools have been given approval on in-principle basis and final approvals will be given after site inspection carried out in the next six months,” said a source. The decision was taken after various proposals were discussed before the executive committee of the board, said sources in GSHSEB. The approvals were considered over a series of meetings and decision finalized last week, said a source. The board has rejected as many as 345 proposals for new schools at the meeting, sources added. GSHSEB had invited online applications earlier this year. It received 593 applications of which 249 were for higher secondary schools and the remaining 344 were for secondary level schools, said sources. Last year, GSHSEB’s decision to introduce stricter norms for new school projects resulted in a sharp decline in new schools coming up in the state. Of the 443 applications it received, the board gave its nod only for 10.6% or 47 new schools for 2019-20. Compared to the previous year this is a decline of 80% for as many as 226 new schools had been approved in 2017-18. The board had received 535 applications then. One of the major reasons cited for the decline was that applicants could not meet the new criteria of school trusts owning a sizeable chunk of land, moving away from earlier norms that allowed leases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-principle-approval-for-248-new-schools/articleshow/78974980.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Varanasi||Yogi Adityanath says UP govt to bring law to check ‘love jihad’||JAUNPUR/DEORIA: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said his government will bring a strict law to stop love jihad and cited the Allahabad high court’s order that conversion only for marriage is not valid to warn those faking identity for exploiting women to desist, else be ready for ‘Ram Naam Satya’. Addressing public meetings in Malhani and Deoria on Saturday, Yogi said, “We will stop love jihad by framing a stringent law.” He added that the government would confiscate the properties of those indulging in ‘love jihaad’ and put up their posters at crossings. “Jo log naam aur swaroop chhupa kar, chhadm tareeke se behan betiyon ki izzat se khilwaad karte hain, unko pehle se chetaawani. Sudhrenge nahi to Ram Naam Satya ki yatra nikalne wali hai (It’s a warning to those who exploit women by using false name and identity that they should stop this, otherwise their final journey will start),” warned Yogi. Will build houses for poor on razed mafia properties, says YogiReferring to the ongoing Mission Shakti campaign for women security, Yogi said his government is committed for ensuring the safety and honour of women though Operation Shakti, which would be launched right after Diwali. Targeting Samajwadi Party, Yogi said, “We don’t have sympathy for mafia and goonda elements, but SP is worried to see the properties of mafia and goonda elements amassed by exploiting the poor being bulldozed. It is concerned why action is being taken against mafia. We will break these properties and make houses for the poor on the land.” “We never made any announcement in the name of caste or region. We worked with the slogan Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and so all people should vote for BJP,” the CM said. Yogi said there was massive corruption in recruitment during previous governments. “In the three and half years tenure of my government, we took big initiatives for employment generation, held fair recruitment and ensured that those who tried to rig the process or swindle the benefits of schemes for the poor go to jail.” “We were taunted with Ram Lalla hum ayenge, mandir wahin banaayenge, par tareekh nahi bataayenge (Ram Lalla we will come and construct the temple, but will not tell the date for it). The foundation of Ram temple has been laid by PM Modi and the construction is going on in full swing now,” said Yogi. Recalling the massive influx of migrants to Jaunpur during lockdown when Covid-19 pandemic broke out, the CM said, “The BJP governments at Centre and in state showed the world how public service is done during crisis. We helped migrants reach home, gave free food besides financial assistance and initiated measures to generate employment for them.” Our government made sure that farmers are promptly paid compensation after natural disasters, while Congress and SP regimes swindled compensation money,” he said. Watch Anti-love jihad law: Clerics, Hindu groups support UP CM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/yogi-will-bring-strict-law-to-stop-love-jihad/articleshow/78975138.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Five vehicle thieves held, six bikes recovered||HYDERABAD: Five persons who were allegedly involved in stealing automobiles from various parts of the city, were arrested by Madhapur police on Saturday. Madhapur police said that accused Mohammed Kaji Sohail, Mohammed Amer Khan, Shiva Kumar, Sujeet Singh and Mohammed Arbaz have been arrested. Cops seized six bikes from their possession. The accused know each other. “As their earnings were insufficient to meet their needs, they decided to steal bikes,’’ Madhapur police said in a press note. They used to break the lock and steal bikes. They would transport them to their residences and dispose the bikes later.  All the accused are school dropouts. One of the accused was caught during vehicle checking. Based on the information given by him, the other accused were nabbed, said Madhapur police. The accused stole bikes under Madhapur, Raidurgam, Mailardevpally and Rajendranagar police station limits. All the accused are school dropouts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-vehicle-thieves-held-six-bikes-recovered/articleshow/78974984.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Allahabad||MLN college to start MBBS 1st yr practical classes from Nov 2||Prayagraj: Moti Lal Nehru Medical College campus will again be buzzing with student activities, after a gap of over seven months, from November 2, Monday onwards. As per the order of the government and the administration of MLN medical college, to begin with, the college is approving the conduct of the practical classes of MBBS first-year students which would start on the college campus from November 1. The college management has started making preparations for resuming the classes. The guidelines and safety norms laid down by the government for the prevention of the spread of Covid-19 would be followed. According to vice-principal, Dr VK Pandey, MBBS has two hundred seats in the first year, and given the Covid-19 crisis, the college would permit ten batches consisting of 20 students each on a day. Students will be explained about the Corona safety norms and guidelines before classes begin. “We were not able to conduct the practical classes because of the pandemic, even though the theory classes were continuing through online mode. The decision has been taken considering the importance of practical sessions that the students are missing”, said Dr Pandey. “College administration is waiting for instructions from the higher authorities regarding starting of classes of the senior students too. As and when we are asked to start the classes for seniors, we would abide by the decision,” he added. He also said that if any of the students have any problem or shows any symptoms of Covid-19, the college would immediately get the student tested. Likewise, the principal of the college, Dr SP Singh has said that all the students have been asked to download the Aarogya Setu App. Moreover, the students have to follow the social distancing norms in the examination hall, hostels and academic blocks. “It is mandatory to download the Arogya Setu App. Before joining the class, it will be imperative for the students to bring the consent letter approved by the parents. There will be scanning done at the entrance itself”, said the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mln-college-to-start-mbbs-1st-yr-practical-classes-from-nov-2/articleshow/78975108.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||UP will enact strict law to stop ‘love jihad’: Yogi||JAUNPUR/DEORIA: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, citing the Allahabad HC’s order that conversion only for marriage was unacceptable, said on Saturday that his government would bring a strict law to stop “love jihad”. Addressing public meetings in Malhani and Deoria on Saturday ahead of the bypolls on November 3, Yogi said, “We will stop love jihad by framing a stringent law. Jo log naam aur swaroop chhupa kar, chhadm tareeke se behan betiyon ki izzat se khilwaad karte hain, unko pehle se chetaawani. Sudhrenge nahi to Ram Naam Satya ki yatra nikalne wali hai (It’s a warning to those who exploit women by using false names and identities that they should stop this, otherwise their final journey will start),” Yogi warned. “The posters of those involved in love jihad will be put on all road crossings,” Adityanath said, sending out a warning against interfaith marriages in both his speeches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-will-enact-strict-law-to-stop-love-jihad-yogi/articleshow/78976762.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM makes splash with first seaplane flight from Kevadia||AHMEDABAD: India’s first ever seaplane service was a grand opening on Saturday, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi taking the service’s maiden flight from the waterdrome at Statue of Unity in Kevadia to the one at the Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad. Even though the roads along both sides of the riverfront were closed to the public, wild cheers from people on the bridges and in nearby residential buildings greeted the seaplane as it arrived at the jetty near Ambedkar Bridge. It was after months that the Sabarmati riverfront witnessed such power-packed action. The roughly 50-minute flight was made aboard an aircraft operated by SpiceJet’s fully-owned subsidiary, Spice Shuttle. Inaugurated sea plane services between Ahmedabad and Kevadia. This service will boost tourism and help the local ec… https://t.co/3zc8OrFvcG— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1604142643000The seaplane service was launched as part of the regional connectivity scheme (RCS) UDAN, and is expected to boost tourism in India and Gujarat, while providing last-mile connectivity to people. The seaplane, a 15-seater Twin Otter 300 aircraft, will make two round trips every day between Kevadia and Ahmedabad. Soon after landing in Ahmedabad, PM Modi inaugurated the waterdrome at the Sabarmati riverfront. CM Vijay Rupani, Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat and Ahmedabad mayor Bijal Patel were at the inauguration ceremony. The Sabarmati riverfront roads on both eastern and western banks were completely cordoned off for the PM’s security. Due to this, there were heavy traffic snarls along the Ashram Road in the city. Booking requests for the seaplane service are already being accepted and the service will open for the public from Sunday. Bookings can be made online for the time being and soon from ticket windows at both waterdromes. After inaugurating the waterdrome, PM Modi left for Delhi from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport, concluding his eventful two-day visit to Gujarat. Ahead of the seaplane flight, PM Modi marked the celebration of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’ to commemorate Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s birth anniversary at the Statue of Unity in Kevadia. PM Modi reached Gujarat on Friday morning, after which he paid his respects to former CM of Gujarat, Keshubhai Patel, who died earlier this week and to the late Gujarati actor and musician, Naresh Kanodia and his brother, singer Mahesh Kanodia. Scare cannons, firecrackers to keep birds at bayBird scare cannons were deployed at eight spots on both sides of the Sabarmati riverfront before the sea plane carrying PM Modi on the inaugural Kevadia-Ahmedabad flight landed on the Sabarmati river. The gas cannister-fired cannons made massive booms ever 30 seconds. Bird chaser Tofiq Qazi, who works for Radiant Services, the agency that has the contract to scare away birds at Ahmedabad airport, said one cylinder lasts for about 20 days if used for 16 hours a day. He added that 24 such cannons are deployed at the Ahmedabad airport. Wild cheering from apartments nearbyThe thoroughfare on both sides of the river remained closed to traffic hours before the seaplane carrying the PM arrived and people were not allowed to watch from Ambedkar Bridge, which is near the waterdrome. Residents of nearby apartments cheered wildly when PM Modi disembarked from the seaplane and spent a couple of minutes on the platform. Slogans of ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jay’ were chanted by people from their balconies. Firecrackers debris falls on security personnelCops also burst firecracker rockets over the Sabarmati before the seaplane landed, to keep birds at bay. One rocket fired on the eastern bank went astray and its debris fell on security personnel stationed at the riverfront for the PM’s security. Fortunately, there were no injuries reported. Heavy traffic snarls on Ashram RoadHeavy traffic snarls were reported on Ashram Road early on Saturday as the Riverfront Road was cordoned off, restricting public movement as part of PM’s security protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-takes-first-seaplane-flight-from-kevadia-to-ahmedabad/articleshow/78975005.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: After 7-month recess, educational institutions reopen tomorrow||VISAKHAPATNAM: After a nearly seven-month-long shutdown prompted by the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown, educational institutions in the state are bracing to return to conventional face-to-face academic instruction from November 2. All universities and affiliated colleges, junior colleges and schools across the state will start the new academic year on the same day. While reopening with zero risks is not possible, officials said top priority is being accorded to student safety. Based on guidelines issued by the education department, educational institutions are modifying campus and classroom layouts in terms of seating arrangements, entry and exit points, setting up hoardings on Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and screening for symptoms. Institutes are also preparing for possible challenges that may arise once they reopen. In March, the pandemic forced schools, colleges and universities to temporarily suspend operations, indefinitely confining the nearly one crore students in the state to home for months. Even as several institutions embraced the change and shifted to remote learning, the digital divide among students and institutions prevented the benefits of online classrooms reaching all sections of students. Despite disrupting the education sector, however, the pandemic accelerated the use of digital technologies and tools. Speaking on the changes that institutions have made, commissioner of school education V China Veerabhadrudu said each classroom will have only 16 students. “Although the schools would start functioning from November 2 for classes IX and X, the students will attend on alternate days and that too classes will be held only till noon. Physical distancing, mask wearing and hand hygiene are mandatory for students as well as teachers. The 2020-21 academic year would stretch across 180 days till April 30. The schools have also been provided with grants to acquire equipment such as thermal scanners and sanitizers for maintaining a safe and clean environment,” said the commissioner. Andhra University (AU) vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy said Andhra University has in fact initiated undergraduate and postgraduate classwork online from September 21, a month ahead of other institutions. “The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) released an academic calendar for all universities for the 2020-21 academic year from November 2. We would work out course-wise modalities in consultation with principals and release a fresh schedule,” said Prof Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/after-7-month-recess-edu-institutes-reopen-tomorrow/articleshow/78973994.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 1, 2020||Varanasi||Kanpur: SI held for ‘murder’ of gambler in Ghatampur||KANPUR: A sub-inspector (SI) of police was arrested while a constable was sent to lines after a 45-year-old gambler was shot dead under mysterious circumstances in Bhadras village in Ghatampur area of the district on Friday night. His body was recovered on Saturday morning. It is alleged that the cops had gone to the village to extract money from the gamblers when the incident took place. Reports said that based on circumstantial evidence, beat in-charge SI Prem Veer Singh Yadav was arrested for his alleged involvement in the murder while constable Deepanshu was sent to lines for dereliction of duty. SSP/DIG Dr Preetinder Singh has ordered a probe into the entire episode. He said, “As it is also being alleged that Bajpai, who was gambling with some people on the outskirts of the village, was shot dead by SI Prem Veer Singh Yadav of Ghatampur Kotwali, we have arrested him and the SP (Rural) has been deputed to conduct an inquiry into his involvement and submit a report soon.” “We have found during a preliminary probe that the SI had opened fire from his revolver following which his service weapon has been seized and sent for ballistic examination. Constable Deepanshu, who did not inform his seniors about the incident after returning from duty, has been sent to lines,” the SSP/DIG added. “Bajpai had a bullet injury in his chest,” SP (Rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said, adding, “Acting on the complaint of the aggrieved family, the police have also lodged an FIR against four villagers — Durga Singh, Sonu Singh, Virendra and Badka. Two among them have been arrested, while a search operation to nab two others is underway.” Meanwhile, local villagers charged that Bajpai was murdered by the police who had gone there to extort money from the gamblers. Samajwadi Party (SP) workers lead by party MLA from Mainpuri Rajkumar alias Raju and former MLA Munindra Shukla, besides local villagers reached the Ghatampur Kotwali on Saturday and demanded a fair probe into the murder. “Our demand is that if found guilty in the inquiry, a murder case be lodged against the police personnel. Besides, the autopsy should be video-graphed and conducted by a panel of three doctors,” the MLA added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/si-held-for-murder-of-gambler-in-ghatampur/articleshow/78975186.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 11 held for gambling, Rs 3 lakh seized||HYDERABAD: Task Force police conducted raid on a house in Venkatagiri colony, Jubilee Hills and found that 11 persons were gambling playing three cards. Jubilee Hills police said that it was one M Padmaja who was allegedly organising it. She used to collect commission on each game from all the players who participated. Police seized Rs 3 lakh from the location. The seized money and the accused have been handed over to Jubilee Hills police station, said officials. The accused were booked under section TS Gambling Act. Later the accused were let off after serving them notice. Ever since Telangana state was formed, all kinds of gambling has been banned. Jubilee Hills police said that it was M Padmaja who was allegedly collecting commission on each game from the players. Police seized Rs 3 lakh from the location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/11-held-for-gambling-rs-3l-seized/articleshow/78974987.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Amid Covid spike, home isolation brings solace||NEW DELHI: After the recent spike in new Covid-19 cases in the city, the number of people recovering in home isolation has crossed 20,000. All asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms are required to stay at home under the monitoring of health officials. The recovery rate for home treatment is over 99% because of the strong and scrupulously implemented monitoring mechanism and the psychological comfort that the home environs gives the infected. Only 1.9% of the 1.96 lakh patients who were in home isolation have so far been moved to a hospital. In the last 30 days, not a single death has been reported of anyone in home isolation. There are 20,093 active Covid patients currently in home isolation, the highest number, 4,418, in South West district and the fewest, 501, in North East. On Friday, 548 patients were asked to go into home isolation in South West district, followed by 393 in North West, 317 in South East, 312 in East, 311 in West, and 297 in South. The numbers are likely to rise, the previous highest tally for home isolation cases being 19,231 on September 21. Nearly 3,000 new Covid-positive people were asked to look after themselves in their homes on Friday — the day the city reported 5,891 cases for a single-day high. “It does not mean that 3,000 out of 5,891 patients were put into home isolation,” explained an official. “Home isolation is recommended only after checking for symptoms and other official requirements.” The official said that quarantine treatment had been a very successful mechanism to fight the coronavirus and had helped over 99% people to defeat Covid at home. “The demand for home isolation is huge. Even those not fulfilling all the eligibility criteria for home isolation request the district authorities to allow them treatment at home,” the official said. The high demand for home isolation — and 4,000 people recovering at home every day — has helped prevent undue strain on the health infrastructure created to cope with the pandemic. Delhi has over 16,000 Covid beds available in hospitals and special care centres, and around 40% of the hospital beds are occupied and 60% of the existing ventilators in use. This surplus in the medical facilities is due to the efficacy of home management of Covid. In the last 10 days, the number of patients in home quarantine has witnessed a steep rise. On October 20, there were 14,046 patients seeing out Covid at home, but this increased by over 6,000 in 10 days. The daily health monitoring of patients isolated at home is handled by a private agency, whose trained nurses call the infected people every day. They monitor the vitals of the patients and keep the district health authorities informed about what they recommend for each patient daily. In case a patient needs shifting to hospital or a Covid care centre, the authorities are immediately informed and arrangements made. The government gives free oximeters to all patients who fight Covid at home to enable them to monitor their oxygen saturation levels and seek assistance in case the oxygen levels drop to below the accepted level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amid-covid-spike-home-isolation-brings-solace/articleshow/78976159.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 1, 2020||Delhi||Students request JNU to open all centres, hostels||NEW DELHI: Students from different centres of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) have written to the varsity administration demanding their phased return to the campus. Online learning is becoming unviable for many students due to poor access to internet and lack of resources like smartphones and laptops, they have said. Students of Centre for French and Francophone Studies have even called for boycott of online classes. A letter written by them stated, “We the students of BA 2nd year request university administration to facilitate the return of all continuing students to the campus. Over seven months have passed since the suspension of on-campus academy activities and we can no longer afford to miss out on classroom discussions, access to academic resources and other university experiences. Majority of students are unable to attend online classes and remotely access online resources.” Postgraduate students of Centre for Informal Sector and Labour Studies (CISLS), School of Social Sciences, have also demanded that measures be taken up to open hostel facilities. “Ours is a residential campus. We need access to hostel and dining facilities to continue our studies and research without further disruption. Improving the existing health centre facilities and establishing quarantine centres on campus will ensure smooth continuation of academic programmes,” stated the letter by CISLS students. JNU Students’ Union is on indefinite strike since October 19 demanding phased return of the students. So far, the university administration has announced that the campus will open in a phased manner from November 2 only for the final-year PhD research scholars and for project staff members who require laboratory access in the science schools and special centres. While the students union wants all centres to be opened simultaneously, the administration has said that only after the successful implementation of Phase-I, Phase-II of the re-opening will begin after Diwali on November 16. According to the university, Covid-19 testing camps will be held in the campus at regular intervals with the support of the local district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-request-jnu-to-open-all-centres-hostels/articleshow/78976140.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||25-year-old woman saved from becoming jogini in Nizamabad||Hyderabad: Revenue and police officials stepped just in time to rescue a 25-year-old woman from being turned into a ‘jogini’ in Bodhan in Nizamabad. The officials not only saved the woman, but also helped her get marriage to a 27-year-old man from a nearby village on Friday. The woman from Pegadapalli village in Bodhan mandal was facing pressure from her family to become a jogini owing to their financial condition. On learing about this, Bodhan tahsildar Mohammed Gaffar along with police officials shifted her to a safe home. With a person from Pentakalan village agreeing to marry her, officials arranged the wedding. “Families on both sides came forward for the marriage and it was performed in the presence of revenue and police and local political leaders,” Gaffar told STOI on Saturday. The exchanging of garlands took place in the tahsildar’s office. The woman had studied up to SSC and was working in a supermarket, the villager is a farmer. It is learnt that local officials got wind of the intentions of the woman’s mother 10 days ago to turn her into a jogini. The mother and grandmother were joginis themselves. Local officials, who were informed about some rituals taking place in a temple in Pegadapalli, immediately alerted senior officials about it. “It appeared that the girl’s mother was more concerned about her 27-year-old physically challenged son and worried about his future. When we asked, she, however, denied any intentions of making her daughter a jogini,” the tahsildar said. The girl was kept in the care of ICDS officials for the last 10 days. Under the rehabilitation process, the girl’s mother was given one-acre land. She also gets Rs 2,000 per month towards pension. The government had banned the ‘jogini’ tradition in 1988 as under the garb of tradition, young women were being forced to become ‘joginis’, who were sexually exploited by villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-year-old-woman-saved-from-becoming-jogini-in-nizamabad/articleshow/78975007.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Adani group takes over management of MIA||MANGALURU: A silhouette of an aircraft with waves gently breaking on the seashore hosted on the Twitter page of Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) saw Adani Group add a new chapter to its logistics business. MIA is the first of three airports with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) that the group took control of on Saturday. The group will formally take over Lucknow and Ahmedabad airports on Monday and November 11, respectively. The change in display picture on the Twitter page from the ubiquitous AAI logo to a simple ‘Mangaluru International Airport’ also marked the transition of MIA to private management. “Welcome the #GatewayToGoodness in your lives. The Mangaluru International Airport family is privileged to serve you on your journey to let your dreams take flight. #travel #airport #aviation #Mangaluru,” the accompanying message posted at 1.29am said. AAI, in a release recently, had stated that the ministry of civil aviation had signed memorandums of understanding with three entities of Adani group to provide services such as customs, immigration and security at the above mentioned three airports. Mangaluru, Ahmedabad and Lucknow are among the six airports – Jaipur, Thiruvananthapuram and Guwahati being the other three, that the Union government privatised in February 2019. The union cabinet in July 2019 had taken a decision to lease Mangaluru, Ahmedabad and Lucknow airports to Adani group, which also won the rights to operate the other three airports through a competitive bidding process. The government on August 19 approved the proposal to lease out the other three airports to the Ahmedabad-based group. AAI established liaison with the group, to get their management team on board in the transition stage. Then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru put this city on the aviation map of India when he arrived at Bajpe aerodrome on a Douglas DC-3 aircraft on December 25, 1951. The airport, which is the second busiest in Karnataka, also has the distinction of being the first one in the state to have two runways—09/27 opened in 1951, and 06/24 opened in May 2006—and the first to have a concrete runway. The air cargo complex at the airport was commissioned in 2013. “As part of development & maintenance of #AAI airports under PPP mode, @aaimlrairport will be handed over to @AdaniOnline from midnight today. While senior AAI officials will assist Adani Group for next 3 months, AAI employees & support staff will remain with the group for 3 years,” stated a tweet by AAI from its handle @AAI_Official at 9.09pm on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/adani-group-takes-over-management-of-mia/articleshow/78974006.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: A high-end address that still battles water woes||NEW DELHI: Vasant Kunj may be considered a high-end neighbourhood of the city but it continues to remain one of the dark spots as far as one of the most basic amenities is concerned — regular water supply. Water shortage and reliance on tankers and borewells have been a constant features since the colony was established in the late 1980s. Though the situation improved progressively when the area was later connected to the Sonia Vihar treatment plant and independent underground reservoirs were set up for each sector during the last decade, water woes still linger on. Vinod Kumar Pant, chairman of the federation of Vasant Kunj residents’ welfare associations, says that he has been living in the society since 1988. “Decades have passed but the problem related to water supply has still not been completely solved,” he points out. “In the beginning, DDA used to supply water here with tubewells and tankers. The situation improved briefly when a 1.1MGD reservoir was created in the B1 area but it could be managed only for some time,” he adds. Pant says that now each sector has a reservoir but assurances of regular two-time water supply have still remained unfulfilled. “Only false promises have been given to the residents of Vasant Kunj. We are at the tail end of the network and whenever any line bursts or ammonia spike happens, we have to suffer for a couple of days,” he adds. Harjinder Saroha, vice-chairman of the federation of Vasant Kunj RWAs, says that water availability remains one of the key problems for Vasant Kunj residents. “Flats in C8 and C9 areas are most vulnerable,” he adds. Savita Soni, president, Vasant Kunj C-8 RWA, says, “We have not been getting water for the last two days. Residents have been making frequent calls to me for water supply updates but I have not been getting any updates from Delhi Jal Board since yesterday. Yesterday, we were given assurance that water would come on Saturday. When I called DJB around 5am today, they said that water won’t be supplied today.” Amit Agarwal, president of RWA Vasant Kunj Sector-A pocket B-C, says that residents should stop paying bills in protest. “If we don’t get enough water, technically we should all fall under the 20KLD scheme. We should pay bills when DJB guarantees two-time water supply,” he adds. A senior DJB official said that the colony was at the very tail end of the water supply network, which starts from the Sonia Vihar plant situated in east Delhi. Its reservoirs receive water much later. The official pointed out that a large number of new colonies and blocks had come up in the belt during the last two decades, increasing the load on the limited water supply. “A combination of tail end factor, topographic elevation of some areas on Aravalis and illegal use of online booster pumps in the region ensures that Vasant Kunj takes some time to recover from any supply shortage,” the official added. Assuring that a solution was being worked out, the DJB official said that hydraulic mapping of the entire south Delhi supply regions was already under process. “It will indicate what changes are required to ensure equitable water supply to vulnerable areas like Vasant Kunj. Based on findings of the report, DJB will find out where new boosting stations need to be established and where supply networks to underground reservoirs need to be altered. This will provide a permanent solution,” the official asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-high-end-address-that-still-battles-water-woes/articleshow/78976175.cms||Paras Singh
November 1, 2020||Surat||2 abducted siblings from Mora village rescued in time||SURAT: Two siblings - a seven-year-old boy and his five-year-old sister - kidnapped from Mora village were rescued in the nick of time when the abductors were trying to escape with the children on a bike on Saturday. A massive search operation was launched with police checking nearly 500 rooms of labourers in near-by Hazira after the children’s mother Sudha Tamang approached Ichhapore police for help on Friday night. Those caught were identified as Gopal Prasad Ram, 32 and Ram Bahadur Chaudhary, who work as labourers in Hazira. Investigation revealed that Gopal was desperate to marry Sudha’s younger sister Seema. He had also called up Sudha and threatened to kill her children if she did not convince Seema to marry him. Police nabbed Gopal Prasad Ram, 32, and Ram Bahadur Chaudhary, 30, both labourers, from Hazira check post during checking by police. They will be arrested if found negative in Covid-19 test. Sudha told police that her children were alone in their one-room accommodation since 8am on Friday as she and her husband Sushil had gone out for work. While they were searching for the kids on retuning in the evening, Sudha got a call from Gopal who asked him to persuade Seema to marry him. Along with the search operation, police also started tracking his mobile location. “Gopal got scared after getting to know about police action and feared getting caught. He kept changing his location too. However, it was a timely rescue and the duo was caught near Hazira check-post while trying to escape taking the children on a motorcycle,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/2-abducted-siblings-rescued-in-time/articleshow/78973909.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police felicitate winners of online debate contest||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand Police held an online debate competition on the topic - “The image of police has improved during Covid-19” on Tuesday for which the winners were felicitated on Saturday on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The virtual debate competition saw the participation of 13 prestigious schools of Dehradun. Notably, 26 speakers participated in the competition. The winner of the competition, awarded as the First Best Speaker was Adya Jasola of Convent of Jesus and Mary. Shazia Parveen, of St. Thomas and Shivani Thapliyal, of Kendriya Vidyalaya IMA, were awarded as the second and the third best speakers respectively. All three students are from Dehradun. The winners of the event were felicitated by Ashok Kumar, DG (Law & Order) Uttarakhand Police at the Police Headquarters in Dehradun on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-felicitate-winners-of-online-debate-contest/articleshow/78974020.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Gandhi medicos threaten strike||Hyderabad: The junior doctors of the state-run Gandhi Hospital have served yet another strike notice on Saturday and may boycott services from Sunday. Citing the loss of crucial clinical experience for the last seven months, as the hospital was converted into a Covid-19 speciality centre, the junior doctors demanded the resumption of non-Covid services. Incidentally, this is the second notice served in a week. After the first notice was served, state health minister met the junior doctors and assured them that non-Covid services would resume shortly. Following the assurance, the junior doctors decided to continue services for another week, but warned that they would proceed with the boycott if their demands are not solved. Meanwhile, in the latest notice served on Saturday, the Gandhi unit of the Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) has specified that the junior doctors will resume services with immediate effect after the resumption of non-Covid services. In their latest notice, the junior doctors have also cited the patients’ problems and under utilisation of staff. “We will join with immediate effect if they resume non-Covid services at Gandhi. Starting non-Covid services will help many patients suffering from diseases other than Covid-19. With Gandhi being converted to Covid speciality hospital, residents lost their crucial clinical experience for the last seven months. Along with the teaching faculty, nearly 600 residents, 350 interns, 600 nurses, and 600 patient care staff are treating 400 patients lodged in the 1500-bed hospital. Starting non-Covid services would help in proper utilisation of the workforce and the healthcare facilities,” read the representation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-medicos-threaten-strike/articleshow/78975006.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||K’taka mulls making Kannada compulsory||BENGALURU: In a bid to provide home advantage to Kannadigas, the Karnataka government is looking at introducing a Kannada Language Skill Test for those aspiring for a job or for admission in educational institutions in the state. The test, which is being conceptualised by the Kannada Development Authority (KDA), will be on the lines of the Centre’s National Eligibility Test, to screen or shortlist candidates for Group C and D posts. “We have mooted the idea of the test in order to ensure opportunities for those who know the local language. The objective is not just to protect the interest of locals but also to ensure better interaction between locals and those who are on the job. We have requested chief minister BS Yediyurappa to include this announcement in his Rajyotsava address,” KDA chairman TS Nagabharana told TOI. The state celebrates its 65th formation day on Sunday. The test credentials will serve as a certificate to apply for jobs and college seats, and it will be made available for Group A and B jobs too. Groups C and D pertain to mechanics, clerks, accountants, supervisors and peons among others, while Groups A and B include management-level posts. tnn Content state: Writing In use by: Reporter(s): Last modified: 31-10 23:11 - Aneesh Srinivasan Requested size: Actual size: 44 lin - 397.48p Category: Contextual use: Normal Description: Correction: Usages of this branch: TOIHyderabadBS 01-11-2020, Hyderabad/1 - Nation, A/18 HYDJKTP4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ktaka-mulls-making-kannada-compulsory/articleshow/78976797.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Raze all parts of Sernabatim guest house in no-development zone says NGT||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT), based on an application, has asked the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) to ensure that all portions of the Furtado guest house on Sernabatim beach which fall in the no development zone (NDZ) have been demolished as per the 2015 order. “Learned counsel for the applicant says that the retaining wall around the Furtado guest house within the NDZ of Sernabatim village has still not been demolished. This is disputed by learned counsel for the GCZMA. We, however, direct the GCZMA to check up the factual aspect and if the retaining wall which is said to have been demolished has still not been demolished, the same may be ensured expeditiously,” the tribunal stated. On July 2, 2015, the NGT had ordered that the entire construction of the house property and retaining wall called ‘Furtado Guest House’ as well all other constructions standing in these survey numbers within NDZ of Sernabatim should be demolished within a period of eight weeks by the south Goa collector. However, the appellant Rabindra Dias filed an application with the NGT stating that the demolition had not been carried out as directed by the tribunal. In July this year the NGT had asked GCZMA to file its response. GCZMA told the tribunal that the demolition process began on May 7, 2019 and was completed on May 19. “All structures and the retaining wall were demolished, except the piggery. With regard to another property, proceedings were taken to the High Court and the matter has been heard by the GCZMA on October 15, 2020. It is stated during the hearing that on October 26, 2020 further demolition order has been passed,” the GCZMA told NGT. NGT then asked the GCZMA to also check that the retaining wall of the guest house is demolished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/raze-all-parts-of-sernabatim-guest-house-in-no-development-zone-ngt/articleshow/78976214.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 413 Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths||DEHRADUN: With 413 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported on Saturday, the total cases of the virus in Uttarakhand reached 62,328. Among those tested positive on the day were — a sub-divisional magistrate from Tehri and a public relations officer of BJP MLA from Almora. Among the positive cases, the maximum of 96 were reported from Dehradun, followed by 65 from Rudraprayag, 52 from Pauri, 45 from Tehri, 33 from Haridwar, 32 from Nainital, 29 from Chamoli, 20 from Uttarkashi, 17 from Udham Singh Nagar, 11 from Bageshwar, nine from Almora, three from Pithoragarh, and one from Champawat. According to the health department, 11,750 samples were found negative on the day. Also, 12 more fatalities pushed the Covid-19 toll of the virus to 1,023 in the state. “Among the 12 Covid-19 deaths, nine people died in Dehradun, one in Pithoragarh, and two in Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Apart from fresh cases and deaths, 152 people recovered from the Covid-19 infection on Saturday. With this, the number of cured cases in the state rose to 56,923. The state, till Saturday, tested 10,22,780 samples. The test results of 12,816 samples are pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-413-covid-19-cases-12-deaths/articleshow/78974044.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC got Rs 7cr windfall on Oct 29||Hyderabad: Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC), which has been staring at poor revenues since resumption of services post lockdown, generated Rs 7.12 crore on Thursday, the highest single-day income for the transporter since May. According to officials, the surge in income was the result of the corporation running nearly 3,000 special buses from Hyderabad to various destinations in Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka to clear the festival rush during Dasara. “Of the 3,000 special buses, as many as 2,000 were operated between October 22 and 31 in view of the heavy rush at bus stations. These special buses were in addition to the regular services of TSRTC,” TSRTC chief traffic manager Muni Shekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-got-rs-7cr-windfall-on-oct-29/articleshow/78975013.cms||Moulika.KV
November 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lowest Covid death count since July 10 as Andhra Pradesh crosses 8M test mark||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh saw 2,783 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the state’s tally of cases to 8,23,348. With 14 more deaths due to the virus, the toll rose to 6,690. This was the lowest single-day casualty count in over 110 days since the state recorded 15 deaths on July 10. The daily fatality count which was restricted to single digits till June had increased to an average of 90 deaths a day in August before coming down to the 50 to 60 deaths in September. This further came down to twenties range over the last three weeks in line with the declining number of new infections. Currently, there are 24,575 active cases in the state. Another 3,708 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Saturday taking the cumulative recoveries in the state to 7,92,083 and the recovery rate to 96.2%. West Godavari reported the highest number of cases on Saturday with 469, followed by Krishna (425), East Godavari (371), and Guntur (324). Kurnool reported the lowest case total of the day of 34. With increasing case numbers, Krishna surpassed Vizianagaram in terms of cumulative cases to occupy second from bottom. Of the 14 deceased on Saturday, three each are from Chittoor and Krishna, two each from Guntur, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari, and one each from Anantapur and East Godavari. The state also achieved the eight million Covid-19 testing milestone on Saturday and has shown the capacity to conduct a million tests in just 13 days, the lowest time taken among all states since the outbreak. The overall case positivity rate stood at 10.2% while the mortality rate at 0.81%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lowest-death-count-since-july-10-as-state-crosses-8m-test-mark/articleshow/78974019.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||ED seizes Rs 6 crore from Ahmedabad-based consultancy firms||AHMEDABAD: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) completed the search at six commercial and residential premises of the city-based consultancy firms and real estate group – True Value Group and Vipul & Manish Associates on Saturday. The search had been on since early Thursday. The ED officials said that Rs 6 crore cash along with foreign currency and a huge stash of documents were found from the premises during the search. The officials said that the search was carried out in connection with the bank fraud case of Ardor Group of Companies filed earlier. “The ED initiated investigation under PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) on the basis of six FIRs registered by the CBI, ACB, Gandhinagar and an FIR by CBI, BS&FC, Mumbai under sections 120 B r/w 420 of IPC and 13 (2) r/w 13(1) (d) of PC Act, 1988, wherein it has been alleged that Ardor Group of Companies and its directors, in connivance with unknown bank officials, had cheated and caused wrongful loss to the consortium of banks amounting to Rs 488 crores,” stated the ED in its press release. The officials said that the investigation conducted so far under the PMLA resulted into the identification of assets totalling Rs 204.27 crore. These assets being the part of proceeds of crime have been provisionally attached under the PMLA, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ed-seizes-rs-6cr-from-consultancy-firms/articleshow/78975012.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Delhi||Mask row: Volunteers booked for ‘extortion’ in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A case has been registered against two civil defence volunteers for allegedly extorting a grocery store owner for allegedly not wearing a mask properly. The incident occurred on October 22 when the 36-year-old victim, Rajender Singh, was at a traffic signal near northeast Delhi’s Gagan cinema. Singh even recorded a video of the volunteers threatening and harassing him, which went viral on social media. On Friday, police registered a case of extortion against the volunteers. Singh, a resident of Shakarpur, in his police statement said, “I was on my way to get police verification done for my brother, who had just landed a job. Around 12.30pm, I reached Gagan cinema signal and asked an auto driver for the way. While putting on my helmet, my mask moved. Immediately, the volunteer, Anuj Singh, came to me and started clicking pictures. He then said I was not wearing my mask, while I was wearing one and had a helmet on too. Soon, 5-6 volunteers took me a side and asked for my driving licence,” said Singh. Speaking to TOI, Singh alleged that, Anuj and another volunteer SK Jain took his licence and called it fake. “I asked them to show their identity cards, instead they askedme for Rs 250 and said I could then leave with my licence. They even threatened to get a case registered against me. It’s then I started recording their activities on my phone. Even in the video, one can see how they are threatening me,” Singh claimed. He added that he had no cash on him and asked them to issue a challan, but they insisted he paid. “They then tried snatching my phone. I called up police and also informed my brother. Despite my repeated requests, they kept the driving licence and even challaned me,” Singh alleged. “The video is being examined to look into the allegations. Appropriate action will be taken,” police said. Meanwhile, despite repeated attempts, TOI did not receive any comments from Delhi government officials on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mask-row-volunteers-booked-for-extortion/articleshow/78976186.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Tourism minister to inaugurate ice skating rink at Auli on November 4||DEHRADUN: The winter sports destination of Uttarakhand, Auli, is set to get a 30-meter-long ice skating rink, which will be inaugurated by tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on November 4. According to officials, it took almost seven years to make the rink due to delay in approval of funds. The project was a joint venture of the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN) and the tourism department. General manager of GMVN Jitendra Kumar told TOI that construction of the skating rink started when the South Asian Winter (SAW) Games were held in Dehradun and Auli in 2011-2012. “The rink had been approved to be built at a budget of Rs 138.79 lakh by the state government. Full-fledged work started in December 2018 and it took almost 23 months to complete the construction,” added Kumar. “The club house, locker room, guard room, store room and prefabricate huts have been constructed in the rink complex, which is an open-air place. Maharaj will inaugurate the ice skating rink on November 4,” added Kumar, saying freezing the rink will start as soon as the “favourable temperature is availed”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourism-minister-to-inaugurate-ice-skating-rink-at-auli-on-nov-4/articleshow/78974062.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Task forces appointed to monitor safety checks||Vijayawada: Ahead of educational institutes reopening, the Krishna district administration on Saturday appointed task forces at the mandal level to monitor safety measures in schools. The administration has framed special instructions following guidelines of the World Health Organisation (WHO), Union and state governments. The district education officer, deputy education officers and mandal education officers have been placed in charge of monitor the arrangements for reopening schools. To ensure that the guidelines are strictly adhered to, a nodal officer has been appointed for every school. District collector A Md Imtiaz on Saturday conducted a meeting with education authorities and directed them to focus on the safety of students. “Class work for students from class 9 to Intermediate will begin from Monday. Sanitation, masks and social distancing (SMS) will be strictly implemented in schools. Task force at the mandal and division levels will conduct surprise inspections to ensure that Covid-19 guidelines are strictly followed,” Imtiaz said. Online classes will also continue simultaneously for students who do not wish to attend face-to-face classes, the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/task-forces-appointed-to-monitor-safety-checks/articleshow/78974061.cms||Venu Lanka
November 1, 2020||Goa||Pramod Sawant: Even if god was CM, no 100% govt jobs||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Saturday that even if god becomes chief minister, he wouldn’t be able to provide 100% government employment to the people of the state. “That means we have to coordinate and make the people swayampurna (self-reliant),” Sawant said, adding that ministers would visit village panchayats to solve people’s problems and contribute to Swayampurna Goa. He said the government would try to eradicate poverty, and that he “became sad” when he saw that people still don’t have toilets and employment. He stressed on the need to coordinate with the private sector to provide jobs to those who have passed Classes X and XII. He asked panchayat representatives “not to do politics”. “If you help people living in poverty, they will never forget you or your favour,” he told them. Elaborating on Swayampurna Goa, Sawant said the government would get monthly reports from officials. A “swayampurna mitra” has to visit each panchayat and spend a minimum of three hours in human development-related work, he said. Sawant also said IAS officers would visit all 191 village panchayats. “We have shortlisted 15 parameters for Swayampurna Goa, and these include action on employment, skill development, toilets, etc,” he said. He also directed panchayat secretaries to organise meetings of panchayat representatives with swayampurna mitra when he visits the panchayats. The ‘mitra’ (friend) will try to implement 80 schemes in the villages, he said, adding that IT department officials would assist engineers who want to launch startups. The directorate of higher education and Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD) have compiled a report on Swayampurna Goa and circulated it among the panchayats. Sawant directed officials to identify people living below the poverty line, visit them, and make sure welfare schemes are made available to them. From Dec, govt to do cataract surgeries, provide spectacles: CMCM Pramod Sawant said from December, the government would implement a ‘Vision For All’ eyesight campaign in all of the state’s 40 constituencies, 191 village panchayats and 14 municipalities, as well as the Corporation of the City of Panaji. “Under this scheme, the government will conduct cataract surgeries and provide spectacles,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-even-if-god-was-cm-no-100-govt-jobs/articleshow/78976183.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Rs 25,000 fine for poly bags less than 50 micron||VISAKHAPATNAM: Manufacturing of plastic bags with a thickness of less than 50 microns will now attract a fine of Rs 25,000 for first-time offenders in Vizag. The fine will be increased to Rs 30,000 for second-time offenders and the licence will be cancelled if the offence is repeated a third time. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation, in a bid to implement Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, has fixed penalties for violations. The sale of non-biodegradable plastic bags will attract a fine of Rs 5,000 the first time and Rs 10,000 for the second time. Persons using single-use plastic or thermocol-derived items will be fined Rs 500 the first time and Rs 1,000 the second time. If the waste is not segregated at source, the citizen will be fined Rs 500 the first time, Rs 1,000 the second time and Rs 2,000 the third time. Urination in open places will be fined at Rs 100, Rs 200 and Rs 300 for the first, second and third instances, respectively. Littering will attract a fine of Rs 200, Rs 300 and Rs 500 for the first, second and third violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rs-25000-fine-for-poly-bags-less-than-50-micron/articleshow/78974047.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Surat||Narendra Modi roasts rivals over Pak minister’s Pulwama attack boast||KEVADIA (NARMADA): Armed with Pakistan minister’s confession to his government’s role in the 2019 Pulwama terror attack, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched a stinging attack on political rivals stating that the admission has unmasked the real faces of those who had made despicable statements and allegations post-attack, merely to satiate their selfish political interests. “When the entire nation was mourning the loss of our paramilitary men, there were some, who, instead of participating in this grief, were searching for their selfish political interests in the terror attack. The dirty politics that smacked of selfishness and ego, had touched a new low,” Modi said, addressing probationary civil servants at Statue of Unity. Modi was in Kevadia, the home to the world’s tallest statue — Statue of Unity— to commemorate India’s Iron Man Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s birth anniversary which is celebrated as Rashtriya Ekta Diwas since 2014. The PM’s comments come two days after Pakistan’s science and technology minister, Fawad Chaudhry, bragged about his government’s role in the dastardly attack during a debate in their National Assembly. Forty CRPF men were martyred in the February 14 attack. The PM said he silently tolerated all the filthy allegations and stayed away from the controversies as he was extremely pained by the death of the jawans. “But now that the Pakistan parliament has admitted to the truth, all such people stand completely exposed before the country. The dirty politics played after Pulwama attack is a glaring example of up to what extent such people can go for their selfish interest,” Modi said. Stating that there was nothing above national interest, Modi fervently appealed to his adversaries to eschew such politics saying that it neither serves the purpose of nation building nor benefits their political parties. “Merely for petty selfish political motives, you are knowingly or unknowingly playing into the hands of anti-India forces and becoming their pawns. This will neither serve the nation’s interest nor that of your political party,” the PM said, invoking the impact on morale of armed forces and country’s unity. Sounding a word of serious caution, Modi said the country has given a befitting reply to terrorism with its unity, diversity and strong resolve, but the anti-India forces want to weaken these very inherent strengths and create base for their nefarious designs. “It is very important for all Indians to remain extremely alert about such elements who want to use our strengths to create a rift,” he said, asking the entire world to unite to defeat all forces supporting terror. “Some countries are openly supporting terrorism. They have now become a cause for global concern. Terrorism and violence serve no good and the need of the hour is to unite with the inherent Indian values of peace, harmony and mutual respect preached by the likes of Budhha and Gandhiji,” added PM. ‘Determined to protect sovereignty’ Without mentioning China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that his government was not just determined but also well equipped to protect the country’s sovereignty and the armed forces are capable of giving a befitting response to anyone eyeing India’s territory. Kashmir on progress path, says PM The abrogation of Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu & Kashmir and Ram Mandir at Ayodhya found a special mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address. Modi said Kashmir is now charting a new path of progress as all the obstacles in its development have been cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/modi-roasts-rivals-over-pak-ministers-pulwama-attack-boast/articleshow/78974059.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||NIT Goa scientist named one of the world’s top women in optics||PANAJI: Preeti Jagadev, a research scholar at National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, has been listed among 25 renowned women scientists in optics across the globe for 2021 by the international society for optics and photonics (SPIE), USA. She is the only Indian to be featured in the list this year, and it has earned her praise from Union minister for education Ramesh Pokhriyal. Jagadev is a research scholar at NIT Goa’s department of electronics and communication engineering, and she is currently working in the area of human health monitoring using infrared thermography and artificial intelligence. Thermography is a test that uses an infrared camera to detect heat patterns and blood flow in body tissues. Digital infrared thermal imaging, for instance, is a type of thermography used to diagnose breast cancer. Researchers around the world are working in employing infrared cameras to capture and record temperature variations on the skin for medical diagnostic purposes. “In India, there are not many labs working in infrared thermography. And I am fortunate to be working at one of such labs at NIT Goa, under Dr Lalat Indu Giri, for my post-doctoral research,” said Jagadev. I have also presented my work at different conferences across the world, including in USA, Tokyo and Brazil. Last year, I was selected in Brazil out of 50 research scholars from across the world to present my work,” said Jagadev. “Extremely happy to know that Ms Preeti Jagadev, a research scholar from NIT-Goa, has been listed as one of the renowned women scientists in optics around the world 2021 by SPIE, USA. Congratulations to you, I wish you all the best for your future! #WomenEmpowerment”, Pokhriyal tweeted on Saturday afternoon. Besides her research work, Jagadev has also been enlisted by SPIE because of the outreach activities she is involved in as vice-president of the SPIE student chapter at NIT-Goa. “With Saibi Reddy as the head of the student chapter of SPIE, at NIT Goa, I was elected this year as vice-president. Due to Covid, we could not carry out our activities, so we decided to hold the events virtually. We created a page on social media, the events were open to not just researchers, but also other citizens. That was one of the reasons SPIE was impressed with it,” said Jagadev. NIT Goa director Gopal Mugeraya said it is another international recognition for NIT Goa. “The optics planner highlights the contribution of women who are making the world a better place through their scientific excellence — women who are at the forefront of their disciplines, women who are making extraordinary discoveries, women who are using their platforms to elevate others. Jagadev being enlisted is a great pleasure, especially because SPIE includes scientists from NASA, the national research council (CNR), Italy, etc,” said Mugeraya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nit-goa-scientist-named-one-of-the-worlds-top-women-in-optics/articleshow/78976205.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 1, 2020||Goa||Goan company creates model to detect early traces of Covid via sewage||PANAJI: While the government is focusing on contract tracing and testing to gain control of the Covid-19 pandemic, Goa-based tech company Transerve Technologies said that analysing waste water for the coronavirus could help give a better picture of the extent of the pandemic in a specific location. Transerve, a geospatial software technology provider, said using location intelligence and by mapping sewerage nodes, policy makers can detect early traces of Covid-19 and effectively utilise health care resources. “This surveillance model can not only be useful as an early warning sign for Covid-19, but also for future outbreaks as well,” said co-founder and director of Transerve Technologies. “This model has been successfully implemented in detecting illegal drug use in Australia, to eradicate polio in Israel, track salmonella outbreaks in Hawaii, to name a few.” The Panaji-based company’s proprietary geospatial platform is being used in Uttar Pradesh across three urban local bodies to assist in revenue enhancements for the city. The company’s mobile-based SaniTab solution helps with scheduled desludging in Wai and Sinnar in Maharashtra with similar sanitation solutions being rolled out in Tamil Nadu. Building upon its existing experience, Transerve has introduced a geospatial sewerage surveillance model which offers community-based group testing with routine monitoring of sewage as a non-invasive early warning tool. “This process involves configuring optimal sampling from waste water and faecal sludge management (FSM) nodal collection points, community aggregation points, and truck routes. These samples can be further collected at predefined intervals and shared for appropriate testing. Post the testing phase if any Covid positive result is received, the potential cluster will be flagged for necessary action,” said co-founder Ashwani Rawat. If civic authorities decided to take up geospatial sewerage surveillance, no infrastructure changes are required as all that is required is the tech platform and biological testing labs, which already exist. “Cities can provide the network of sewerage pipelines with manhole location for collecting samples and demarcating the boundary on map where traces of viruses are found, to create local containment zones, which can be strictly monitored for restricted movement. The solution is not only apt for urban areas, but also for slums which are more prone to contamination,” said Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-co-creates-model-to-detect-early-traces-of-covid-via-sewage/articleshow/78976195.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: DIG Shukla among five to win award||AHMEDABAD: Five police officers of the Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS), including deputy inspector general of police Himanshu Shukla (L) were given a special operation award by the government of India. The other officers awarded are SP Imitiaz Shaikh, DSP K K Patel, Inspector Vijay Malhotra and Sub-Inspector Kishan Bhuva. The special medal was given for arresting an alleged ISIS operative, Zafar Ali, 25, who was captured at Panchavati Circle in the Gorwa area of Vadodara on January 8. He was allegedly recruiting youths for ISIS. The other 21 officers given the special operation award are from Delhi and Karnataka. According to ATS sources, they had received a tip-off from central intelligence agencies that ISIS was trying to build a module in Gujarat. Gujarat ATS led by DIG Himanshu Shukla formed a team of four officers and tasked them with tracing the operative. He was tracked down to Vadodara. Gujarat ATS sources said at the time Zafar Ali was wanted in Tamil Nadu for alleged anti-national activities and had been in Vadodara for 12 days recruiting youths for ISIS activities in Gujarat. According to the ATS, Zafar Ali was a native of Cuddalore district in Tamil Nadu. Gujarat ATS learned that Ali was planning a major terrorist attack in Gujarat when he was nabbed. DGP Gujarat, Ashish Bhatia congratulated all the five officers of Gujarat ATS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dig-shukla-among-five-to-win-award/articleshow/78975017.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||State determined to get rid of ‘mafia system’: Uttarakhand CM||DEHRADUN: Addressing the gathering at a parade organised at Police Lines on the occasion of National Unity Day, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the government is determined to get rid of the mafia system ‘that is trying to enter the state illegally’. “Be it drug mafia, mining mafia or forest mafia, we will not permit them to operate in the state. We all need to fight unitedly against corruption in the state,” said Rawat. During the event, he paid his tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and recalled how after the Independence of the country, he worked hard to ensure that all the princely states joined the Union of India. Without making any reference to the allegations levelled on him by journalist Umesh Kumar Sharma, the CM took a swipe at his predecessor Harish Rawat. He said, “Harish Rawat needs to clarify how a man who conducted his sting, whom he called a blackmailer, has now become his friend. If he does not clarify this mystery, the people will reveal all the truth.” A day earlier, CM Rawat had tweeted, “in the last three years, a number of conspiracies have been hatched and all kinds of mafias and corrupt people have clubbed hands to attack. However, I will continue to abide by the principles which I have followed. I have done so from the very first day and will continue to follow the same path in the fifth year as well.” Meanwhile, former CM Harish Rawat said, “The CM talks about having zero tolerance for corruption, so why is he afraid to face a probe? If he is right and has done no wrong, then why is Trivendra trying to run away from a probe in the matter?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-determined-to-get-rid-of-mafia-system-cm/articleshow/78974070.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Target gang behind Falnir shooting: Police||Mangaluru: The Mangaluru city police, who have been investigating a shooting incident at an eatery in Falnir on Friday, said that members of the Target gang were responsible for the incident. One of the accused is Mohammed Sameer, 27. He was prime accused in the murder of U S Eliyas, a rowdy-sheeter, who was also the leader of the Target gang. Speaking on the progress of the investigation, Vinay Gaonkar, DCP (crime and traffic), Mangaluru, said that four youths involved in the shooting are members of the Target gang. While two of the accused have been apprehended, two of them are absconding. “A search is on to nab them,” he said. Gaonkar said that they have not recovered any bullet from the spot. “In this particular incident, a staff member at the eatery sustained an injury on his buttock, but the bullet did not enter his body. We will know more about the kind of weapon used,only after the absconding accused are arrested,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/target-gang-behind-falnir-shooting-police/articleshow/78974067.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||ZP, local polls can be held now: Tanavade||Panaji: Referring to the successful completion of phase one of Bihar assembly polls, BJP state president Sadanand Tanavade on Saturday said that zilla panchayat and municipal elections can now be held in the state, with social distancing and using face masks. “There will be a little more expense yes, but we can conduct zilla panchayat and municipal elections in the state,” he said Earlier Tanavade had told TOI that depending on the Covid-19 situation, zilla panchayat elections could be held in October. The zilla panchayat elections in Goa were initially scheduled for March 15 and later postponed to March 22 due to the looming threat of Covid-19. The state government was adamant on going ahead with it, but on March 20, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a ‘janata curfew’ on March 22, chief minister Pramod Sawant indefinitely postponed the election. In August, the state election commission (SEC) had postponed polls for 11 municipal bodies, scheduled for October 18, by three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zp-local-polls-can-be-held-now-tanavade/articleshow/78976211.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Vijayawada||YSRC to seek feedback on welfare schemes||Vijayawada: To commemorate the start of the Praja Sankalpa Yatra three years ago, YSRC leaders and activists will go to the villages to meet people from Nov 6 for 10 days to seek feedback on the welfare schemes being implemented by the government over the past one-and-a-half years. Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, government advisor (public affairs), said on Saturday that remarkable changes have been brought about in the state by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in the last 18 months, which would have otherwise taken three or four years. “Our government has fulfilled 90 per cent of pre-poll promises. Village secretariats have been set in place and village volunteers recruited to take governance to the door steps of people,” he said. Over 50 lakh farmers have got input subsidy directly into their accounts through direct bank transfer as part of Rythu Bharosa programme, he added. “The chief minister wants the poor to get the best education. The government has introduced English medium from the primary school level for that purpose. Telugu is also being given equal importance,” Sajjala added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-to-seek-feedback-on-welfare-schemes/articleshow/78974072.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Nod to more guests at weddings, full buses||NEW DELHI: Ahead of marriage season, Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday increased the limit of wedding gatherings up to 200 people from earlier 50 in closed spaces. In the open, the number will depend on the size of the ground. The order clarified that such gatherings would only be permitted outside the containment zones. DDMA also increased the number of passengers allowed in DTC and Cluster buses from the existing 20 to full capacity on a trial-basis till November 8 or further orders. However, no passenger would be allowed to stand and to travel without a mask, the order said. On Saturday, DDMA ordered maintenance of status quo for all prohibited and permitted activities till November 30. The government does not want to open schools till it is satisfied about the safety of children. The wedding gatherings will be permitted subject to condition that in closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 people will be allowed. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of handwash or sanitiser will be mandatory, the order said. In open spaces, the number of people allowed will be subject to the size of the ground, with strict compliance with Covid guidelines. Almost all economic activities, including Delhi Metro and cinema halls have been permitted in the capital. DDMA state executive committee chairman Vijay Dev directed all the authorities concerned to ensure “status quo” was maintained. The limits fixed for weddings in open spaces will be jointly done by district magistrates and DCPs concerned, depending on the area of the venue, social distancing and other norms. Social distancing will be given prime importance, while deciding the limit for closed spaces. DDMA also stated that the stipulations of its previous order on October 11 for celebrating festivals, which laid emphasis on following Covid guidelines and strict enforcement, would continue to be in force till November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nod-to-more-guests-at-weddings-full-buses/articleshow/78976204.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Patna||Political system is messy in Bihar, I’m going to stay here: Pushpam Priya Choudhary||London School of Economics alumna Pushpam Priya Choudhary, who floated the Plurals Party, has pledged to make Bihar ‘the most developed state of the country’. She shares her vision of development in industrial and agricultural sectors in Bihar with Faryal Rumi. Excerpts:How do you look at the present process of choosing government in India? Is it complex?It’s not about being complex. To be honest, it has become a sham. Politicians are not accountable to anyone any more because they do not seek vote on the basis of work. Accountability is completely twisted in India. That’s the reason why we are poor and under-developed. We are democratic, but our institutions are so weak. What motivated you take part in the assembly elections in such a big way?Since I am from Bihar, it is my responsibility to change things. Even when I left the state for my higher studies in UK, my area of research was Bihar. The more you read about, the more you will understand that the things are really not good in Bihar. We have resources, we have everything in place and yet nothing is right in our state. That is the one reason why I decided to join politics. The entire political system is messy in Bihar. ‘In logon ne loktantra ki jaan nikal li (these people have killed democracy)’. What were the challenges you faced while launching the Plurals Party?Several challenges from the very beginning. Nominations of some of our candidates were rejected. Democracy envisages participation, but there are some who believe in elimination. There are three kinds of people who dislike us – misogynist, corrupt and insecure. You have waged a political war against bigwigs like Nitish Kumar, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Chirag Paswan. Why do you think people should support you?Because I am contesting against such bigwigs. People have seen them and their work. Nitishji has ruled the state for 15 years, which is a long time. He always talks about development, justice and good governance. However, everyone knows he has failed on all fronts. As far as Tejashwi is concerned, is it necessary to say that he should not be the CM and I’m not saying this because of his educational qualification. There are two kinds of uneducated people – one who can’t afford and another who has all means but don’t think that education is necessary. Now, the people need change and they are looking at us. Why are you fighting the election? What are the key issues?The state needs total transformation and that can be achieved only if we are in power. There is no quality of life in Bihar. From education to health and infrastructure, everything needs to be reformed. We are in 2020, but our state is still witnessing floods and drought. What are the prospects of women candidates in the polls? How many women candidates Plurals has fielded?We were in favour of fielding 50% women candidates, but could not do so due to various reasons. Still, we have fielded maximum number of women candidates. Women participation is key to a healthy democracy. Politics in Bihar is still caste-based. When do you think people of the state will think beyond caste politics? Caste politics is there, but people have understood that the politicians are making fool of them. Earlier, people did not have much option when it comes to choosing their leader. Now, they have the option to vote for real development over fake promises. If voted to power, what will you do?I want to make Bihar an industrial hub. It is illogical to say that we can’t because we do not have natural resources. The state can do well in agro-based industries because we have a fertile land. Farmers will also get incentives. Education and medical facilities are the basic needs of people. If your party fails, what will you do?I am optimistic that we will win. If at all we fail, I am going to stay in the state and strengthen my party. Connecting with people will be my motto. I want to make Bihar the most developed state of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/political-system-is-messy-in-bihar-im-going-to-stay-here/articleshow/78974227.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 1, 2020||---||Political system is messy in Bihar, I’m going to stay here: Pushpam Priya Choudhary||London School of Economics alumna Pushpam Priya Choudhary, who floated the Plurals Party, has pledged to make Bihar ‘the most developed state of the country’. She shares her vision of development in industrial and agricultural sectors in Bihar with Faryal Rumi. Excerpts:How do you look at the present process of choosing government in India? Is it complex?It’s not about being complex. To be honest, it has become a sham. Politicians are not accountable to anyone any more because they do not seek vote on the basis of work. Accountability is completely twisted in India. That’s the reason why we are poor and under-developed. We are democratic, but our institutions are so weak. What motivated you take part in the assembly elections in such a big way?Since I am from Bihar, it is my responsibility to change things. Even when I left the state for my higher studies in UK, my area of research was Bihar. The more you read about, the more you will understand that the things are really not good in Bihar. We have resources, we have everything in place and yet nothing is right in our state. That is the one reason why I decided to join politics. The entire political system is messy in Bihar. ‘In logon ne loktantra ki jaan nikal li (these people have killed democracy)’. What were the challenges you faced while launching the Plurals Party?Several challenges from the very beginning. Nominations of some of our candidates were rejected. Democracy envisages participation, but there are some who believe in elimination. There are three kinds of people who dislike us – misogynist, corrupt and insecure. You have waged a political war against bigwigs like Nitish Kumar, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Chirag Paswan. Why do you think people should support you?Because I am contesting against such bigwigs. People have seen them and their work. Nitishji has ruled the state for 15 years, which is a long time. He always talks about development, justice and good governance. However, everyone knows he has failed on all fronts. As far as Tejashwi is concerned, is it necessary to say that he should not be the CM and I’m not saying this because of his educational qualification. There are two kinds of uneducated people – one who can’t afford and another who has all means but don’t think that education is necessary. Now, the people need change and they are looking at us. Why are you fighting the election? What are the key issues?The state needs total transformation and that can be achieved only if we are in power. There is no quality of life in Bihar. From education to health and infrastructure, everything needs to be reformed. We are in 2020, but our state is still witnessing floods and drought. What are the prospects of women candidates in the polls? How many women candidates Plurals has fielded?We were in favour of fielding 50% women candidates, but could not do so due to various reasons. Still, we have fielded maximum number of women candidates. Women participation is key to a healthy democracy. Politics in Bihar is still caste-based. When do you think people of the state will think beyond caste politics? Caste politics is there, but people have understood that the politicians are making fool of them. Earlier, people did not have much option when it comes to choosing their leader. Now, they have the option to vote for real development over fake promises. If voted to power, what will you do?I want to make Bihar an industrial hub. It is illogical to say that we can’t because we do not have natural resources. The state can do well in agro-based industries because we have a fertile land. Farmers will also get incentives. Education and medical facilities are the basic needs of people. If your party fails, what will you do?I am optimistic that we will win. If at all we fail, I am going to stay in the state and strengthen my party. Connecting with people will be my motto. I want to make Bihar the most developed state of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/political-system-is-messy-in-bihar-im-going-to-stay-here/articleshow/78979436.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 1, 2020||Delhi||How cops of Special Cell managed to foil IS attack in Delhi in 2019||NEW DELHI: The year was going to end in a few hours and Delhi Police’s Special Cell team was readying to leave for their homes when a worrying input arrived through an informer. The tip-off was that Islamic State operatives had entered India from Nepal and an attack in Delhi was on the cards. That evening in 2019 when the operation to foil this attack was planned on Saturday when ACPs Lalit Mohan Negi and Hriday Bhushan, apart from 12 Special Cell personnel, were awarded the Union Home Minister’s Special Operations Medal. In the 2019 IS case, the police team gathered that three of the operatives belonging to the Islamist group’s Tamil Nadu module were headed to Delhi after entering the country through eastern UP. Tension was visible on the face of team leader ACP Negi and his deputies, inspectors Sunil Rajain and Ravinder Joshi. They knew it was an A-category input presumed to be fully verified. Informers in Nepal and Delhi were activated. Six insurgents, it became apparent, were in a south Indian jail for the 2014 murder of Hindu Munnani leader K P Suresh Kumar but had recently escaped after obtaining bail. The men had pledged their allegiance to ISIS chief Abu Bakr Al Baghdadi. Three men who had gone to Nepal and then to Delhi were identified as Khaja Moideen, Syed Nawaz and Abdul Samad. Moideen, considered emir of the module, had been arrested by National Investigation Agency in an ISIS-related case in 2017. On January 8, other associates of the trio killed a cop named Wilson at a checkpost on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. Technical surveillance helped police to establish their location in north Delhi on January 9 this year. Early in the morning, the three were cornered and arrested with a cache of weapons. "This was a well-coordinated operation and a sequel to sustained and resolute planning and tactical operations by multiple units in the country,” disclosed a Special Cell member. In a similar action, a Special Cell team comprising ACP Bhushan and inspector Vinod Badola uncovered a hitherto unknown modus operandi of a Taliban-backed cartel using the land route from Afghanistan through Iran and then via sea for narco-smuggling. The seizure of 330kg of heroin worth Rs 1,320 crore was the biggest haul ever in Delhi Police’s history. Nine men, including five Afghan nationals from Delhi and Haryana, were nabbed and a heroin processing factory busted in southeast Delhi's Jamia Nagar. Watch How well-coordinated operation helped Special Cell to foil IS attack in Delhi in 2019||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-cops-of-special-cell-managed-to-foil-is-attack-in-city-in-19/articleshow/78976208.cms||Raj Shekhar
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Tiger safari to resume today at Amrabad, Kawal after 7 months||Hyderabad: After throwing open Nehru Zoo and urban forest parks in and around the city, Telangana State Forest Department has now decided to resume safari in Nallamala's Amrabad tiger reserve and Kawal tiger sanctuary from November 1. With the retreat of monsoon and relaxation of Covid-19 restrictions, the forest department is providing an opportunity to wildlife enthusiasts to experience nature after a gap of seven months. “As part of the Centre's unlock guidelines, we have decided to resume safari services from this week by following all the necessary safety precautions. The safari was closed for almost seven months since the beginning of Covid-19 lockdown,” Amrabad deputy conservator of forest Kista Goud said. Forest department also decided to collect Rs 50 from each vehicle travelling to Umamaheswaram and Maddimadugu temples in Nagarkurnool district and sent proposals to the state government in this regard. On the other hand, to protect tigers, mainly in the forests of Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Mulugu and Peddapalli districts, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Telangana would be working together to prevent poaching and smuggling activities. A decision to this effect was taken during the ‘Interstate Coordination Meeting on Forest and Wildlife Protection’ at Chelpur Genco office earlier this week. “Continuous surveillance would be possible to protect forest habitats through mutual coordination, regular meetings and sharing views between bordering states and bringing awareness among forest officials,” principal chief conservator of forests R Shoba said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-safari-to-resume-today-at-amrabad-kawal-after-7-months/articleshow/78975051.cms||Moulika.KV
November 1, 2020||Hubballi||Kannada language is under threat, fear litterateurs||Belagavi: Scholars and intellectuals rued that Kannada language is under threat with most preferring English. The only way to nurture one's mother tongue is by speaking it daily. Ahead of Rajyotsava, the district administration and district information department jointly organised a virtual debate programme on Kannada literature and its importance at a time when parents are increasingly choosing to send their wards to English-medium schools. Symbolically the event was flagged of by deputy commissioner MG Hiremath at his DC office. He said the government has been providing ample support in developing Kannada language and so formed the Kannada Development Board. Speaking at te event, literature prof Basavaraj Jagajampi said that Kannada is facing several hurdles with more and more people preferring English as a medium of communication. He blamed the increasing dependence on technology for this. Litterateur Neelaganga Charantimath said one should not treat Kannada as only a language but as one's life and breath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kannada-language-is-under-threat-fear-litterateurs/articleshow/78973999.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Eight-year-old’s testimony nails blind sister’s rapist||NEW DELHI: An eight-year-old boy’s witness testimony has proved crucial in proving a man guilty for raping the child’s blind sister in 2013. The boy was with his sister when the convict, a taxi driver, had lured them into in his car and gagged them before raping the girl. “The impact and the trauma caused to the victims are unimaginable,” said additional sessions judge Sudhanshu Kaushik, who awarded 20 years of rigorous imprisonment to the taxi driver. The conviction judgment highlighted that the boy was an “honest and truthful” witness, who gave an exact account of the incident. “His testimony provides corroboration to the statement of the victim,” it added. Being an eyewitness to the crime, the brother gave vivid details of the assault similar to that of the survivor. “I find no reason to doubt the testimony of an eight-year-old boy merely because he is the brother of the victim,” the court pointed out. In its sentencing order, the court held, “Convict Saleem alias Sanjay has committed rape on a blind girl, who was marginally above 18 years of age. He raped the victim in the presence of her younger brother.” According to the survivor, the man had offered them a lift to their house. The siblings saw two other children, believed to be the accused’s relatives, seated in the car. After they got on, the accused gagged them, and raped the girl. The survivor, represented by advocate Chandra Suman, further testified that the man offered them money to keep silent and dropped them near Humayun’s Tomb. During the trial, the boy identified the taxi, which was scene of crime, and its driver. In both their testimonies, it also came on record that the brother-sister duo was initially reluctant to get on the taxi, but when the driver insisted and assured that he would be dropping them at their house, they agreed. Even the survivor’s mother had testified on the same lines as her children. But the defence counsel argued that all their testimonies were riddled with discrepancies. The counsel argued that the survivor was tutored to implicate the accused for the mother held a grudge against him. Stressing that the police hadn’t carried out the investigation in a fair manner, the counsel said that the two other children who were stated to be in the car hadn’t been examined during the trial. The court, however, noted, “It has come on record that both the children were related to the accused. Therefore, the chances that they would narrate an unbiased version of the incident were remote.” Handing out a “stiff penalty” the court also fined the convict Rs 30,000 besides two decades in jail. The survivor, on the other hand, was ordered to be given adequate compensation for rehabilitation. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/8-year-olds-testimony-nails-blind-sisters-rapist/articleshow/78976212.cms||Aamir Khan
November 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Farmers, Amaravati JAC leaders enroute to ‘Jail Bharo’ stir arrested||VIJAYAWADA/RAJAHMUNDRY: Tension prevailed on the outskirts of Guntur city on Saturday after police arrested Amaravati Joint Action Committee (JAC) leaders and farmers on the way to a ‘Jail Bharo’ programme at Arundal Pet jail. The agitators condemned the arrests and staged protests where they were arrested. The call to protest follows the recent arrest and handcuffing of some Amaravati farmers who were agitating against the proposed shift of the capital. The police had given notices to Amaravati JAC members and functionaries of TDP, Congress, CPI, CPI(M) and other political parties to not participate in the protest. Checkposts were set up on highways leading to Guntur city. A number of agitators coming from various parts of the state to attend the programme were stopped and detained by the police under Section 149 of the CrPC. JAC president Siva Reddy strongly condemned the house arrests of farmers and JAC leaders. “We are continuing protests for the last 300 days seeking justice for Amaravati farmers. Police are behaving inhumanely with us. Farmers haven’t committed any crime. They are fighting for justice. Arrests and treating them as criminals is objectionable. We will continue our fight till the government responds to our demands positively. Amaravati should be continued as the state capital,” Siva Reddy said. Police also placed Amaravati women’s JAC leader Sunkara Padmashri under house arrest in Athkuru village. “Police were trying to suppress opposition parties. House arrests and illegal detentions are against the law. We are staging protests peacefully for the last 300 days and still the government is treating farmers as criminals. People of the state want Amaravati as the capital and we will back farmers in their protests,” Padmashri said. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh Civil Liberties Association president Muppalla Subba Rao lodged a complaint with National Human Rights Commission, urging action against police personnel who arrested and handcuffed the farmers. He also demanded compensation for farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-amaravati-jac-leaders-enroute-to-jail-bharo-stir-arrested/articleshow/78974093.cms||Venu Lanka
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Schools won’t be held responsible if student tests Covid positive||DEHRADUN: Allaying concerns of private schools that they may be held responsible if a student catches Covid-19 while at school, the state education secretary R Meenakshi Sundaram has said that no school will be penalised if a student tests positive. The secretary said that the schools will be reprimanded only if they are found violating the SOP issued by the state government. He added that if a student tests Covid-19 positive even when a school has been following all the norms stated in the SOP, then there is no reason for penal action. The statement has brought a sense of relief among the schools before they reopen for Classes X and XII from the next week. Also, the schools will have to get written permission from parents before the student comes to the school. If a parent is not willing to send their ward to the school, then it is the responsibility of the school to provide the facility of online education for the child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-wont-be-held-responsible-if-student-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/78974101.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Govt to launch ‘Pura Kaam, Pura Daam’ campaign under NREGA||JAIPUR: The state’s rural development department will launch ‘Pura Kaam, Pura Daam’ campaign in the state in November to motivate and mobilise MGNREGA workers to complete work assigned to them so that they can get full wages and also ensure it by improving worksite management. The file has been sent to chief minister Ashok Gehlot for approval. “MGNREGA is a task-based scheme. Though the maximum wage is Rs 220, workers are paid according to the amount of work done against task assigned to them,” said state MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “If wage rate is low, it indicates poor worksite management, mates are not motivating workers to complete their task, few workers are doing their job properly and ignorance about the amount of task to be assigned to workers by technical staff and mates,” he added. He said these points would be improved and corrective measures would be taken under the campaign. “We will also encourage labourers to register a complaint in case of an absentee worker. The mates will be trained further and we will increase the involvement of women mates (50%), who can motivate the labourers better (as 70 per cent workforce is women). Awareness will be created among workers about the advantage of completing the task assigned to them,” said Kishan. Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS) member Mukesh said, “The average wage rate in Rajasthan is Rs 162. Discrepancies were noticed in the payment of wages over the past 4-5 years. Those who work sincerely and those who don’t, earn the same amount. It has been observed that due to low wage rate, the overall loss incurred by Rajasthan labourers is around Rs 2,400 crore. The technical staff and the mates (worksite supervisors) are responsible for this as they adopt fraudulent means in release of payments. Poor people are worst sufferers due to this,” he added. He said in the current situation, under pressure to increase average wage rate, they are making higher payments for less work (for example: Rs 180 paid for performing 10% task). “This affects assets creation badly.” “We started ‘Pura Kaam, Pura Daam’ campaign about three years ago. We had started it in Ajmer and it turned out to be a huge success. Assets creation got a boost through this campaign and is still being run in few districts,” said Mukesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-launch-pura-kaam-pura-daam-campaign-under-nrega/articleshow/78975092.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||24-year-old held in connection with Prem Nagar murder case||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun police claimed to have cracked the Prem Nagar murder case after arresting a 24-year-old man on Saturday. The accused, identified as Shanu Singh (24), is a resident of Kehri village in Prem Nagar area. According to police, the accused confessed to killing 45-year-old Ganga Ram after the victim refused to give the betting amount he had won from him. Earlier on October 17, Ganga Ram’s body was found lying in his cycle puncture repair shop. SP (city) Shewta Choubey said that the two had placed a bet on the night of October 16 and the accused had won. Subsequently, Shanu, who is a tubewell boring mechanic, met Ganga Ram at the latter’s shop to demand the amount he had won in the bet. However, Ganga Ram allegedly slapped Shanu and denied to give him the amount. Later, Shanu returned to Ganga Ram’s shop with an iron rod. The accused struck a heavy blow on Ganga Ram’s head and escaped with the victim’s mobile phone and Rs 1,800, which were kept in his pocket. “Following the initial findings and on the basis of CCTV footage, we were successful in tracking and arresting the accused,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/24-yr-old-held-in-connection-with-prem-nagar-murder-case/articleshow/78974116.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Covid-19 curbs in place for upcoming Tungabhadra fest||TIRUPATI: The state government has imposed strict curbs on pilgrim congregation for the upcoming Tungabhadra Pushkarams, which would be held from November 20 to December 1. The event is celebrated on the banks of river Tungabhadra in Kurnool every 12 years. On Saturday, finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy visited the under-construction pushkar ghats and inspected the ongoing arrangements for the festival. He asked officials to be cautious and ensure that all Covid-19 guidelines are strictly followed by the devotees. The government has decided to facilitate organised entry of devotees to the pushkar ghats. Registration and e-passes will be mandatory for the festival. Adults above the age of 60 years and children below the age of 12 years would not be allowed entry. There would also be restrictions on movement of devotees at the ghats. Devotees would be allowed to enter the ghats in a time bound manner and won’t be allowed to spend more than 15 minutes there. The government has also decided to allow only a batch of 20 devotees at one time to avoid overcrowding. Covid-19 testing centres and medical camps would also be set up and requisite number of doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff would be deployed at all places. All the pushkar ghats being built for the festival are scheduled to be completed by November 13 in time for the religious event to begin on November 20. The government has already sanctioned Rs 200 crore for the laying of roads, construction of ghats and improvements in the existing infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-curbs-in-place-for-upcoming-tungabhadra-fest/articleshow/78974109.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Bareilly||Father-daughter duo found brutally murdered in Moradabad||Bareilly: A father-daughter duo was found murdered with their throats slit at their residence in Kisraul area under Nagphani police station limits in Moradabad on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as Nazarul Hussain and his 27-year-old daughter Samreen. Locals said the incident came to light when the deceased’s elder daughter asked a neighbour to check on them when none of them answered her phone calls.Police said the door of the room was locked from the inside.“After police was informed, we rushed to the spot and found the father-daughter duo lying in a pool of blood with their throats slit. Prima facie, it appears that the duo was killed by someone known due to personal enmity. The bodies have been sent for a post-mortem examination,” senior superintendent of police, Moradabad, Prabhakar Chaudhari said.“The duo was beaten up and brutally killed, as there are several injury marks on their bodies. The accused also tried to erase evidences. A probe has been ordered,” he added.SHO Nagphani police station, Moradabad, Sunil Kumar told TOI, “An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons under section 302 (punishment for murder) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).” Nazarul Hussain worked as a broker in the area and is survived by four daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/father-daughter-duo-found-brutally-murdered-in-moradabad/articleshow/78973291.cms||Maria Khan
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Asad flays beheading, cartoons in France||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday condemned the beheading of a school teacher in France. He said he is against those resorting to violence in the name of Islam. He also wrote a letter to external affairs Minister S Jaishankar on the French terror attack. Samuel Paty was beheaded for allegedly showing cartoons of Prophet Mohammed in his class on October 16. “We unequivocally condemn the beheading of a person. In keeping with the Centre’s policy, I demanded the external affairs ministry to raise the issue of cartoons on the Prophet with France,” said Owaisi, while addressing a rally in Bihar. Following the incident, there has been a massive outrage in France, with a crackdown against extremism. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-flays-beheading-cartoons-in-france/articleshow/78975118.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur college pips IITs to bag second position in tech innovations||UDAIPUR: College of Technology and Engineering (CTAE) of Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology (MPUAT) has taken a lead in technical innovations and researches. The college, which is one of the 13 centres of the PRISM project sponsored by department of scientific and industrial research, ministry of science and technology, left behind premier institutes like IIT-Kanpur and IIT-Kharagpur to bag the second position in the field of promoting and encouraging individual and group initiatives for technical innovations. Devices and agricultural implements that are helpful in completing tedious jobs easily have been funded and promoted by the college. Mada Sai Srinivas, a research student, has developed bael pulp extractor which reduces human labour. The extractor is very useful for scooping out pulp from fruit. The device costs about Rs 2 lakh and can be used to extract pulp from 10 to 12 bael fruit in an hour. Another researcher Sheetal developed a mehndi picker. The harvesting of mehndi leaves is very laborious and expensive, but with the device, labour and time are both saved. Innovator Madan Lal Mehta developed solar-powered micro-irrigation applicator costing around Rs 2 lakh. It can be used for irrigation and for fertiliser application. It can be easily transported from one place to another. Thus, in the remotest area, solar energy driven micro-irrigation equipment (drip irrigation) can be used. Research student Srinivas Girijal has developed a very useful device to destalk chilli. The unit can destalk 50 kg chilli per hour. Another machine developed by a research student Sunil Rathore can be used to convert dung into a powder and placing it along with the seed. This reduces the time and duration of spreading the compost into the field. Innovator Abhijeet Khedakar’s implement helps in automatically transplanting vegetable plants. “There are a large number of technological innovations and researches going on in the university which will reduce labour of farmers and help in timely completion of agricultural operations. At present, a number of students are working on innovations and research which will enable us to learn about new research in many areas. It is heartening, inspiring and encouraging that PRISM project in Rajasthan is helping farmers,” VC Narendra Singh Rathore told TOI. “The CTAE centre has assisted 50 innovators in getting financial assistance of more than Rs 1.5 crore. Project funding is given for converting innovation to prototype and model so that innovator can convert his original ideas of innovations into demonstrable models and prototypes. Prism project can be of 90 per cent funding and only 10 per cent of the fund is required by the innovator,” dean Ajay Kumar Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-college-pips-iits-to-bag-2nd-position-in-tech-innovations/articleshow/78977929.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Udaipur college pips IITs to bag second position in tech innovations||UDAIPUR: College of Technology and Engineering (CTAE) of Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology (MPUAT) has taken a lead in technical innovations and researches. The college, which is one of the 13 centres of the PRISM project sponsored by department of scientific and industrial research, ministry of science and technology, left behind premier institutes like IIT-Kanpur and IIT-Kharagpur to bag the second position in the field of promoting and encouraging individual and group initiatives for technical innovations. Devices and agricultural implements that are helpful in completing tedious jobs easily have been funded and promoted by the college. Mada Sai Srinivas, a research student, has developed bael pulp extractor which reduces human labour. The extractor is very useful for scooping out pulp from fruit. The device costs about Rs 2 lakh and can be used to extract pulp from 10 to 12 bael fruit in an hour. Another researcher Sheetal developed a mehndi picker. The harvesting of mehndi leaves is very laborious and expensive, but with the device, labour and time are both saved. Innovator Madan Lal Mehta developed solar-powered micro-irrigation applicator costing around Rs 2 lakh. It can be used for irrigation and for fertiliser application. It can be easily transported from one place to another. Thus, in the remotest area, solar energy driven micro-irrigation equipment (drip irrigation) can be used. Research student Srinivas Girijal has developed a very useful device to destalk chilli. The unit can destalk 50 kg chilli per hour. Another machine developed by a research student Sunil Rathore can be used to convert dung into a powder and placing it along with the seed. This reduces the time and duration of spreading the compost into the field. Innovator Abhijeet Khedakar’s implement helps in automatically transplanting vegetable plants. “There are a large number of technological innovations and researches going on in the university which will reduce labour of farmers and help in timely completion of agricultural operations. At present, a number of students are working on innovations and research which will enable us to learn about new research in many areas. It is heartening, inspiring and encouraging that PRISM project in Rajasthan is helping farmers,” VC Narendra Singh Rathore told TOI. “The CTAE centre has assisted 50 innovators in getting financial assistance of more than Rs 1.5 crore. Project funding is given for converting innovation to prototype and model so that innovator can convert his original ideas of innovations into demonstrable models and prototypes. Prism project can be of 90 per cent funding and only 10 per cent of the fund is required by the innovator,” dean Ajay Kumar Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udaipur-college-pips-iits-to-bag-2nd-position-in-tech-innovations/articleshow/78975115.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Delhi||Three years on, Haryana yet to earmark Aravali zones||NEW DELHI: The Haryana government has been dragging its feet on earmarking Aravalis and the Natural Conservation Zones (NCZs) in the national capital region (NCR) three years after it was first directed to finish the task quickly and a final decision was taken on the two issues by the regional planning board. The state government is still putting up a spirited fight to keep the hills in Faridabad out of the definition of Aravalis and continues to argue that the Aravali notification of 1992 is applicable to only Gurugram and Alwar in the NCR, the details accessed by TOI show. As per the law, no non-forestry activities are allowed in the areas falling under the Aravalis without prior permission from the forest and environment ministry. The long-pending issue of delineation of the NCZ in Haryana came up for discussion at the recently held NCR Planning Board (NCRPB) meeting under the chairmanship of Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri. The board decided that all participating states should complete the exercise within a month, sources said. In a letter addressed to member secretary of NCRPB in May this year, principal secretary of town and country planning department said that there was a need to decide the applicability of the Aravali notification of May 7, 1995 over the entire NCR as the “plain reading” of the notification shows that the notification is applicable only in Gurugram district (including Mewat). The letter also said there was a need to give a clear definition for the term “Aravali” as it’s not defined in the Regional Plan of 2021 and the 1992 notification by the environment and forest ministry. However, the minutes of the meeting of NCRPB held on June 15, 2016 show that then Union urban development secretary Rajiv Gauba, who is now the cabinet secretary, had informed the board that the “specified areas” in the 1992 notification were to be included while identifying and delineating Aravalis in the entire NCR and Aravalis was one of the components of NCZ. “Therefore, the issue related to ‘definition’ has been adequately addressed. The NCR participating state governments have to accordingly delineate the NCZ, after detailed ground truthing,” the minutes of the meeting said. The “specified areas” included the gair mumkin pahar (uncultivable wasteland) or gair mumkin rada or gair mumkin gehad or banjad beed. The minutes also mention that then additional chief secretary of Haryana in-charge of the town and country planning had stated "so far as issue of definition and delineation of NCZ is concerned, the matter is resolved”. The minutes of another board meeting of December 12, 2017 recorded that the then housing and urban affairs secretary reiterated the decision taken at the June 2016 meeting. Though Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had claimed that the 1992 notification by the environment ministry was only applicable to two districts and hence adopting the same was not feasible for the entire NCR, the housing and urban affairs ministry had said the decision of what all constitute Aravalis had been taken. It had also said Aravalis play an important role in controlling the climatic conditions of the region and hence it was crucial to protect the Aravalis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-yrs-on-haryana-yet-to-earmark-aravali-zones/articleshow/78976218.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||ILO to study natural stone mining in state, create strategy for devpt||Jaipur: The International Labour Organisation (ILO) has commissioned a study of natural stone mining in Rajasthan to prepare a strategy to respond to emerging market trends, sustain growth and create employment.The tripartite strategy, for which ILO will take feedback and insights from relevant government departments, industry associations and labour through civil society organisations, will focus on modern mining practices and logistics innovations, addressing environmental concerns of international buyers, providing social security benefits and healthy working conditions to workers and reducing informality in the sector.In terms of reference for appointing a consultant for the project, ILO had said, “Considering natural stone feeds into other industries as input, its recognition as a separate identity as an ‘industry inclusive of the units exclusively related to the stone industry supply chain’ hasn’t gained much traction in the state.”It has pointed out that the sector is mired with prevalence of informality, exploitative and unsafe working condition. Mining being state subject and enforcement of labour laws which is a central subject makes enforcement a complex issue. Lack of coordination between the two departments has deprived mineworkers of their identity, and welfare benefits.Talking to TOI, M K Devarajan, former member, Rajasthan State Human Rights Commission, said, “The health of the mine workers is at stake due to the lukewarm attitude of the enforcement authorities of the central government and the licensing authorities of the state. Hence, it has become necessary to set up a statutory body invested with adequate powers to look after the welfare of the workers and to ensure compliance of the legal provisions for the safety and health of the workers as well as the interests of other stakeholders affected by mining operations,” said Natural stone industry, which comprises sandstone, marble, granite etc, is an important source of employment in Rajasthan, often providing entry points to low-skilled, rural, seasonal migrants, despite an influx of new industries in the state in recent years. The sector has been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. The ILO strategy also talks about finding ways and supporting the state government in revival of the industry and overcoming disruptions caused by the outbreak.As per the document, ILO seeks to create an action plan for the implementation of the state-wide strategy in consultation with ILO constituents in Rajasthan, while conducting assessment studies for training and capacity building of social partners for the joint implementation and monitoring of the strategy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ilo-to-study-natural-stone-mining-in-state-create-strategy-for-devpt/articleshow/78975120.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||MRM leaders protest against Islamophobia in France; burn photos||Hyderabad: Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM), the Muslim wing of RSS, on Saturday took to streets to protest against Islamophobia in France and alleged support extended by French President Emmanuel Macron to groups blaspheming the Prophet. MRM leaders burnt the photographs of Macron.. MRM, which has a considerable following in Hyderabad and parts of Telangana, had invited the wrath of Muslims last year as it supported the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The MRM celebrated the Mila-un-Nabi, birthday of the Prophet, at its Telangana headquarters and distributed food to the poor. Soon after the poor feeding programme, the MRM leaders lodged their protest against the French President. Telangana state MRM president MA Sattar told STOI that Muslims hold the Prophet in high esteem. “There are deliberate attempts to denigrate the Prophet. We are against any disrespect shown to Islamic personalities,” he said. Meanwhile, several Muslim organisations staged demonstrations against Macron in Old City. While some burnt the posters of Macron, others stomped on his photographs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mrm-leaders-protest-against-islamophobia-in-france-burn-photos/articleshow/78975132.cms||Syed Akbar
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Pandemic takes glitter off corporate gifting this Diwali||AHMEDABAD: The risk of infection and reduced budgets in the time of Covid pandemic are weighing heavily on companies in the corporate gifting business this Diwali season. Their revenues have shrunk to barely one-fifth of that in a typical Diwali season. Many corporate companies as well as small and medium enterprises (SMEs) have either completely given up on corporate gifting, or have slashed budgets limiting gifts to a selected guest list. Ravi Parekh, founder, Fotis Inc, a company into corporate gifting, said, “Firms have slashed their corporate gifting budgets drastically in the wake of the pandemic. Our revenues this year are expected to take a major hit and it will be a struggle to clock even 10% of what we make during a typical Diwali.” “Marketing spends have declined across companies. Those who had cut salaries of their employees are looking to do something for the employees and offer them returns instead of spending on corporate gifting. Many others are also spending the same amount for a social cause, given the pandemic situation,” Parekh further added. Several companies which used to gift gadgets and food products have now shifted to gifting hygiene-based products. Nandish Shah, who owns a business in modular kitchens, said, “We used to give as gifts a number of gadgets. However, this time we have decided to gift sanitizers, handwash units and even cleaners for vegetables and fruits, as these products have gained wide use in the pandemic.” Several companies are finding it extremely risky to deliver gifts, as it will involve exchange of many hands. They have become extremely careful of what is chosen for gifting, and limiting gift distribution within close circles. “This time we have limited corporate gifting to a very small circle of our professional acquaintances and avoided extending the same to our clients due to the ongoing pandemic. Moreover, we have decided that we will not be offering any perishable sweets or confectioneries to any of them. There will be greater focus on hygiene, cleanliness and safety of the products chosen,” said Rajiv Vastupal, chairman and managing director, Rajiv Petrochemicals Limited. Echoing a similar view, Hitesh Malaviya, who owns a marketing consultancy firm, said, “We usually give gifts around Diwali in our professional network. This time the situation is different. While we have reduced budgets, we are still not certain whether we will be giving gifts or defer it for another occasion given the pandemic.” Malaviya said that most of his clients have also slashed budgets for gifting. NGOs to lose revenuesCity-based NGOs said that they are going to lose a significant share of revenues that come from Diwali gifting articles purchased by corporates and individuals. They attribute the trend both to lack of budget on the side of buyers and fewer products available this year due to Covid-19. Nandini Rawal, executive director, Blind People’s Association (BPA), said that they expect about 80% loss in their revenues of Rs 3-4 lakh associated with the Diwali gifting. “Diwali is an important time of the year, as a significant share of products made by our students get sold as corporate gifting,” said Brijita Christian, chief administrator, Apang Manav Mandal (AMM). “As there were no students on campus this year to make the products due to the pandemic, we provided them guidance and motivation to make the gift items at home and send to us. We hope to organize a sale on our campus for a day or two.” Smita Shah, project coordinator, Andh Kanya Prakash Gruh (AKPG), said that they expect to sell close to 1 lakh diyas which are prepared by the blind girls. “The number is of course less compared to the annual average. But we did not want the students to miss on the opportunity, as a significant share of proceeds directly go to the makers. We also appeal to the citizens to support NGOs,” she said. NGOs said that several times there are special drives by the organizations and corporates to provide a platform to NGOs for selling snacks, diyas and other items. No Chinese products!At least 80% of the novelty items given out in corporate gifting including gadgets like power banks, smart watches, speakers and fitness trackers or even table lamps and digital diaries etc, are procured from China according to industry estimates. However, the ongoing anti-China sentiments coupled with restrictions imposed by the Union government on imports from China have deterred most companies from opting for Chinese products. “Procuring products is a mammoth task given the import restrictions. At the same time, providing similar cost-effective alternatives to our guests is another heavy task, because companies are dissociating themselves from Chinese products when it comes to gifting. So options are truly limited on what to give out,” said the owner of a city-based corporate gifting firm. “This creates a bottleneck situation for players in the corporate gifting sector because companies are preferring local products and procuring them, given the scale and cost, is often not viable,” said Parekh. Mithai, dry fruit business to take a hitSweets, savouries, gourmet delights and confectioneries are among the most preferred gifts during Diwali, be it for professional gifting or to personal acquaintances. Thanks to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, food items are among the least preferred ones for gifting purposes, according to industry estimates. This will adversely impact traders of sweets and confectioneries along with dry fruit suppliers. They are expected to take a big hit in terms of their business. Diwali season accounts for at least 40% of the annual business for traders and makers of dry fruits and sweets. Of this, corporate gifting comprises a significant chunk. “The demand has shrunk by at least 50% in the run-up to Diwali and with corporate gifting not taking place, it is expected to hurt the business even more dearly,” said a sweet shop owner in Navrangpura. “We are taking all precautions and additional measures to reach out to customers by giving them packed, hygienic, fresh sweets and confectioneries delivered to home. Yet, the business is expected to decline by 50% against last year’s Diwali.” Hiren Gandhi, chairman, food committee, GCCI “Our students make handmade diyas in addition to other gifts ranging from diaries and stationary to textile jewellery and wall hangings. This year, there are few pre-orders and a lower number of products on sale as we could not coordinate the production and distribution.” Nandini Rawal, executive director, BPA “At least 20% of annual sweets and confectionery sales comes from the Diwali season, and with the pandemic, the business which is already in doldrums will take a further hit.” Narendra Somani, president, HRA, Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pandemic-takes-glitter-off-corporate-gifting-this-diwali/articleshow/78975157.cms||Niyati Parikh
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Need to increase manpower in Uttarakhand hospitals: Covid panels||NAINITAL: During the weekly hearing of the state’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic by the Uttarakhand high court on Saturday, the district-level Covid-19 monitoring committees stated that there is a need to increase manpower in the state hospitals. The high-court appointed committees also added that the thermal scanning mechanisms and compliance to the mandatory norm of wearing a mask must also be improved in the state. Among other suggestions made by the committees were — better data collection and bio-waste disposal in the state. Meanwhile, the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani appreciated the efforts of the members of the committees and of the state government in implementing the suggestions made by the members of the committees. The hearing that started in the early morning hours and continued till evening. “The court heard the committees as well as the government and the petitioners. The committees have suggested several other ways to deal with novel coronavirus and the court has asked the government to consider those suggestions. The court also praised the committees for their work amidst the pandemic and the state for implementing their suggestions,” said Shiv Bhatt, the counsel appearing for one of the petitioners. Bhatt added that the government has told the court that it will make efforts to implement the rest of the suggestions as well. As reported by TOI earlier, the high court has been holding weekly hearings on the state’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic and district-level monitoring committees have been constituted. These panels submit their reports to the court every week. The court has now listed the petitions for further hearing on November 25 when some other aspects related to the coronavirus will be dealt with. The committee members have been asked to once again be present before the court on December 2 when the HC will take stock of the Covid-19 situation again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/need-to-increase-manpower-in-hosps-covid-panels/articleshow/78974136.cms||Prashant Jha
November 1, 2020||India||Naseeruddin Shah, Javed Akhtar slam France attacks||MUMBAI/HYDERABAD: Actor Naseeruddin Shah, poet-lyricist Javed Akhtar, former top cop Julio Ribeiro and activists Javed Anand and Yogendra Yadav are among over a hundred prominent Indians from diverse backgrounds who issued a statement on Saturday condemning the Paris beheadings and deploring the outrageous statements by Muslim religious and political leaders. Among other things, the statement read: “No God, gods, goddesses, prophets or saints may be invoked to justify the killing and/or terrorising of fellow human beings.” “We are deeply disturbed by the convoluted logic of some self-appointed guardians of Indian Muslims in rationalising cold-blooded murder and deplore the outrageous remarks of some heads of state. It has become the order of the day for all religious groups to indulge in whataboutery whenever such heinous crimes are committed by those belonging to their flock. Rationalising crimes by comparing them to similar crimes committed by others is an irrational and absurd argument as two wrongs don’t make a right,” the statement said. They maintained that they rejected any ifs and buts in the justification of heinous crimes in the name of religion, any religion. “We stand in solidarity with the ‘French Council for the Muslim Faith’ for strongly condemning the attacks and issuing an appeal calling on all Muslims in France to “cancel all celebrations of the birthday of the Prophet as a sign of mourning and solidarity with the victims and their loved ones,” the statement said In Hyderabad, Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM) — the Muslim wing of the RSS — took to the streets on Saturday to protest Islamophobia in France and the alleged support extended by French president Emmanuel Macron to groups blaspheming the Prophet. MRM members burnt photographs of Macron and stuck them on arterial roads.The MRM’s protest has surprised many as a majority of people supporting the French president on social media belong to right-wing groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/naseeruddin-shah-javed-akhtar-slam-france-attacks/articleshow/78976847.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Student arrested for blackmailing minor girl, dad||Jaisalmer: Police arrested a student for blackmailing father of a minor and demanding Rs 5 lakh from him in Pokhran town of Jaisalmer district.The accused, Kavishnath, 23, who is a computer science student, threatened to create and upload an obscene video of the minor girl on social media. Police are searching for another culprit who is absconding.SP Ajay Singh said, on October 26 a complaint was filed with Pokhran police station stating that the complainant received a WhatsApp call on October 24. The person on the other end threatened him of uploading obscene videos and pictures of his minor daughter if he was not paid Rs 5 lakh. The complainant was bombarded with repeated calls and messages.The SP said the team under Pokhran SHO and head constable Mukesh Beera arrested Kavishnath, a resident of Balinath ka Dhuna in Pokhran. His phone was checked and it was found that there was no Sim card, but the culprit was using WiFi.The SP further said that the accused Kavishnath hatched the plan along with his friend Jitendra Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/student-arrested-for-blackmailing-minor-girl-dad/articleshow/78975129.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Trader murder: Shooter arrested||Bikaner police arrested the third accused in the murder of a trader in Nayashaher last week. The person was identified as Vishnu Vishnoi (18) who killed 40-year-old Giriraj Aggarwal before taking off with his bag. The trader was shot at when he was returning home from work. The two persons arrested earlier in this case were identified as 23-year-old Santosh Vishnoi, who apparently hatched the plan, and 38-year-old Gopal Soni, who did the recce. Santosh had told his accomplices that if they shot dead a partucular man, they would get a lot of cash from the bag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/trader-murder-shooter-arrested/articleshow/78975144.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||Eight structures at Patnem demolished||Poinguinim: In all, eight illegal structures were demolished at the Patnem-Colomb beach by the Canacona deputy collector’s office, on Saturday. The illegal structures razed belonged to Dr Shaba Gaonkar, Ashok Pagi, Shivanand Pagi, Sudhakar S Pagi, Prashant Kankonkar, Dilip R Pagi and Milagres X Corte. The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has ordered the owners of the illegal structures to pay a penalty of Rs 5 lakh each for Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) violations. Deputy collector Satish Prabhu said that Canacona mamlatdar Vimod Dalal has been appointed as the recovery officer. Prabhu stated that the demolitions had to be carried out as the structures were put up again after they were demolished in 2017. A strong police posse, led by Canacona PI Tukaram Chawan, Quepem PI Deepak Pednekar, Curchorem PI Ravi Desai and Sanguem PI Sachin Panalkar, was present at the site while the stuctures were being demolished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/eight-structures-at-patnem-demolished/articleshow/78976252.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Vadodara||NDDB to build 3 new dairy plants in Jharkhand at cost of Rs 90 crore||VADODARA/ANAND: The Anand-headquartered National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) will construct and manage three new dairy plants in Jharkhand on a turn-key basis. The Jharkhand government has requested NDDB to set up these new plants at Sarath (Deoghar), Sahebganj and Palamu. At the same time, construction of products dairy plant at Hotwar and two dairy plants of 50,000 litre per day (TLPD) capacity at Jamshedpur and Giridih are also being discussed with Jharkhand government. The capacity of these two plants will be expandable to 100 TLPD. The plants at Sarath, Sahebganj and Palamu, which will have capacity of 50 TLPD expandable to 100 TLPD, will be constructed at the cost of Rs 90 crore by March, June and September next year. After addition of these new dairy plants, the total milk handling and processing capacity of Jharkhand Milk Federation will be around five lakh litres per day (LLPD) by 2024. Currently, JMF has four dairy plants at Ranchi, Deoghar, Koderma and Latehar with total installed capacity of 140 TLPD and one cattle feed plant at Hotwar, Ranchi. NDDB took over management of JMF from April 1, 2014. JMF operates in 15 districts of Jharkhand including Ranchi, Ramgarh, Lohardaga, Khunti, Hazaribag, Koderma, Giridih, Deoghar, Dhanbad, Palamau, Garhwa, Chatra, Latehar, Bokaro and Godda. In 2019-20, the annual average milk procurement from these 15 districts remained about 117.52 thousand kg per day and it marketed around 102.99 TLPD. It will continue to manage JMF as Jharkhand cabinet has recently approved extension of MoU between NDDB and JMF till March 31, 2024.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nddb-to-build-3-new-dairy-plants-in-jharkhand-at-cost-of-rs-90-crore/articleshow/78974076.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Devotees take dip in Pushkar Sarovar as Kartik month begins||Ajmer: A large number of devotees turned up at the Pushkar Sarovar in the early hours of Saturday to take a holy dip on the occasion of Sharad Purnima.With this ritual, the Kartik month of Hindu calendar has begun and there will be regular rituals for a month.The rush was comparatively low because of Covid-19 in Pushkar, but still devotees turned up in large numbers.Priest Suresh Parashar said there was regular rush of devotees on Saturday for the holy dip. Pushkar is one of the holiest sites of Hindus and Kartik month is an important time for religious rituals. The ghats remained deserted for seven long months due to restrictions. However, the rituals have now started again with arrangements in place according to Covid guidelines. Administrator of the Satya Narayana temple said the guidelines will be strictly followed while devotees coming to temple will have to compulsorily wear masks.When the lockdown was announced in March this year there were hundreds of foreign tourists in Pushkar, but they were sent back safely to their countries. At present, there are about two hundred foreign tourists in the temple town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/devotees-take-dip-in-pushkar-sarovar-as-kartik-month-begins/articleshow/78975130.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Did doctors take foreign travel as kickbacks?||AHMEDABAD: The probe into the graft case of Sola Civil Hospital has revealed that Dr Upendra Patel, in-charge resident medical officer (RMO), and Dr Shailesh Patel, medical officer (administration) had travelled abroad with their families a couple of years ago on vacation. As state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials have started the questioning of Dr Upendra Patel and Dr Shailesh Patel, sources close to the development said that an earlier transaction between the doctors and contractors had also come to the fore. “The duo had travelled abroad with their families a couple of years ago on vacation. The probe so far indicates that the trip had been sponsored by the contractors for clearing bills. Further probe is on,” said a source in the ACB. Both the doctors – accused of demanding and accepting Rs 8 lakh from a contractor for clearing his dues of Rs 1.18 crore – were taken to National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) on Saturday to record their video statements as evidence. A senior ACB official said that the books of account were being checked along with the documents found in the case to ascertain whether other staff members were also involved. “It was a win-win for all involved – the administrators allegedly got their fixed cut, with which the contractors agreed, and thus there was no complaint. In this case, the cut was increased substantially and thus the ACB got to know about the case. We have got details of a hospital employee who was associated in getting the contract for the contractors. If needed, other employees would also be questioned,” said a senior ACB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/did-doctors-take-foreign-travel-as-kickbacks/articleshow/78975301.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Fit India Walkathon begins along border in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: The 200km Fit India Walkathon started along the Indo-Pakistan border in Thar desert in Jaisalmer on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on Saturday.The walkathon will continue for three days and will conclude on November 2. Kiren Rijiju, minister of state for youth affairs and sports, minister of state for minority affairs launched the fitness march organised by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in Jaisalmer. Rijiju praised the ITBP for the initiative and said that such events are inspiration for the masses to keep themselves fit. Actor, martial artist and stunt performer Vidyut Jamwal also remained a part of the march. DG ITBP S S Deswal welcomed the minister and said that the ITBP was always committed to the cause of Fit India over the years and has spread the message of Fit India Movement across the country. Rijiju flagged off the walkathon.On the Ocassion, ITBP ADG Daljeet Singh Chaudhary, BSF Rajasthan Frontier IG Ayushmani Tiwari, DIG Pushpendra Singh Rathore, DIG Sanjay Kumar Singh were present. The march will have representation of more than 100 officials of various Central Armed Police Forces (BSF, CRPF, NDRF, RAF, Assam Rifles, NSG etc) and Rajasthan Police, MP Police etc under the leadership of IGTP DG S S Deswal. Rijiju said on the occasion that the aim is to make every Indian citizen fit, but our record is not that good. We want that in the next 4 to 5 years, 80% of the population is fit. Around 1.80 lakh schools have registered under Fit India. Apart from this, many agencies of different ministries and organisations have gotten associated with Fit India and my ministry is coordinating with all of them, he said. Rijiju also said that the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel marks the national unity day and the walkathon was started on this occasion. All ITBP and many other forces will take part in the programme. BSF too has extended its support. This is a very tough terrain and we want to inspire the general public through the walkathon, he added. After the programme, the sports minister reached Tanot. Wreath-laying ceremony was organized in which tribute was given to the 1965 & 1971 war martyrs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fit-india-walkathon-begins-along-border-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/78975160.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Three Bodhan cops in ACB net for Rs 50k bribe||Hyderabad: Anti Corruption Bureau sleuths arrested Bodhan town inspector, sub-inspector and a constable after they allegedly accepted Rs 50,000 cash and Rs 1 lakh worth mobile phone as a bribe to avoid registering a case against a person. ACB officials said that they received a complaint from Mohammed Sajid Ahmed who claimed that the accused cops had demanded the bribe to release his seized bike besides avoiding registering a case. “The tainted money of Rs 50,000 and the mobile phone were recovered from inspector P Rakesh’s possession. SI Mogulaiah and constable Gajendra, who is driver of the inspector, aided the inspector,” ACB officials said. The arrested accused are being produced before a local judge. A month ago, a dispute arose between Sajid and Sudarshan in Bodhan over a property issue. Police seized Sajid’s bike and later he was called by cops to inform him that they had received a complaint against him. To avoid registering a case against Sajid besides releasing his bike, the accused cops demanded the bribe, ACB officials said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-bodhan-cops-in-acb-net-for-rs-50k-bribe/articleshow/78975179.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||75% civil work of flyover near Market Yard over||Pune: More than 75% civil work of the flyover coming up over the Nehru Road towards Market Yard is over and the civic body is keen to complete the entire job in the next five months.An official of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said the deadline for the completion of the flyover was June 2021. “But we are planning to complete the work by March next year,” he said.The administration and the traffic police recently introduced some changes in the traffic movement in the area to facilitate the work of the flyover, expected to ease the traffic flow on Nehru Road. The flyover will provide commuters direct access to Shankarsheth Road and Market Yard Chowk.Crossing the road has been banned at two locations for the next few days. Alternative routes are available for the vehicles to cross the Nehru Road, the administration said.The flyover work came to a grinding halt during the Covid-induced lockdown period. The work regained momentum after labourers returned in the Unlock phases.Another PMC official said, “The work was completely stopped during the lockdown because of non-availability of labourers. Also, the entire stretch of Dais plot, from where the flyover has been aligned, was in the containment zone. Hence, it was not possible to go ahead with the work. Now, the work has resumed at all crucial locations. The slab work is expected to get over in the next few days. The construction of ramps has also been initiated.”Residents of the area and traders of Market Yard had opposed the flyover project over its landing near the State Warehouse Corporation. They wanted it to be extended up to Gangadham Chowk. The PMC has now planned another flyover at the Market Yard Chowk to further ease the traffic flow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/75-civil-work-of-flyover-near-market-yard-over/articleshow/78976680.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Jeweller robbed on gunpoint in Barmer dist||Jaisalmer: Unidentified masked thieves on a bike robbed a jeweller on gunpoint at Jethantari town in Samdadi police station area in Barmer district. The jeweller was returning home on Thursday night when the thieves struck and robbed him of some jewellery and cash on gunpoint, fired in the air and fled. The villagers around also tried to stop them but the thieves fired in the air to scare the villagers. According to information, there was 25-30kg silver and 200gm gold jewellery in the bag they stole, including around Rs 20,000-25,000 cash. The cost of the jewellery is said to be around Rs 30 lakh. Barmer SP Anand Sharma also reached the spot and blockading and other measures were taken to nab the culprits. Many police teams were formed and sent in search of the robbers.Sharma said that Samdadi town resident Arvind Soni runs a jewellery shop at Jethantari village. On Thursday night, after closing the shop, he was returning home when on the way, two persons on a bike chased him and taking advantage of darkness and the deserted road, stopped Arvind on gunpoint and fled with the bag containing gold and silver jewellery and cash. Police are also scanning the CCTV footage of nearby areas to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jeweller-robbed-on-gunpoint-in-barmer-dist/articleshow/78975180.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||INSA award for IIT-Jodhpur prof||Ritu Gupta, an assistant professor at IIT-Jodhpur, has been selected by Indian National Science Academy (INSA) for its ‘Indian National Science Academy Medal for Young Scientist-2020.’ Gupta has been recognised for having developed novel materials and translating research ideas into devices for energy, water, environment, healthcare. The innovative methods and scalable processes for synthesis of nano-materials have been developed by her for fabrication of energy storage devices, solar cells and smart sensors for environment air quality, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/insa-award-for-iit-jodhpur-prof/articleshow/78975188.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 3,000 requests for seaplane ride already||AHMEDABAD: Soon after bookings for the seaplane services opened late on Friday, at least 3,000 booking requests were placed on the first day itself. The service was officially inaugurated by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who took the maiden flight from Statue of Unity in Kevadia to Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad. “The service will begin for passengers from Sunday onwards. Currently, we have some 3,000 booking requests for a seaplane trip,” said Ajay Singh, CMD – SpiceJet, who spoke to the media on Saturday evening. Spice Shuttle, the wholly-owned subsidiary of SpiceJet will be operating the seaplane aircraft. Singh stated that most passengers who have booked the trip are from Ahmedabad itself. “The rush was not expected and therefore, we have begun accepting booking requests and those who confirm with payments are allotted seats,” he said. Besides the two round-trip flights scheduled, more flights will soon be added. “Over the next two-three months, we will add two more aircraft to the fleet. We are in talks for acquiring more aircraft. One aircraft can take a total of ten trips and thus, we will soon be adding more trips,” Singh told reporters. Bird-hit scare for seaplane?The proximity of the seaplane waterdrome to the Pirana dumpsite is raised apprehensions over possbile risk of bird strikes. During the aircraft’s maiden journey, acoustic devices and fire crackers were used to keep birds at bay. When asked about arrangements made, Singh said, “We are in the process of installing diverters along the riverfront, which will also help keep birds at bay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3000-inquiries-for-seaplane-ride/articleshow/78975203.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||Pockmarked Chakan-Talegaon road poses a risk to commuters||Pune: A 15km road stretch from Chakan to Talegaon is riddled with potholes because of the incessant rains for the past few days, making for a very bumpy ride. The road is a crucial conduit for those visiting the Chakan-Talegaon industrial belts and also for traffic headed towards Mumbai and Nashik via Pune.Regular commuters have complained that riding on the highway is a nightmare, while the Chakan police have blamed the bad road condition for many accidents, including some fatal mishaps. “The potholes resemble craters at several spots. Commuters find it extremely difficult to drive. At least 8-10 motorcyclists skid and fall per week, and we have recorded fatal accidents too,” inspector Vitthal Kubde of Chakan traffic division said. On Monday, traffic police, with the help of locals, made temporary repairs to some potholes. “We filled the potholes with sand and other materials, but it will last only five days, The road needs to be tarred properly,” Kubde said.Dilip Batwal, secretary of the Federation of Chakan Industry, said he has taken up this issue with the district administration. “This stretch is a lifeline for Chakan and Talegaon MIDC — everyone takes this pothole-riddled road. In fact, a German delegation had taken up this matter with the district administration last year, but nothing has happened on the ground. Politicians have become indifferent and we don’t know whom to approach,” he said.Goraksha Gawali, deputy engineer with the state government, who looks after national highways, said, “Rainwater has accumulated on the stretch at multiple locations as there is no proper drainage line. Constructions have come up on natural rivulets, forcing rainwater to accumulate on the main road. We have recently surveyed the stretch and submitted a report to the state government for repairs.”“The state government generates crores of rupees in revenue from Chakan and Talegaon MIDC zones per month, but doesn’t provide basic amenities to the industrial belt. Many of our workers face health issues due to the daily traffic congestion on this stretch,” a senior executive of a private firm, who didn’t wish to be named, said Another executive said they need an hour at least to cross a 5km distance and that this happens at least twice a week. “Many senior executives of the companies leave the office at 4pm to avoid traffic congestion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pockmarked-chakan-talegaon-road-poses-a-risk-to-commuters/articleshow/78976682.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Re-carpeting of roads a major challenge during festive season||DEHRADUN: The rush in markets and in other areas of the city due to the festive season has made re-carpeting of dug-up roads a challenge, civic officials claim. As to why this is a challenging task, officials at the Public Works Department (PWD) say that traffic volume has increased on city roads in the run-up to Diwali. According to officials, the roads, where water pipelines were laid, are being repaired on priority as PWD has received a budget of Rs 1.69 crore from the Smart City project for re-carpeting. The PWD officials also said that they have kept a target of repairing more than 70 identified roads for which the funds are being received in phases. Meanwhile, residents in areas like Raipur Road, Mothrowala, Prem Nagar say they are suffering because of the poor roads and hope that the situation will improve by Diwali. Ganesh Dhoundial, a shopkeeper in Paltan Bazaar, said, “The market is full of dust and it takes more than an hour every day to clean our shop in the morning. We are ardently hoping the road gets made before we suffer further losses during the festival season.” Another shopkeeper from Sarnimal Bazaar, Dipesh Kumar, said, “The poor condition of roads has made driving dangerous. Several roads across the city are in a poor state and need urgent repair. The development under Smart City is completed in many parts of the city and people need better roads.” When queried, Jagmohan Chauhan, executive engineer at PWD, told TOI, “We are re-carpeting the roads that were dug up for Smart City works on priority. The work at Buddha Chowk and Darshan Lal Chowk will also begin from Sunday and we are trying to complete the work on time. The roads under Smart City are being repaired as and when we receive the budget for different stretches.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/re-carpeting-of-roads-a-major-challenge-during-festive-season/articleshow/78974192.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Kota tennis champ who aced NEET in ‘first serve’||KOTA: Scripting success with a combination of passion for sports and studies, 18-year-old Komal Saluja, a national-level tennis player and a two-time state-level champion, cracked NEET-UG 2020 in her maiden attempt securing 700 marks out of 720. She bagged All India Rank 67 and ranked No. 1 from Kota, the coaching capital of the country. Playing tennis has been her passion since childhood. Komal has won 7-8 junior level district championships, two state-level championships and also attempted national-level events while being the student of a renowned English medium public school in the city. She scored 98.7% marks in CBSE class 10 exam and 98.9% in class 12. “I incorporated games into my schedule with studies and played tennis regularly with the same significant indulgence as that of the studies and consequently found my efficiency tremendously increased as I could memorise the toughest stuff in a very short time,” Komal said, adding she stopped taking part in sports activities after Class 10 but maintained playing tennis regularly in the city’s club. Being the daughter of prominent physician of the city Manoj Sulja, radiologist mother Anju Saluja, Komal got an opportunity to observe doctor’s profession since very early age while seeing her parents serve and help ailing people. “The decision to be a doctor was mine and I opted for biology after class 10 and devoted not more than six hours to study regularly at home,” Komal said, while emphasizing “don’t let sport or indulgence in recreation slip out of your hands just because of your studies. Once you incorporate sports or in your schedule with studies, they (sports) have a great positive impact upon you, they keep up your fitness and also enhance your efficiency in studies.” “We were afraid what our daughter would do in studies as she has been more passionate for sports but by securing AIR-67, she has proved that she’s a all-rounder and we are happy and proud of her,” Manoj Saluja said. Being more concerned over the rising number of cardiac patients in India, Komal wants to pursue her career as a cardiologist and is keen to take admission in Kota Medical College, though she is also eligible for AIIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-tennis-champ-who-aced-neet-in-first-serve/articleshow/78975194.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||Spinal TB patient walks again after a month-long paraplegia||Pune: Being able to walk again is nothing short of a miracle for 60-year-old Savita, a patient of spinal tuberculosis (TB) who suffered total loss of nerve sensations in her lower body early this year.“Initially, it was a stabbing pain in the back. In mid-January, I was doing some work in the kitchen when I lost my balance and fell on the floor,” Savita, a homemaker from Pune, said.Savita’s condition deteriorated quickly after the incident. “In two weeks, I was unable to walk and do my daily tasks on my own. I was completely bed-ridden for over a month,” she said.The doctor, her family consulted, suggested that it might be arthritis or orthotic fracture. But when medication did not help, the family consulted spine specialists at the Sancheti hospital. “When I first examined Savita, she had completely lost sensation in her legs. She had stopped walking,” spine surgeon Shailesh Hadgaonkar, Savita’s treating doctor, said.A slew of medical investigations revealed signs of infection in the spine. “But, we were not sure if it was a tubercular or a non-tubercular infection,” Hadgaonkar said. Spinal TB is often misdiagnosed as arthritis. In Savita’s case, before investigating the cause of the infection in the spine, doctors had observed many symptoms that were normally seen in TB patients.“Savita had lost her weight and appetite. She used to wake up from sleep because of excruciating pain and she gradually lost control of bowel movement. Her spine was compressed. All these factors were indicative of spinal TB,” Hadgaonkar said.Decompressing or relieving the spinal nerves was possible only via surgery. “We did complete decompression of the spinal nerve and removed the pus. When we tested this pus, it came positive for TB bacterium,” the spine surgeon said.The abscess due to TB bacterium had grown in size and caused compression on the spinal cord. “The growth of the abscess had led to nerve compression and affected the lower half of her body,” Hadgaonkar said.Savita was operated upon on March 11. Post-surgery, she was offered a physiotherapy treatment for about a month. “Now, I am happy that I am able to do my daily tasks without being dependant on anybody. I am also able to walk without any support,” Savita said.Sriniwas Shintre, the professor and head of the department of orthopaedics at the state-run BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, said, “Spinal TB with paraplegia is a rare case. Skills of a surgeon while operating on the case also play a major role in the recovery of the patient.” HIGH PREVALENCE IN PUNEDoctors at the Sancheti hospital alone see about 8-10 cases of spinal TB every monthNot all patients with spinal TB require surgery, which is only for worsen cases and those who cannot walkParaplegia is seen in around 10-20% of the newly diagnosed spinal TB cases Even if a patient has developed paraplegia, there is always a good chance of recovery if treated earlySPINAL TBTuberculosis (TB) of the spine (Pott’s Disease) is the commonest form of the skeletal tuberculosisPersistent back pain present even during rest and fever, besides loss of appetite, should alert one to consult his/her doctor without any delayBlood test, x-rays, MRI scan and biopsy aid diagnosisTreatment includes taking anti-tuberculosis medication religiouslyEXTRAPULMONARY TBAlthough tuberculosis of the lungs is more common, tuberculosis of the spine is equally a cause of concern having disastrous and often irreversible complicationsThe incidence of extrapulmonary (outside lungs) TB is 3%Skeletal TB contributes to around 10% of these casesNearly two lakh people in India suffer from tuberculosis of the spine(Source: Spine and Neurosciences Department, Sancheti hospital, Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spinal-tb-patient-walks-again-after-a-month-long-paraplegia/articleshow/78976685.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 1, 2020||Pune||Armed vandals assault two men, damage vehicles||Pune: Two groups, wielding sharp weapons and concrete blocks, assaulted two men and damaged vehicles and street lamps in Nehrunagar in Pimpri and Rahatni in separate incidents on Friday night. Later in the night, the Pimpri police registered cases of attempt to murder and rioting against 100 men, while the Wakad police booked 10 men on similar charges. Some of the suspects have been identified in both the cases. One of the complainants, Nilesh Subhas Jadhav (35) of Pimpri, suffered injuries on his head and hands in the incident. Police said the assault occurred when Jadhav, who is an executive for a private company, exited his office around 9.30pm on Friday. “Jadhav went to his car to keep his laptop when the suspects, on two-wheelers and in cars, attacked him. The men left an injured Jadhav on the spot and went on to damage windshields and windows of eight cars and two private buses parked by the road,” Jadhav’s FIR stated. The suspects later began to walk along the crowded road, brandishing their weapons.After receiving the news of the chaos in Nehrunagar area, Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash visited the crime scene. Police maintained a strong bandobast at the spot on Saturday. In Rahatni, a group of around 10 men armed with sharp weapons and concrete blocks assaulted Akash Jadhav (23) of Shrinagar area around 10.30pm on Friday. Police said the men then proceeded to throw stones at the houses in the area, damaging doors and windows. One of the pelted stones hit Akash’s father, Dattatray, on the head. Police said the men also damaged street lamps. “Akash and four of the suspects had a fallout over a quarrel a while ago. The suspects gathered near his house to exact revenge ,” an officer from the Wakad police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/armed-vandals-assault-two-men-damage-vehicles/articleshow/78976683.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid curbs in place for Pushkaram event||Tirupati: The Andhra Pradesh government has imposed strict curbs on pilgrim congregation for the upcoming Tungabhadra Pushkarams, which would be held from November 20 to December 1. The event is celebrated on the banks of river Tungabhadra in Kurnool every 12 years. On Saturday, state finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy visited the under-construction pushkar ghats and inspected the ongoing arrangements for the festival. He asked officials to be cautious and ensure that all Covid-19 guidelines are strictly followed by the devotees. The government has decided to facilitate organised entry of devotees to the pushkar ghats. Registration of devotees and e-passes will be mandatory to take part in the festival. Adults above the age of 60 years and children below the age of 12 years would not be allowed entry. There would also be restrictions on movement of devotees at the ghats. Devotees would be allowed to enter the ghats in a time bound manner and won’t be allowed to spend more than 15 minutes there. The government has also decided to allow only a batch of 20 devotees at one time to avoid overcrowding. Covid-19 testing centres and medical camps would also be set up and requisite number of doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff would be deployed at all places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-curbs-in-place-for-pushkaram-event/articleshow/78975232.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Agra||‘Agra metro will start operating by Dec 2022’||Agra: Following a review meeting with local authorities in Agra, housing and urban affairs secretary of the government of India Durga Shanker Mishra said that metro rail in Agra city will start operating by the end of December 2022. The construction of metro rail will start by the end of 2020. In the first phase, three metro stations (Fatehabad road, Taj Mahal east gate and Basai) will be developed and metro rail track will be laid in seven kilometers near the Taj Mahal. Metro rail will be covering a distance of 32km. The entire project is targeted to be completed by 2025. “The metro rail project is estimated to cost over Rs 8,000 crore. It was prove to be a major boost to the urban public transport connectivity in Agra,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-metro-will-start-operating-by-dec-2022/articleshow/78974199.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Business||ICICI net up 6 times, hits record quarterly profit||MUMBAI: ICICI Bank on Friday reported its highest quarterly profit ever and said that it expects to return to normal from the next financial year given the resumption of economic activity in the country. The country’s second-largest private sector bank reported a net profit of Rs 4,251 crore for the quarter ended September 2020 — an increase of 550% from Rs 655 crore in September 2019. The profits were bolstered by a sharp fall in provisions for bad loans coupled with a reduction in its cost of funds. For several quarters now, the bank has been making chunky provisions for past loans that had soured. The bank indicated that the process of providing for legacy loans is now over. The bank also said that the board has approved the reappointment of its MD and CEO Sandeep Bakhshi for another two-year term up to October 2023. Bakhshi was appointed in October 2018 for a three-year term which ends in 2021. Announcing the results, Sandeep Batra, president, ICICI Bank said “Pandemics do not last long and as a society, we are learning to live with precautions. As economic activity comes back we expect growth to be normal. We expect norm-alisation of the portfolio given the quality of assets that we have built,” he said. According to Batra, while the current fiscal might see some provisions on account of Covid-19, credit costs were expected to normalise in FY21. The bank’s domestic loan book grew 10% year-on-year while retail loans grew 13%. Total deposits grew by 20% year-on-year to Rs 832,936 crore at September 30, 2020. Watch ICICI Bank hits highest quarterly profit ever, up 6 times||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-net-up-6-times-hits-record-quarterly-profit/articleshow/78976854.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||MVA govt will complete tenure, says Sanjay Raut||PUNE: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday asserted that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state would complete its tenure of five years despite many predicting a year ago that it would not last even 15 days. Claiming that the Congress leaders in the state government were not unhappy, Raut said NCP chief Sharad Pawar was among the most experienced leaders in the country and there was no need for anyone to feel bad about consulting him. “Many leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have consulted Pawar. If the governor wants to consult him, I shall request Pawar accordingly,” Raut said during an interaction with reporters at the Pune Union of Working Journalists. He said, “Similar allegations were levelled on Balasaheb Thackeray. It was said he was running the government when Mahohar Joshi and Gopinath Munde were the chief minister and the deputy chief minister, respectively. It has to be understood that when more than one party is in power, the senior leaders of parties are always consulted.” Without naming Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray about his recent meeting with the governor, Raut said meeting the governor regarding issues pertaining to Maharashtra was an insult of the state. “One has to meet the chief minister and or the respective ministers, doing excellent work,” he said. On if there was a plan to contest the forthcoming municipal elections under the MVA banner, Raut said, “It is not only about Mumbai. I feel that it would be beneficial for the state if the elections of the local self-government bodies in Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad are fought together as we are already running the government together in good coordination.” Raut also praised Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray for the way he handled the Covid-19 pandemic, claiming that the situation in Maharashtra had been much better than other states. He said Pune was now on the centre stage of the state politics because many important leaders were from here. It was Mumbai at the time of Balasaheb Thackeray, Raut said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mva-govt-will-complete-tenure-says-raut/articleshow/78976687.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||A short tale of friendship and tragedy earns big at Student Academy Award||Pune: Bittu, a diploma film made by Karishma Dev Dube for her degree at New York University’s Tisch School, has won the silver medal at the 47th Student Academy Award administered by the Academy of Motion Pictures, Arts, and Sciences (AMPAS), which hands out the Oscars.American filmmaker Spike Lee announced the award for Bittu, named after the eponymous protagonist of the film, on October 21.Bittu is a 17-minute-long film set in the Himalayan foothills. It is about the friendship- and tragedy encountered by two kids who go to school together. The film is also a commentary on class divide. Bittu and her friend are migrants studying in a school mostly populated by locals.While the setting is different, the film is inspired by a real-life tragedy of unintentional food poisoning at a school in Bihar’s Chhapra in 2013. Altogether 23 children died of food poisoning at the school in Gandaman village. The tragedy occurred due to food being cooked in oil stored in a drum previously used to keep insecticide. The headmistress of the school, whose house the cooking oil was stored, was sentenced to 17 years in prison for negligence and culpable homicide.While the role of teacher was played by an actor from Mumbai, Saurabh Saraswat, Dube and her crew sought out the children who played the lead roles from the community that they shot the film in.According to Saraswat, working with children in a film poses a challenge on multiple fronts. “First, there were only a few scenes in which I was with the kids. So, I had to often imagine the characters sitting or standing in front of me. Second, I have never worked with kids before. The experience taught me a lot of things about films and acting,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-short-tale-of-friendship-and-tragedy-earns-big-at-student-academy-award/articleshow/78976686.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 1, 2020||---||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar promises to waive education loan of poor students||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday announced a major relief for the beneficiaries of the state government’s student credit card scheme (SCCS) promising to waive education loans provided under the scheme if a student is not in a position to repay. The state government provides education loan of up to Rs 4 lakh to intermediate pass students under the SCCS to pursue higher education. “I always tell people to help your children pursue higher education. The government is giving this money (Rs 4 lakh) for pursuing higher education. Lekin agar lautane ki sthiti mein nahi honge to maaf kar diya jayega,” the CM said, addressing an election rally in Saharsa's Simri Bakhtiarpur assembly seat. Nitish further said his government launched the student credit card scheme to help students whose parents are not able to financially support their higher education. Speaking at another election rally in the same district, Nitish raised the issue of prohibition claiming that the illegal liquor lobby wants him out. “I am only interested in serving the people, but those involved in the illegal liquor business want to defeat JD(U) in this election.” Nitish had imposed liquor prohibition in the state in April 2016 barely four months after coming to power for his third consecutive term in November 2015. At another rally in Khagaria, the JD(U) chief highlighted the poor law and order condition in the state during RJD’s rule between 1990 and 2005. He said, “During the previous husband-wife government (Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi), kidnapping had become an industry, forcing many traders and doctors to leave the state.” He added, “No development work took place during their regime, and there were no institutions during that time. We created institutions and set Bihar on its journey of development.” Talking about the water-related problems faced by the people of Khagaria, the CM said, “During my tour of Khagaria during the Vikas Yatra, I found that iron content in water was so high that it could be tasted. I decided that unless clean drinking water is provided in this region the health of the people will suffer. And we started work on providing clean water here." Reiterating the JD(U)’s ‘zero tolerance’ policy on communal riots, Nitish said in Bhagalpur that the past governments had not done anything to ensure justice for the victims of the infamous riots. “But we got the pending cases of Bhagalpur riots re-probed and took action against people involved. We gave the victims Rs 2,500 financial aid and later raised it Rs 5,000 after 2013,” Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-promises-to-waive-edu-loan-of-poor-students/articleshow/78977860.cms||Madan Kumar
November 1, 2020||Goa||Filming charges in govt hospitals revised||Panaji: The state government has revised the rates charged for film shoots inside government-run hospitals and health centres. The order also states that shooting should be carried out on Sundays or public holidays, and preferably not on out-patient department (OPD) functioning days. A revised fee of Rs 5,000 will be charged for a two-hour slot ‘to film producers or production companies etc, for shooting of scenes for film, serials in or within the premises of hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres under the Directorate of Health Services (DHS), a notification issued by under-secretary (health) Swati A Dalvi states. The fee for a four-hour slot will be Rs 7,000, while an 8-hour slot will cost Rs 10,000. Filming for a slot of over 12 hours can be undertaken by paying a fee of Rs 20,000, while the charge for a 12-hour shooting slot has been fixed at Rs 15,000. The notification also says that any damages during filming will have to be compensated for. “Proper care of the property and equipment of DHS should be taken. Charges for damage of equipment, property will have to be paid for,” the order states. Rupa Naik will be the nodal officer to grant such permissions for film shooting in DHS-run premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/filming-charges-in-govt-hospitals-revised/articleshow/78976278.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar promises to waive education loan of poor students||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday announced a major relief for the beneficiaries of the state government’s student credit card scheme (SCCS) promising to waive education loans provided under the scheme if a student is not in a position to repay. The state government provides education loan of up to Rs 4 lakh to intermediate pass students under the SCCS to pursue higher education. “I always tell people to help your children pursue higher education. The government is giving this money (Rs 4 lakh) for pursuing higher education. Lekin agar lautane ki sthiti mein nahi honge to maaf kar diya jayega,” the CM said, addressing an election rally in Saharsa's Simri Bakhtiarpur assembly seat. Nitish further said his government launched the student credit card scheme to help students whose parents are not able to financially support their higher education. Speaking at another election rally in the same district, Nitish raised the issue of prohibition claiming that the illegal liquor lobby wants him out. “I am only interested in serving the people, but those involved in the illegal liquor business want to defeat JD(U) in this election.” Nitish had imposed liquor prohibition in the state in April 2016 barely four months after coming to power for his third consecutive term in November 2015. At another rally in Khagaria, the JD(U) chief highlighted the poor law and order condition in the state during RJD’s rule between 1990 and 2005. He said, “During the previous husband-wife government (Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi), kidnapping had become an industry, forcing many traders and doctors to leave the state.” He added, “No development work took place during their regime, and there were no institutions during that time. We created institutions and set Bihar on its journey of development.” Talking about the water-related problems faced by the people of Khagaria, the CM said, “During my tour of Khagaria during the Vikas Yatra, I found that iron content in water was so high that it could be tasted. I decided that unless clean drinking water is provided in this region the health of the people will suffer. And we started work on providing clean water here." Reiterating the JD(U)’s ‘zero tolerance’ policy on communal riots, Nitish said in Bhagalpur that the past governments had not done anything to ensure justice for the victims of the infamous riots. “But we got the pending cases of Bhagalpur riots re-probed and took action against people involved. We gave the victims Rs 2,500 financial aid and later raised it Rs 5,000 after 2013,” Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-promises-to-waive-edu-loan-of-poor-students/articleshow/78975212.cms||Madan Kumar
November 1, 2020||Trichy||Credit for 7.5% quota goes to opposition parties: K S Alagiri||TRICHY: Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K S Alagiri has said that the credit for the government’s order to bring into force the 7.5% reservation for government school students in MBBS admissions goes to the opposition parties and not the ruling AIADMK, BJP or governor Banwarilal Purohit. “The government passed a GO after the Puduchery government gave 10% reservation for government school students in medicine courses. Unable to withstand the pressure, Tamil Nadu governor also gave his consent for the reservation. But it all happened after a series of protests by the opposition parties. So, it is not the victory of AIADMK, BJP and the governor,” Alagiri told reporters on Saturday. He was in Trichy to participate in the demonstrations organised by the Congress against the two farm bills in Trichy rural areas and Ariyalur district. Alagiri said that the committee led by retired justice P Kalaiyarasan recommended 10% internal reservation for government school students in MBBS. “The government reduced the reservation to 7.5%. Despite tabling it before the governor, he did not give his consent for 45 days. If the governor rejects, it can be enacted as law in the assembly but the government did not accept it and did not even write to the governor,” he said. On the proposed Vetrivel Yatra of BJP president L Murugan, Alagiri said, “If the ‘Vel’ of Lord Muruga is in our hands, it will be for the safety of the people. When it goes to the hands of BJP, it will be bloodshed. No one can drive a wedge in the soil known for secular spirituality,” said Alagiri. He also criticized the GoBackStalin trending on Twitter against DMK president M K Stalin for participating in Thevar Jayanthi event. He said people here shunned Prime Minister Narendra Modi because of him not valuing south Indians. On the survey being conducted by TNCC across the state, Alagiri said, “We survey the mood of the people. So far, it shows AIADMK-BJP trailing behind DMK-Congress alliance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/credit-for-7-5-quota-goes-to-oppn-parties-alagiri/articleshow/78976256.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||Niti Aayog drafts land titling rules based on Maharashtra model||PUNE: Maharashtra’s draft land titling Act has inspired the central government think tank, Niti Aayog, to recommend similar rules for other states in the country. The draft rules were recommended by a task force, which was set up in 2017, chaired by noted agriculture economist T Haque and comprising experts from across the country, including Maharashtra settlement commissioner S Chockalingam. The task force was formed to study the feasibility of implementing land titling across the country. Central government officials close to the development said the objective of the draft rules was to facilitate easy access of credit to farmers, reduce land-related litigation, enable transparent real estate transactions and land acquisition for infrastructure developments. Land being a state subject, it is incumbent upon each state to adopt and roll out the model legislation. Chockalingam said land titling would be a gamechanger in terms of protecting property rights. “This has the potential to improve the GDP by over 1% and the added advantage of creating new record of rights via drone survey. Maharashtra has been showing the way in both drone survey and land titling,” Chockalingam said. The state cabinet had approved the bill and introduced it in the monsoon session of the assembly in 2019. However, it lapsed when the assembly was dissolved ahead of last year’s elections. The current state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told TOI that the government was keen to get the bill passed in the upcoming winter session of the assembly. In India, land transactions are currently based on the presumptive land titles. This is set to change in the proposed Act, under which a presumptive land title (including all objections and suggestions) stands to become a conclusive title without any external action. Chockalingam said the task force had studied guaranteed land titling systems adopted in different countries, such as Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and the United Kingdom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/niti-aayog-recommends-land-titling-rules-based-on-maha-model/articleshow/78976690.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: I-T raids yield unaccounted assets worth over Rs 75 crore||PATNA: The Income Tax department raids on the offices and residential premises of four contractor groups based in Patna, Bhagalpur, Hilsa (Nalanda) and Katihar have yielded Rs 3.21 crore in cash and fixed deposits of over R s30 crore. The I-T department has started scrutiny of the documents seized related to huge investments by the contractors linked with different government welfare schemes, including the ‘Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal’ project. During the searches, cash up to Rs 3.21 crore was seized. Fixed deposits of Rs 30 crore and properties worth Rs 16 crore were placed under prohibitory orders. “The searches have led to unearthing of unaccounted income of about Rs 75 crore so far,” an official statement issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on late Friday night said, adding that evidences of unaccounted cash entries, unaccounted sales and purchase worth over Rs8 crore were found during survey of contractors engaged in rock mining in Gaya. The I-T raids have generated much political heat in the state in election time with LJP chief Chirag Paswan saying the flames of probe may ‘engulf’ even CM Nitish Kumar. The raids were conducted on Thursday. A survey was also conducted on some traders engaged in stone quarrying in Gaya. All the four contractor groups were found to have been evading taxes by inflating expenses for the supply of material and labour. In one such case, according to authoritative sources, payments were made to various parties without any evidence of supplies. “Payments made to bogus parties were received back as an unsecured loan or sometimes withdrawn in cash. Such loans are of about Rs10 crore. Further, substantial bogus purchasers were debited in the books. Such creditors amount to about Rs20 crore,” the CBDT statement said. During the searches, bank documents, accounts and other material of bogus parties were seized from the premises of the assessees. The scrutiny of the seized documents clearly showed that the parties were not genuine and bank accounts were opened by the assessees only, the official statement said. During investigation, it also came to surface that payments for inflated expenses were made by bearer cheques. These payments were withdrawn from the bank accounts by the assessees’ own men. In addition, there were sundry creditors for unpaid labour of about Rs15 crore in another group. “These have been found bogus during investigation,” the statement said. The opposition targeted the Nitish government over the issue. Chirag on Saturday said, “The I-T searches have so far detected unaccounted property of Rs75 crore and the amount may increase in the course of investigation in days to come.” He alleged that the ‘Saat Nishchay’ scheme is nothing but bungling of public funds. “I will ensure that those involved in plundering public money go to jail whosoever they may be,” Chirag said. RJD leader and opposition’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav shared an old video of PM Narendra Modi on his official twitter handle in which PM is heard listing altogether 33 scams linked to the state government. “Respected Nitish Kumar ji, over 60 scams of over Rs30,000 crore have happened. Of these, 33 were listed by PM Modi five years back ... You can listen for yourself,” Tejashwi tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/i-t-raids-yield-unaccounted-assets-worth-over-rs75-crore/articleshow/78975272.cms||Ramashankar
November 1, 2020||Mangaluru||On eve of local body polls, BJP packs Karwar, Ankola councillors to Goa resort||Karwar: Twenty members of the BJP of Karwar CMC and some members of Ankola Town Municipality have been shifted to a resort in Goa to protect them from being poached during the election to the preisdent and the vice-president posts in the respective local bodies. On the eve of the election, BJP played safe by shifting its members to a state where the party is in power. Though the election is scheduled for Sunday, there is a difference of opinion in the BJP camp over the selection of candidates for the top posts. JD(S) has openly offered its support to BJP, and the latter has absolute majority. Though the saffron party has finalised the list of the candidates, it fears cross-voting by its members. As a precautionary measure, BJP and JD(S) members, as also some independents, were sent to a star hotel at Canacona in Goa. On Saturday, they were first summoned to a hotel in Karwar, only to be packed off to the hotel in Canacona, 50km from here. On Sunday morning, they will be directly ferried to the election venue in Karwar. However, local BJP leaders dismissed the development, saying the party members and the allies are together, and nobody will break away. “Our members had not gone anywhere since March. They are in a Goa hotel for recreation,” BJP sources said. Meanwhile, Congress members at Karwar CMC said that they will abstain from voting on Sunday. “The party has completely surrendered to BJP, and giving it the posts of president and vice-president in Karwar and Ankola on a platter. High command should take note of this. Else the party will be decimated in the area,” they said. —— THE LAST RESORT: The resort at Canacona in Goa, where the BJP members are holed up; vehicles that ferried the CMC members are parked outside the resort||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/on-eve-of-local-body-polls-bjp-packs-karwar-ankola-councillors-to-goa-resort/articleshow/78974107.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Immigration policies an issue: Telugu voters||Hyderabad: With early voting in full swing in the US, a number of Telugu-Americans have cast their ballot. Battle lines are drawn within the community, with people speaking about their choice of candidates, especially in context of the spotlight on immigration. Among those who went in-person to a polling booth in Georgia was Veeranjan Bonthu. “This is the first time I voted in the presidential elections and I voted for Joe Biden. I believe in the issues Democrats stand for, including climate change and immigration.” “The US attracts the best talent from all over the world, and I hope once Biden comes to power a lot of recent rules are reversed,” said the voter, who cast his ballot on October 12. Regarding decisions taken on the H-1B this year, Sridhar Dadi, who voted on Saturday at Katy in Texas said, “These are just stringent immigration laws to bring the best of immigration talent.” The Republican supporter said US president Donald Trump’s proven leadership is what the country needs again, especially during these difficult times. Early voting has broken records with over 8.7 crore Americans availing this option, according to the US Elections Project. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, there has been some form of early voting underway in all 50 states. Also supporting the Democratic party is Jayanth Challa, a businessman from Virginia. Speaking about the high-skilled visa issue, he said, “The current administration has created lots of administrative obstacles to deny and delay H-1B process. The Biden-Harris camp on the other hand is encouraging and smoothening the process for high skilled immigration. They want to increase the number of H-1Bs available, increase per-country cap on green cards and have also mooted that people awarded PhDs in US be given green cards along with the doctorate.” On the economic front, he said manufacturing and innovation would be brought to the country, ending dependency on places like China. In disagreement, Republican supporters often cite Trump’s anti-China stance as a reason for their backing. Sunny Reddy from battleground Michigan said, “I voted for Trump because of the hard-hitting stance against China and the support he has given India, something not many have had the guts to do.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/immigration-policies-an-issue-telugu-voters/articleshow/78975271.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy writes to PM Modi, seeks funds for Polavaram||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention to direct the Union Finance Ministry and the Union Jal Shakti Ministry to release funds for Polavaram and support the state government to complete the project by December 2021. Though the chief minister wrote the letter to the Prime minister on October 28, minister for water resources P Anil Kumar released it to the media here on Saturday. Amid fresh controversy over the total cost of the project, the chief minister tried to draw the attention of the prime minister to the decision of the Revised Cost Committee (RCC) of the Jal Shakti Ministry which had put the total project cost at Rs 47,617.74 crore on June 3, 2020 as against Rs 55,548.87 crore recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on February 18, 2019. ‘Polavaram was declared nat’l project’The chief minister said that the Polavaram project was declared a national project as part of the AP Reorganisation Act 2014 and the responsibility of completing the project was rested with the Central government. He said that completion of the project with its own funds was the constitutional binding on the Central government as per the Reorganisation Act. Even after the declaration as national project, the Central government through the Jal Shakti ministry, the Central Water Commission, the Polavaram Project Authority, the TAC and the RCC, had series of deliberations over the cost of the project, Jagan Mohan Reddy said. He listed the series of the meetings held between the agencies of the Central government and the officials of the state government since bifurcation. He further said that the project cost was proposed and discussed to be fixed at different base prices, starting from the price of 2010-11 to finally at 2017-18 price level. The chief minister said that the land acquisition and the rehabilitation and resettlement of the displaced families would alone cost Rs 28,191 crore. The chief minister wanted the Central government to meet all costs of the project, starting from the cost of the civil works to land acquisition, rehabilitation and resettlement. He tried to impress upon the Prime Minister that “any further delay (in release of funds) would only further increase the cost of the project, which in turn will do no good to the national interests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagan-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-funds-for-polavaram/articleshow/78975276.cms||Gopi Dara
November 1, 2020||Mysuru||Visit expo on cartoonist RK Laxman today||Mysuru: Karnataka Cartoonist Association (Bengaluru) has organised an exhibition to commemorate the birth centenary celebrations of renowned cartoonist R K Laxman. The two-day expo will conclude at 5pm on Sunday. ‘My Times with RK Laxman’, being held at Mysore Art Gallery (MAG) on Ramanuja Road, showcases photos, cartoons and the works of city-based cartoonist M V Nagendra Babu . Social worker K Raghuram Vajpayee on Saturday inaugurated the expo in the presence of Karnataka Chitrakala Parishat (Bengaluru) assistant professor Babu Jatkar, Rangayana director Addanda C Cariappa, MAG founder-president L Shivalingappa and yoga instructor N Ananth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/visit-expo-on-cartoonist-rk-laxman-today/articleshow/78974243.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Two college students, school girl go missing||TRICHY: Trichy city has witnessed three incidents in which two women college students and a school student went missing from their residences in the past couple of days. A 20-year-old BA English literature student at a private college hailing from Thiruvanaikovil went missing on Wednesday afternoon. The woman left her home informing her father that she was going to meet a friend but she failed to return till Friday. Acting on a complaint from the father, the Srirangam police registered a case. On the same day, a 17-year-old girl from Edamalaipatti Pudhur also left her home but failed to return. She was studying in Class XII and attending online classes from home. On Wednesday, she told her friend that she was going to meet another friend at Manikandam on the outskirts of the city. Since she did not return home, her father lodged a complaint with the police on Thursday suspecting that she may have eloped with a youth. Another incident reported on Thursday was of a 22-year-old woman from Ramji Nagar, a BE student at a private engineering college in Trichy. On Thursday, she went to a public toilet near her house but did not return. Her father lodged a complaint with the police the same day stating that his daughter may have eloped with a youth with whom she was in love. Cases have been registered in these two incidents and investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-college-students-school-girl-go-missing/articleshow/78976282.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||GU extends date for PhD admission||Panaji: The Goa University has extended the last date for applying for PhD and MPhil seats to November 12. Aspirants can apply through the online mode for the close to 300 seats, including those in central government institutions like National Institute of Oceanography and National Centre for Polar and Oceanic Research based in Goa. “The dates of Goa University PhD Entrance Test (GU-PET) are rescheduled due to the CSIR-UGC-NET,” a GU notification stated. Earlier, the university was to accept applications up to October 30 for the 300 PhD and MPhil seats for 2020. The seats are on offer at Goa University campus as well as at research centres in affiliated colleges. As per the new schedule, GU-PET will be held on December 1 and 2. The varsity will conduct GU-PET consisting of two tests of 100 marks each. The test results will be declared on December 11. For those who qualify for the seats at GU-PET, interviews will be conducted from December 15 to 17. Those exempted from answering GU-PET will also have to appear for the interviews on the same dates. The list of selected candidates will be announced on December 22 and the last date for admission and payment of fees will be January 11, 2021. Of the 286 PhD seats up for grabs, 133 are available for general category students and the rest for reserved categories, including 25 for economically weaker sections (EWS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-extends-date-for-phd-admission/articleshow/78976322.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Monastic school case: Teacher, who felt guilty of escalating matter, kills self||DEHRADUN: In an unfortunate turn of events in the Sakya Academy case, a staff member of the school hanged himself on Saturday evening. According to the police, the teacher, in his suicide note, has stated that he was using a mobile phone in the campus against the school norm and felt guilty of escalating the matter involving alleged abuse of school students from Nepal. The teacher who has killed himself was junior to the teacher who has been accused of abuse. “According to the initial evidences and the suicide note left by him, the teacher hanged himself in guilt as he thought his mobile phone played a role in escalating the abuse case. The photos and other information relating to the case probably reached Internet platforms due to his mobile phone. We are still investigating the suicide,” said Lokjeet Singh, SP (crime) Dehradun. Meanwhile, three of the seven boys who had escaped from the monastic school were brought back to Dehradun from the India-Nepal border check post at Banbasa on Friday. This comes a day after a police probe was initiated against the monastic school. SP (crime), Dehradun, Lokjeet Singh, who is investigating the matter, said that the statements of all the students have been recorded. “We have registered the statement of the in-house students. The three students, who were brought back on Friday, have not complained of any major physical abuse. The allegations of violence have been levelled by some other students who didn’t flee and we are ascertaining if such a crime took place or not,” said Singh, while adding that the male teacher who has been accused of thrashing students can’t be interrogated at present as he has tested Covid-19-positive and is presently undergoing treatment. It has also been revealed that the three students who escaped on Wednesday had booked a cab from Dehradun to Banbasa. The remaining four students, who had fled the school, somehow managed to reach their homes. To recall, some of the students of the school in question had alleged that the staff members had thrashed them when they sought permission to go to their homes. The principal and other staff members of Sakya Academy were interrogated by the police at the school on Saturday evening. The monastic school has also started making a list of the students who wish to go back to their homes. However, permission shall be taken from parents for their return and only after the completion of the police investigation, the listed students will be sent back to their respective homes. Notably, an employee at the monastic school said that several students, all in their teenage, are feeling homesick because they have been stuck in the school for months now due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/monastic-school-case-teacher-who-felt-guilty-of-escalating-matter-kills-self/articleshow/78974250.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||AP: Lowest death count since July 10||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh saw 2,783 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the state’s tally of cases to 8,23,348. With 14 more deaths due to the virus, the toll rose to 6,690. This was the lowest single-day casualty count in over 110 days since the state recorded 15 deaths on July 10. The daily fatality count which was restricted to single digits till June had increased to an average of 90 deaths a day in August before coming down to the 50 to 60 deaths in September. This further came down to twenties range over the last three weeks. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-lowest-death-count-since-july-10/articleshow/78975288.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Serious patients landing at hospital||Hyderabad: Though overall bed occupancy has decreased from nearly 40% (October first week) to 17% (now) in the state, majority of beds occupied are ICU and oxygen beds, indicating serious patients in hospitals. Despite the overall number of daily Covid-19 positive cases declining from nearly 3,000 to 1,400 now, there seems to be no let-up in the intensity of the infection. Going by statistics, 25% ICU beds in government sector and 20% in private sector were occupied, while 12% oxygen beds in government sector and 21% in private sector were occupied on Saturday. These account for nearly 75% of Covid hospitalisations. “Although people have lowered their guard now and overall number of cases are reducing, but the virulence has not reduced. While majority of the people are asymptomatic and many might not be testing as earlier when people were more inclined to testing, we have serious patients only coming to hospitals,” Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr M Raja Ram said, suggesting people continue to take all necessary Covid precautions. Experts point out towards the tendency to wait out and ignore initial symptoms. Moreover, even if overall deaths in state have decreased, severe cases continue to be reported in good numbers. “While earlier, a lot of patients coming to us could be redirected to government quarantine centres. However, of late, most patients coming are being sent to Gandhi Hospital or Chest Hospital and a few are being sent to quarantine centres as most are coming with severe symptoms,” a source at King Koti Hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/serious-patients-landing-at-hospital/articleshow/78975284.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 1, 2020||Patna||ASI, two home guard jawans held in engineer’s death case||PATNA: A police officer and two home guard jawans have been arrested and sent to jail for their alleged involvement in merciless thrashing of an engineer at Bihpur police station of Naugachia in Bhagalpur, leading to his death on October 25. Bihpur’s SHO Ranjeet Kumar, who has been suspended, and a contractual police driver named Jehangir are also accused in the murder case and evading arrest. The arrested ASI Shiv Balak Prasad and home guards Rajesh Paswan and Manoj Kumar Chaudhary were deputed at Mahant Sthan chowk with a magistrate Sanjeev Kumar for vehicle checking when a bike brushed the one of deceased engineer, Ashutosh Kumar Pathak alias Appu Pathak (33), leading to arguments between the two bikers at around 3pm on October 24. Pathak was a native of Marwa under Jhandapur police outpost of Bihpur police station area, police outpost incharge Shiv Prasad Ramani said on Saturday. The deceased had a one-year-old daughter. He said police came to know he was depressed and had been undergoing treatment for kidney ailment. “Pathak was returning from temple when he had arguments with another biker. SHO Ranjit also reached there and intervened. All of a sudden Pathak rained punches on SHO’s face. Pathak was thrashed there and taken to Bihpur police station in a police vehicle. There he was beaten further,” Ramani said. Ramani said when he reached Bihpur police station at around 7pm, Pathak was bleeding from nose and in a serious condition inside the lock-up. He said Pathak was rushed to a nearby primary health centre and then to Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur where he died during treatment at around 3am on October 25. He said the ASI was posted at Kadwa police outpost while the two home guards were posted at Bihpur police station. The incharge said the three were non-FIR accused in the case. He said the postmortem report mentions that Pathak died of haemorrhage and shock from multiple injuries received from blunt object. He said the arrested home guards also confessed that the suspended SHO had thrashed Pathak mercilessly with baton until he had started bleeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/asi-two-home-guard-jawans-held-in-engineers-death-case/articleshow/78975291.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 1, 2020||India||IIMC professor appointments raise brows||NEW DELHI: A string of controversial appointments firmed up by the Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC) in October have raised concerns over the selection process at the premier media institute. Pramod Saini, a former senior sub-editor at Organiser, who was appointed as assistant professor to the Central University in Himachal Pradesh after the coronavirus pandemic struck this year, has been elevated in under 6 months as professor at IIMC. Another appointment confirmed on October 26 is that of senior journalist Sangeeta Pranvendra, who is also the daughter-in-law of VHP leader Acharya Dharmendra Dev. Anil Kumar Saumitra, who was suspended by BJP as Madhya Pradesh BJP media cell chief for referring to Mahatma Gandhi as the “Father of Pakistan”, has been appointed professor. Former journalist Rakesh Goswami has also been appointed professor. “The current appointments are simply symptomatic of a deeper malaise that has set into the appointment process. Many appointments are simply pushed in the name of industry experience. As a deemed university, appointments must only be in line with UGC norms,” said a former faculty member of IIMC. Sources told TOI that it is for this reason that in December last year, the IIMC Society and its Executive Council, the key decision-making bodies, opposed the elevation to professorship of IIMC’s associate professor Shashwati Goswami, a former transmission executive at All India Radio, on grounds that she does not hold a PhD degree, a necessary prerequisite for being appointed professor. Her elevation was since put on hold. A member of the IIMC Society told TOI that the appointment of the seven new incumbents will also have to be ratified by the IIMC EC, expected to meet for the first time since the Covid pandemic in November. Accepting that the controversy is not limited to one appointment but runs deeper, the member said the tussle is over IIMC’s autonomy, which many believe has “given way to bureaucratic control” in recent years. Another person associated with IIMC also alleged that though the institute was granted Deemed university status some years ago, the bureaucratic remains unwilling to cede ground. The secretary of the ministry of Information and Broadcasting is the IIMC chairman. IIMC Director General Sanjay Dwivedi could not be contacted for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iimc-professor-appointments-raise-brows/articleshow/78976858.cms||Swati Mathur
November 1, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Special team formed to curb wildlife crime||MYSURU:The forest department has formed special teams in Chamarajanagar district to curb wildlife crimes and respond to emergencies. The teams headed by deputy range forest officers will constantly monitor developments in wildlife reserves. Chamarajanagar district includes Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary, Male Mahadeshwara Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Temple Tiger Reserve and Bandipur Tiger Reserve, which all have a large number of tigers, leopards and elephants. These reserves are threatened by poachers. chief conservator of forests Manoj Kumar said that initially a team with six DRFOs along with forest guards and watchers has been formed to work in BRT Tiger Reserve. “The team will later be used in other reserves,” he said. MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary DCF V Yedukondalu, “It is a rapid response team which will help in detecting wildlife crimes and forest fires. The teams will be provided special skills and equipment to improve their efficiency. Each division will have one or two teams.” The team will be given training in forensic science, intelligence gathering and using weapons and will start work from next week, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/special-team-formed-to-curb-wildlife-crime/articleshow/78974256.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Dehradun||Work to make India self-reliant: PM Modi asks civil service trainees at LBSNAA||MUSSOORIE: In his second ‘Aarambh’ address, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the civil service trainees, undergoing the 95th foundation course at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA), to work in the direction of making India ‘Atma Nirbhar’ (self-reliant) and be vocal for local commodities. During his 32-minute-long address via video conferencing, PM Modi said that the civil servants have a major role to play in making India self-reliant and hoped that the young officers would earnestly work in this direction. He also urged the probationers of Indian Civil Services to use “Made in India” products in day-to-day life. PM Modi reminded the trainee officers that they will start working in the 75th year of Indian Independence and would be in active service when the country celebrates 100 years of freedom. “When you start working in the field, the country would be in the 75th year of Independence which is a major milestone for the country and you would continue to be in active service when the country would celebrate 100 years of Independence,” he said. The PM told the trainees that they will be shouldering a “huge responsibility” in the next two decades. He asked the officers to work for the welfare of poor people and farmers, safeguard rights of women and youths, and help India achieve its rightful place of glory in the global forum. PM Modi said that all decisions taken by the civil servants must be guided by national interests, must maintain the spirit of the Constitution, uphold unity and integrity of the country and must be guided by a national perspective. In his address, the PM also paid homage to Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel on the occasion of his birth anniversary. He said that Sardar Patel was, in a way, the father of civil services in the country and he had addressed the first batch of administrative service officers in 1947. “Sardar Patel had referred to civil servants as the steel frame of the country and I reiterate the same,” the PM said. The PM addressed more than 400 officer trainees, including those who have joined the Indian Administrative Services (IAS), Indian Foreign Services (IFS), Indian Police Service (IPS), Indian Forest Services (IFS) and various other Central services. Notably, ‘Aarambh’ is an integrated foundation course which was launched in 2019 with an aim to make the “civil servants capable of leading the transformation and work seamlessly across departments and fields”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/work-to-make-india-self-reliant-pm-modi-asks-civil-service-trainees-at-lbsnaa/articleshow/78974263.cms||Anmol Jain
November 1, 2020||Goa||Law college prof seeks cop protection||Panaji: An assistant professor at a Panaji law college has written to the North Goa SP seeking police protection, stating that she fears for her life and safety after being subject to online harassment. Shilpa Singh, who teaches at VM Salgaocar College of Law, also asked police to file a counter-complaint against Ponda-resident Rajiv Jha, who she said was encouraging trolling and inciting hateful comments against her on social media. Jha had earlier asked police to file an FIR against Singh, stating that she compared women in mangalsutra to chained dogs and those in hijab to covered electronic goods. Singh, in her complaints, said that Jha was “inciting a lynchmob against me using the pretext of religious sentiments”. She asked police to book Jha for insulting the modesty of a woman, defamation, criminal intimidation to her and family, and for breach of public peace. “The constant attack and vilification has caused immeasurable mental agony to me. I fear for my safety and life, and hence I request police to provide me protection deemed suitable,” she said in her letter to the North Goa SP. “The accused has subjected me to online harassment by authoring a post wherein he accuses me of hurting religious sentiments on baseless grounds, and shares a screenshot of my posts alongside a police complaint he has made against me. In the police complaint, he has subjected me to choice abuses like obnoxious,” Singh told police. She alleged that Jha was criminally intimidating her through his actions, and inviting others to make derogatory comments against her, while he approved of such comments through his ‘likes’. She also said she is being constantly vilified and abused by different persons in response to Jha’s post, adding that this was an insult to her dignity as a woman, and that it is physically threatening to her. On October 9, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) had complained to the law college Singh is employed in, alleging that she was “promoting hateful thoughts against a particular religion” during her online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/law-college-prof-seeks-cop-protection/articleshow/78976292.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||Virus likely slowed by dip in available targets: Experts||PUNE: A dip in the number of susceptible people, after nearly eight months of spread, may have slowed down the pandemic’s run and reduced the number of new cases in the region, experts have said. The experts — members of the state Covid task force and public health specialists — said scores of citizens with specific antibodies may now be cutting local transmission chains. But all of them agreed that precautions such as masks and physical distancing may have also helped reduce the number of cases. Subhash Salunke, technical adviser to the state on pandemic control, said, “Cities of Maharashtra such as Pune and Mumbai, where the infection likely peaked in September, may now have fewer susceptible people in the population. This development may not fit the definition of herd immunity, but something similar might be at play in these regions.” One possible explanation, the experts said, was an increased number of people with antibodies in the potential super-spreaders category — individuals who come in contact with a large number of citizens every day. The list includes vegetable vendors and shopkeepers. The specialists said many of these individuals may now have developed some some protection after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Vasant Nagvekar, a member of the state task force and a consultant with Global Hospitals and Lilavati Hospital, Mumbai, said this protection may be the reason why communities haven’t been showing cases despite easing of curbs and crowding. “A lot of people who may have been asymptomatic now have antibodies. Also, herd immunity is likely playing a role because areas that were once containment zones have not been reporting many new cases. This is why despite relaxations, we are not seeing the numbers that were once feared.” Om Shrivastav, another a member of the task force, said the virus itself may be losing strength — a feature he added could also be temporary. “The pathogen’s aggression may have reduced because there now fewer people to infect. But this hypothesis needs scientific corroboration,” he said. Others said climatic factors should also be considered. “Cases fell soon after the rains receded, which was also when moisture levels dropped,” said task force member Shashank Joshi. The 2003 SARS outbreak is an example of how both weather and precautions played a role in shaping public health outcomes. While this virus did not live long enough to establish seasonal patterns, experts did note weather linkage. Hong Kong, for example, saw cases rise 18 times in colder temperatures. And finally, the spread slumped when weather turned warmer in July. But severe public health restrictions were also in place. For Covid-19, a clear weather link is yet to be established. But experts said it would be wise to stay prepared. Joshi added, “For Maharashtra, and Pune, the first peak seems to be over. But we cannot lower our guard — a second wave in the winter is likely. The task force has urged authorities to insist on masks and physical distancing, especially in areas that experience low temperatures and high pollution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virus-likely-slowed-by-dip-in-available-targets-experts/articleshow/78975281.cms||Neha Madaan
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Man attacks wife, daughter with acid||Visakhapatnam: A woman and her 12-year-old daughter suffered burn injuries when the woman’s husband attacked her with acid in Sivajipalem area on Saturday. The man had been reportedly suspecting his wife of infidelity. According to the police, the accused is an alcoholic. The woman, 28-year-old Tila Devi, and her daughter are out of danger as the acid used was not very strong. The accused, Eswara Rao who is a painter by profession, has been taken into custody. On Saturday morning, during a fight with his wife, the accused took a glassful of toilet-cleaner liquid and poured it on her face. Seeing this, her daughter rushed to her rescue with both sustaining burns due to the acid. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-attacks-wife-daughter-with-acid/articleshow/78975295.cms||Siva G
November 1, 2020||Trichy||2-wheeler track from head post office to MGR statue opened||TRICHY: After a couple of months of trial run, an exclusive two-wheeler track was declared open by Trichy city police on Saturday. Inaugurated by the state tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan and state backward classes and minorities welfare minister S Valarmathi, the 1250-metre-long stretch from head post office signal to MGR statue will be used by two-wheelers. The separate track for the two-wheelers was necessitated by the frequent road traffic accidents involving two-wheeler and four-wheelers and two-wheeler users being the most vulnerable victims of most of the accidents. Taking a serious view of the accidents, commissioner of police, Trichy city J Loganathan introduced the two-wheeler track system in the stretch on a trial basis at the end of August this year. “The system will create a habit of using the left side of the road thus reducing the road traffic accidents and save lives. If the motorists follow the lane discipline, we hope the accidents will also drastically reduce,” CoP Loganathan told ToI. Five metres from the middle of the road has been allotted for the four-wheelers while the rest of the two metres for two-wheelers. Rest of the space if available on the extreme left, can be utilized for parking either two-wheelers or four-wheelers or classified as ‘no parking’ zone depending upon the availability of the space. With two months into the trial run, the commissioner said that 70% of the two-wheeler riders have complied with the instruction of using the track. On action against violators, the commissioner said that they would continue to advise them instead of penalising them. “We believe every change will take some time. Let us teach them before taking action,” said the commissioner. The commissioner also revealed his next plan of creating a two-wheeler track from MGR statue to Uzhavar Sandhai stretch and head post office to railway junction stretch before extending the marking to the entire roads in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-wheeler-track-from-head-post-office-to-mgr-statue-opened/articleshow/78976293.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Demand for home fitness gear soars as many still hesitant to hit gyms||PUNE: Dasara is considered auspicious for investment in land, property or vehicle or starting a business. Not many contemplated investing in a fitness equipment. But times are changing. In this pandemic-driven world when focus has shifted to health, investing in a fitness equipment is considered par for the course. Not surprsingly, long queues were seen outside a sports and fitness retail chain store in Wakad and elsewhere on Dasara this year. “During the lockdown, sales were high with customers coming in to purchase dumbbells and therabands. Gyms have just reopened, so it will take a while for us to notice any change in customer behaviour. But so far, the quantum of sale has remained the same as it was during the lockdown,” said an employee of a sports and fitness equipment chain. “A few months ago, people would buy any equipment that they have seen and used a few times in the gym. Now they have more clarity about what they want and have more knowledge about personal fitness. Treadmills have been a big hit, and this year during Dasara, too, we had customers who bought such equipment,” said the manager of a sports shop in Baner.  Agnelo Swamy, a manager at a sports shop, said, “Sales had peaked during the lockdown and people bought everything from treadmills to stationary cycles. Cardio was the focus since people were stuck indoors.” Even though gyms have reopened, some people still have qualms about getting back to fitness centres and prefer exercising at home. Sensing an opportunity, even some vendors in Juna Bazaar have started dealing in fitness equipment. “The market has turned slow now, but earlier people were coming and buying our goods,” said Dutta Netaki, a vendor. Aman Sheikh, another vendor, said, “We have been putting up our stuff for sale here for the last few months. Handlebars and benches sell the mos.” “From gyms to individual buyers, we have a varied customer base. We only sell new stock, brought from Delhi, Mumbai, Kolhapur, among other places” said Zaid Sayyed, a shopkeeper at Juna Bazaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-for-home-fitness-gear-soars-as-many-still-hesitant-to-hit-gyms/articleshow/78975294.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||‘Expedite efforts to resume mining’||Panaji: The Goa Chambers of Commerce and Industries (GCCI) urged the state and central governments to speed up efforts to resume mining in Goa to overcome financial distress in the state. A follow-up meeting should take place in Delhi as soon as possible to find a solution on mining, the GCCI stated. “We welcome the proactive steps taken by chief minister Pramod Sawant for resumption of mining activities in the state wherein he had a meeting with the Prime Minister and Union mines minister,” GCCI president Manoj Caculo’s statement read. “Mining resumption will provide the much-needed fillip to the state’s coffers,” he stated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/expedite-efforts-to-resume-mining/articleshow/78976299.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Matchmaking takes a virtual turn as bureaux arrange meetings online||PUNE: Community-based marriage bureaux that usually arrange grand public meet-ups with footfalls of hundreds of eligible young men and women, and their parents, have also gone online. Eligible singles, and their families, are introduced to each other so they can find an appropriate match. “Since mid-April, we have organised 55 online events on the weekends. There are separate events for singles and parents, and we also host events on explaining the horoscope and give parents tips on arranging their ward’s wedding,” Gauri Kanitkar, marriage counsellor and director of Anuroop Vivah Sanstha in Pune said. They organise meet-ups for 35 brides and grooms at a time where they make rooms on Zoom so they can talk to each other for 20 minutes. “We then shuffle the participants in a way that everyone gets a chance to meet. To make their limited time worthwhile, we give them topics like ‘what is personal space’, ‘social responsibility as a couple’, ‘meaning of marriage’ and so on,” she said. The marriage bureau has fixed 30 marriages during the lockdown, of which 15 couples have already tied the knot and 3-4 weddings are being arranged online this month. “We have arranged over 100 weddings since March and the numbers have gone up now that the wedding season is on. Families also come to us with various requests ranging from organising a social-distanced weddings to arranging it online for relatives and friends to attend. Earlier, we were doing 2-3 registrations per day, this month we are up to 5-10, but numbers are still low compared to pre-pandemic times,” Raunak Sethi of marriagepune.com said. The shift to online for matchmaking doesn’t seem to bother the singles. “My parents are looking for an NRI as a match for me as I work in Chicago but am stuck in India distance-working since February due to the pandemic. My parents have learned how to use social media and they have their own network of acquaintances and friends to do background checks, so the pandemic has not slowed them down,” a 28-year old woman, a software engineer, said. Parents have sharpened their internet skills to carry out all the pre-fixing protocols. “Even if you go through a reputed marriage bureau, there can be frauds. Background checking is very important when you are out to make a life-long commitment. We cannot send out daughter to a household without being 100% sure she will be taken care of, so we use social media to verify. People also hire detectives,” Mukesh Shukla, a parent, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/matchmaking-takes-a-virtual-turn-as-bureaux-arrange-meetings-online/articleshow/78975290.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Parikh bridge work derailed by railway||Kolhapur: The railway authorities said the width and height of Kolhapur’s Babubhai Parikh Bridge underpass cannot be changed. This verdict throws a spanner in the works of the activists — involved in the ‘Save Parikh Bridge’ campaign — who had prepared designs for the restoration of the vital underpass by widening it. The underpass connects two major parts of the city — the Central Bus Stand with Shahupuri and Rajarampuri — where most of the business activities take place. The underpass was built several decades ago to facilitate vehicular movement. In recent times, the underpass often experiences waterlogging following rain or overflowing drains. Kolhapur MP Sanjay Mandlik had raised the issue of the restoration in the meeting with the Central Railway authorities as the designs need technical sanctioning from the railways. The railways gave a written reply stating the width and the height of the bridge cannot be altered and if there are plans to develop another such underpass, then a separate proposal needs to be submitted for approval. Also, the railways said the finance for such project will have to be provided by the state government or the local body. Ajay Korane, president of Architects and Engineer’s Association said, “We are not aware of the condition put by the railways for restoring the bridge. Our design includes widening of the underpass mainly to prevent traffic congestion” “Also, there are other issues such as waterlogging which we are going to fix. We have sought high-end machines to change the underground drainage line which has several flaws. We will soon meet the MP and the railways authorities over the said condition,” Korane added. The restoration work of the underpass has been due for over long time mainly because of the question of who will take the lead. The railway authorities said since the underpass is used for public purposes, the local body should take the lead in the project. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation had cited lack of funds while refusing to take up the restoration work.  Under such circumstances, local activists have taken up the task under ‘Save Parikh Bridge’ banner with the support of public representatives||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/parikh-bridge-work-derailed-by-railway/articleshow/78973424.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Health dept to form Covid committee||Hyderabad: The state health department has decided to constitute a committee to track the behaviour of the novel coronavirus the world over, especially places like United States and Europe, which are reeling under the second and third wave of the pandemic. The committee will also closely monitor the growing number of cases in India, especially Delhi and Kerala, to understand and predict patterns. This was decided in a high level review meeting held by the state health minister Eatala Rajender with senior health officials on Saturday. While it was reiterated that Covid-19 is under control in the state currently, officials said that Covid-19 numbers are expected to increase in our state as a large number of residents travelled due to Bathukamma and Dasara. In addition, there was a discussion on the steps to be taken by the medical health department and the advice to be provided to the public in light of the view that the severity of the virus will increase with the onset of winter. The health minister also issued instructions for making preliminary arrangements to make the vaccine available to all if it becomes available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-dept-to-form-covid-committee/articleshow/78975300.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Wife, kin held over man’s murder||HASSAN: Police have cracked a murder case by zeroing in on the accused within 24 hours after finding a man’s charred body in a car boot near Mattanavile of Channarayapatna. The deceased is Dinesh, 25, a driver and a native of Hebbalu of Nuggehalli hobli in Channarayapatna. The accused are his wife Abhilasha, 22, her father Manjunath, 55, and younger brother Basavaraja, 21, a resident of Doddajaala in Bengaluru. Police identified the victim after getting to know the car owner’s name through the vehicle’s chassis and engine numbers. Based on suspicion, Abhilasha was taken into custody. During interrogation, she admitted to committing the crime with the help of her family members. “Dinesh ha married Abhilasha some four years ago. After two years, he married another woman due to conflicts in the family. Complaints were lodged at Nuggehalli and Bengaluru Chikkajaala police stations, and this led to frequent quarrels. The discord prompted Abhilasha to eliminate her husband,” said SP R Srinivas Gowda. “On October 27, she invited Dinesh to her house for dinner. He was served alcohol, after which her father (Manjunath) came from behind and hit his head with a sharp weapon. While he was writhing in pain, her brother (Basavaraj) smothered him,” he said. They put the body in a car and later set fire to it at a farm land near Mattanavile in the early hours of October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/wife-kin-held-over-mans-murder/articleshow/78974278.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||Panaji police bust gang of bike thieves||PANAJI: Panaji police on Saturday busted a gang of two-wheeler thieves from Tamil Nadu and Kerala, and arrested two persons. Police recovered two motorcycles stolen from Miramar, as well as another two-wheeler, all worth Rs 5 lakh. Police said that they received information that a gang arrived in Goa on Friday. Based on this, a police team started tracking the gang. After chasing the accused, one person was arrested at Margao, and another one was held at St Cruz, police said. Police said that accused travelled on two-wheelers that were stolen in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Police said that the gang were engaged in an interstate racket of selling stolen bikes. The accused are unemployed and are involved in such activities to make money, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-police-bust-gang-of-bike-thieves/articleshow/78976297.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||Wrong info in govt’s power white paper: GFP||Panaji: The state government lied about the power consumption and the need for the 400kv Goa Tamnar Power transmission line as the power department’s White Paper is completely contradictory to the Goa Electricity Department’s (GED) power tariff petitions submitted to the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission, Goa Forward Party (GFP) said on Saturday. While the power department’s White Paper says that domestic consumption is high in Goa, the petitions filed before JERC state that commercial and industrial power consumption account for 66% of the power consumption in the state. “Same department cannot submit two different reports. The government, the minister and the department must clarify what is the truth,” said GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat. In a tariff hike petition filed with the JERC in 2018, the power department said that domestic consumption is 31%, commercial consumption is 15%, industrial consumption is 51%, agriculture consumption is 1% and defence establishment consumption is 1%. While releasing the White Paper, power minister Nilesh Cabral said that domestic power consumption in Goa is more than double of the combined consumption of commercial and industrial consumption. Cabral had used the White Paperto justify the need for the power transmission line. Cabral had also said that the general perception that commercial and industrial sectors consumer a higher load is wrong. “The government is clearly trying to fool Goans,” said Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrong-info-in-govts-power-white-paper-gfp/articleshow/78976305.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Trichy||People start using incomplete semi-ring road as work drags on||TRICHY: While the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is delaying the work on the semi-ring road between Trichy-Pudukkottai NH and Trichy-Thanjavur NH, people have increasingly started using the under-construction link road. Not waiting for the official opening, public have started using the near complete bypass to avoid traffic congestion. The NHAI has failed to meet the deadlines in inaugurating the portion connecting Thuvakudi (Trichy-Thanjavur NH) and Mathur (Trichy-Pudukkottai NH) due to monsoons and Covid-19 lockdown. While most of the work is completed, except on a bridge, the NHAI has laid multiple layers of road in the 14-km stretch. As the semi-ring road helps local people reach Trichy international airport and Bharathidasan University and NIT Trichy at ease, the patronage has increased in the past two months. As a diversion road is provided as an alternative road to the bridge under construction, both two-wheelers and cars are accessing the stretch to reduce the travel time. “The link road is quite useful to reach the southern parts of the city without getting trapped in the congested Palpannai junction. It is high time that the NHAI officially inaugurated the link road,” C Vetriselvan, a resident of Subramanipuram, said. NHAI has yet again sought one month’s time to officially inaugurate the stretch as only 75% work on the bridge is completed. “We have to install traffic islands at the Thuvakudi end to regulate traffic. One more layer of road is to be laid on the entire stretch,” an NHAI source said. The link road will significantly decongest the entry points of Trichy city with trucks heading to the industrial estates in Mathur and Thuvakudi will take it. But, the delay in commissioning the stretch is troubling the commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/people-start-using-incomplete-semi-ring-road-as-work-drags-on/articleshow/78976310.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 1, 2020||Goa||Cong joins chorus against Mollem infra projects||Panaji: The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) has extended its full support to the ongoing agitation against the three major infrastructure projects coming up in the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and the Mollem National Park. Congress MLAs also demanded that a full-fledged assembly session be held in November or December to raise issues concerning the state. During the CLP meeting, Congress MLAs discussed the impact of South Western Railway’s track doubling project, widening of NH-4A and the power transmission line passing through the protected forests. “The CLP also decided to actively participate in the protests and agitations with people,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. Congress MLAs said the three projects will lead to mass destruction of the environment, wildlife and the identity of Goa. The Margao MLA informed the Congress MLAs about the memorandum submitted to the member secretary and committee members of the Central Empowered Committee (CEC) and to minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar. The CLP condemned the ignorance shown by Javadekar about Goa’s objections and concerns and also condemned his statement stating that no representation was received by him pertaining to the Mollem projects. During the CLP meeting, the MLAs expressed concern about the three anti-farm laws brought in by the BJP government at the Centre. They also discussed the Goa government’s strategy to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, the state’s debt and failure of the government to bring out an economic revival plan.  Kamat said he will write to assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar for an early assembly session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-joins-chorus-against-mollem-infra-projects/articleshow/78976303.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Goa||Govt should mull over shifting IIT campus: Sr Rane||Panaji: If people do not want the IIT–Goa campus to come up at Shel-Melauli in Sattari, the state should consider shifting it, former chief minister Pratapsingh Rane said. The Poriem Congress MLA questioned the state government’s insistence in setting up the premier institute at Shel Melauli. In doing so, Rane has taken a stance that is diametrically opposite to the stand taken by his son and health minister Vishwajit Rane. “If the people are opposing, let us decide to shift it as there are many other places that the government can consider,” the Congress MLA said. “Why are they (government) hardbound to go against the people? After all this is the people’s government.” Health minister Vishwajit Rane, who represents Valpoi constituency, said that while he respects the sentiments of the people, such “infrastructure projects would transform the constituency”.  Meanwhile, chief minister Pramod Sawant visited the village on Thursday and assured the locals that the project would be taken forward only after taking them into confidence. “We will form a committee of 15 people who will discuss the project with me. All the issues raised by locals over the project would be addressed,” Sawant said. The villagers, however, refused to withdraw their agitation, saying their single-point demand is that the state government shift the IIT campus project from their village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-should-mull-over-shifting-iit-campus-sr-rane/articleshow/78976311.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Bareilly||Six constables suspended for obscene comments on woman cop||Pilibhit: Six police constables were suspended and sent to police lines for allegedly making obscene comments against a woman constable in Pilibhit.Superintendent of police (SP) Jai Prakash Yadav has ordered an inquiry, which will be headed by circle officer of Bisalpur station, Lallan Singh.According to police sources, the constables had made the remarks on their WhatsApp group in which the lady cop was part of it.The lady constable then apprised the SP following which he ordered action against the accused constables.“If the allegations are found to be true, then stringent action will be taken against the erring constables and an FIR will be filed against them,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/six-constables-suspended-for-obscene-comments-on-woman-cop/articleshow/78971298.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Bareilly||NSA against 11 for ‘cow slaughter’ in UP’s Budaun||BAREILLY: The Budaun district authorities have recommended slapping the stringent National Security Act (NSA) on 11 men arrested in connection with alleged cow slaughter. The accused had been held earlier this month but the nod for NSA came on Friday. So far, NSA has been invoked against 23 people in Budaun this year, 21 of them were booked for cow slaughter. This comes four days after the Allahabad HC expressed concern over misuse of UP’s Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act “against innocent persons”, and questioned the credibility of evidence submitted by police. Budaun falls under Bareilly police range where 38 people have been slapped with this stringent law and stands first in the state in the number of NSA cases. Under the law, an accused can be detained for up to a period of one year, subject to review by a high court every three months. According to officials, the 11 men – identified as Qaiser Ali, Munawwar, Manne, Zaribul, Aabad, Kasmuddin, Fakruddin, Niyaz Mohammed, Sakruddin, Asluddin and Taufeeq – were arrested while allegedly slaughtering cows in a sugarcane farm near a village in Binawar police station area in Budaun on October 8. The accused, allegedly linked to an illegal meat supply racket, were then produced in a local court and sent to jail, they said. They were booked under IPC’s section 307 (attempt to murder) and sections 3/5/8 of the Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act. Budaun SSP Sankalp Sharma told TOI, “The accused were running a slaughtering and packaging unit of cow meat in Binawar and opened fire on the police team. Most of them are repeat offenders and have been caught in the past as well. Their act was a threat to communal harmony in the area as it may have ignited violence between two communities. So far, we have invoked NSA against 21 people for cattle slaughter and two for heinous crimes.” A relative of one of the accused, who wished not to be named said, “Three persons were arrested from their house and later they were shown as accused in an encounter. Police seem to be working on the instructions of politicians.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nsa-against-11-for-cow-slaughter-in-ups-budaun/articleshow/78972068.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 1, 2020||Bareilly||NSA against 11 for ‘cow slaughter’ in UP’s Budaun||Bareilly: The Budaun district authorities have recommended slapping the stringent National Security Act (NSA) on 11 men arrested in connection with alleged cow slaughter. The accused had been held earlier this month but the nod for NSA came on Friday. So far, NSA has been invoked against 23 people in Budaun this year, 21 of them were booked for cow slaughter. This comes four days after the Allahabad HC expressed concern over misuse of UP’s Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act “against innocent persons”, and questioned the credibility of evidence submitted by police. Budaun falls under Bareilly police range where 38 people have been slapped with this stringent law and stands first in the state in the number of NSA cases. Under the law, an accused can be detained for up to a period of one year, subject to review by a high court every three months. According to officials, the 11 men – identified as Qaiser Ali, Munawwar, Manne, Zaribul, Aabad, Kasmuddin, Fakruddin, Niyaz Mohammed, Sakruddin, Asluddin and Taufeeq – were arrested while allegedly slaughtering cows in a sugarcane farm near a village in Binawar police station area in Budaun on October 8. The accused, allegedly linked to an illegal meat supply racket, were then produced in a local court and sent to jail, they said. They were booked under IPC’s section 307 (attempt to murder) and sections 3/5/8 of the Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act. Budaun SSP Sankalp Sharma told TOI, “The accused were running a slaughtering and packaging unit of cow meat in Binawar and opened fire on the police team. Most of them are repeat offenders and have been caught in the past as well. Their act was a threat to communal harmony in the area as it may have ignited violence between two communities. So far, we have invoked NSA against 21 people for cattle slaughter and two for heinous crimes.” A relative of one of the accused, who wished not to be named said, “Three persons were arrested from their house and later they were shown as accused in an encounter. Police seem to be working on the instructions of politicians.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nsa-against-11-for-cow-slaughter-in-ups-budaun/articleshow/78972082.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Covid test of Kolhapur traders during Diwali||Kolhapur: The district health administration is going to carry out swab tests of traders and vendors during Diwali even if they don’t show any symptoms of Covid-19. District health officer Yogesh Sale said, “We have written to all medical officers to carry out tests of those coming in contact with a large number of people on a daily basis, like traders and vendors. This time, all such persons have to undergo the test irrespective of whether they are showing any symptoms or not.” A similar drive has been planned in the limits of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation that is expected to begin soon and get completed before Diwali. People coming to market places during Diwali will also be screened. Maximum people have been surveyed in the rural areas and most of the confirmed Covid-19 cases have also emerged from there. “We have decided to slap a fine of Rs 5,000 on those denying to undergo Covid test. The local vigilance teams have been asked to convince the people to get tested. Traders and vendors will be asked to self-quanratine for two days till the test results arrive,” said Sale. 71 new cases in Kolhapur As many as 71 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths were reported from Kolhapur district on Saturday. Currently, 961 active cases are undergoing treatment in the district. There have been no deaths in Kolhapur city since the last few days though the daily case count is still the highest in the district. On Saturday, the city reported 16 cases followed by 14 cases in Gadhinglaj tehsil. Sangli registers 103 cases, Sangli district reported 103 new case—the lowest single day record in the last few months—and four deaths on Saturday. The active case count has dropped to 1,692 after 168 patients were discharged on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-test-of-kolhapur-traders-during-diwali/articleshow/78973427.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: 20-year-old woman ends life after youths harass her, two arrested||KOLHAPUR: A 20-year-old woman from Nandudre village in Panhala taluka of Kolhapur committed suicide after being harassed by youths from her village. Police said one of the youths also tried to end his life after the woman died. He has been admitted to a private hospital for treatment. The police have arrested two other youths — Akshay Ganpati Chavan and Pradeep Krishnat Patil — in an abetment to suicide case. Tension prevailed in the village on Saturday after the news of woman’s death spread. A group of people even ransacked the houses of the suspects. Heavy police force has been deployed in the village. According to the information given by Panhala police, the woman, Prajakta Bauchkar, was forcibly stopped at an isolated place by the trio when she was travelling from Kototi to Kololi on October 23. The trio behaved in an objectionable manner. The woman opposed them and managed to run away. When she reached home, she was in a state of shock, her mother has told the police. In her complaint to the police against the trio, the woman’s mother has said that her daughter consumed pesticide soon after and was rushed to a private hospital in Kolhapur. She was under treatment for almost a week. She, however, died on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/20-yr-old-woman-ends-life-after-youths-harass-her-two-arrested/articleshow/78973441.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Women must fight for justice: Hyderabad city civil court chief judge||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad city civil court chief judge and city legal services authority chairperson C Sumalatha on Saturday exhorted women to resist, question and fight against injustice instead of suffering silently. She was addressing a women’s awareness meet organised by the National Commission for Women and the legal services authority at the civil court premises. “You have scores of rights. We will tell you about them. Be assertive about your rights and secure justice through legal battles,” she said. State legal services authority’s member-secretary Anupama Chakravarthy in her speech said that women must fight for their rights. But at the same time, they should not abandon their duties towards their families. “If she abandons, then the institution of family will disintegrate,” she said. “Our resource persons will tell you about the laws that were enacted for the safety, protection and welfare of women,” she said. Resource persons, B Vijetha, R V Indira Kumari, Jayaprada and DSV Mahalakshmi, explained to the women about various laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/women-must-fight-for-justice-judge/articleshow/78975337.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Bareilly||Two booked for gang-rape of 23-year-old woman in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Two people, aged 24 and 26 years, were on Saturday booked for allegedly raping a 23-year-old woman in a locality under Sungarhi police station, following the chief judicial magistrate’s order. The woman said that she knocked at the court’s door after police failed to register a complaint.According to the woman, the accused, both residents of her locality, barged into her house by scaling the boundary wall on the night of September 12 when she was alone at home as her mother and elder sister had gone to the district government hospital to attend a relative admitted there. “The accused beat me up brutally, abused me and raped me. They threatened to kill me if I disclosed the matter to anyone,” she alleged.The next day, the woman said, she and her mother went to Sungarhi police station to lodge a complaint, but police denied registering a case. The woman further alleged that she even lodged a complaint with the SP in-person and sent a written complaint to the IG, Bareilly zone, by a registered post, but was denied justice. Sungarhi SHO Atar Singh said, “The accused were booked under sections 376D (gang rape), 452 (house trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and the woman was sent to the district women hospital for a medical examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-booked-for-gang-rape-of-23-year-old-woman-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78971319.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||Mining case in SC tentatively listed in Dec: AG||Panaji: Advocate general Devidas Pangam on Saturday said that the mining case will not come up for hearing in the Supreme Court on Monday. Pangam said that as per the tentative list, the case is listed in December. It was earlier anticipated that the case would be next heard on November 2. The court will decide on the resumption of mining activities in the state. Twenty-six panchayats have approached the Supreme Court with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. In February 2018, the court had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases, bringing the entire mining industry to a halt. Last year, the state government had filed a review petition against the order. It also sought to tag the review petition with the one filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037. The mining companies had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court after the high court dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese rule, the appellants (mining companies) were granted mining concessions, which were then converted into mining leases under the act. The SLP had stated that the act should be made applicable from 1987 instead of 1961. The state government had also told the SC that the companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8A of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) - MMDR Act, they are entitled to extend their leases to 2037, but that they would abide by the court’s order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-case-in-sc-tentatively-listed-in-dec-ag/articleshow/78976313.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||Villages near Chakan account for most active cases in Khed||Pune: Twelve industrial villages adjacent to the Chakan MIDC area account for 60% of the Covid-19 active cases in Khed tehsil.Till October 30, there were as many as 176 active cases in the tehsil. “Of the total active cases, as many as 105 are from these 12 villages. The situation is worrisome as double-digit cases are being reported from these localities every day,” BB Gadve, medical officer of Khed, told the TOI on Saturday.The Chakan MIDC is spread in the limit of Medankarwadi, Kadachiwadi, Nanekarwadi, Kharabwadi, Mahalunge Ingle, Khalunmbre, Kuruli, Chimbli, Moi and Ambethan villages. And a majority of industrial employees are residents of these villages. “We recently concluded the second phase of the Maze Kutumb Mazi Jababdari (my family, my responsibility) and found that social distancing norms were not being followed strictly in these villages,” he said. Gadve said in view of the Diwali festival, the tehsil administration has decided to rope in medical teams to conduct survey and awareness drives.Ajay Joshi, block development officer of the Khed tehsil, said, “The overall cases in the tehsil have come down significantly in the last few weeks. We are now focusing on densely populated industrial villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/villages-near-chakan-account-for-most-active-cases-in-khed/articleshow/78975305.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 1, 2020||Goa||Consult people before deciding on projects: Kamat||Saligao: Opposition leader and Margao MLA Digambar Kamat on Saturday said that projects such as the IIT and AIIMS are welcome to Goa, “but before starting such projects, the government should hold talks and consult the people from these areas”. Kamat was speaking during the peaceful protest organised by Congress in Mapusa on Saturday against the “anti-farming bill” passed by the Centre and the issue of transportation of coal in Goa. It was also held to mark the death anniversary of former prime minister Indra Gandhi and also the birth anniversary of former deputy prime minister Sardar Vallabhai Patel. “The anti-farmers bill passed by the central government is injustice to the farmers and people are dependent on the farmers’ produce,” Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/consult-people-before-deciding-on-projects-kamat/articleshow/78976318.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Mysuru||3 leopard cubs found in sugarcane field||Mandya: Three leopard cubs were found inside a sugarcane field at B Hosur village, about 13 km from Mandya on Saturday. Forest officers secured the cubs and installed cages to capture their mother. Farmer Vinay found the cubs in his field and alerted villagers and forest officers. The villagers fear there are more leopards in the vicinity and urged forest officials to capture them as soon as possible. Forest officers assured the villagers that they will place cages at places including where the cubs were found. “The village is situated close to Hampapura forest. The mother leopard may have come from there. We should capture all leopards,” said a forest officer. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/3-leopard-cubs-found-in-sugarcane-field/articleshow/78974302.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Satara district adds 156 cases||Kolhapur: Satara district has recorded 156 fresh Covid-19 patients and six deaths due to the infection since Saturday late night, taking the total number of cases to 46,375. The death toll has risen to 1,547. As many as 41,380 patients have recovered from the contagion. Karad tehsil has reported only five cases, which is the lowest in the last few days. Of the fresh cases, Satara tehsil added 40 cases, 12 people tested positive in Maan tehsil, Koregaon tehsil registered 22 new cases, Khandala tehsil reported one patient, Wai and Katav tehsils added six and eight cases, respectively, among others. Of the deceased, which includes eight men and three women, eight were elderly. Satara tehsil and Korrgaon tehsil reported five and two deaths, respectively among others.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/satara-district-adds-156-cases/articleshow/78973447.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||FIR filed against 24 warkaris||Pune: Altogether 24 warkaris and stall owners were arrested on Friday for staging a protest demanding reopening of the Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj temple at Alandi, around 25km from the city. According to the police, the protesters are residents of various districts in the state. “The application of the protesters was rejected a few days ago and we told them categorically not to assemble in view of the pandemic. However, they staged a protest outside the Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj temple,” said inspector S Chowdhar of Alandi police station. “It has become an issue of survival for stall owners ever since the temple was shut. They do not have any other source of income,” said lawyer activist Vilas Kate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fir-filed-against-24-warkaris/articleshow/78975315.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Solapur city reports 39 new cases||Kolhapur: Solapur city reported 39 fresh Covid-19 cases and 31 patients were discharged on Saturday. The city also recorded one death due to the infection. According to the officials, of the fresh cases, 27 are men and 12 are women. As many as 18 men and 13 women were discharged after recovering from the contagion. A 69-year-old man from Vijapur road succumbed to Covid-19. Solapur city has a total of 9,572 positive cases, including 5,649 men and 3,923 women. The city has recorded 534 casualties, of which 357 are men and 177 are women. Officials said 50 patients are currently undergoing treatment. As many as 8,588 patients have recovered.  Solapur rural reported 95 fresh Covid-19 cases, which includes 57 men and 38 women, on Saturday. Officials said 111 patients were discharged from Covid facilities, including 66 men and 45 women. Officials said Solapur rural has recorded six deaths, all men. Pandharpur and Madha tehsil reported two Covid deaths each. The rural parts have 30,712 positive cases, including 19,032 men and 11,740 women. It has reported 917 deaths, of which 655 are men. Officials said 27,435 patients have recovered so far, including 16,580 men and 10,855 women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/solapur-city-reports-39-new-cases/articleshow/78973455.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Elderly more affected by Covid-19||Kolhapur: A large number of elderly in Solapur city have fallen victim to Covid-19. As per a study, 62 % of the patients, who succumbed to Covid-19 are above the age of 60 years with other health conditions. According to the data released by Solapur Municipal Corporation, of the 513 Covid deaths registered in the city till Friday night, 335 patients were above the age of 60 years. Officials said the majority of the patients of this age group had other health issues like diabetes, blood pressure and asthma. Of the total 9,533 Covid patients till Friday night, 1,736 belong to this age group. As many as 1,560 Covid patients are from the age group between 51 and 60. 117 deceased belonged to this age group as well. They constitute 21% of the total deaths. The age group of 31 to 50 years has the highest number of Covid patients – 3,329 and has registered 65 deaths, which is 12% of the total deaths. As many as 2,093 people from the age group of 16 to 30 years have tested positive and has registered 15 deaths. The age group of one to 15 years has 815 cases and recorded one death so far. Statistics also reveal that Covid has affected more men. Of the 513 deaths in the city, 443 were men. Similarly, 3,911 women had tested positive as against 5,622 men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/elderly-more-affected-by-covid-19/articleshow/78973468.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||Another midnight protest on cards by anti-coal agitators at Chandor||Margao: The standoff between the anti-coal protestors and the state government appears to be heading towards a flashpoint as agitators in large numbers are likely to assemble at the Chandor level crossing to protest the Railways double tracking works Sunday night. The South Western Railway (SWR) has scheduled to carry out the track doubling works near the level crossing at Chandor during the night hours of November 2. The South Goa district magistrate has already given permission for closing the level crossing at Chandor between 12 midnight and 5am to facilitate the track doubling work. Anti-coal protestors had gathered at the level crossing at Sao Jose de Areal at midnight of October 27 to protest the work of double tracking. The protestors had squatted at the site holding candles even as the Railways went ahead with the work as planned. Goyant Kollso Naka, which is spearheading the agitation, has condemned the state government “for refusing to listen to the genuine demands of the people of Goa to stop the double tracking works, which are purely for the transportation of coal from Goa. Despite numerous requests from all sections of the society and the overwhelming decision of Goans to stop coal transportation through Goa, the government is arrogantly continuing to work for the profits of Adani, Jindal and Vedanta, ignoring the reasoned and irrefutable arguments of the people of Goa.” Referring with contempt to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statement that the double tracking project wasn’t for coal, protestors pointed out that the current tracks were used to transport 5.2 lakh tonnes of coal from MPT just in the first 20 days of October. Anticipating convergence of a large number of people at the Chandor level crossing, the South Goa police SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said that they have made “adequate arrangements” to prevent any law and order problem. “We are prepared,” Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-midnight-protest-on-cards-by-anti-coal-agitators-at-chandor/articleshow/78976323.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Pune||Day’s recoveries top tally again, deaths down to 23||Pune: The Covid-19 recoveries surged past fresh cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region again on Saturday, a day after fresh infections topped the discharges for the first time in October. On Saturday, the region recorded 923 recoveries as compared to 757 new infections. Data released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that in the PMC limits, 373 new Covid-19 cases were recorded on Saturday as against 350 recoveries. The rural areas and PCMC limits reported recoveries of 341 and 232 patients, respectively. Both these areas had fewer new cases than recoveries. With this, the total recoveries in the region breached 3.03 lakh-mark on Saturday night, while its total caseload surpassed 3.23 lakh. The deaths due to the infection dropped to 23, on par with July 13 toll. These included 16 deaths from the PMC limits and seven from the rural areas. The PCMC did not report any death due to Covid-19 on Saturday. The region’s active cases dropped to 12,126 on Saturday. Of these, as many as 5,886 patients were undergoing treatment at various hospitals and 6,240 were in home isolation. The active cases in the PMC areas dropped to 5,642. while the limits PCMC had 1,735 active patients on Saturday. The rural areas and Cantonments together had 4,779 patients. As many as 6,733 tests of samples were conducted in the region on Saturday, pushing the total sample testing above 14.17 lakh. Civic officials appealed to the citizens to exercise utmost precaution as the infection was “very much amidst us”. “People should not let their guards down thinking that the cases have come down. On the contrary, people need to be extra cautious to ensure that the cases don’t reach the mid-September peak again,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-recoveries-top-tally-again-deaths-down-to-23/articleshow/78975334.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB members fear negative impact of hikes||Secunderabad: The existing Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) elected body may likely face the acid test in the ensuing SCB elections to be held in a month or two, as decision of hiking of fees for building development & other construction categories and medical services has been approved by them. Though the SCB elected ward members claim that the decision to hike the fees for all these categories are meant to boost the revenue to the board, they fear that it may negatively impact them after opposition parties Congress, BJP and others raised the issue in the upcoming SCB poll campaign. “The enhanced fee will help to take up the development works, which were halted for more than four years,” said a ward member. “We expected financial support from Telangana government by releasing pending dues of Rs 80 crore, but they are yet to release them. To overcome financial hurdles, we have no other option except to utilise SCB resources by hiking the fee patterns,” a SCB ward member admitted. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-members-fear-negative-impact-of-hikes/articleshow/78975397.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||Call for scrapping track works grows louder||Vasco: The Goencho Ekvott gave a call to Vascoites to save the port town from being a hub for coal handling, “or else it will soon be known as ‘Coal da Gama’ instead of Vasco da Gama”. At an awareness programme on the three development projects held on Saturday evening at the St Andrew’s Church compound, the speakers stressed that “if Vasco is saved then entire Goa will be saved”. Capt Viriato Fernandes, executive member of Goencho Ekvott, which is backed by 28 NGOs, said “All three projects - MPT expansion, double tracking of railways and expansion of highways - are only to facilitate the movement of coal. We have to stop this destruction.” Among those who were seated in the audience were BJP’s Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha, NCP’s Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao, Congress’ Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, leader of opposition and Margao MLA Digambar Kamat, a few councillors of the Mormugao Municipal Council and Chicalim sarpanch Seby Pereira. Those present backed the call for a day-long strike in the port town given the president of Old Cross Fishing Society, Custodio D’Souza, who was representing the fishing community of Vasco. Among those who also spoke were Chicalim parish priest Fr Bolmax Pereira and Dr Jorson Fernandes. “The Congress legislators have taken a decision to support those who are protesting against the coal hub. We are also demanding for a assembly session to discuss the issue,” Kamat told reporters. “I have been opposing the double tracking project from the beginning,” said Alina.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/call-for-scrapping-track-works-grows-louder/articleshow/78976325.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Most hospitals overlook patients’ rights charter||AHMEDABAD: While hospitals – both government and private – prominently display the punishment that patients and their relatives are liable to face for being unruly with hospital staff, a majority of hospitals have not adopted the patients’ rights charter which the NHRC asked all states to adopt in June 2019. Right to Information (RTI) activist Alpesh Bhavsar filed applications with the department of health and family welfare, office of the chief secretary and the AMC in June this year, asking for information on implementation of the NHRC guidelines regarding patient’s rights. “While all agencies stated that information in this regard will be available from another office, the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital stated it cannot provide the information because of the ongoing pandemic,” said Bhavsar. The RTI activist said that hospitals deploy bouncers to control unruly patients, but most patients, especially those from economically and socially weak backgrounds, do not even get a courteous answer to their queries in hospitals. “The NHRC had listed down 13 rights of patients and had, in June 2019, directed the central government to get these implemented in all states. In rare instances, we have come across hospitals which have displayed the patients’ rights charter in their premises,” said Bhanu Chauhan, state coordinator of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, a voluntary organization working in the field of health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/most-hospitals-overlook-patients-rights-charter/articleshow/78975387.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Trichy||Second survey on to improve infrastructure for cycling in Trichy||TRICHY: The perception survey conducted by the Trichy Corporation to promote cycling has revealed that 79% out of 4,844 respondents claim they ride a bicycle daily or few days in a week, a majority of them for educational needs. Following the overwhelming response, the corporation has launched the next round of survey under the union government’s cycle4change drive to understand on-ground challenges in introducing bicycle lanes. The week-long online survey was conducted in the second week of October. Among the respondents, 70% were men and 30% women. 89% people say that they know to ride a bicycle while 52% of the respondents were aged between 19-50 years. A majority of the participants have prioritised safety as the chief influencing factor and wants the corporation to ensure safety of bicycle riders on city roads. The corporation has planned to identify viable and demanding roads where bicycle tracks can be introduced. In the second round of survey, the urban local body along with other stakeholders including the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) is ascertaining the major difficulties faced in riding a bicycle. Factors such as rash driving, stray animals, poor lighting, unauthorised parking and bad roads are to be analysed while preparing a design for new bicycle lanes. “If Trichy is shortlisted, smart cities mission will fund Rs 1 crore to promote cycle-friendly infrastructure. Experts will also offer technical suggestions to the city,” said T D Achuthan, ITDP research associate. The results of the contest are expected to be out in December while cities can have time till mid-December to submit their proposals to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). “We will seek the opinion of residents and police while identifying the city roads for introducing bicycle lanes,” S Sivasubramanian, commissioner, Trichy Corporation said. The corporation commissioner, however, added that they are sceptical about introducing a rental bicycle scheme indicating that people will have to use their own bicycle for now. As part of the initiative, the civic body conducted a bicycle awareness rally between the head post office and Uzhavar Sandhai ground on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/second-survey-on-to-improve-infra-for-cycling-in-trichy/articleshow/78976324.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Chemists credit improved supply for drop in Covid-19-care equipment prices||PUNE: The prices of medical equipment, including PPE kits, needed for Covid-19 care have considerably reduced following a significant drop in their demand. A Chemist Association of Pune District representative said a thermometer sold for Rs8,500 in April would now cost Rs500. Similarly, a pulse oximeter currently costs Rs250 — a sharp fall from Rs1,500 during the early days of the pandemic. “We have around 4,500 retail medical stores in Pune city and 1,800 in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits as our members. Across the district, we have around 10,000 members. Almost all of them will say that the demand for and prices of such equipment have come down,” said Anil Belkar, secretary of the association. “The prices of these equipment were soaring during the early days of the pandemic because of the high demand and low supply. The situation changed since the last month — the demand for the medical equipment reduced and the supply became overwhelming. The result was the control in the prices. The situation will be stable for the next few months,” he said. Belkar said if the citizens found anyone selling such equipment, including protective face masks, at steep rates, they should immediately report such instances to the authorities. “Citizens should get such equipment at retail prices. Any discrepancies in their prices should be reported to the Food and Drug Administration,” he added. Pune Municipal Corporation additional commissioner said Rubal Agarwal said the complaints regarding the inflated bills in private hospitals were also fewer compared to the numbers during the earlier days. “On one hand the number of Covid-19 cases is reducing. On the other hand, many patients are getting treated at civic-run medical facilities. Instances of private hospitals’ overcharging of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and other material are also less,” Agarwal said. “If there is a surge in cases, then we should not be back to square one in terms of prices of medical equipment,” social activist Maruti Bhapkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chemists-credit-improved-supply-for-drop-in-ncov-care-equipment-prices/articleshow/78975362.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Miscreants spray ‘Never forget 84’ on Dr Ambedkar Centre||London: Miscreants sprayed graffiti over the wall of a charity set up to promote the teachings of Dr Ambedkar in Southall on the anniversary of the assassination of Indira Gandhi, seemingly having mistaken it for a Government of India building. The Buddhist monks who live at the Dr Ambedkar Centre at Featherstone Road woke up on Saturday to find the words “Never Forget 84” sprayed in red on the centre’s white walls. The centre is right next door to the Sikh Missionary Society which promotes Sikhism. Volunteers there said they wanted to know who had done the graffiti and that they had a good relationship with the centre. The trustees of the Dr B R Ambedkar Memorial Trust, who run the community centre, were equally bemused. One of the trustees told TOI: “I think we were targeted because of the signage on the exterior of our building,” he said. “We don’t represent the Government of India and nor do we receive any funding from them,” he said. “ We are an independent registered charity supported by our members.” On the exterior of the Dr Ambedkar Centre there is a saffron sign saying ‘Buddha Vihara’ (Buddha place of living) and beneath that the Ashoka Chakra in blue, identical to how it features in the middle of the Tricolour, and below that a green sign saying ‘Ambedkar Centre’. The national Indian flag is a triband of saffron, white and green with an Ashoka Chakra in the centre. “This is not an Indian flag,” the trustee said. Saffron and green are important colours in Buddhism with saffron being the colour of monks’ robes, representing renunciation and green representing mother nature. The 24-spoke wheel represents Buddhist principles and it was Dr Ambedkar who recommended it to replace the spinning wheel on the Indian national flag post-Independence, he added. “One of the monks has bought a can of white spray paint and plans to paint over it. This must have been done by Sikhs who don’t know us. We are there for the Sikh community. Whoever did this does not know how harmoniously we live. This is the first time anything like this has happened at this centre which has been here since 1993. We are educational institute that works according to the principles of Dr Ambedkar. We also offer meditation, classes on Buddha’s teachings and we have a Sikh teacher who teaches lessons for students with learning disabilities. We have not decided whether to tell the police. I need to discuss it with our members,” the trustee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/miscreants-spray-never-forget-84-on-dr-ambedkar-centre/articleshow/78975405.cms||NAOMI CANTON
November 1, 2020||Goa||Goa Airport handled 70 flights, over 8k passengers on Friday||Panaji: Passenger footfalls and flight movements at Goa International Airport continued to pick up, with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) operated airport handling 70 flights on Friday. Passenger arrivals are expected to pick up in the coming days as Goa’s tourism sector continues to open up, particularly as casinos have been permitted by the state government to open up from November 1. On October 29, Goa International Airport handled 33 arrivals and 33 departures, suggesting that flight movement and passenger traffic is higher on the weekends. “The good old busy days of Goa International Airport are returning back swiftly,” said airport director Gagan Malik. “On October 30 the airport handled 35 arrivals and 35 departure of flights. Arriving passengers were 5,274 and departing passengers were 3,112. In all 8,386 passenger footfalls.” On Saturday, the airport also handled an international direct flight, the 59th relief flight to London flew out with 220 passengers including four children. A Vande Bharat mission flight with 178 passengers landed on Saturday morning from London under the Centre’s air bubble arrangement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-airport-handled-70-flights-over-8k-passengers-on-friday/articleshow/78976344.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC gives Centre, state 4 months to fix funding for Mahabs beautification||CHENNAI: Madras high court has given a four-month ultimatum to the Centre and Tamil Nadu government to place on record their ‘firm commitment’ of funds for proper maintenance and beautification of Mamallapuram. “Failing which, the secretaries concerned in the central as well as the state government will have to be summoned in the court for bringing such commitment on record,” a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice M S Ramesh said. The issue pertains to a public interest litigation proceedings initiated suo motu by the court to preserve the beauty of the Pallava-era heritage town, safeguard its monuments and protect tourists visiting them. The proceedings were initiated on the basis of a note written by Justice N Kirubakaran to protect the site. When the plea came up for hearing, counsel for the union government submitted that she had prepared a status report of about 400 pages for the development of Mahabalipuram which among 16 spots selected by the Centre for development. Representing the state government, special government pleader J Pothiraj submitted that he would file a status report about the funding position for development and upkeep of Mahabalipuram. Recording the submissions, the bench said, “…various orders have already been passed and in the earlier orders, both central and state governments were directed to give the commitment of funding for the development of the historical town.” However, so far, no specific commitment of funding is forthcoming from either of the governments, the court added. Noting that the pandemic period has also somewhat relaxed now and it can no longer be a reason for not taking suitable decisions in this regard, the bench passed the interim order and adjourned the plea to November 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-gives-centre-state-four-months-to-fix-funding-for-mahabs-beautification/articleshow/78975411.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||Double tracking will boost local economy: Railways||The South Western Railway (SWR) says that the double tracking project will, besides helping transport of ore and coal, also improve tourism potential for Hospet and Goa. The project is expected to provide temporary employment to 1.46 lakh people. “The project will boost economic development and provide gainful employment avenues to Goans,” an SWR official said. As a part of the SWR’s double tracking project, several stations along the Goa stretch of the route will be redeveloped to have more platforms and new station buildings. The SWR is also considering redeveloping the Chandor railway station, taking into consideration the historic importance of the place, sources said. “All this will have a spill-over effect on the local as well as the state’s economy,” an SWR spokesperson said. While nearly 80% of the double tracking work on the Margao-Sanvordem stretch has been complete, railway sources said it has been planned to complete the Sanvordem-Kalay stretch between June and December 2021. The opposition by the locals along the Margao-Vasco stretch is the only bottleneck in the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/double-tracking-will-boost-local-economy-railways/articleshow/78976327.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
November 1, 2020||Mysuru||Martyr Appaiah remembered||Madikeri: Guddemane Appaiah, a freedom fighter from Kodagu who was hanged by the British for fighting against them was remembered in Madikeri on Saturday. It was Appaiah’s 183rd death anniversary and a programme was organized at his memorial in Madikeri. Dignitaries offered their respect to Appaiah’s statue. Appaiah was among the first freedom fighters who opposed the British and he was hanged in public by the British on the Madikeri Fort premises on October 31, 1837. Deputy commissioner Annies K Joy, MLAs KG Bopaiah and Appachu Ranjan, MLCs Sunil Subramani and Veena Achaiah were among the dignitaries present. Members of the Arebashe Academy along with the family members of Appaiah attended the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/martyr-appaiah-remembered/articleshow/78974338.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB residents hit by hikes in property, medical fees ahead of board elections||SECUNDERABAD: Citing to boost the revenue to the fund-starved board as the reason, Secunderabad Cantonnment Board (SCB) officials have revised the fee patterns for citizen-related services after a gap of six years, bringing it on par with neighbouring civic body Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), ahead of SCB elections. The development fee, tax mutation fee, general land record (GLR) mutation fee and appeal fee to be paid by builders has shot up. Despite Covid-19 pandemic, the fee for medical services was hiked too. Fees for private telecom service providers has been increased as well. “The new revised fees will be collected from November 1,” SCB chief executive officer, B Ajith Reddy confirmed to STOI. As per the revised conservancy charges, a realtor has to pay of Rs 12,000. Simultaneously, the development charges per layout was hiked up to Rs 100 per square meter. For sub-division of plots, henceforth, the builders have to pay Rs 200 per square meter. The cost of the layout application was also hiked from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000. The officials have introduced a new processing fee for GLR mutation and fixed it as Rs 300. If individual builders wish to file appeals before the appellate authorities, the fee pertaining to this category have been doubled. Regarding medical services, the charges for Out Patient Department (OPD) and injection charges will remain the same, (Rs 10) for patients from within cantonment and outside cantonment. For expensive injections, the charges were hiked up to Rs 20 per patient. For anti-rabies vaccine, the outside patient has to pay Rs 150 and within the cantonment, the fee is Rs 100. Officials have introduced random blood sugar test and fixed fee as Rs 20 (within cantonment) or Rs 30 (outside cantonment). Specialist consultation fee is Rs 20 per person (either within cantonment or outside). The revised fee structure was approved by deputy GOC, Telangana Andhra Sub Area (TASA) and SCB president, Brigadier Abhijit Chandra, after all the elected board members accepted it in the board meeting held on October 19. “Though we did not assess the revenue to be generated through enhanced fees, we are expecting it could be more than Rs 10 crore to Rs 30 crore per month,” said CEO Ajith Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-residents-hit-by-hikes-in-property-medical-fees-ahead-of-board-elections/articleshow/78975450.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh launches post matric SC scholarship scheme||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday launched the recently-announced Dr BR Ambedkar Post Matric SC Scholarship scheme and laid virtually the foundation stone for Rs 50 crore worth of projects at Bhagwan Valmiki Tirath Sthal (Ram Tirath), Amritsar, to mark Maharishi Valmiki Jayanti. Participating in the Valmiki Jayanti celebrations here, he also inaugurated virtually a new Ram Tirath ITI and gave the go-ahead for setting up a skill development centre to prepare Dalit students for competitive exams. Besides, he declared the day an annual holiday under the Negotiable Instruments Act and said GNDU, Amritsar would organise an annual seminar on Bhagwan Valmiki on the eve of his birth anniversary every year. On the occasion, Amarinder also distributed post matric scholarship certificates to SC students and congratulated the Valmiki Samaj for various schemes launched by the technical education and other departments for the Dalit community in the state. His government is committed to the welfare of the community, he added. He said the state scholarship scheme would ensure that poor SC students get free higher education, which the government of India has unfairly deprived them of with its abrupt withdrawal of central aid of Rs 800 crore to the state. The Dr BR Ambedkar Post Matric SC Scholarship, being launched without any financial contribution from the Centre, would provide 100% fee waiver for the SC students to give them net savings of about Rs 550 crore, he said. The scheme, which would benefit over 3 lakh poor SC students every year, would involve no upfront payment by these students to any government or private educational institutions. The institutes would provide free education to SC students under the scheme against direct subsidy from the state government, he announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-launches-post-matric-sc-scholarship-scheme/articleshow/78975434.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Cops arrest three within two hours of dacoity||MYSURU: The Hongalli farmhouse robbery case near Gundlupet was solved within two hours of the incident on Thursday night. Chamarajanagar superintendent of police Divya Sara Thomas said on Saturday that Siddanayaka, 23, a resident of Chikkamamsa street of Gundlupet, Kumara, 29, of Mukhahalli Colony and Rangaswamy, 24, resident of Aralikatte street of Gundlupet, have been arrested in connection with the dacoity. Of the three held, Siddanaika alias Sidda is facing charges of house theft. Police recovered the gold ornaments weighing 32 grams which were snatched from the Kerala couple who live on the farmhouse. The bike used for the crime was also recovered, the SP stated. On the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, the accused armed with iron rods and chilli powder barged into Pradeep’s house and made away with gold ornaments after throwing chilli powder and thrashing the couple. House owner Pradeep, who has been farming on a leased land, and his wife mnaged to nab one of the accused which made it easy for the cops to bring the other two to book||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cops-arrest-three-within-two-hrs-of-dacoity/articleshow/78974369.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Pay up by November 30 or your kids may be debarred: Kolkata Schools||KOLKATA: Even as schools raced to announce their fee waivers by Saturday evening to meet the October 31 deadline set by Calcutta High Court, they reminded parents that their wards might be debarred from online classes unless they paid up all the arrears by November 30. Each school cited the fact that they had the validation of the high court while saying this. All schools have offered a 20% per waiver on both tuition and session fees, as directed by the Calcutta HC. Even the 12 Church of North India-run schools, which have been acting together as a separate group on the issue of fees, both in the high court and now, in the Supreme Court, where they have filed a special leave petition against the HC order, also announced waivers on their respective websites. Earlier they had said that since their special leave petition was yet to be heard in court, they might wait for the outcome before announcing the waivers. But on Saturday, the legal counsel for the CNI schools, B P Tiwari, said that the Church of North India did not wish to go against the high court-set deadline of announcing the waivers by October 31. Among the CNI run schools are La Martiniere for Boys and Girls, Pratt Memorial, St James’ School, St Thomas’ Kidderpore and St John’s Diocesan HS School. Each CNI school website, however, reminded parents that the waivers might change following the outcome of the hearing on the pending SLP in the Supreme Court. Right from lower nursery to Class XII, the earlier and post-waiver fees have been mentioned by all schools, urging parents to pay arrears by November 30. “In the event that the fees are not paid by November 30, the student concerned will not be entitled to attend school in any mode and will be denied all facilities being offered by the school,” read the website of DPS Ruby Park. The websites of some other schools, like South Point, MP Birla Foundation, Birla High School and Sushila Birla Girls’ School and Shri Shikshayatan, all mentioned this, stressing on the relevant clause of the high court order. “…the order of the Hon’ble High Court provides that the concerned student will not be entitled to attend school in any mode and will be denied all facilities being offered by the school with effect from December 8,” stated the Shri Shikshayatan notice, in case any parent failed to pay the arrears by November 30. “Till date, we have not removed any child and moreover, we offered 17%-23% waiver on fees even before the court order came in. We have just quoted the HC order on debarment of a child if parents fail the November 30 deadline. We cannot predict what will happen then,” said Brigadier V N Chaturvedi, spokesperson for Birla High and Sushila Birla schools. Some CBSE schools have explained how co-scholastic activities, such as art and physical education, are an integral part of their curriculums. This alluded to the fact that many might call these “non-essential” and seek waivers on those heads otherwise. In their notices, all schools without exception have, however, appealed to parents not to avail of the waivers if they have not suffered financial losses during the pandemic as it would help keep schools afloat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pay-up-by-nov-30-or-your-kids-may-be-debarred-schools/articleshow/78975444.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre passed farm bills through ‘goonda gardi’: Telangana CM KCR||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said on Saturday the Centre got the farm bills approved in Parliament by resorting to “goonda gardi”. Using the inauguration of the first Rythu Vedika (farmer facilitation centre) in the state on Saturday, the TRS chief said he would speak to leaders of other parties to fight against the Centre on the agri laws. Though Telangana has not seen protests like in Punjab, the TRS had opposed the farm bills in both houses of Parliament. Lauding Punjab for its fight, the CM said Telangana people should also think of resisting the farm laws. “Northern states like Punjab are simmering with resentment over the new farm laws and Modi’s effigies were burnt instead of Ravana during Dasara,” KCR said after inaugurating the Rythu Vedika at Kodakandla in Jangaon district, 137 km from Hyderabad. He said though the NDA government did not have the required strength in the Rajya Sabha and Opposition parties demanded voting and division on the farm bills, the chairman announced that the bills had been passed. He rejected the Centre’s claim that the laws would benefit the farmers, saying it would benefit only big businessmen. “Will any farmer go to Delhi and sell his produce there? Only corporates and businessmen will be able to sell their produce in other states,” the CM said. The CM said though the state was willing to give more concessions to farmers, the Centre was not cooperating. He called upon the farmers to vent their ire against the Centre. Showing an FCI communique to the state at the meeting, he said the FCI would not procure paddy if the state paid more than Rs 1,880 per quintal whether it was fine or coarse variety of paddy. “Our government wants to pay Rs 100 or Rs 50 more than the MSP for the fine variety of paddy. But our hands are tied by the Centre. I assure the farmers that they will be given an additional support price,” the CM said. He elaborated on the state government’s schemes for farmers. “Nobody asked or gave me a petition or staged a dharna to implement the Rythu Bandhu or Rythu Bima schemes, or the sheep rearing scheme. But we are implementing these schemes by spending thousands of crores of rupees,” KCR said. KCR said he was ready to resign as CM if BJP leaders proved that the Centre was contributing more funds towards the Aasara pension scheme. “BJP leaders are spreading lies on the Centre’s financial assistance for pensions to make electoral gains in the Dubbak assembly byelections (on November 3),” he said. He said the state government spends Rs 11,000 crore a year on the pension scheme, while the Centre’s contribution is Rs 105 crore. “These figure are available with the CAG and can be checked,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-passed-farm-bills-through-goonda-gardi-kcr/articleshow/78975451.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 1, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metro QR-code yet to be seamless||CHENNAI: Metro rail commuters with a QR-code ticket could walk straight to the platform by tapping their phone on a scanner as the service was meant to provide contactless travel, but it doesn’t seem so for all. Some commuters are also forced to purchase a smart card to pay for parking. Many commuters are complaining that they are forced to opt for two types of pay facility for train travel and parking at the metro stations when both the facilities belong to CMRL. Though smart cards too enable commuters to recharge online and tap the card on the card reader installed at the entrance of the station to validate it, passengers said they end up spending more time walking into the station to validate the card and return to pay for the parking. “It isn’t saving time when the whole idea of giving commuters the option of smartcard or QR-code ticket is to save time and enable contactless travel,” said R Menaka, a resident of Anna Nagar, who boards train at Thirumangalam after parking her two-wheeler. Last July, CMRL made it mandatory for commuters and outsiders who use metro station parking lots to make payments only through smart cards. CMRL officials said they will soon launch an integrated payment option where commuters would be able to pay for both parking and for the train tickets through a single mode. “We already have smart card options for parking and train travel. We will introduce a QR-code option for parking as well,” a metro rail official. “We launched QR-code only for train tickets and installed readers in a single AFC gate at one entry and exit in a station, as we wanted to give commuters the option for contactless travel. We will soon extend the service for making other payments as well,” the official said. CMRL launched QR-code ticketing on September 7 when it resumed services after a break of nearly five months due to the pandemic-induced lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-qr-code-yet-to-be-seamless/articleshow/78975435.cms||U Tejonmayam
November 1, 2020||Chennai||Ayanavaram: Kidnap case leads to triple murder||CHENNAI: Three murders, and a kidnap attempt at gun-point were what the Ayanavaram police stumbled upon when they started to probe a botched bid to abduct an elderly woman in the locality. It all started when cab driver Rajesh Kannan held a ‘gun’ and tried to kidnap Padmini from her relative’s house in Ayanavaram in April 2019 in public view. Hearing her screams, locals rounded up the kidnappers, who included Padmini’s daughter-in-law Menaka. When police started the probe, they stumbled upon three murders. First, Rajesh Kannan convinced Senthilkumar, who was the elder son of Padmini and Moongilan, to murder his own brother Rajkumar in 2017. After Senthilkumar was arrested and sent to jail, Rajesh Kannan developed friendship with Senthilkumar’s wife Menaka. In July 2018, when Senthilkumar came out of jail on bail, he was murdered at Gingee near Villupuram and buried there. In July 2018, Moongilan himself was murdered at his house in Manimangalam near Padappai. It was after the third murder in the family that Padmini panicked and took refuge at a relative’s house in Ayanavaram. Her kidnap attempt landed both Menaka and Rajesh Kannan, along with his associates, in a soup, as the Ayanavaram police got an indication of the fate of Senthilkumar from Rajesh Kannan. However, the exhumation of Senthilkumar’s body from a field in Gingee a couple of days ago happened after the victim’s mother filed a habeas corpus petition in Madras high court to trace her ‘missing’ son. Probe further revealed that Menaka’s father Arun had helped Rajesh Kannan to murder his own son-in-law Senthilkumar in February 2018. When Rajesh Kannan and his friend Fakruddin were arrested for the murder of Moongilan, they told police that Moongilan had collected money from Rajesh Kannan promising job for the latter’s wife. When Rajesh Kannan demanded refund of money or a job, Moongilan allegedly threatened him with dire consequences. It was over this dispute that he murdered Moongilan, police said. As of now four people -- driver Rajesh Kannan, victim Senthilkumar’s father-in-law T Arun, 66, autorickshaw driver N Harikrishnan, 42, and their friend S Kasinathan of Gingee – have been arrested. Senthilkumar’s wife Menaka, who is also in police radar, is absconding. A police team led by the assistant superintendent of police Karthikeyan is searching for Menaka, said an officer, adding that they were yet to include Menaka’s name in the first information report Police said investigation officers are making efforts to take Rajesh Kannan and Arun in police custody. “We need to plug some loopholes in the case, and weave an airtight case against the suspects,” said the officer, adding that if Menaka’s role in the three murders is confirmed, police will arrest her too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kidnap-case-leads-to-triple-murder/articleshow/78975443.cms||A Selvaraj
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Private hospitals across Kolkata to expand HDUs to free up ICU beds||KOLKATA: Several private hospitals across Kolkata are planning to expand their high-dependency (HDU) or step-down units to make way for critical Covid patients waiting for admission to their ICUs which have remained consistently full since early-October. With a post-festival spike in number being feared and most facilities having reached a saturation point after extending their critical care facilities multiple times, HDUs could help accommodate those not on life-support and open up ICU vacancies for more severe patients who require immediate admission. More than a hundred critical patients have been refused from private hospitals since last month for lack of ICU berths. Some have already started expanding their HDU while others are exploring the possibility of converting some of their non-critical beds to HDUs. AMRI Hospitals, which now has 280 Covid beds across its three units, including 45 HDU beds, is contemplating an HDU expansion since it provides the only option of accommodating critical Covid patients. “We don’t have any more space or healthcare resources to expand the Covid ICUs. Since we have reached a saturation point, HDUs remain the last resort. We have already expanded the HDU units and are now looking at using them optimally by shifting out the less critical from the ICUs. A further HDU expansion is also a possibility. If the turnover time of ICU patients can be reduced, we can accommodate those waiting to get in quicker,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. AMRI has a waiting list of 30-35 Covid patients, a majority of whom are critical. Woodlands Hospital is ready to extend its HDU unit to nine beds. By mid-November, the hospital will also have an additional 13 ICU beds, taking the total number of critical care beds to 40. “We maintain about 30% of our ICU beds as HDU which provides full ICU care except the ventilator support. Since we have smaller units of 5 and 8 beds, in our next ICU beds expansion plan, we will be able to operate these smaller units either as ICU or HDU as required clinically. We have enough ventilators, monitors and staff to run these units,” said Woodlands CEO and managing director Rupali Basu. Medica Superspecialty Hospital, which now has 200 Covid patients and a waiting list of more than 50, is ready to explore the option but has stumbled upon a space crunch. “We have run out of space but if we can eke out some room, we will have a step-down unit. The only problem is that most critical patients are continuing on ventilation for a substantial period. We can’t move them to the HDU,” said chairperson Alok Roy. Another private hospital off Bypass said it is in the process of arranging high-flow oxygen support for a step-down unit. “We realize that several ICU beds could be freed up sooner if we identify and move patients who have recovered partially. At the moment, we don’t have additional high-flow oxygen facility for HDU beds. Once it is arranged, we will flag off the unit,” said an official of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/private-hosps-to-expand-hdus-to-free-up-icu-beds/articleshow/78975433.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Viscera analysis confirms man’s murder after 9 months||BENGALURU: Chemical analysis of the viscera extracted from the body of a 32-year-old employee of a leading cargo-handling firm at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) has confirmed he was strangled to death nine months earlier. Sathish Kumar, a resident of Avathi village near Devanahalli and from Govindarajapuram, Tiruvannamalai district, Tamil Nadu, worked as an aviation screening officer. According to police, Kumar breathed his last on the intervening night of January 17 and 18. His wife Nitya had informed Kumar’s mother Tamil Selvi over mobile around 9pm on January 17 that Kumar’s pulse became weak and she rushed him to a nearby private hospital. “Kumar’s father Manikya Velu, an ex-serviceman and brother Saravana, a teacher, rushed to Bengaluru from their hometown. They reached the city by 4.45am on January 18 and found Kumar’s body in an ambulance. They took the body to their village in Tiruvannamalai and performed the final rites on January 19,” a police officer said. Wife’s absence at last rites raises suspicion Initially, Manikya Velu and his family did not suspect any foul play behind Kumar’s death. But they suspected something fishy after they noticed that Kumar’s wife didn’t attend his last rites and stayed with her parents in Poluru village, Tamil Nadu. Velu came to Vijayapura and filed a police complaint, saying there was something amiss in his son’s death. Police registered a case of suspicious death in February last week and conducted a spot mahajar at Kumar’s rental house in Avathi. They found a torn sari and seized it for further investigation at that time. Later, police exhumed Kumar’s body on March 2 and doctors from Tiruvannamalai Government Medical College and Hospital conducted the postmortem. They collected his viscera samples and sent them to FSL for chemical analysis. The autopsy report came on October 22. “I am of the opinion that the deceased appears to have died due to effects of manual strangulation of neck,” the doctor said in the report, while recording the cause of death. Based on the report, Vijayapura police took up a case of murder. “The autopsy report confirmed it was murder. We are investigating the case to find the killer and motive,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/viscera-analysis-confirms-mans-murder-after-9-months/articleshow/78974633.cms||Santosh kumar.B
November 1, 2020||Vadodara||Ex minister admits wife, grandson to Gujarat govt Covid hospital||VADODARA: At a time when most well-to-do persons are preferring private hospitals for treatment, particularly Covid-19, former state minister and Sayajigunj MLA Jitendra Sukhadia has preferred to get his wife and son treated at the GMERS Hospital at Gotri after they tested positive. Sukhadia’s wife Kusum (74) and his grandson Raj (20) had tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to the GMERS Hospital on October 24. Their condition was stable and improving. Sukhadia, his son and Raj’s father Hiren, and two other family members had tested negative for the virus. Hiren said that the former minister took the decision for treatment as they firmly believed that the state-run hospital was providing good services. “We had received very good feedback from some patients earlier. There were some hiccups about the food, even this was taken care of,” he said. Hiren added Raj had tested negative on Saturday and would be discharged by Sunday. He added that his mother was also doing well, but was yet to test negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-minister-admits-wife-grandson-to-govt-covid-hospital/articleshow/78974084.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Mangaluru||BJP approves Nitin Pikle’s candidature for Karwar CMC president’s post||Karwar: Dissenting voices within the party notwithstanding, the Uttara Kannada district unit of the BJP was able to get the functionaries to ‘unanimously’ nominate Nitin Pikle and Prakash Naik respectively as its candidates for the post of president and vice-president of the Karwar City Municipal Council (CMC). Meanwhile, the BJP selected Shantala Nadkarni and Rekha Goankar as its candidates for the president and vice-presidents posts respectively for the Ankola CMC. The election to the top posts in the two municipalities in Uttara Kannada district is scheduled on Sunday. Both the Congress and the BJP have 11 members each in the 30-member strong Karwar CMC. However, with former minister and JD(S) leader Anand Asnotikar pledging the support of four of the party’s councillors, and those of two Independents, to the BJP’s candidates, the balance has tilted in the favour of the saffron party. Despite considerable opposition within the local BJP unit in Karwar to the nomination of Pikle to the president’s post in the municipality, dissenting members were warned of disciplinary action by the party’s top brass, coupled with the issuance of the whip to all the councillors, ensured that those opposed to the decision fell in step with the party’s decision. The dissent within the party having been quelled, and Asnotikar having pledged support to the party’s candidate, the likelihood of the BJP getting Pikle and Naik elected to the top posts seems very high. In addition to Asnotikar, Satish Sail of the Congress is reportedly keen on joining the BJP. Asnotikar has been trying to return to the BJP – he served as a minister in BS Yediyurappa’s cabinet in 2008 – but his attempts have been foiled by Uttara Kannada MP Anantkumar Hegde. Meanwhile, Pikle, if elected to the president’s post, will become the third member in his family to hold the position, his uncle MR Pikle and father SR Pikle having both occupied it before. In Ankola, Shantala, should she win the polls on Sunday, will have followed in the footsteps of her husband, who had served as the president a decade ago of what was then Ankola Town Panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bjp-approves-nitin-pikles-candidature-for-karwar-cmc-presidents-post/articleshow/78974037.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
November 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab starts post-Covid OPD in all govt medical colleges||CHANDIGARH: To address the implications of Covid-19 in recovered patients, Punjab has started dedicated post-Covid outdoor patient department (OPD) services in all the three government-run medical colleges. The OPDs will to cater to patients with complications arising of the virus, which can have damaging effects on the body and mind of a person. Patients, especially who got critical, after recovering may continue to complain about fatigue, cough, sore throat, difficulty in breathing, palpitations and body aches and some may even exhibit symptoms of neurological and cardiovascular ailments that could further manifest into serious adverse events (SAE) or adverse effects (AE). Of the total people infected with the virus in Punjab, a sizeable number had underlying health problems like diabetes, heart disease, kidney ailment and other conditions leaving the health experts worried. The recovery period is likely to be longer for patients with pre-existing ailments, who got critical. These dedicated post Covid-19 OPDs at medical colleges in Patiala, Faridkot and Amritsar will focus on the after effects of the virus on people who have recovered. As per the guidelines, patients have to visit a health facility for the first follow up within seven days after recovering. Principal secretary of department of medical education and research D K Tiwari shared that doctors from different streams have been deputed in these OPDs to examine the recovered patients and help them in improving their general health condition. “All the recovered patients are thoroughly examined to see if the virus had any adverse effect on the body,” said Tiwari. Special emphasis is given on helping the recovered persons to manage their activities of daily living and helping them to cope up with stress and anxiety. As on October 30, the virus has infected 1,32,727 people and claimed 4,168 lives. Of infected people, 1,24,293 have recovered while 4,266 people are still undergoing treatment. During the months of August and September, Punjab witnessed a steep surge, which led to a rise in the number of patients getting critical, who require more stringent follow up. Punjab chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) lauded the step but called for the need to increase the number of these OPDs. “Three OPDs cannot cater the entire state. The government should start this service in all the government civil hospitals across the state,” said Dr Paramjit Mann, general secretary, IMA, Punjab. Adding, he said that three OPDs are not sufficient to provide care to all the recovered patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-starts-post-covid-opd-in-all-govt-medical-colleges/articleshow/78975447.cms||Vinod Kumar
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Doctor’s bag stolen from car||AHMEDABAD: Tushar Shah, 43, a doctor working in the gynaecology department of Civil Hospital in Asarwa lodged a complaint on Friday at Sola police station that thieves had broken the window glass of his parked car and stolen a bag containing Rs 4,000, his cheque book and Aadhaar card. Shah, a resident of Status Tower in Thaltej stated the incident happened on October 20, when he had gone to meet his father-in-law at Mangalam Hospital near Chandlodia Bridge, and had parked his car near the bridge at about 6pm. He discovered the theft on his return from Mangalam Hospital. Shah stated that he had fallen ill after the incident and that caused the delay in filing the FIR. Sola police sources said they are gathering CCTV footage and probing the incident. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctors-bag-stolen-from-car/articleshow/78975478.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Cops stop child marriage, mob storms police station||TIRUPATI: A group of around 50 people from Yenamala Harijanawada stormed into the Vedurukuppam police station on Saturday and staged protests after the local police acted against a child marriage reportedly held on October 29. According to Puttur DSP D Muralidhar, the police received a complaint from an ICDS group alleging that a 13-year-old girl was married off to a 36-year-old man at Yenamala Harijanawada on October 29. Upon receiving the complaint, the Vedurukuppam sub-inspector visited the village and questioned locals about the incident. The 13-year-old girl’s maternal uncle was summoned to the police station and reprimanded. On Saturday, a mob of 50 men and women descended upon the police station, raised slogans against cops and allegedly obstructed the police from discharging duties. The Puttur DSP said that the police department would take action against people responsible for the child marriage and for staging protests at the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cops-stop-child-marriage-mob-storms-police-station/articleshow/78973662.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 1, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED questions U V Jose, Santhosh Eappen||KOCHI: As the custodial interrogation of M Sivasankar by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing the money-laundering angle in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, entered its third day, the agency summoned CEO of Life Mission U V Jose and MD of Unitac Builders Santhosh Eappen to its office, here, on Saturday. The former principal secretary to the CM was arrested on Wednesday night and placed in ED’s custody on Thursday for seven days. Sources say Sivasankar is still not fully cooperating with the investigation. According to them, Jose and Eappen were questioned on the commissions allegedly paid to persons, including the accused in the smuggling case, in connection with the Wadakkancherry Life Mission project. They were also confronted with details provided by Sivasankar during his custodial interrogation. Though Eappen left the ED office in the afternoon he returned over an hour later. The questioning of the duo continued late into the evening. Meanwhile, ED on Saturday moved the special court looking into cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) seeking permission to question Sarith P S (A1), Swapna Suresh (A2) and Sandeep Nair (A4). “… Later, on getting materials, Sri. M Sivasankar, the secretary to the chief minister of Kerala was arrayed as the 5th accused and was arrested. This hon’ble court granted seven-day custody of said accused from 29/10/2020 onwards. He is being interrogated in custody. In view of the new developments it has become necessary to question the respondents 1 to 3 (A1, A2 and A4) herein again,” the ED petition said. The agency further submitted that so far as questioning in view of the new developments is concerned, the time factor was crucial. “In the interest of justice, it is highly necessary to permit the investigating officer to question the above accused who are now in judicial custody. Though, this hon’ble court has granted default bail to the second accused, Swapna Prabha Suresh, no bonds are executed and is still in custody,” the petition, filed on Friday, said. ED, which filed a primary chargesheet in the smuggling probe, had included the statement by Swapna on the Life Mission controversy in its primary final report. “She told Santhosh Eappen of Unitac Builders to meet Sivasankar IAS through whom he can get connected to CEO, Life Mission and get the necessary approval … accordingly, they met Sivasankar and got the approval,” the chargesheet had said. As per her statements, Rs 1.08 crore was given to her for facilitating the contract. The chargesheet had also included the statement of Eappen. As per the chargesheet, in his statement recorded on August 8, 2020, Eappen had said that he along with a former employee, who was a friend of Sandeep, met Swapna and Khalid, a former staff of the UAE Consulate. “Khalid demanded 20% of the project cost as commission. After signing the agreement with UAE Consulate, an amount of Rs 7.5 crore was transferred to the bank accounts with Axis Bank and Federal Bank. After receiving the funds in the bank accounts, Rs 3.8 crore in cash was withdrawn from the two accounts and converted part of the Indian currency into USD…the commission money in USD and INR was put in the back of the car of Khalid and the commission amount for Sandeep, his friend, Sarith and Swapna was transferred to the bank account of ISOMONK trading company,” ED had said in the chargesheet referring to Eappen’s statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-questions-u-v-jose-eappen/articleshow/78974379.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Alternative payment modes||Kolkata: Most schools have decided that parents availing of the school fee waivers will have to make payments in a mode other than pre-pandemic methods, such as ECS, to avoid confusion. Those who will opt for concession have been given options to pay through cheques, demand drafts and online payment gateways. Parents will have to avail of the modes and make the payments by November 30. At South Point School, the website explains step-by-step the method to be followed. La Martiniere for Boys will also accept payments through modes other than ECS to avoid confusion. Other such schools include Birla High School, Sushila Birla Girls School, Shri Shikshayatan School. Loreto schools are also arranging for alternative modes at designated bank branches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alternative-payment-modes/articleshow/78975476.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Will observe Kannada Kayaka Varsha to revive Covid-hit livelihoods: KDA chairman||Bengaluru: At a time when the society and economic sectors are looking at means to emerge from the Covid-19 shadow that has taken a toll on lives and livelihoods, an additional challenge for people of Karnataka is to safeguard and strengthen their regional identity. This issue is more pertinent as Kannadigas celebrate the 65th state formation day, Kannada Rajyotsava. TS Nagabharana, chairman, Kannada Development Authority, seeks to enlist initiatives lined up to address issues related to language, people and the state. Excerpts: * The pandemic has changed the dynamics of our society. How do events such as celebrating Kannada Rajyotsava help us, especially the youth? Kannada Rajyotsava is like any festival that lifts the spirits with its fervour and exhorts people to get back on their feet. Rajyotsava, especially, unites people as it celebrates the statehood of Karnataka and it highlights the our resilience to bounce back. We have thought of some initiatives to revive the socio-economic scenario as we are still assessing the Covid damage. We’re asking the government to declare this year, between November 20, 2020 and November 21, 2020, as Kannada Kayaka Varsha (Kannada Livelihood Year). * Don’t you think that mere rhetoric will not help when a lot is left desired on the ground? How do you make the sense of Kannada identity relevant in the current scenario ? We’re aware of the challenge. The need is to stitch language identity with the aspiration of the New Age generation and efforts are already under way. Kannada is being made a tech-friendly language after we got unicode. People using Kannada are easily conversant with tech platforms and on social media. It should be further encouraged so that learning of Kannada generates more jobs in the technology sector. * The Kannada identity you are emphasising seems to have been threatened in the present political atmosphere with the Centre being accused of imposing Hindi on non-Hindi speaking states… It is in our hands to resist the imposition and safeguard our identity. Hindi is not the only language being imposed on us, English is the greater threat. Many educational institutions following the central syllabus and community education centres such as madrasas are not teaching Kannada. We need to fight for the medium of instruction in our mother tongue and create such an atmosphere that Kannada learning leads people to get jobs and find livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/will-observe-kannada-kayaka-varsha-to-revive-covid-hit-livelihoods-kda-chairman/articleshow/78974666.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
November 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Smugglers see profits drop as govt slashes liquor rates||Vijayawada: The state government’s decision to slash liquor prices by over 30% has seen a thinning of profit margins among liquor smugglers. Officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) had anticipated that incidents of non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) smuggling will come down following a price reduction in medium of premium range brands. While prices still remain on the higher side when compared to neighbouring states, officials are of the view that smugglers will not risk facing criminal charges for meagre profits. Due to a large gap in prices of medium and premium liquor brands between Andhra Pradesh and neighbouring states, sumuggling of NDPL had become rampant. Smugglers were pocketing anywhere between 50% and 100% profits on brands which are in demand. They had adopted several ways to transport liquor through state borders making work harder for SEB officials. Smugglers leveraged the non-availability of some of the most sought-after brands and high prices in the state. For instance, a medium range liquor brand which is in huge demand was available for Rs 1,250 in Telangana but the same would cost Rs 2,300 in AP. Smugglers would sell this at Rs 2,000, which is lesser than the retail price in AP. However, following the 30% reduction in prices, the same liquor will now be available at Rs 1,580. The smugglers had brokered deals with liquor shop owners in neighbouring states and bought in bulk at discounted prices which increased their profits. Given the lucrative profits, they risked getting booked. “Now as the profitability has come down to just about 25%, the risk outweighs the reward which would result in reduced cases of NDPL smuggling,” said an official in SEB adding that the trend is already visible after prices of cheap liquor brands had been slashed earlier. On the other hand, the officials also expecting the local sales volumes to witness an up-tick as a consequence to the price reduction. Excise officials estimated that the state has lost more than Rs 900 crore in revenue to other states in last five months due to NDPL smuggling. While slashing liquor prices may solve NDPL smuggling to some extent, officials fear that on the flip side, it will make the objective of implementing complete liquor prohibition a difficult task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/smugglers-see-profits-drop-as-govt-slashes-liquor-rates/articleshow/78973656.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||BJP, Yuva Morcha wave black flags at Congress ministers||Yavatmal: The city unit of the BJP and Yuva Morcha activists waved black flags at state Congress ministers for declaring Yavatmal as wet drought-hit. According to the agitators, farmers of the district have been hit hard after crops like soyabean which were ready for harvesting were damaged. The cotton crop was ruined by red boll worms. With no procurement centres in the district, cotton growers are being exploited by traders who have started buying the produce at prices much below the declared minimum selling price (MSP). The Congress ministers are in the city to participate in the ‘Mashal Morcha’ from Azad Maidan to the Tiranga chowk to protest against anti farmer laws enacted by the central government. The morcha is a part of the statewide agitation ‘Gaon tithe andolan abhiyan’ flagged off from Bapukutti in Sevagram, Wardha. The leaders are also scheduled to attend the bhoomipujan of the Congress District Office building near the police parade ground which has been allotted to the party by the state government. The Congress was earlier functioning from Gandhi Bhavan. It was then shifted to a hall belonging to Wani's ex-MLA Wamanrao Kasawar on Arni road. Though efforts were made by many earlier Congress leaders, it couldn't materialize. The ex-MLA of Yavatmal, late Nilesh Parvekar, had spent a good deal of money to furnish the building belonging to Kasawar. At that time, it was publicly said that it would remain as the DCC headquarters of Yavatmal. Ministers Ashok Chavan, Balasaheb Thorat, Nitin Raut, Yeshomati Thakur and Vijay Wadettiwar besides ex-MPCC president Manikrao Thakre and local leaders attended the bhumipujan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-yuva-morcha-wave-black-flags-at-congress-ministers/articleshow/78973930.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Gated communities in Kolkata say no to crackers on Kali Puja, Diwali||KOLKATA: Several housing complexes in the city have banned firecrackers this Kali Puja and Diwali. About a fortnight ago, South City Residency on Prince Anwar Shah Road issued notices that no fireworks will be allowed on the premises this year. South City Residency property manager M V Biju said, “We notified well in advance so people do not put forth excuses of this being a last-minute announcement.” The management of this sprawling gated community of around 6,000 residents is leaving no stone unturned to ensure the no-cracker diktat is followed to the letter. Soft copies of the announcement were mailed to residents and hard copies were pinned to noticeboards. Moreover, the announcement is being aired on the monitors in each of the four towers. “A WhatsApp campaign will start on Sunday to spread the word. Even sparklers and other noise-free crackers can turn the air into a toxic haze, thus aggravating the contagion as the virus can spread through the emitted particles,” Biju said. Even the green and the silent versions of the flowerpot and sparklers will be strictly forbidden at some housing complexes. “The crackers can be deadly for Covid patients. From next week, we are starting our ‘no-crackers’ campaign. There have been quite a few Covid patients in our complex. Some are still recuperating. Crackers can turn the air deadly for them,” said Debjani Mookherjee, CEO, Urbana facility management. Urbana on EM Bypass is home to many celebrities and businessmen. Sudipta Mukherjee, president, Greenwood Sonata Apartment Owners’ Association of New Town, said, “We have discussed the no-cracker idea. A formal announcement will be made soon.” New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a welfare organization of New Town residents with at least 90 housing society representatives, is planning a campaign on a cracker-free festival in these Covid times. Samaresh Das, chairman, NTFN, said, “Residents had been extremely diligent in implementing the high court directive on Durga Puja. We are confident they will cooperate with us this time as well.” Even small houses, like the one where Das lives in the CD Block of Action Area I, are staying away from crackers this time. NTFN vice-chairman Ankur Roy Chowdhury, who lives in CE Block, said, “We are posting on the NTFN Facebook page, calling for a smoke-free Diwali. We shall circulate posts on how toxic chemicals such as barium salts, arsenic and mercury — that most conventional crackers are made of — affect Covid patients.” Usually violations are high at housing societies. “Till last year, gates of some high-rises would be locked from the inside on Diwali night to prevent cops from conducting checks,” West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) chairman Kalyan Rudra said, adding, “The curb must be properly implemented at such places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gated-communities-say-no-to-crackers-on-kali-puja-diwali/articleshow/78975452.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Conwoman claiming to be ex-deputy CM’s niece held||BENGALURU: A 32-year-old woman, claiming to be former deputy chief minister G Parameshwara’s niece, was arrested on charges of cheating the public. N Pallavi, a resident of Ullal near Kengeri, was nabbed on October 23 after she called the police control room, claiming she had been kidnapped. A police team found Pallavi in a car near Kengeri. But its driver K Yogesh had a different story to tell — he claimed he was on his way to the police station to file a complaint against her. Cops brought both Pallavi and Yogesh to the station and during preliminary investigation, found that Pallavi had cheated Yogesh of Rs 4.3 lakh and threatened to frame him in a false rape case if he pestered her for the money. All the while, she claimed to be Parameshwara’s niece. Pallavi had taken Yogesh’s car on rent in February and travelled to places like Tumakuru, Mysuru, Mandya, Kunigal and Chamarajanagar. According to Yogesh, she had covered a distance of 40,000km and owed him Rs 4.3 lakh. But Pallavi kept delaying the payment. On October 23, she took Yogesh to Hunsur near Mysuru and said she would give the cash only if Yogesh married her. He refused and decided to drive back to Bengaluru, police said. “While driving back, I called my car owner Janardhan and told him how he was being cheated. Janardhan said it is better to meet Parameshwara himself and explain how his name is being misused. When Pallavi heard about that, she called the police control room saying she was being kidnapped,” Yogesh claimed. With police help, Yogesh took Pallavi to Parameshwara’s residence in Sadashivanagar where the former deputy CM’s wife said Pallavi was not a relative. When Parameshwara met Pallavi in Tumakuru, he too said she was not his kin and directed Yogesh to hand her over to police. Investigation revealed Pallavi’s father had worked with Parameshwara in his hometown many years ago. Pallavi is said to have cheated many persons on the pretext of getting loans under the PM’s scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/conwoman-claiming-to-be-ex-deputy-cms-niece-held/articleshow/78974840.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||Will kill a person if he makes an obnoxious cartoon of my father or mother: Poet Rana||LUCKNOW: Well-known Urdu poet Munawwar Rana said on Saturday that drawing cartoon of Prophet Mohammad and killings over it, both are wrong but he “would also have done the same” as insulting a religious figure is unacceptable. Speaking to TOI, poet Munawwar Rana said, "Spreading poison by insulting religion is unacceptable and person should be killed. The cartoonist who sketched Prophet Mohammad was wrong and the person who killed the cartoonist was also wrong.” “There are certain personalities or characters whose cartoon should not be sketched. If you do so, then your intention is to insult them and some ‘junooni Musalman’ (fanatic Muslim) may attack to kill you. You made a cartoon and in response to it a crazy man carried out the killing,” he said, commenting on the recent killings in France. “Sketching Mohammad Sahib’s cartoon is wrong… I would kill a person if he makes an obnoxious cartoon of my father or mother,” Rana added. "Just to insult Muslims, Frenchman intentionally drew Mohammad Sahib's cartoon, as we believe in prophet Mohammad and they don't. When the murderer of the cartoonist has already been eliminated, why is there a need to create uproar stating it to be Islamic terrorism," Rana said. Giving example of renowned painter Maqbool Fida Husain, the Urdu poet said, "Husain had wrongly created paintings of Hindu god and goddesses, following which his studio and house were set ablaze, and he had to flee India or he would have been killed. Religion is not a thing to play with. If anyone dares sketch objectionable cartoon of Lord Ram, Sita or any other god and goddesses, than any fanatic follower will kill the person who created the sketch in first place." “What Lord Ram and Sita are for Hindus, Mohammed Sahib is for Muslims. If you sketch their cartoons, it means you are insulting them intentionally. A zealot carried out the attack in response. Why so much uproar in the world terming it Islamic terrorism,” asked the 67-year-old poet. “Where was Macron (French president) when French soldiers bombarded mosques and hospitals in Iraq and killed many? I’m a writer, I write poems but I don’t abuse. Those who made cartoons were at fault and those who killed someone were also wrong. But the furore is not justified. You are unnecessarily provoking. You cannot insult a religion. There is nothing wrong in raising voice against France in India,” he said. “Earlier when I had returned Sahitya Akademi award, the IT cell ‘terrorist’ of BJP abused me verbally targeting my mother as well. In Arab, an accused involved in rape, assault, abuse or murder of a girl or woman, is executed. The same should be done in India, too. Those who shot dead a Haryana girl in day light must be shot dead at the same spot. Similarly, the intention of making a cartoon is to provoke and create rift. The French president for not once condemned the cartoonist for sketching Mohammad. Insulting anyone's religion will have consequences as death. Playing with religion will always be bad for countries. In Islamic law, no sketch or statue is allowed,” said the poet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-kill-a-person-if-he-makes-an-obnoxious-cartoon-of-my-father-or-mother-poet-rana/articleshow/78976861.cms||Arvind Chauhan
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||TSCHE mulls reducing duration of summer vacations to finish syllabus||Hyderabad: With degree admissions concluding, Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) is contemplating on reducing the number of days for summer vacation next year in order to accommodate the syllabus. Degree admissions that commenced on August 24 concluded on Saturday. While first year degree students await commencement of classwork date from the TSCHE, discussions regarding academic calendar 2020-21, syllabus for degree courses, evaluation etc are rife among higher department officials. “We are planning to reduce the number of days meant for summer vacations in order to complete the syllabus. We may not be able to commence physical classes any time soon but online classes may commence for first year students shortly,” said Navin Mittal, commissioner, collegiate education department, Telangana, adding that a final decision is yet to be taken by the government. Every year, students get almost one-and-a-half months of summer vacations. However, next year, officials are planning to do away with it. Officials are of the view that due to the pandemic, a lot of working days have already been lost and hence measures such as considering only one semester this year instead of two need to be considered. “We have to discuss the plan on reduction of syllabus with all the universities before it is rolled out to the affiliated degree colleges. All these decisions are likely to be taken in the first week of November,” said R Limbadri, convenor, degree online services, Telangana. After the third phase of seat allotment, close to two lakh seats were vacant for the special phase, introduced by the TSCHE only for this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsche-mulls-reducing-duration-of-summer-vacations-to-finish-syllabus/articleshow/78975482.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kochi||Bineesh Kodiyeri under NCB lens, sleuths visit ED office||BENGALURU: A Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) team led by zonal director Amit Ghawate visited the Enforcement Directorate office in Bengaluru on Saturday evening, probably to quiz Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who was arrested by ED last week. NCB, which had earlier arrested Bineesh’s aide Mohammed Anoop on drug-peddling charges, is yet to establish drug-trade links between the duo. Around 5pm, the team reached the Shantinagar office, where Bineesh was questioned on his money link with Anoop for the second day. Sources said the narcotics agency is yet to register a case against Bineesh and the purpose of the visit could be to gather information about him or interrogate him unofficially about his connection with Anoop. While NCB sleuths in Bengaluru remained tight-lipped about Bineesh’s involvement in drug trade, sources revealed the agency could register a case against him and approach the special court seeking custodial interrogation to establish his ties with Anoop. Brother likely to move court tomorrow: Bineesh’s elder brother Binoy Kodiyeri, who’s in Bengaluru since the former’s arrest, approached ED sleuths with his lawyers twice on Friday in an attempt to meet Bineesh, allegedly for some paper work pertaining to the case. But he was denied permission. Binoy later attempted to file a petition with the chief justice of Karnataka high court by visiting his official residence on Friday night, but his request was turned down. He is expected to approached the court on Monday with his plea, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bineesh-under-ncb-lens-sleuths-visit-ed-office/articleshow/78974428.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Protest at Howrah stn, state calls for meeting with ER||Kolkata: Hundreds of people gathered outside Howrah station on Saturday evening, demanding they be allowed to board the patrol special EMU services being run for railway employees. The crowd was finally dispersed by RPF and GRP. The use of force drew criticism from the government. State home secretary H K Dwivedi wrote to ER GM Suneet Sharma, condemning “unquiet means” to prevent people from boarding special trains meant for employees. Dwivedi urged a meeting with railway officials to work out the modalities to resume restricted services in the mornings and afternoons. The home department also tweeted its reaction. The railways denied coercive action and said the ER had written to the state before Pujas, seeking a meeting to resume restricted suburban services. Since June, people have been using trains that railway introduced for staff. In Mumbai, talks have started between the Maharashtra government and Central and Western railways on restricted resumption of suburban services. “In Kolkata, we have been urging the state to convene a meeting to work out a strategy to run suburban trains. We are not averse to running restricted services but this has to happen after consultations with the state,” said Nikhil K Chakraborty, CPRO, ER. ER and South Eastern Railway run nearly 1,400 services daily, ferrying about three million people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/protest-at-howrah-stn-state-calls-for-meeting-with-er/articleshow/78975524.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 1, 2020||Mysuru||KSISF takes over security of four dams around Mysuru||MYSURU: The elite Karnataka State Industrial Security Force (KSISF), set up in 2012, has taken over the security of four dams in old Mysuru region including Harangi, Taraka, Kabini and Nugu. With this, all major dams and airports in the region including Krishnaraja Sagar dam, Mysuru airport in Mandakalli are brought under the ambit of KSISF. “Armed personnel of the KSISF will provide round the clock security to these four dams which were under the control of District Armed Reserve (DAR) till now,” said KSISF authorities. Nugu dam built across the river Kapila is in Beerwal village, in HD Kote taluk. Kabini dam is in Beechanahalli village of Mysuru district. Harangi dam is in the Upper Cauvery sub-basin near Hudgur village in Somwarpet taluk in Kodagu district. Taraka dam is constructed across the river Taraka in Penjahalli village in HD Kote taluk. All these are major sources of irrigation of old Mysuru region. KSISF started its service by providing security cover to Vidhana Soudha, Vikasa Soudha and KRS dam when Siddaramaiah was the chief minister. Bhaskar Rao, ADG of Police, Internal Security said that presently 35 personnel have been deputed at each dam. “This number will change. With this, all the major installations across the state except Bengaluru and Mangaluru airports are under the KSISF,” he said. “Both armed and civil police of the KSISF are deputed in these installations. These personnel are trained in access control, gadgets management, communications, people management, fitness and have an eagle eye for disaster management,” he said. “Ten days ago, we took over the security of these installations. We have higher deployment and greater challenges in the future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ksisf-takes-over-security-of-four-dams-around-mysuru/articleshow/78974429.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Site visit done, Russian vaccine trial in West Bengal likely to begin by November-end||KOLKATA: West Bengal is likely to see the first Covid vaccine activity in the form of a Phase II clinical trial at state-run College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital (CMSDH). Decks are being cleared to roll out the clinical trial of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V. If all goes well, the trial is expected to start by November-end. The trial at the Kamarhati hospital will be part of pan-India Phase II clinical trial being conducted by Indian pharma company Dr Reddy’s in the country. Dr Reddy’s Lab has joined hands with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine as well as its distribution. RDIF will supply 100 million doses of its potential Covid-19 vaccine to India drug company Dr Reddy’s Lab. “We have conducted the site visit, checking facilities like infrastructure for cold storage facilities for storing the vaccines and immunogenicity samples. We have also checked the hospital’s records of previous experience in clinical trials. We found such records and infrastructure quite satisfactory and the report has been sent to DCGI (Drug Control General of India),” said Snehendu Koner, head of business development with CliniMed LifeSciences, a site management organisation for drug and vaccine trials. Once the DCGI gives its approval, the hospital’s ethics committee will meet and give clearance to the trial to begin. According the amended protocol by DCGI, for Phase II trial of the vaccine, 100 volunteers will be taken in pan-India, where 75 will get the vaccine and 25 will get the placebo. At CMSDH, about 12 healthy volunteers are expected to be taken in for the trial. “Since it is about a Covid vaccine that everybody is waiting for we have to be well prepared for the clinical trial so that everything goes smoothly. Meetings are being held on pros and cons, safety issues etc. We hope all goes well and we take part in this clinical trial of a vaccine that promises to challenge the virus,” said a doctor of the hospital, who is expected to be one of the investigators of the trial. The Phase II trial at CMSDH is expected to take in about 12 volunteers. Once the trial is complete, safety and immunogenicity data, after assessing the 100, will be examined by an expert committee. Phase III trial will start following recommendations of regulatory authorities. Once the pharma company submits the safety and immunogenicity data of Phase II, it will be analysed by the expert committee and then they can proceed for the Phase III trial. Two private hospitals were also considered for the trial. But weightage was given to the government-run facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/site-visit-done-russian-vaccine-trial-in-state-likely-to-begin-by-nov-end/articleshow/78975494.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 1, 2020||Nashik||At 15°C, Nashik city coolest in Maharashtra on Saturday||Nashik: The minimum temperature of 15 degrees celsius recorded in Nashik made the city the coolest in the state on Saturday. A day before, on Friday, the minimum temperature recorded at 8.30 am was even lower — 14.6 degrees celsius — but it was not the lowest in the state then. On Saturday, the temperature recorded at 8.30 am made Nashik city the coolest in Maharashtra on the day. Just to compare the fall in minimum temperatures, it should be noted that the minimum temperature on October 22 was a relatively warmer 22.5 degrees celsius. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Nashik will now be experiencing cooler nights because of the winds coming in from the northern regions of India, though the day temperatures are likely to remain on the higher side. “This is the post-monsoon period and because of the clear skies, the outgoing longwave radiations have resulted in lower night temperatures. This is likely to continue for at least a fortnight,” said Anupam Kashyapi, the head of weather and air pollution monitoring unit, IMD-Pune. The officer pointed out the winds from the north were penetrating the north-madhya Maharashtra region, including parts of Nashik. Meanwhile, Nashik residents have welcomed the change in weather. “After the monsoon, which lasted five months, we are now experiencing clear weather with good sunshine during the day and cool nights,” said Satish Nikumbh, a resident of Nashik Road This time of the year is also ideal for tourism activities. “Though the pandemic has put restrictions on movement, few people have started cycling to enjoy the morning chill. One can enjoy the countryside just by cycling about 7 km from the centre of the city in any direction,” Keshav Patil, an avid trekker, said. The medical fraternity, however, has warned people against taking weather casually. “Agreed that the weather is pleasant. But people must guard against catching a cold now. Maintain all health protocols to keep Covid-19 at bay, drink warm water to keep immunity levels up,” said Dr Sanjay Bhamre, a member of Indian Medical Association, Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/at-15c-nashik-city-coolest-in-maharashtra-on-saturday/articleshow/78975485.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Region sees 2,317 new cases, most in Haryana; 31 die||CHANDIGARH: Even as coronavirus on Saturday lied relatively low in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, the resurgence of Covid-19 pandemic in the NCT of Delhi was once again reflected in the high number of fresh cases in neighbouring Haryana, which accounted for the maximum daily cases in the region. The three states together threw up 2,317 new cases, while 31 patients succumbed. Haryana recorded 1,743 fresh cases and 12 deaths, pushing the fatality count to 1,789 and the total of cases so far to 167,210, of which 12,191 are active cases. Total 1,391 recoveries during the day took the cure count to 153,230 at a recovery rate of 91.64%. The state’s doubling rate, however, remained stable at 51 days. Gurgaon and Hisar on Saturday recorded their highest-ever count of cases at 498 and 201, respectively. Faridabad reported second-highest 282 cases, followed by Rohtak (114) and Sonipat (102). Three deaths each were reported in Bhiwani and Hisar, two each in Gurgaon and Sonipat, and one each in Faridabad and Ambala districts. Punjab recorded 16 deaths and 503 new cases. Now, the state’s death toll stands at 4,203 and the case tally is up to 133,658, of which 4,257 cases are currently active. With total 358 patients discharged across the state, the recovery count has reached 125,198. Jalandhar district threw up the highest number of 105 fresh cases, followed by Mohali (74), Bathinda (58), Ludhiana (42), and Patiala and Hoshiarpur (34 each). Maximum three patients died in Bathinda, two each in Amritsar, Ludhiana, Mohali and Muktsar, and one patient each died in Faridkot, Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Moga and Tarn Taran districts. Himachal Pradesh on Saturday reported three deaths and 71 new cases, while 226 patients recovered. So far, 21,877 cases have surfaced in the state—of which 2,741 cases are currently active—and 18,797 patients have recovered, while 310 died and 24 moved out. Among the fresh cases, Mandi district reported 20, Hamirpur 15, Sirmaur 13, Una seven, Kangra and Shimla three each, Bilaspur five, Chamba four and one tested positive in Kinnaur. Of the recoveries, Mandi reported 118, Shimla 35, Kinnaur 22, Sirmaur 16, Bilaspur 13, Chamba 12, Hamirpur seven, Una two and one was declared cured in Lahaul-Spiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/region-sees-2317-new-cases-most-in-hry-31-die/articleshow/78975470.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana starts post-covid care centres, hospitals asked to follow suit||CHANDIGARH: Health authorities in Haryana have started special post Covid care clinics at Pt Bhagwat Dayal University of Health Sciences, PGIMS Rohtak. Health and medical education minister Anil Vij said the clinics started earlier this month. After putting the system in place, University authorities will sync data of post Covid care patients and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal. Sources said the clinics have 35 patients in the age group of 28 and 78 years. Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer of Covid care and senior prof and head of pulmonary medicine and critical care department, PGIMS, Rohtak confirmed the details and said patients are reporting with three kinds of symptoms. “The first category is that of general breathlessness and the second is breathlessness involving lungs or those who were on oxygen support during treatment. The third category is that of patients who still have anxiety issues. These 35 patients are examined in indoor clinics. We have queries though the telemedicine projects as well,’’ said Dr Chaudhary. He said infrastructure for the diagnosis and treatment of such patients is in place and pulmonary tests are being conducted. The health department has also instructed district hospitals to ensure post covid care scanning in clinics. Beside Covid care centres, the Haryana government has also started super-specialty Corona treatment centres in four districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-starts-post-covid-care-centres-hospitals-asked-to-follow-suit/articleshow/78975489.cms||Manvir Saini
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid warriors’ sacrifice unmatched in history: PM Narendra Modi||KEVADIA (NARMADA): Paying glowing tributes to corona warriors, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that all those who sacrificed their lives while serving the people during the pandemic have been immortally etched into the memory of Indians and the country is fast recovering from Covid-19 to chart a path of development. "People across India displayed an example of unity by honouring corona warriors. After Independence, nearly 35,000 policemen have laid down their lives for the security of the people. But in the last eight months, police jawans have sacrificed their lives on Covid duty to save lives of people. This dedication of cops and all other warriors deserves a salute," Modi said here addressing probationary civil servants on Rashtriya Ekta Diwas, the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel. The PM said people have fought Covid-19 with their immense capability and willpower at a time when other developed countries became helpless against the virus. Europe is already battling a second wave of infections with several countries going for lockdowns. "No one had imagined a year ago that all of humanity would have to face such a pandemic. This calamity struck suddenly and affected millions of lives. But the way the 130 crore people of this country have fought with sheer grit and will-power is unparalleled in history," he said. Modi shows Tamil prowess: PM Narendra Modi also recited poems of the sage Valmiki and legendary poets and social reformers — Subramania Bharathi of Tamil Nadu and Bihar’s Ramdhari Singh ‘Dinkar.’ He recited Tamil verses of Subramania’s poem and expounded on its meaning which, he said, hailed India’s cultural and social unity and diversity. He said these legends championed cultural unification ages ago and laid a strong foundation for ‘India First’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-warriors-sacrifice-unmatched-in-history/articleshow/78975517.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||Financial pay upgradation for 132 govt doctors||Panaji: About 132 doctors of the directorate of health services have been granted financial pay upgradation under the Dynamic assured career progression (DACP) scheme. It is applicable only to government doctors in the state. A doctor becomes eligible for financial pay upgradation after completion of a certain number of years in service. Pay upgradation ought to be given periodically, but the process remained pending in case of many doctors for several years as the department did not take the initiative. A public health department official said that in some cases the benefit under the scheme was delayed for more than four years. “It was brought to the notice of the previous health secretary Nila Mohanan, who took the initiative to clear the pending files. A screening committee was formed under her to complete the process,” the official said. “It wouldn’t have been a huge exercise if it was completed in time. Also, new doctors will feel encouraged to join government service,” he said. Panaji: About 132 doctors of the directorate of health services have been granted financial pay upgradation under the Dynamic assured career progression (DACP) scheme. It is applicable only to government doctors in the state. A doctor becomes eligible for financial pay upgradation after completion of a certain number of years in service. Pay upgradation ought to be given to them periodically, but the process remained pending in case of many doctors for several years as the department did not take the initiative. A public health department official said that in some cases the benefit under the scheme was delayed for more than four years. “It was brought to the notice of the previous health secretary Nila Mohanan, who took the initiative to clear the pending files. A screening committee was formed under her to complete the process,” the official said. “It wouldn’t have been a huge exercise if it was completed in time. Also, new doctors will feel encouraged to join government service rather than private practice. In the last few years, the government hospitals are facing difficulties in filling posts which have remained vacant for want of right candidates,” he said. The order granting pay upgradation was issued this month by the public health department. Officers who have been given upgradation have been asked to give an undertaking that in case of any excess payment that may be found to have been made as a result of incorrect fixation of pay or any excess payment detected in the light of discrepancies noticed subsequently, will have to be refunded by them to the government either by adjustment against future payments to them or otherwise, says the order. TNN Panaji: About 132 doctors of the directorate of health services have been granted financial pay upgradation under Dynamic assured career progression (DACP) scheme which is applicable to only government doctors in the state. The government doctors become eligible for financial pay upgradation after completion of a certain number of years in service. Pay upgradation ought to be given to them periodically, the process remained pending for many doctors for several years as the department did not take an initiative to do it from time to time. In some cases, a public health department official said, the benefit to the doctors under the scheme was delayed for more than four years. “It was brought to the notice of previous health secretary Nila Mohanan and she took the initiative to clear the files pending. A screening committee was formed under her to complete the process,” a public health department officer said. He said it wouldn’t have been a huge exercise if completed in time. Also, new doctors will feel encouraged to join government service rather than go into private practice. In the last few years, the government hospitals are facing difficulties in filling posts which have remained vacant for want of right candidates. The order granting pay upgradation was issued this month by the public health department. Officers who have been given pay upgradation have been asked to give an undertaking in case any excess payment that may be found to have been made as a result of incorrect fixation of pay or any excess payment detected in the light of discrepancies noticed subsequently will be refunded by them to the government either by adjustment against future payments to them or otherwise, says the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/financial-pay-upgradation-for-132-govt-doctors/articleshow/78976380.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Drones used to trace out leopards in Pathardi||Nashik: Even as drones and more forest teams have been deployed in Pathardi taluka of Ahmednagar to nab leopards, the big cats still remains elusive. Forest department sources said that couple of drones are being used to trace out the wild cats which they assume are still holed up in the forest area of the taluka. Forest officials said that although there is presence of leopard in the forest areas of Pathardi, it is for the first time that the big cat has made human beings as prey instead of animals. The leopard had killed three children from three different villages of Pathardi taluka of Ahmednagar district in the last 15 days. All these villages are located within a radius of about 8 sq km. These three incidents have made the local residents fearful and they have stopped stepping out of homes after dusk. The last incident took place on Thursday night when a leopard dragged away a three-year-old boy sitting with her mother outside their house and killed him. “Our team of experts from Pune and Aurangabad have joined to track down the leopard. These two teams are an addition to the teams that were sent from Nashik and Jalgaon earlier,” said forest official, adding that the department would continue with the search operations. According to sources, the teams have found out marks of the big cat near the village where it struck on Thursday night.  “We have set up 18 cages in strategic locations near the forest areas,” officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/drones-used-to-trace-out-leopards-in-pathardi/articleshow/78975515.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Textile industry to be set up in Jangaon soon||Hyderabad: On the requisition of Panchayat Raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced that textile related industry will be established in Jangaon soon. The CM stated that the government will make sure to set up handloom related project in Jangaon, where there are many handloom workers. Kakatiya Mega textile park is going to be set up in Parkal for development of handloom community in the state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/textile-industry-to-be-set-up-in-jangaon-soon/articleshow/78975529.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: CPM central leaders defer discussion on Kodiyeris||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM central committee (CC) didn’t discuss the serious allegations levelled against Bineesh Kodiyeri, the son of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, as the central leadership concluded that raking up unnecessary controversies ahead of upcoming local body polls in Kerala would do more harm than good. According to sources, an available politburo meeting, held in between the CC meeting, discussed the issue briefly and decided not to trigger a debate in CC as criticism in the party forum will only provide more ammunition to party’s enemies. However, a couple of members from Kerala are learnt to have mentioned the topic during their speeches in the forum and they expressed suspicion about ED laying traps for Bineesh using Anoop Mohammed, whose statement led to his arrest. Sources hinted that politburo and CC will review the issue if more credible evidence about the involvement of Bineesh comes up in the public domain in future. “State secretary himself, on record, said please investigate the whole issue and if he is guilty, punish him according to the law (sic). That is the position of the party too,” said CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury in New Delhi. When asked if Kodiyeri would step down from his post, he said there was no need for such a step. The CC meeting considered the multiple investigations carried out by central agencies against the state government. The CC expressed serious reservations on how agencies are carrying out investigation. Leaders from Kerala explained how CBI had intervened to sabotage Life Mission project which is aimed at providing homes for the poor. “Central agencies are being misused for political gains. They are supposed to discharge duties freely and judiciously. BJP leaders, who are central ministers, are giving directives to these agencies. Central ministers are deciding who will be slapped with a case. Investigators are also leaking probe details to the media,” said senior CPM leader S Ramachandran Pillai. The CC decided to expose the vested agenda behind the ongoing probes against LDF government by organizing a series of campaigns in Kerala. The campaign will begin formally with the people’s movement planned on Kerala Piravi day against ‘media lies’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-central-leaders-defer-discussion-on-kodiyeris/articleshow/78974440.cms||B Sreejan
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: PCB gets doctors to talk to housing societies on fireworks’ impact||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) will appeal to secretaries of high-rise complexes to not light any kind of firecracker this year. Doctors will be engaged to participate in a digital meeting with representatives of housing societies to educate people about the ill-effects of fireworks during the pandemic. Before Kali Puja every year, WBPCB convenes a meeting with representatives of gated communities to reiterate the firecracker norms. This time, the meeting will be held over video conference, in which doctors will explain how crackers generate suspended particulate matter that can spread the coronavirus and how rising pollution levels can aggravate the condition of Covid patients. “Ironically, the noiseless crackers inflict more harm. We shall appeal to housing society secretaries to make sure that no crackers are lit during the pandemic,” Kalyan Rudra, chairman, WBPCB, said. TOI on Friday reported on citizens, especially doctors, starting social media campaigns for a smoke-free Kali Puja and Diwali. Both festivals will be celebrated on November 14. Rudra said, “There’s not much we can do other than inform and urge people to celebrate a pollution free festival. The Supreme Court had issued an order in 2018 pertaining to the permitted noise levels.” According to this apex court directive, the sound of firecrackers cannot exceed 90 decibels when measured from 5m and they can be burst only from 8pm to 10pm. The city police and teams from WBPCB conduct raids every year to prosecute violators. “This time, too, there will be raids. We shall give the cops 2,000 more noise metres. But we do want to spread the awareness towards smoke-free festivities so that the Covid woes are not worsened,” Rudra said. The city’s housing complexes have reported the most Covid cases and had to be turned into containment zones. WBPCB has a list of 300-odd representatives of residents’ welfare societies. Around 200 attended the annual pre-Kali Puja meet at Salt Lake’s Paribesh Bhavan auditorium last year. WBPCB had announced in that meeting that those who violate noise norms during Diwali could land up in prison for five years or be fined up to Rs 1 lakh. “This time, doctors will be there to elaborate with anecdotal evidence of children and adults with underlying respiratory diseases and senior citizens experiencing breathing distress because of emissions from firecrackers. They will explain how fireworks can harm Covid-19 patients and those who are recovering,” the WBPCB chairman said. Doctors Koushik Lahiri and Kaushik Chaki, members of West Bengal Doctors’ Forum (WBDF), said their organization held a discussion with Rudra. “ICU beds in hospitals are full. It will be terrible if we have more respiratory emergencies arising due to toxic particles released from crackers amid the pandemic,” said Lahiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pcb-gets-docs-to-talk-to-housing-societies-on-fireworks-impact/articleshow/78975516.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar: Missing saroops, sikh bodies likely to intensify agitation||AMRITSAR: Undeterred by police cases, Sikh leaders who launched a morcha on September 14 to ascertain the whereabouts of the 328 missing saroops of Sri Guru Granth Sahib (SGGS) and registration of police cases against guilty Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) employees are likely to intensify their struggle. Sources said Sikh leaders from nine organisations held a meeting on Saturday to discuss the situation after the clash with the SGPC task force on October 24 and registration of police cases. “We held a meeting and will announce our next course of action on November 10,” sources said. Balbir Singh Muchal of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee said their volunteers who had sustained injuries were recovering. He also alleged that the SGPC had planned the attack. He added that they would chart the future course of action after a meeting. Meanwhile, former Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh has written a letter to SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and officiating jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh asking them to be prepared to answer questions posed by the sangat with respect to the missing saroops. “Both Longowal and Harpreet Singh are answerable to the Panth and I hope they would also like to settle the issue amicably,” he said. He said he has invited them to respond to questions of the Panth on November 7 at a public gathering near the office of the Akal Takht secretariat. Sources said the Sikh bodies have decided to announce their plan on November 10 after questioning of the SGPC president and officiating jathedar of Akal Takht by Bhai Ranjit Singh on November 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/missing-saroops-sikh-bodies-likely-to-intensify-agitation/articleshow/78975536.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Girl, 12, killed as police car rams fair stall||HISAR: A police vehicle passing through a fair organised on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti in Panniwala Ruldu village of Dabwali area in Sirsa hit a toy shop, killing a 12-year-old girl buying toys there and injuring the elderly toy stall owner. The deceased minor has been identified as Rajveer Kaur, and injured trader Sadhu Khan, 60, has been admitted to a hospital in Kalanwali. A police employee is also reported to have received injuries. After the incident, enraged villagers blocked the road demanding arrest of the accused driver of the Bolero car of Kalanwali police station. Sunil Kumar of Sadar Dabwali police station said a case has been registered against Rajkumar, the Bolero driver, on charges of rash driving and causing death by negligence. The police said the Kalanwali police were going to produce three arrested persons in the court by that car. When the police car reached near Panniwala Ruldu village, there was a huge crowd due to the fair at the Valmiki temple. The driver somehow lost control over the vehicle, which rammed the toy shop, injuring the toy seller and the girl. Both were rushed to the hospital, where doctors declared the girl dead. Meanwhile, soon after the crash, a word spread that one of the three arrested persons being taken to the court had given the police a slip. Although some villagers claimed that he was arrested later, the police said it was all a rumour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/girl-12-killed-as-police-car-rams-fair-stall/articleshow/78975514.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Doubling rate of Covid-19 cases up to 52 days in dist||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The rate of doubling of Covid-19 cases across Nashik district has gone up to 52 days by October 30. The district has reported 93,443 cases so far, while 87,644 have recovered. As many as 1,667 people have succumbed to the infection. The death rate is now down to 1.78%. According to senior officers from the Nashik civil hospital, the total number of cases jumped from 23,828 on August 14 in 25 days to 46,444 on September 8. However, these numbers doubled from 46,444 to 93,443 in next 52 days. “This is an encouraging factor as far as managing patients is concerned,” the officer said. The rate of Covid-19 patients being tested positive has gone down from the peak of 2,048 patients testing positive on a single day on September 16. It has come down to 344 being tested positive on October 30. According to the officials, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases is almost the same in the city and district. The rate of doubling of patients in the rural areas rose from 24 days to 48 days – a very thin difference. Nashik city has registered the death rate at 1.39%. The rural areas of Nashik have witnessed 26,745 patients, out of which, 24,697 have been cured at the rate of 92.34%. The rural areas have registered 598 deaths, which means the death rate was around 2.23%. Officers said the death rate was during the earlier phase of the pandemic in the rural areas – especially out of fear and ignorance but later, the system was put in place that helped curb the death rate to a large extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/doubling-rate-of-covid-19-cases-up-to-52-days-in-dist/articleshow/78975548.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Owner of pav bhaji stall attacked||Nashik: A 46-year-old man, who runs a pav bhaji stall in the Nashik Road area, was attacked by a person for not giving extortion amount. The complaint, Mangesh Kisan Kadam, runs a pav bhaji stall near Muktidham temple. On Thursday, the accused, Sattu Rajput, came to Kadam and asked for a particular amount if he wanted to continue running his business there. Kadam refused to pay, so the accused attacked him with a sharp weapon. Kadam escaped with minor injuries.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/owner-of-pav-bhaji-stall-attacked/articleshow/78973522.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kochi||Know whereabouts of missing iPhone: Ramesh Chennithala||KOTTAYAM: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that he knew where the iPhone is, said to have gone missing by the accused in Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. He, however, did not divulge more about the phone. Inaugurating a hunger strike by MLA Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan against the anti-development stand of the LDF government in his constituency and against drug and gold smuggling mafia here on Saturday, Chennithala said that he would move the high court against the accused persons in the case who alleged that they had gifted him an iPhone. He also demanded that Sivasankar, former principal secretary of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, be expelled from civil service as per article 311 of the Indian Constitution. He also alleged that the state police have not even registered an FIR against the son of CPM state secretary, despite his involvement in a major drugs case. “The Kerala society has hung its head in shame following the misdeeds of the two sons of CPM state secretary. The government elected by people has become an agent for the underworld, smugglers and drug peddlers. The CM is not speaking anything against Sivasankar, as heartbeats of many will increase if CM’s former principal secretary opens his mouth,” said Chennithala. He also said that the reason for the overenthusiasm shown by the CPI state secretary to picture the corrupt LDF government as clean is a different case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/know-whereabouts-of-missing-iphone-ramesh/articleshow/78974462.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pandemic hurting Gujarat's chess queens’ progress||AHMEDABAD: While most outdoor sports have been revived after Covid-related restrictions, and are taking place using bio-bubbles, the game of 64 squares is being played more online rather than in the traditional form, face-to-face on a wooden board. “No major national or international tournaments have taken place in the last seven months with the world chess body (FIDE) instructing against holding any championship. Players have not been able to participate in any serious competition,” said Bhavesh Patel, CEO, Gujarat State Chess Association. Two of Gujarat’s brightest prospects, Ahmedabad’s 15-year-old Dhyana Patel (ELO rating 1947) and 14-year-old Vishwa Vasnawala (ELO rating 2034) have carved niches for themselves in the sport and are on the verge of making it big on the international stage. However, the pandemic has halted their progress, forcing them to stay home in Ahmedabad. Speaking to TOI, Women FIDE Master (WFM) Dhyana said, “I had plans to participate in tournaments at Sharjah, Greece, Prague and Riga (Latvia) but could not do so because of the pandemic.” She is a Class X student of Nirma Vidyavihar, and had won the National Under-13 Chess Championship 2018 in Ahmedabad. Vishwa, the youngest WFM of Gujarat, is worried that after bagging the first Women International Master (WIM) norm last year in Budapest, her plans to achieving the next two have gone for a toss. “The championships for the second and third International Master norms were to be held in April and May in Hungary and Spain but have been postponed indefinitely,” she says. Vishwa is a Class X student at the Best Higher Secondary School in Maninagar.  She said to keep in touch with chess she has been participating in online tournaments and getting coaching online from a GM from Ukraine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pandemic-hurting-chess-queens-progress/articleshow/78975560.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Ex-employee, 2 aides shoot at businessman in Kolkata's Burrabazar||KOLKATA: A middle-aged businessman, who runs a financial firm at Burrabazar, was shot at allegedly by one of his former employees and two aides of the latter on Saturday evening, when he was busy with Diwali sales in the bustling trading district. Ram Avatar, who was hospitalized in a critical condition, was expected to undergo a surgery later at night to remove the bullet lodged in his chest, police said. While Avatar’s former employee, identified as Ravi, has been caught, the two associates managed to flee. A manhunt has been launched for them. Avatar was at his office on Rabindra Sarani, when the three men visited him, police said. Ravi reportedly started off with a discussion on “monetary settlement”, but police suspected his entire plan was to rob the businessman. Police said when Avatar refused to pay, an argument broke out and one of the accomplices of Ravi, called Shaukat, fired at Ram’s chest. The three began to run but people around caught Ravi. The victim was rushed to the hospital. “We are finding the motive and investigating the circumstances under which the shooting took place,” said an IPS officer. The circumstances under which Ravi had left the job is being probed. The cops scanned CCTV footage and studied call records. Besides the Burrabazar police and central division sleuths, at least three wings of the detective department are helping the local cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ex-employee-2-aides-shoot-at-bizman-in-burrabazar/articleshow/78975572.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Activist to move Calcutta high court for ban on fireworks||KOLKATA: The Howrah-based social worker, whose petition to declare Durga puja pandals as no-entry zones kept a great majority of Kolkatans indoors from panchami onwards, now plans to move Calcutta High Court once again, this time to seek a court directive completely banning fireworks in the run up to Diwali and Kali Puja. Traders have said they will contest the case and point to their right to livelihood. Social worker Ajoy Dey’s petition, a public interest litigation (PIL), will be filed in Calcutta High Court on Monday by his advocate Bikash Bhattacharyya and advocate-on-record Sabyasachi Chatterjee. It will seek a total ban on fireworks for this year due to the pandemic. His lawyer Sabyasachi Chatterjee told TOI that besides seeking a total ban on the use of fireworks this year, it will pray for a court directive prohibiting manufacture and marketing of fireworks as well. The PIL, said Chatterjee, will also seek a court directive to the state and police to enforce the ban and disallow the annual bazi bazaar this year. The petitioner will contend that use of fireworks amid soaring Covid cases in the city and suburbs will only help spread the infection as people will give social distancing norms a go by when they come out to burst crackers. Chatterjee said decades ago, late justice Bhagabati Prasad Banerjee had restricted decibel limits of noisy fireworks. But now we will pray for total ban on use of fireworks. He said doctors had already made a similar appeal to the government. Fireworks cause breathing trouble not only among Covid-affected people but others as well, the PIL will state. Burrabazar Fireworks Dealers Association joint secretary Santanu Dutta said they would contest the case. “Fireworks is a legal commodity. Around 7 lakh families are involved in firework manufacturing and trading. There is no call to ban diesel vehicles that pollute all year round,” he argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/activist-to-move-court-for-ban-on-fireworks/articleshow/78975547.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt sets ball rolling for GHMC polls||Hyderabad: The government on Saturday urged the State Election Commission (SEC) to initiate the process for holding elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) within three months before the present elected body’s term expires on February 10, 2021. There had been a talk of the polls being deferred a little because of the impact of the recent floods in many parts of Greater Hyderabad, but sources said that an aggressive TRS would like to see the key civic polls sooner than later. The party has decided to not wait for even the Dubbak byelection result to be announced. In the existing house, TRS controls 100 of the 150 municipal segments. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has 44 seats while Congress has two and BJP four. Sources said municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar and GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar met state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi on Sunday and handed over government orders pertaining to continuation of delimitation and reservations of wards. Partha Sarathi told STOI that the final list of photo electoral rolls would be published on November 13 after seeking objections and suggestions from the people and also holding a meeting with political parties. Thereafter, the SEC will concentrate on making arrangements at polling booths. Most of the pre-poll exercise is expected to be over by the third week of November.  Arvind Kumar and Lokesh Kumar appraised the SEC about the government order to continue the existing delimitation of wards (which was finalised during GHMC elections-2016) in the forthcoming elections too. They also appraised the SEC that the government recently made amendments to Section-5(2) of the GHMC Act, 1955. Accordingly, the government issued GO No. 562 (dated October 31, 2020) extending the reservation of wards made for STs, SCs, BCs and women during the last GHMC elections to the ensuing elections too. These two GOs allow the SEC to speed up the pre-poll exercise as it will not need to conduct the time-consuming exercise of delimitation of wards and also identifying wards for fixing of reservations to SCs, STs, BCs and women based on their population in respective wards. GFX: Article 243-U (3)(a) of the Constitution of India and Section -7 of GHMC Act mandates that the elections shall be completed within three months before expiry of five years of its term. Preparation of electoral rolls will be done with reference to January 1, 2020 as the qualifying date duly adopting latest Assembly rolls.  ROLLS TIMELINE Nov 7: Preparation of ward-wise draft photo electoral rolls and their display for inspection by the general public at GHMC offices Nov 8 to Nov 11: Receipt of objections on rearrangement of urban Assembly voters into ward-wise photo-electoral rolls Nov 9: Meeting with representatives of political parties at GHMC level by the Commissioner and election authority of GHMC. Nov 10: meeting with representatives of political parties at GHMC circle level by deputy commissioners of GHMC. Nov 12: Disposal of objections by the deputy commissioners Nov 13: Final publication of ward wise photo electoral rolls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-sets-ball-rolling-for-ghmc-polls/articleshow/78975546.cms||Roushan Ali
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Groundwater levels up in dry regions after rains||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The groundwater levels in the parched regions of Nashik district are higher than the five-year average, largely due to the good run of the monsoon this year. In contrast, the areas that usually report good rainfall have not gained much. Officials from the groundwater survey development agency (GSDA), Nashik said that Chandwad taluka was the biggest beneficiary, while Trimbakeshwar taluka has reported a drop. Chandwad witnessed a rise of 2.62 metre as water levels rose from 4.95 m to 2.33 m below surface. Trimbakeshwar, on the other hand, reported a drop in groundwater level from 0.9 metre below surface to 1.65 m below surface. According to the GSDA survey, which measures water levels through its observation wells, Yeola, Nandgaon, Baglan, Chandwad, Malegaon and Deola talukas have witnessed a rise in the groundwater levels. Water level rose by 2.4m in Baglan, Yeola (2.38 m), Deola (2.13 m), Nandgaon (1.98 m), Sinnar (1.52 m) and Malegaon (1.39 m). With the district receiving an average 128 % of its annual rainfall, it is for the first time in past five years that the water levels in Trimbakeshwar taluka have showed a drop. The taluka failed to get even its average rainfall for during this rainy season. Even the talukas of Dindori, Igatpuri and Peth that are known to get good rainfall, have witnessed drop in groundwater levels. Dindori received 104% of its annual rain but still the groundwater levels dropped by 0.53 metre when compared to five-year average of 2.78 m. Similar was the case with Igatpuri taluka that received 123% of rains but water levels dropped by 0.49 metre. Peth received 77% of rain and water level dropped by 0.7 metre. This is in sharp contrast to last year when groundwater levels increased by more than 2 metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/groundwater-levels-up-in-dry-regions-after-rains/articleshow/78975544.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Fewer patients at dist covid hospital||Nashik: With the number of Covid cases falling across the city, the number of patients getting admitted to the Nashik civil hospital is also seeing a dip, said senior medical officials. On Friday, there were only 70 patients admitted to the 110-bed district covid hospital (DCH). Civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said: “In September, all the 110 beds at the DCH were filled. We had to arrange for another 40-50 beds to accommodate the rising number of patients. However, things started changing in the second week of October. Fewer patients are coming from the city and rural areas now.” Out of the 70 patients, 50 are on oxygen support and two are on ventilator. Raokhande said at one point, more than 100 patients were on oxygen support. Going by the figures available till October 30, there are 5,465 active patients in the entire district. Of them, 4006 are asymptomatic, 630 are on ventilator and 630 on oxygen. In September, there used to be more than 2,500 patients on oxygen and close to 500 on ventilator support. The fatality numbers also have improved. Earlier, there used to be 20-25 daily deaths in the district. However, on October 30, there was only one death, said Raokhande. She said cautioned that people need to take all necessary precautions as the onset of winter may cause the coronavirus to behave differently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fewer-patients-at-dist-covid-hospital/articleshow/78975573.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 1, 2020||Chennai||TN agri minister dies of Covid||Chennai/Trichy: Tamil Nadu agriculture minister R Doraikkannu, who was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on October 13 with severe breathlessness as a result of Covid-19 and put on life support, died at 11.15 pm on Saturday. He was 72. He is survived by wife D Banumathi and four children.A bulletin from Kauvery Hospital executive director Dr Aravindan Selvaraj on October 25 had said Doraikannu was admitted with severe breathlessness after he tested positive for Covid-19. The viral infection had invaded 90% of his lungs. He was on Ecmo and ventilator and was closely monitored by a panel of specialist doctors in the ICU.Doraikkannu was a three-time MLA representing the Papanasam assembly segment in Thanjavur district since 2006. A close associate of AIADMK’s Thanjavur strongman and Rajya Sabha MP, R Vaithilingam, Doraikkannu worked his way up the ranks to become a minister. He was Papanasam union secretary for more than a decade before being given a ticket to contest in Papanasam constituency in 2006. Doraikkannu got the agriculture and animal husbandry portfolio in May 2016.The unified party of O Panneerselvam and EPS offered him the post of Thanjavur North district secretary when the incumbent, M Rengasamy, a relative of V K Sasikala, moved to her nephew T T V Dhinakaran’s camp.With Doraikkannu as agriculture minister, the AIADMK government enacted crucial laws, including the one to declare Cauvery delta as protected special agricultural zone and Tamil Nadu agricultural produce and livestock contract farming and services. In his last interaction with reporters at the state Secretariat on September 25, Doraikkannu strongly backed the Centre’s farm bills, saying it would not affect the farmers in the state.A native of Rajagiri near Papanasam in Thanjavur district, Duraikkannu , after completing his studies, worked in a cooperative society for some time. Then he joined AIADMK. His elder son D Sivapandian is working in the agriculture department and his younger son D Shanmuga Prabhu is the AIADMK’s youth wing secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-agri-minister-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78975567.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kochi||‘Wrongdoers will be punished’||T’PURAM: If a government servant or individual is in wrong company, he should face the consequences, CPM politburo member M A Baby said in a Facebook post on Saturday. “This is applicable for those who worked in the chief minister’s office and close relatives of CPM leaders,” he posted, without naming M Sivasankar or Bineesh Kodiyeri, who were arrested in separate criminal cases. The post, which largely criticized the investigation by central agencies in Kerala, promised that CPM would discuss and adopt corrective measures if there were lapses. Responding to the recent developments after the conclusion of CPM central committee meeting, Baby alleged that a planned attack has been launched on his party in Kerala. “A ‘thandava’ of central agencies is being orchestrated by RSS in Kerala. The probe started with a gold smuggling case and it was the government that sought a probe by central agencies. The government and CPM welcomed NIA to probe the case. But, the central agencies and the Centre, which failed miserably in preventing smuggling, focussed on linking the probe to the chief minister’s office so that RSS may get political dividends,” Baby wrote. He said the mala fide intentions of central agencies have now been exposed. Addressing reporters, politburo member S Ramachandran Pillai said the communist party won’t support wrongdoers. “There are allegations against Bineesh… . If he is guilty, let him be punished,” he said. When asked if the probe against Bineesh was politically motivated, Pillai said let agencies furnish evidence. To a query why CPM ignores moral responsibility of the wrongdoings of Sivasankar, who was the private secretary to the CM for four years, Pillai said that as Sivasankar was an all-India service officer, so the Prime Minister too has a moral responsibility for his actions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wrongdoers-will-be-punished/articleshow/78974487.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Trichy||TN agriculture minister R Doraikkannu dies due to Covid-19||CHENNAI/TRICHY: Tamil Nadu agriculture minister R Doraikkannu, who was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on October 13 with severe breathlessness as a result of Covid-19 and put on life support, died at 11.15 pm on Saturday. He was 72. He is survived by wife D Banumathi and four children. A bulletin from Kauvery Hospital executive director Dr Aravindan Selvaraj on October 25 had said Doraikannu was admitted with severe breathlessness after he tested positive for Covid-19. The infection had invaded 90% of his lungs. He was on Ecmo and ventilator and was closely monitored by a panel of specialist doctors in the ICU.  Doraikkannu was a three-time MLA representing the Papanasam assembly segment in Thanjavur district since 2006. A close associate of AIADMK’s Thanjavur strongman and Rajya Sabha MP, R Vaithilingam, Doraikkannu worked his way up the ranks to become a minister. He was Papanasam union secretary for more than a decade before being given a ticket to contest in Papanasam constituency in 2006. Doraikkannu got the agriculture and animal husbandry portfolio in May 2016.  The unified party of O Panneerselvam and EPS offered him the post of Thanjavur north district secretary.  With Doraikkannu as agriculture minister, the AIADMK government enacted crucial laws, including the one to declare Cauvery delta as protected special agricultural zone and Tamil Nadu agricultural produce and livestock contract farming and services. In his last interaction with reporters at the state Secretariat on September 25, Doraikkannu strongly backed the Centre’s farm bills, saying it would not affect the farmers in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-agriculture-minister-dies-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/78977258.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Cong protests at Bapu Kuti against farm laws||Wardha: The Congress on Saturday held satyagraha at Bapu Kuti in Sewagram to oppose the three contentious farm laws enacted by the Central government. Led by Maharashtra Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, party office-bearers and members observed the day as ‘Kisan Adhikar Diwas’ to mark late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s death anniversary and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s birth anniversary. Thorat said a state cabinet sub-committee will be formed to oppose the laws. “The central government brought the law despite objection from the entire opposition,” he said while claiming that the laws are a ploy to break the system of agriculture produce market committee (APMCs) started by the late Yashwantrao Chavan. The satyagraha started with a prayer in front of Bapu Kuti. “We are staging a statewide agitation following the path of satyagraha shown to us by Mahatma Gandhi,” said Thorat. Congress in-charge HK Patil, women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, energy minister Nitin Raut, youth wing’s Satyajit Tambe, MLA Ranjit Kamble and ex-MLA Amar Kale along with other Congress workers joined the agitation. Thorat said the laws have no provision for redressing farmers’ grievances. “The farmer can’t even seek justice from sub divisional officer. These laws will only help corporates or big traders. Corporates will lure farmers by initially offering more rate than the MSP but later exploit farmers. The central government is acting for corporates only,” he said. Wadettiwar said the centre is imposing these black laws on the farmers. “Congress will not remain silent until the laws are repealed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-protests-at-bapu-kuti-against-farm-laws/articleshow/78981969.cms||Balwant Dhage
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Nashik dist adds 228 cases, 3 deaths||Nashik: Nashik district registered 228 fresh Covid-19 cases,including 129 from the city, along with three deaths on Saturday. At present, the district has 3,995 active cases. The situation in Nashik is fast improving with 362 people being discharged from various facilities across the district, a senior officer from civil hospital said. Of the three casualties reported in the district on Thursday, two are from the limits of Nashik Municipal Corporation. Meanwhile, Malegaon municipal corporation registered 10 new coronavirus cases on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dist-adds-228-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/78975568.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Raj govt tables bill to make wearing face mask mandatory||Jaipur: In a first in the country, the Rajasthan government on Saturday introduced a bill in the state assembly to make wearing a face mask or cover mandatory.The Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was introduced by state parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal.Covid-19 is rapidly spreading throughout the country, including Rajasthan, since its outbreak. To regulate and prevent epidemic diseases, the state government enacted the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. Section 4 of the Act provides that the state government may specify such temporary regulations or orders to be observed by the public to prevent the spread of epidemic disease.A new clause in the Section 4 of the Act has been inserted, which proposes to prohibit the movement of people in public places without properly covering mouth and nose with a face mask or cover.The bill prohibits the movement of any person in public place, public transport, private transport, work place or at any social, political, general function or gathering without properly covering mouth and nose with face mask or face cover.The statement of the bill said, “Health experts all over the world are of the opinion that the use of a mask can help control the spread of Covid-19 considerably and save lives of millions.”The state government is also of the view that wearing a mask should be made mandatory at public places, workplace, social and political gatherings and on public or private transport, the statement said.BOXThe business advisory committee(BAC) of the assembly on Saturday decided to conclude the current session of the assembly on Monday after passing the bills tabled in the assembly on Saturday. According to sources 12 MLAs from the ruling and the opposition will patricipate in the discussions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-tables-bill-to-make-wearing-face-mask-mandatory/articleshow/78975569.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||5% students attend live online classes: Report||JAIPUR: Barely 5.2% of students in the state were found to attend live online classes exposing tall claims by both the schools and the government of uninterrupted online lessons, said the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) released recently. The report said 45.1% of students are learning through textbooks with little guidance from teachers. The state, which claimed to be the first to use radio as a medium for studies, has achieved precious little with 1.5% of students using this medium. ASER did a random sample survey to come up with the report. The report is similar to several observations made by independent groups stating that online classes are meant for the privileged class. Reacting on the findings, Damodar Goyal, an educationist, said online teaching (e-learning) was necessitated by the sudden closure of schools due to outbreak of Covid to ensure no learning gap. “The negligible per cent of schools providing live online classes which were termed as the most effective form of imparting education till the physical classes resume are those which were able to develop infrastructure and provide necessary apparatus, teachers training, related pedagogy. It made teaching effective and it is tangible also,” said Goyal. Terming online teaching not a cup of tea for everyone, he said online teaching requires meticulous planning, sincere teaching efforts, strong monitoring and honest assessment of learning outcomes. The report said 4.2% of government schools are providing online teaching and majority of them are those which has been helped or provided aid by donors. Online education in this minuscule number of schools becomes ineffective since 60% of the government schools don’t have textbooks. The state planned for teaching through radio and some educational channel are turning out to be a one-way channel with the engagement of students. The survey didn’t say anything about the learning outcomes of students studying under different formats. Sharing the experience of engaging with teachers and schools, KB Kothari, managing trustee of Pratham NGO, said generating or creating content is a huge problem for low-income family schools. “Online education dynamics are very different from physical classes. The content should be based on activities making it engaging and interesting. An aptitude is required to keep an eye on all students or at multiple screens keeping their attention intact. Thus the majority of schools especially government schools are not going to adapt the online education apparatus,” said Kothari. Education department officials, while explaining the reasons behind the poor show by the government, said it was lack of resources. “The best in the given situation is a library of recorded videos on different subjects. Students have to rely on it until classes resume. These online classes too are funded by a private entity since state coffers were drained because of huge spending on dealing with corona and private schools faced funds crunch because of non-receipt of fee from parents,” said a government source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-students-attend-live-online-classes-report/articleshow/78975571.cms||Shoeb Khan
November 1, 2020||Chennai||TN agriculture minister R Doraikkannu dies due to Covid-19||CHENNAI/TRICHY: Tamil Nadu agriculture minister R Doraikkannu, who was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on October 13 with severe breathlessness as a result of Covid-19 and put on life support, died at 11.15 pm on Saturday. He was 72. He is survived by wife D Banumathi and four children. A bulletin from Kauvery Hospital executive director Dr Aravindan Selvaraj on October 25 had said Doraikannu was admitted with severe breathlessness after he tested positive for Covid-19. The infection had invaded 90% of his lungs. He was on Ecmo and ventilator and was closely monitored by a panel of specialist doctors in the ICU.  Doraikkannu was a three-time MLA representing the Papanasam assembly segment in Thanjavur district since 2006. A close associate of AIADMK’s Thanjavur strongman and Rajya Sabha MP, R Vaithilingam, Doraikkannu worked his way up the ranks to become a minister. He was Papanasam union secretary for more than a decade before being given a ticket to contest in Papanasam constituency in 2006. Doraikkannu got the agriculture and animal husbandry portfolio in May 2016.  The unified party of O Panneerselvam and EPS offered him the post of Thanjavur north district secretary.  With Doraikkannu as agriculture minister, the AIADMK government enacted crucial laws, including the one to declare Cauvery delta as protected special agricultural zone and Tamil Nadu agricultural produce and livestock contract farming and services. In his last interaction with reporters at the state Secretariat on September 25, Doraikkannu strongly backed the Centre’s farm bills, saying it would not affect the farmers in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-agriculture-minister-dies-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/78975574.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nashik||NMC to give greater focus on non-Covid treatment||Nashik: With the Covid-19 pandemic under control in the city, Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will start giving greater concentration to non-Covid treatment. The civic administration conducted a meeting with medical officers and other health department staff and have directed them to re-start activities related to non-Covid treatment. “Instructions have been given to medical officers that family planning surgeries which were affected due to the pandemic must restart in civic hospitals. Similarly, general surgeries would also re-start in civic hospitals,” said NMC officials. According to officials, asha workers have to begin survey about presence of pregnant women in the city and ensure that they have been given vaccine before deliveries. Even activities to control ailments like dengue and malaria would be stepped up although this year the city did not register any significant number of vector-borne diseases so far this monsoon. “We are not lowering our guard as far as Covid-19 is concerned. Our exercise of contact tracing, conducting tests of suspected patients, etc. will also continue simultaneously. But, since the situation on the Covid front is much better now, the civic body is now in position to give more focus on non Covid treatment,” officials added. NMC officials said that during the peak period of the pandemic, the entire health personnel of the civic body were involved in different Covid-related activities. In the meantime NMC is setting up a databank of the frontline Covid warriors in the city who would receive the Covid vaccine initially. The NMC has to furnish details to the state government as soon as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-give-greater-focus-on-non-covid-treatment/articleshow/78975578.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Notarised deals up, Rs 100 stamp papers vanish||HYDERABAD: After the state put on freeze property, both agriculture and non-agriculture, registrations in the state two months ago, there has been a spurt in notarised transactions, leading to scarcity of stamp papers, especially in Greater Hyderabad. Stamp papers are not available in the city, including courts. Even if they are available with some vendors, a Rs 100 stamp paper is being sold for anything between Rs 200 and Rs 300. Notarised transactions mean property transaction, affidavit or agreement on a stamp paper and attested by a notary advocate. Though it has no legal validity, some people are doing it unable to pay registration fee or just for the sake of evidence even in upmarket areas like Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills, Shaikpet and Madhapur. Sources said the sudden spike in the notarised transactions could be because the TRS government is considering regularising property transactions made on notarised documents. MIM MLAs had urged the state government in the assembly during the last session to give a one-time opportunity to people who did not have any sale deed or link documents for their properties. “If any transaction was done on notary, it has no legal binding and validity. They should go for registration if it is a sale, gift or agreement once registrations resume at sub-registrar offices. Notary transaction is not an alternative for registration. We have not received any complaints on stamp paper scarcity,” additional inspector general, registration and stamps (R&S) department, V Venkata Rajesh told TOI. According to rough estimates, there could be six to seven lakh notarised properties, where transactions were held decades ago, in the city, especially in the old city, as many of them cannot afford to pay registration fee and other charges to the state government. On the other hand, a notarised transaction could be completed for Rs 2,000. “Now, notarised transactions are not confined to the Old City or small property buyers or gullible public. It is rampant even in Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills, Shaikpet, Madhapur and Hafeezpet areas as properties are located on disputed (government) land, lake beds, full tank level, ceiling surplus and illegal buildings, which cannot be registered. People now prefer notaries for gift settlement, partition deeds, mortgage and even sale agreements and deeds. Legally it is not valid, but it only helps as evidence for the transaction,” MA Rasheed, an advocate and former district registrar of R&S department, told TOI. With still no clarity on when registrations would resume, some builders and developers were preferring transactions on notary as a temporary arrangement for agreements with prospective buyers. “After scouting for Rs 100 stamp paper at several locations, I finally got it for Rs 250 near City Civil Courts Complex, Secunderabad. They are not available with several vendors,” B Samba Murthy, a resident of Manikeshwari Nagar told TOI. “Builders and developers usually register their development agreements, sale agreements for villas and big-ticket projects at sub-registrar offices. To have some authenticity to their transactions for now, some may have preferred notary transactions on stamp papers,” Telangana Developers Association (TDA) president GV Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/notarised-deals-up-rs-100-stamp-papers-vanish/articleshow/78975580.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Poor Net, lack of smartphones hit online learning||Jaipur: Poor Internet connection and fewer smartphones have prevented 36.1% of the students from attending any form of virtual classes. The Annual Status of Education Report said one-fourth of the parents whose wards enrolled in government schools don’t have smartphones, which explains why 5.2% of students just have access to live online classes in the state. The report added that another 9.7% doesn’t have Internet connection, which means that these students have to rely on the textbooks and guidance by their parents/family for studies. It also stated that 5.7% of the students struggle with Net connectivity. The data, which was collected during the reference week of the survey in September, indicated that academics has gone for a toss due to Covid for students who either don’t have smartphones or Internet connection. “I am not surprised by the situation since Internet penetration in the state is among the weakest since it constitutes for about 10% of the area in the country,” said Puneet Sharma, an educationist. Giving a gender discrimination dimension due to poor Internet and shortage of smartphones, Malpura government school principal Girdhar Singh said in most cases, a family owns one smartphone which is either being used by earning member or male child for classes. “Families have to prioritise their gadgets—smartphones or laptops. It is often seen that girl students miss our online initiatives as they didn’t get the opportunity to hands-on smartphone,” said Singh. He added that if the situation doesn’t improve in the coming months, the learning outcome gap between boys and girls will be visible. SMILE on Whatsapp The state education department has attempted to create its repository of pre-recorded academic videos under the programme SMILE. These videos are relayed via WhatsApp on the given number of the students. The five-minute video is either provided by the department or the school teacher prepares it for its students. “The programme is like a lifeline for students in the era of Covid. Also, teachers have been asked to call five students every day to figure out the problems they are facing,” said Girdhar Singh, principal of a government school in Malpura. These videos are shared every day at 9 am and the maximum duration of these videos to remain within 30 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poor-net-lack-of-smartphones-hit-online-learning/articleshow/78975575.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Two fires in the city||Jaipur: At least three persons were injured and 25 people rescued after a fire broke out in a three-storey building in Bhatta Basti here on Saturday morning. At least 12 fire tenders were deployed to control the blaze. Jaipur North DCP Rajiv Pachar said, “The reason will be ascertained once the FSL team collects the samples from the site. People who stayed there were involved in making bangles so perhaps some ingredient being used was inflammable.” A fire also broke in one of the rooms in the secretariat. No one was injured in the incident and it was brought under control quickly. Earlier this month, two persons including a toddler, were burnt alive when the house in which they were staying caught fire in Brahmpuri police station area in Jaipur. The deceased were identified as Shahrukh Khan (30) and his two-year-old son, Sufiyan. Tragically, while Shahrukh had initially managed to escape, when he realised that his son was still trapped inside the house, he went back in to save him. But unfortunately, both of them failed to come out alive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-fires-in-the-city/articleshow/78975577.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Chennai||More curbs off, edu institutions, theatres in TN to reopen in Nov||Chennai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday announced reopening of schools (Classes IX–XII), colleges, research and other educational institutions in TN from November 16. Movie theatres will reopen on November 10. Palaniswami made the announcement after meetings with collectors and health experts on Wednesday. “The Covid-19 transmission is on a steady decline in all the districts. It has been brought under control due to the best efforts of the state and the cooperation of the public. The cumulative positivity rate has been brought down below 7.3%,” the CM said, while extending the lockdown till November 30. Palaniswami said, “The daily cases are below 3,000 and the active cases have come down to 25,000 from 50,000 earlier.” He announced certain relaxations considering the need to revive the economy and the nature of pandemic. All theatres, including multiplexes and theatres at shopping malls having more than one screen, can operate with 50% capacity from November 10. The retail sale of fruits and vegetables at Koyambedu can begin in three phases from November 16. Lockdown restrictions will continue in containment zones. Some of the activities that will remain prohibited until further orders, include public gathering in swimming pools, beaches and tourist places, international air travel, except those permitted by the Union ministry of home affairs. E-registration will continue for those coming from other states, except Puducherry, and those travelling to tourist places like Ooty, Kodaikanal and Yercaud. The chief minister said the public should avoid gathering in huge numbers during the festive season, especially when the cases were on a decline. “Since wearing masks is mandatory, people should adhere to it while stepping out. Hands should be washed frequently using soap at home and at the workplace. The transmission could be totally controlled only if people extend their cooperation to the government by wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and avoiding going out unnecessarily,” Palaniswami said. Meanwhile, in an order on Saturday, chief secretary K Shanmugam said operation of both private and public transport between Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will be permitted without e-registration with immediate effect. This follows a request from Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy to resume inter-state bus transport considering the fact that the Union Territory had a unique geographic location with Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-curbs-off-edu-institutions-theatres-in-tn-to-reopen-in-nov/articleshow/78975579.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Trichy||Villagers in Ariyalur stage protest against move to fell banyan trees||TRICHY: Villagers at Paranam in Ariyalur district staged a protest against the alleged plan of a primary agriculture cooperative bank (PACB) to axe decades-old banyan trees for constructing a new office. The protesters said a new office building has been planned at a cost of Rs 25 lakh for Paranam PACB near Sendurai town. They were told about a plan to cut down banyan trees near the existing PACB office for a new building. As banyan trees serve as a resting place for people, the villagers urged the district administration not to disturb them. Youths and environmentalists belonging to Ariyalur-based Marangalin Nanbargal (friends of trees) registered their protest on Saturday by tying awareness placards promoting afforestation to the trees. The villagers said the new building should be raised at an alternative place or at the location of the existing office. They also lit camphor and offered prayers at the trees. Though the PACB officials had assured the locals that the trees will not be disturbed, the protesters demanded a written assurance from the district administration.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/villagers-stage-protest-against-move-to-fell-banyan-trees/articleshow/78976394.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||No headway in toddler murder case||JAIPUR: Police are yet to arrest anyone in the murder of toddler whose charred body was found in a well in Jamwaramgarh on Friday morning. The child had been abducted a day before and was burnt after being killed. Police is now looking at personal aspects in the matter and investigating into the fact that the child might have been killed due to the accused having some kind of animosity with the victim’s family. “Initially, we thought it might be a case of human sacrifice due to superstition, but we have not found any evidence to support that theory. The child being abducted from front of his house and no one noticing anything does seem strange, but no one has claimed to seeing anything,” said an official of Jamwaramgarh police who is investigating the case. Two-and-half-year-old Ganesh Regar had gone missing on Thursday afternoon around 2.30pm. After the child went missing, the family searched on their own and finally informed police around 7pm. Police teams searched the entire night and on Friday morning, just around 300 metre from the victim’s village, found his body in the well. Cops are looking at animosity within the family as well and the official added, “The victim’s grandmother alleged that they were not on cordial terms with a distant relative and he might have played a role in the murder but the child’s father claimed that this was not the case.We have activated our sources as well to find more information in the case.” The post-mortem had revealed that the child was burnt after dying due to a head injury and the official said, “It is difficult to say if he was killed soon after being kidnapped or later at night. The accused must have thought that no one will look into the well and possibly burnt the child so the victim could not be recognised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-headway-in-toddler-murder-case/articleshow/78975581.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Traffic police recover Rs 6.83cr fine this year||Nashik: The Nashik city traffic police have slapped erring motorists with fine to the tune of Rs 6.83 crore until September this year. Last year, during the same period, the police had challaned motorists to the tune of Rs 3.81 crore. Officials from the city traffic branch said that they had cracked down on erring motorists right from the beginning of this year. However, after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, there was a significant drop in their action owing to lesser number of vehicles on roads. The lull in cases was only limited to April and May and soon after the unlock process began, vehicles plying on city streets started increasing with many of them found to be violating traffic rules, forcing the police to be back in action. A total 1,92,533 motorists have been challaned for Rs 6.83 crore between January 1 and September 30. Last year, the police had challaned 1,54,488 motorists till September end. Nearly 43,700 motorists were challaned for not wearing helmet, 25,000 for wrong parking, 10,000 for not wearing seatbelts and over 15,000 for over-speeding. Traffic police said that motorists are also challaned in large numbers for signal jumping, using dark glasses on vehicles, not carrying documents or driving license, etc. Some autorickshaw drivers have also been fined for carrying more than permissible number of passengers. An official from the traffic branch said that all policemen have been given special devices to click pictures of erring motorists and note down their vehicle and registration number. Later, based on the details captured, they approach the motorist concerned and slap them with a fine. The motorists can pay the fine online. If the motorist concerned fails to make online payment of the fine, the device also displays the pending fine, following which the motorist is asked to clear all the dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traffic-police-recover-rs-6-83cr-fine-this-year/articleshow/78975601.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Ragpickers from Jalgaon paint diyas to fund their future||Nashik: Rag pickers from Jalgaon town have started a meaningful activity to build a corpus fund for their future medical expenses and education. As many as 150 children being looked after by an NGO — Vardhishnu through its three centres called Anand Ghar — are engaged in painting earthen lamps. They plan to sell these lamps during Diwali to help youths build a corpus funds for themselves to get some course after the Class Xth. “I am a member of Anand Ghar for last four years. After clearing my Class 10th examinations, it is Anand Ghar that is taking care of my future studies as well. The project of painting earthen lamps may look simple, but that is helping the students to look at the life in a meaningful way,” said 17-year-old Neha Jamdade who guides the youngsters in the organization. Vardhishnu — Social Research and Development Society — has been working with these children since 2013. The organisation has been helping them in building their life skills, health and physical well-being through various means and activities. Adwait Dandwate, who has done his company secretariat and Pranali Shisodiya from the field of biotechnology both decided to work for these children and, hence, started this organization. The aim of the organisation is to steer the children away from social evils, including addiction of tobacco and gutka, along with some other problems, including exploitation and engaging them in activities related to education and well-being. “After the initial phase of trust and distrust, the Anand Nagar has now made a home in the hearts of children. Instead of fighting against each other for every small reason, begging for alms, the children from age group of five to 16 now take up responsibilities and ownership toys, books and even activities,” Adwait pointed out. The organisation founders said that they were worried about the future of children and to ensure that they take up their own expenses for future education, they came up with the art of ‘painting earthen lamps’. “We put this concept before the children and they were more than happy to take it up. Last year, we sold 4,000 units. This year we have set a target of 20,000 lamps and we already have orders for 11,000 lamps from across Gujarat, Jharkhand, Uttarakhad, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Goa and of course Maharashtra,” Pranali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ragpickers-from-jalgaon-paint-diyas-to-fund-their-future/articleshow/78975625.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Dhule police arrest 5 online frauds from Delhi||Nashik: The Dhule police have arrested five people from Delhi who hacked the bank accounts of close to 27 people in Dhule and siphoned off over Rs 2 crore. Police said that in June, a branch manager of Axis bank had lodged a complaint stating that the bank account of one of their customers had been hacked and the money had been transferred to 27 bank accounts. During the course of the investigation, police found that the money was later transferred to 69 bank accounts and then to another 21 accounts. Police contacted the concerned banks and instructed them not to transfer the amount (Rs 88 lakh). According to police, all the bank accounts were opened by conmen with fake documents and cellphone numbers. The police kept a watch on some phone numbers and found the activity of one cellphone suspicious. Police learnt that the person, in whose name the cellphone was registered, was constantly in touch with four to five other people and realized that it was a gang of conmen. A team was sent to Delhi from where a woman was detained for investigation. Police also found various phones, sim cards, Aadhar cards, etc from there. The woman was brought to Nashik and kept in police custody. During interrogation, she revealed the names of other people, following which four others, including a person from Nigeria, were arrested. Among those who have been arrested were Deepak Chitra (29), Nikita Deepak Chitra (30), Ramankumar Darshankumar (30) and Avtar Singh alias Happy (25)—all residents of New Delhi and Noida. The person from Nigeria identified as Tobachiku Akore alias Press (23) was also staying in the capital. Police said that the conmen used to call up people, trick them into giving their bank details and siphon off money from their bank accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-police-arrest-5-online-frauds-from-delhi/articleshow/78975607.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||After 94 days, state reports less than 10 deaths||JAIPUR: After a gap of 94 days, the state reported less than 10 Covid deaths on Saturday. Since July 28, the state had been reporting 10 or more deaths daily. In the last 24 hours, nine deaths were reported from various parts of the country.Saturday’s casualties were reported from seven districts. Two deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Jaisalmer districts. While Jaipur’s casualty figures rose to 373, the desert district’s numbers went up to 17. The other district which reporterd casualties are Jodhpur, Ajmer, Pali, Sikar and Rajsamand. A health department official said, “We have expanded healthcare facilities. The number of ICU beds and ventilators have also increased significantly over the past few days. More private hospitals have started providing Covid treatement, which has helped in bringing down the number of deaths.”Besides, the situation is improving in Jaipur as the number of active cases have gone done noticeably. Jaipur had the highest number of active cases in the state, but now Jodhpur tops the charts. While the capital district has 4,095 active cases, Jodhpur has 4257. As on Saturday, the state’s active cases have gone down to 15,102. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (332), Jodhpur (289), Alwar (154), Bikaner (180), Nagaur (95), Sriganganagar (84), Ajmer (81), Sikar (78), Kota (74), Hanumangarh (66), Udaipur (43), Barmer (38), Churu (32), Sirohi (32), Pali (30), Bharatpur (25), Dausa (22), Bilwara (20), Tonk (17), Chittorgarh (15), Jhunjhunu (14), Bundi (11), Jalore (9), Jhalawar (9), Rajsamand (6), Baran (5), Dholpur (5), Jaisalmer (5), Pratapgarh (2), Banswara (2), Karauli (2), Sawai Madhopur (2) and Dungarpur (1). BOX: Today’s positive: 1780Cumulative positive: 1,96,993Today’s death: 9Cumulative death: 1907Today’s recovered: 1920Cumulative recovered: 1,79,984Active cases: 15,102||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-94-days-state-reports-less-than-10-deaths/articleshow/78975606.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||Accomodation issue: Docs threaten to retract from Covid duties||Panaji: After resident doctors on Covid duty in South Goa threatened to withdraw over their accommodation, health minister Vishwajit Rane on Saturday said he would take up the issue with chief minister Pramod Sawant Resident doctors have been told that the government will not provide them hotel accommodation henceforth, but that transport will be arranged to and from Goa Medical College (GMC) to Covid hospitals, Goa Association Resident Doctors (GARD) said in a letter to the health minister. “I have received the GARD’s representation and have told them not to worry, I will take up the issue with the chief minister,” Rane said. “In all states, the government has stood by the health workers on Covid duty. We can’t antagonise them when they are putting their lives at risk.” “We are disheartened by the decision and are left with no choice but to return to GMC and retract our services from Covid hospitals,” read the GARD statement issued after the resident doctors were informed about the new arrangement which comes into force from Sunday. However, GARD claimed that it has not received a written communication yet. “Resident doctors working at ESI Covid hospital and South Goa district hospital have been asked to vacate hotel accommodations by Sunday, or they pay for their stay,” the GARD letter stated. “Several senior doctors have been posted in critical areas and they need to be on call 24X7. It will be difficult for them to attend calls when travelling. Junior doctors are working diligently despite irregular payments since the past five months and they are told to pay for their stay and it will be reimbursed,” the letter further read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/accomodation-issue-docs-threaten-to-retract-from-covid-duties/articleshow/78976458.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||India to rebalance forces, firepower to LAC and IOR||NEW DELHI: India now plans to fast-track its ongoing rebalance of military forces and firepower to the northern borders with China and the critical Indian Ocean Region (IOR), in a decisive shift away from the decades-long focus on the western front with Pakistan and combating militancy. The just-concluded Army commanders’ conference discussed the “reorientation of forces” along the northern and western borders, with the operational challenges along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China being analyzed in the military operations directorate. Similar “operational recalibration” for “tackling the clear and present threat” from China is underway in the IAF and Navy amid the continuing deadlock in the military confrontation in eastern Ladakh, which has entered it seventh month now. “The rebalance from the land borders with Pakistan to the LAC and the maritime domain was gradually underway for some years now. But Ladakh has accelerated all the plans,” said a top officer on Saturday. “The operational readiness along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan, of course, cannot be diluted since the two-front situation is a reality. But China has become the primary front, with Pakistan being relegated to the secondary one,” he added. On the China front, the proposed measures range from the “permanent deployment” of additional infantry brigades and armoured regiments in eastern Ladakh as well other stretches of the LAC to cranking up force-levels and infrastructure on the island territories on the western and eastern seaboards. In eastern Ladakh, India has pumped in three additional divisions (each has around 12,000 soldiers) since May to supplement the 3 Infantry Division already based there, along with T-90S and T-72 tanks, howitzers and surface-to-air missile batteries. “The People’s Liberation Army has also dug-in for the long haul. If there is de-escalation, some forces will be de-inducted from Ladakh. But yes, the LAC is now set to witness permanent troop deployments like the LoC with Pakistan,” said another officer. Budgetary constraints, however, will be a limiting factor. Officials, however, say several schemes have been set in motion to optimize combat capabilities despite the fund crunch. The IAF, for instance, is finalizing a plan to “dry lease” or acquire six “pre-owned” mid-air refueling aircraft to extend the reach of its fighter jets. Though IAF overall needs 18 such “force-multipliers”, it is currently making do with just six IL-78 aircraft inducted in 2003-2004. “The new Defence Acquisition Procedure, in force from October 1, enables leasing of military equipment and platforms for urgent operational requirements. This will cut time delays and initial capital costs,” said an official. The Navy has already gone in for a major rationalization and re-prioritization of its long-term force level plans and arms procurement projects, which included the recent scrapping of the over Rs 20,000 crore tender for four large amphibious warfare warships or landing platform docks (LPDs), as was earlier reported by TOI. “The overall aim is to get the maximum bang for the buck, cutting down on the frills and wasteful expenditure,” said the official. But there is also the acknowledgement that more funds will be required than what have been allocated. The recent move towards “force accretion” and “military infrastructure development” in the strategically-located Andaman and Nicobar archipelago, as a counter to Chinese moves in the IOR, for instance, will require sustained funding over the next several years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-rebalance-forces-firepower-to-lac-and-ior/articleshow/78976867.cms||Rajat Pandit
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 in Jaipur: Active cases dip but more people admitted to hosps||JAIPUR: Active cases might be dipping in Jaipur, but its impact is not reflecting in the number of patients hospitalized for Covid treatment. On the contrary, the percentage of patients getting admitted for treatment has increased significantly in the last 20 days. On October 12, patients undergoing treatment for Covid in hospitals were 16% of total active cases, but on Saturday, the percentage crossed 40%. According to the health department report, out of total 4,095 active cases in Jaipur, 1,650 patients with moderate and severe symptoms were in hospitals undergoing treatment, which accounted for 40% of total active cases. The rest are undergoing treatment under home isolation as they have mild symptoms. The figures were completely differenta few days ago. The October 20 report shows that out of 8,818 active cases in Jaipur, 1,390 were in hospitals, accounting for 16% of the total active cases, while rest were under home isolation. A senior health department official said, “There is no shortage of beds in hospitals for Covid patients in government and private hospitals. The situation is improving as daily new infections are going down. The number of deaths are also going down as more patients are getting treatment in hospitals.” Currently, 1211 patients are undergoing treatment in wards, out of those 547 patients have difficulty in breathing and doctors have put them on oxygen support in government and private hospitals. Besides, 439 patients with severe symptoms are undergoing treatment in ICUs. Out of 439 patients in ICUs, 175 are on ventilator support. The health department figures show that 582 persons are undergoing treatment in government-run hospitals, while 1068 are currently undergoing treatment in private hospitals. The availability of beds in government hospitals for Covid patients are 1,813, while in private hospitals, 2,490 beds are reserved for Covid patients. A total of 4,303 beds for Covid patients are available in the city in government and private hospitals, 1,650 are occupied, while the rest of them are vacant, including 2,262 ward beds and 406 ICU beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-dip-but-more-people-admitted-to-hosps/articleshow/78975644.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana pedals for a change||Ludhiana: In a first public event since the outbreak of Covid-19, a large number of cyclists took to the road in Ludhiana on Saturday as part of ‘Cycle for Change’ event organized by the Ludhiana municipal corporation under the Smart City Mission. The aim of the event was to promote cycling as a medium of commute to deal with the rising pollution in cities such as Ludhiana. The participants included members of various cycling clubs. The event received good response. The cyclists demanded a dedicated stand in markets where they could hang their cycles and suggested the authorities to ask civic officials to come to office on bicycles at least twice a week. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal flagged off the rally. The MC also spread the message of cleanliness through this rally and urged people to help maintain hygiene in their surroundings. The cycle rally started from Guru Nanak Stadium and passed through Rani Jhansi Road, Ghumar Mandi, Aarti chowk, before culminating on Ferozepur Road. Davinder Nagi, founder of Ludhiana Pedallers Club, said, “Such events should be planned in future as well. Here people do cycle, but it is more of a status symbol. But in actual, there is a dire need to adopt cycling as a means of transport.” He said if people prefer cycle to reach office, market or any place, then there would be less problem of parking or won’t have to pay any parking fee. Nagi said he requested the MC Commissioner to ask the employees to come to office on bicycle at least twice a week, which will send a positive message in the society. Nagi said he also requested for a stand in Ghumar Mandi market where cycles could be hung while they go for shopping. Sabharwal said this rally was organised with an aim to inculcate the habit of cycling among residents and to tackle the pollution level in the city. He said during lockdown they have witnessed more people had taken to cycling who could continue with the trend in the normal times. He said they would organise more such events in the next few days to involve more people. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said cycling is the best exercise, which also helps in checking pollution and traffic issues. Bharat Bhushan Ashu said to promote cycling under Smart City Mission, a track dedicated for cycling starting from Ferozepur Road to Gill Road is being constructed at Sidhwan Water Front. The minister said that he is in talks with National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to construct 13-km cycle track at Loduwal Bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-pedals-for-a-change/articleshow/78974534.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nashik||Woman robbed of gold chain in Panchavati||Nashik: A resident of Panchavati was robbed of her gold chain worth Rs 40,000 in the Ramwadi area of Nashik city on Thursday morning. A complaint in this regard has been registered with the Panchavati police station. According to police, Sushma Varhade (60) of Kranti Nagar was walking near a public toilet along the Ramwadi bridge at around 8.15 am when two people riding a black bike approached her. The man riding pillion forcibly snatched her gold chain before escaping from the scene. Varhade told police that the suspects were coming from the opposite direction. They slowed down their bike when they came near her and snatched her chain before she could even react and ask for help. The woman, however, lodged a police complaint only on Friday afternoon. Police said that they are investigating the case. Senior police officials said that they have traced out a few chain robbers from the CCTV footage obtained from various robberies in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-robbed-of-gold-chain-in-panchavati/articleshow/78975643.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Meerut||Husband of ration dealer shot dead while returning home in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: A 35-year-old man was killed by unidentified gunmen when he was returning home after watching a local Kabaddi championship on Friday night in Jahangirabad area in Bulandshahr district. Husband of a local ration dealer, Hridesh Chaudhary succumbed to bullet injuries on the spot close to his house in Kalore village in the district. The body was later sent for post-mortem while a team carried forensic examination on the spot. “Efforts are being made to trace the assailants and ascertain the motive behind the murder," Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahar senior superintendent of police, said. Police have recorded statements of the family members to gather details on any ongoing rivalry or dispute, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/husband-of-ration-dealer-shot-dead-while-returning-home-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/78973581.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Effective contact tracing, tests, isolation sought to break chain||Nagpur: Covid-19 positive cases in the district have dropped three times in October as compared to September and are less than that reported in August. But the chain of infections hasn’t been broken. This is being attributed to slack contact tracing, testing of high and low-risk contacts of patients and unmonitored patients in home isolation.Chairman of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja wants large-scale tests to be done across the city to identify all symptomatic and asymptomatic positive patients. “Then, all positive patients should be kept in Covid care centres (CCCs). Chains may not end till implementation of these steps. I will be holding a meeting in this regard with the civic chief on Monday,” he said.The district saw 17,181 cases in October as against 48,457 in September and 24,163 in August. Daily average was 867 cases in October first week, 631 in second week and 498 in third week. Cases were constant at 500 in the last week.Activist Narayan Ahuja told TOI, “Cases were limited to a few areas in October. It was a good opportunity for the administration to trace and test all contacts of positive patients and ensure proper 10-day isolation of positive patients. But it is not happening in the city as well as in rural areas.” He said there is no monitoring of positive patients in home isolation and high, low risk contacts in home quarantine. “Therefore, chances of the pandemic ending in the district seem bleak,” he said.A shopkeeper from Khamla was tested positive on October 15. “None of my contacts were positive and I might have contracted disease from any customer who was an asymptomatic carrier,” he said. It indicates ineffective monitoring of asymptomatic patients.The shopkeeper’s son-in-law is a doctor who, he said, ensured admission and treatment in a private hospital. “I got test done for all family members. They were asymptomatic positive. We followed proper home isolation,” he said.According to the shopkeeper, two NMC employees came to his house and advised test for all contacts. “My employees, relatives staying adjacent to my house and other contacts had no symptoms, so there was no need to test,” he said.Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Cases may not come down to zero until an effective vaccine is administered. But effective contact tracing can slow the transmission to a great extent. Administration should identify and test all family members of positive patients. It should ensure proper home isolation of positive patients and home quarantine of all family members,” he said.Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said compulsory isolation of positive patients in institutional CCCs may not be possible now. “After eight months of the pandemic, people have become aware about importance of home isolation. The cases have reduced drastically. Even people are getting themselves tested. The administration is ensuring proper contact tracing and, therefore, number of tests is being maintained in the district on daily basis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/effective-contact-tracing-tests-isolation-sought-to-break-chain/articleshow/78973578.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 1, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar: Couple cite threat from kin over love marriage, approach SSP for security||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Citing threat from their family members who are “opposed to their love marriage”, a couple in the district has approached the senior superintendent of police for security. The couple tied the knot on October 29. According to the couple, they have been in a relationship for years and had asked their parents to arrange their wedding but the woman's family objected to it. They both eloped later and got married. In her application to the SSP, the woman has cited threat to her safety from her father, uncles and brothers. Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav said, “We will ensure the couple’s safety. A probe has been ordered into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/couple-cite-threat-from-kin-over-love-marriage-approach-ssp-for-security/articleshow/78973569.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 1, 2020||Meerut||Two farmers’ groups clash over Rs 50, pelt stones at each other; six arrested||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A dispute over Rs 50 between two farmers belonging to two different farmers’ organisations took an ugly turn and soon resulted in a full-fledged clash, with members of both organisations pelting stones at each other and one of the rival groups even allegedly tried to run over opposition members by a car outside the powerhouse in Bhopa area of Muzaffarnagar on Saturday. Upon getting information, police rushed to the spot and claimed to have arrested six people involved in the clash. Scores sustained injuries during the brawl, while one Shadab was admitted to a hospital, said police. Station house officer of Bhopa police station Sube Singh said, “We have arrested six people involved in the brawl. Police are taking further action into the matter.” According to police sources, a member of one of the organisations had paid Rs 50 to another farmer, member of another organisation, to get a power connection for his tubewell, but as he didn’t get a power connection for long, he asked for his money that resulted in a clash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-farmers-groups-clash-over-rs-50pelt-stones-at-each-other-six-arrested/articleshow/78973572.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 1, 2020||Ludhiana||MC writes to CP for checking traffic chaos at Chaupati||Ludhiana: The municipal corporation, Ludhiana, on Saturday wrote to the commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal for taking action to check the traffic chaos outside Chaupati on Rani Jhansi road, near Khalsa College for Women. The municipal corporation has written to Ludhiana police after receiving a complaint from some city residents against the traffic chaos outside Chaupati as people park their vehicles on road to have food there, which leads to traffic jams. Pradeep Sabharwal, commissioner, municipal corporations, said that he had received a complaint from some residents about the parking and traffic issue outside Chaupati on Rani Jhansi road. There were complaints that Chaupati had no parking arrangements. Moreover, they often encroach upon the road outside, leading to traffic chaos on the road. “Therefore, I have asked the tehbazari wing of the municipal corporation to take immediate action and have also written to the commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal to check the parking chaos and get the area decongested for smoother traffic flow,” he added. The commissioner of police further said that the letter from the municipal corporation had been received and action would certainly be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-writes-to-cp-for-checking-traffic-chaos-at-chaupati/articleshow/78974542.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kochi||Guruvayur Devaswom to provide quota for EWS, OBCs||THRISSUR: Guruvayur Devaswom managing committee has decided to provide reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) among the forward communities as well for other backward sections (OBCs), for various Devaswom employments. The Devaswom chairman K B Mohandas said the quota for EWS sections among the forward communities will be 10% as announced by the government. However, the quantum of reservation for the OBCs will be in accordance with the reservation norms being followed for the government jobs, he said. He, however, clarified that only members of the Hindu community belonging to the OBC groups would be eligible for the appointments in Guruvayur Devaswom though Muslims and sections of Christians are included in the OBC groups for government appointments. “The Guruvayur Devaswom Act clearly stipulates that non-Hindus cannot be appointed in the Devaswom,” he said. Legal circles said the Guruvayur Devaswom Act will have to be amended to introduce these reservations it has planned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/devaswom-to-provide-quota-for-ews-obcs/articleshow/78974547.cms||T Ramavarman
November 1, 2020||Meerut||Elusive woman gangster nabbed from Meerut slum||MEERUT: Trail of Usha Luthera, a gangster from UP's Saharanpur and resident of Keshav Nagar area within the limits of city's Kotwali police station, had run cold till the local sleuths were recently tipped off about her whereabouts. Cops from Saharanpur landed in a Meerut slum in the Medical area on Friday night and found an elderly woman. One hard look brought out her uncanny resemblance with the wanted gangster Luthera. Saharanpur SSP S Channappa confirmed the arrest of Luthera on Saturday. Local police claimed her brother Heeralal Luthera has been arrested as well. Booked in multiple cases of extortion and fraud, Luthera had been a wanted gangster from Nagar Kotwali police station in Saharanpur and was evading arrest since July this year, police said. "There were several cases of Luthera trying to extort money by threatening to frame her victims in a false rape case," Rakesh Singh, city Kotwali station house officer said. Sources in Meerut claimed Luthera was suffering from hip dislocation and other serious ailments and was trying to procure medical treatment in the district. After her arrest, some locals recalled having spotted her at public places with another man, most likely her brother Heeralal. However, for all this time, police could not get a whiff of her presence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/elusive-woman-gangster-nabbed-from-meerut-slum/articleshow/78973594.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Woman booked for marrying 2nd time without divorce||Ludhiana: Division number 5 police on Friday booked a woman for producing false evidence before the court, giving false statements and solemnizing a second marriage with a man who was ineligible for the same. The man has also been booked by the police. The accused have been identified as Rani, alias Anjali, of Chitti Colony, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, and Jagveer Singh of Bahadurke road. The FIR has been lodged under Sections 193 (punishment for false evidence), 199 (false statement made in declaration which is by law receivable as evidence) and 494 (marrying again during lifetime of husband or wife) of the IPC. The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of Narinderpal Kaur, mother of Jagveer. The complainant said that the accused woman Rani allegedly trapped her son Jagveer and solemnized the marriage with him on November 5, 2019, when Jagveer was 20 years old. After marrying him, the woman sought security from the court and lodged a complaint against her mother-in-law for harassment. Meanwhile, Narinder Kaur came to know that Rani was already married and had not divorced her first husband. Narinderpal added, “We approached the court against the marriage then Rani gave an affidavit and statement claiming that it was her first marriage with Jagveer. However, later it came to light that she was married to another man.” Investigating officer ASI Sukhpal Singh said that the police had registered a case against Jagveer for marrying at the age of 20 years and the woman for submitting false documents before the court and solemnizing a second marriage without divorcing her first husband. The accused are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-booked-for-marrying-2nd-time-without-divorce/articleshow/78974557.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kochi||Kerala Region Latin Catholic Bishop’s council calls for debate||KOCHI: The Kerala Region Latin Catholic Bishops’ Council (KRLCBC) on Saturday called for discussions by the government with Dalit as well as other backward communities in connection with the implementation of reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) among forward communities. The KRLCBC in a statement said that there are several apprehensions regarding the EWS reservation among members of backward communities, including the Latin Catholics and Dalit Christians. The KRLCBC statement came against the backdrop of the decision of the government to implement 10% reservation in government jobs and education sector for EWS. “Even as the government is moving rapidly with the procedure to provide reservation for the economically weaker sections in the forward communities, the communities like Scheduled Casts and Scheduled Tribes, Dalit Christians and the other backward communities, including the Latin Catholics who are socially and educationally backward due to historical reasons, have serious concerns regarding the implementation of the same,” KRLCBC said in a press statement. It added that the forward community members in Kerala is only 4% of the total population. “The real poor people among the forward communities is only 10% of the total population of the forward communities. As per these calculations, the 10% reservation is for the 2.5% of the total population. This high magnitude would result in Dalit and other backward communities losing their seats,” KRLCBC said. The bishops’ council, meanwhile, said that some sections with vested interests are trying to add a communal colour to the demands raised by the backward communities. This would affect the communal harmony of the state. Hence, KRLCBC calls for discussions that would yield results based on justice and social realities, the statement said. KRLCBC said the government should clear the concerns of the backward communities about the present implementation of EWS reservation, which has procedural errors that need rectification, KRLCBC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bishops-council-calls-for-debate/articleshow/78974554.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Teacher booked for hurting religious sentiments||Ludhiana: A woman teacher of a school on Saturday was booked for hurting religious sentiments. A case has been registered against her under Section 295-A (deliberate or malicious act intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by hurting its religion or religious beliefs) of the IPC. The FIR has been lodged following the statement of Naveen Kumar of Mahavir Jain Colony. Naveen Kumar alleged that the woman posted a video on a social networking site in which she had made inappropriate comments on Valmiki, hurting his religious sentiments. Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO, Division number 8 police station, said no arrest has been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/teacher-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/articleshow/78974552.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,445 new Covid cases, four deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded 1,445 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths. With this, the total count of cases in the state is 2,38,632 and 1,336 people succumbed to the virus. A total of 2,18,887 patients have so far recovered. The number of active cases has increased from 17,000, three days back, to 18,409. On Saturday, 41,243 samples were tested, of which 18,147 were of primary contacts and 4,949 were of secondary contacts of patients, who have tested positive over the last two day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-records-1445-new-covid-cases-four-deaths/articleshow/78975746.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kochi||Open data maps of Kerala local bodies created||KOCHI: Open street mapping (OSM) community in Kerala has created geospatial open data maps of all local bodies in the state numbering over 1200. The maps would be released as a public repository on Kerala Piravi on Sunday. The maps are useful in presenting spatial or geographic data as interactive maps and infographics that tells stories and reveals patterns. While institutions like Information Kerala Mission (IKM) and Kerala State Remote Sensing and Environment Centre (KSRSEC) had prepared local-body boundary maps up to ward levels, their non-availability on public domain and their unwillingness to share them with other departments had caused much difficulties. Interestingly, most of the mapping using publicly available documents was carried out by a German national, Heinz Vieth, who volunteered to help the community. “The mapping exercise took around four months. We launched the initiative as open maps for layering data related to Covid-19 as it was not publicly available,” said Naveen Francis, one of the key volunteers for the project. While the maps were created by Francis, Manoj Karingamadathil and Heinz Vieth, OSM volunteers in the state helped in naming and tagging. “Kerala and Rajasthan were the most awesome regions in India. I am helping to map India as a sign of gratitude,” said Vieth. Once ward-level layers are added, such maps would also be useful during local-body elections. “Volunteers have already created ward-level digital maps for Kanhangad municipality and Kochi corporation and ward-level maps would be available soon,” said Karingamadathil. The vector maps are also being added to Wikipedia pages of panchayats in the state. The community had been requesting authorities to release such maps in machine readable format under open data licence since long but this was never done. The maps generated by the community would be available for download under Open Database Licence (ODbL) on websites openstreetmap.org and opendatakerala.org.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/open-data-maps-of-local-bodies-created/articleshow/78974570.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Trichy||Over 12 from Trichy may get MBBS seats under 7.5% quota||TRICHY: Even after securing a decent 423/720 in the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) this year, S Hari Krishnan wasn’t sure of an MBBS seat in a government medical college. He had scored the highest among those who underwent free NEET coaching for government school students. While Hari falls in backward class (BC) category, candidates securing anything less than 500 may not get a government medical college seat. Seeing his good performance, Trichy district collector S Sivarasu had offered help if he wanted to repeat NEET next year. But he was convinced he would rather settle for a paramedical seat knowing that he may not get MBBS admission. But Hari now has enough reasons to cheer up after the governor’s approval for the 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students. He is now the topper among those eligible in this preferential category — they should have studied in a government school from class VI to XII. In fact, Hari may even make it to Madras Medical College which was his dream. At least 12 students, including Hari Krishnan, from Trichy district are most likely to get government medical college seats under this preferential category out of 24 eligible students, says M Joan of Arc, coordinator for free NEET coaching in Trichy. The cut off is expected to be around 154 though there has not been any official confirmation. There are roughly 450 students across the state who are eligible to get medical seats under 7.5% reservation. But only 303 seats are available under this category across 3,400 government medical seats. A total of 448 students from government and government aided schools were trained under the free NEET coaching of the state government in Trichy district. Some repeaters who studied in government schools are also expecting admission under the 7.5% horizontal reservation though there is no clarity if they are eligible for it, said Joan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-12-from-trichy-may-get-mbbs-seats-under-7-5-quota/articleshow/78976428.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 1, 2020||Aurangabad||HC orders release of 11 prisoners on parole||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently quashed and set aside the Harsul and Nashik jail authorities’ orders rejecting applications of 11 prisoners for furlough or emergency parole on account of Covid-19. The prisoners had approached the HC through different lawyers challenging the jail authorities’ rejection of their applications for parole on the ground that none of them had “availed furlough or parole leave on two occasions.” While allowing the writ petitions, the bench comprising Justices V B Ghuge and B U Debadwar, directed that the prisoners be “released from jail on emergency parole leave with effect from 05-11-2020 for a period of 45 days, subject to the fulfilment of the procedural conditions as prescribed by law.” The bench further clarified that “pendency of an application for extension of parole leave shall not be a ground for these petitioners to refrain from reporting to the jail authorities on or before the 45th day.” The bench noted that the petitioners can apply for extension of parole at least 15 days prior to the exhausting of the 45-day leave. The jail superintendent would be obliged to decide on the application on its merits within 15 days to ensure that it is decided before the expiry of the 45th day. While referring to several similar orders passed by the HC, the bench observed that “the jail superintendents are yet to come to terms with the legal position crystallized by this Court that failure on the part of a candidate in availing of furlough or parole leave on two occasions prior to moving an application under Rule 19 (1)(C), would not be a legal impediment warranting the rejection of such application.” The court directed the court registry to “place this order before the Additional Director General of Police (Prisons) Sunil Ramanand in order to request him to bring this legal position to the notice of all the jail superintendents.” The bench noted the court is flooded with at least 10 such petitions, on an average, on each day “only because the jail superintendents are passing cryptic orders rejecting the emergency parole applications only on the solitary ground that the candidate has not availed of such leave on two occasions prior to the filing of such applications.” The bench also referred to media reports about “the second way of the pandemic ...these petitioners shall confine themselves to their residences and shall refrain from roaming around in the society, except in emergency, to safeguard their health.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-orders-release-of-11-prisoners-on-parole/articleshow/78975724.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 1, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure timely completion of Kashi development works: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday visited Varanasi, the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, where he reviewed ongoing development and infrastructure projects and asked officials to strengthen health infrastructure and law and order. During the review meeting, officials informed the CM that Covid-19 recovery rate in the district was improving. The district magistrate and the divisional commissioner said the recovery rate in Varanasi district is currently 91.4% and 1,462 beds are available for Covid patients. The state government, state finance commission and national health mission have provided Rs 11.3 crore to BHU and district health department for treatment of Covid patients. Taking stock of law and order situation in the district, the CM said strict action should be taken against criminals and mafia. “To ensure safety of women, effective action should be taken against criminals and their posters be put up at crossings,” he said. The ADG and the SSP informed Yogi that 200 police personnel had been stationed in commercial areas in view of Diwali. Police teams reached out to 76,500 women in a week as part of ongoing Mission Shakti while anti-Romeo squads took action against 759 people, they said and added that property of criminals worth crores of rupees was confiscated. Officials informed the CM that 136 projects worth Rs 9,259.7 crore were underway in the district out of which 26 schemes were in the final stages. They said two projects would be completed by November and the remaining would be over by the end of the year. Another 39 projects will be completed by March 2021 and 39 others by December 2021. There are five projects which will be completed in 2022. The CM said power supply should be extended to rural areas and a third party check should be done to determine completion and quality of work. Earlier in the day, he visited ongoing project sites to review the work. The CM visited the under construction Ashapur rail overbridge and Rudraksha convention centre projects to review their progress. He asked officials to complete work of convention centre this year itself. The municipal corporation will be responsible for its maintenance. Ashapur ROB is expected to be completed within four months which will make it easier for people to enter Varanasi from Ghazipur. The CM also offered prayers at Kalbhairav and Kashi Vishwanath temples and inspected the progress of Kashi Vishwanath Temple corridor. He directed officials to complete work at the corridor by August next year. He also reviewed around the Hanuman Temple and the ornate Rani Bhawani gate. The CM also visited Manikarnika, Jalasen and Lalita ghats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-timely-completion-of-kashi-devpt-works-cm/articleshow/78976437.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Meerut||Tiger census in Amangarh to begin November-end||BIJNOR: A 45-day tiger census will be conducted in Amangarh Tiger Reserve (ATR), a buffer zone of Corbett National Park in neighbouring Uttarakhand, from November-end. According to Bijnor forest department officials, 90 camera traps will be set up at different places for big cat sightings. Pugmarks will also be studied. A headcount of herbivores, the natural prey of big cats, will also be carried out. The tiger census 2020-21 will be carried out in collaboration with Corbett authorities to prevent duplication. There is no natural boundary between ATR and Corbett and tigers move about freely between the two, said forest officials. M Semmaran, Bijnor divisional forest officer, said Amangarh has a thriving tiger population due to a good prey base. Tiger count has risen from 13 in 2013 to 24 last year. He said, "We will identify each tiger by its stripes by using camera trapping system and pugmarks. Thereafter, their GPS mapping will be done. Staff will be trained for the same."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/tiger-census-in-amangarh-to-begin-nov-end/articleshow/78973624.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Affected plot owners of Ring Road continue to wait for compenstaion||Jaipur: Hundreds of owners whose houses were acquired for the 47-km southern Ring Road project are waiting for compensation for past six years. Neither cash nor land have been given to these 551 owners whose houses were demolished. For the project, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) took possession of a 360-metre-wide strip of land and came up with a transport corridor on a 90-metre-wide land. Along both sides of the road, a 135-135-metre development corridor has been constructed where JDA promised to give compensation to plot owners in the development corridor. Shambu Sain, an affected house owner who had a plot in Khandelwal Vatika Vistar and eligible for compensation said, “In 2014, the JDA released the list of affected people who could claim compensation. We deposited our documents, but for the past six months, the process has not moved an inch. We are 10 family members and live in a small rented accommodation. We have almost lost hope.”Apart from this, land provided to farmers in the development corridor along the road as compensation also remains underdeveloped. Farmers whose land were also acquired for the project are feeling duped as the JDA did not only take their plots, but also their livelihood. They alleged that in order to construct the project, the JDA acquired 1,692 hectares. While the transport corridor could have been constructed on 422 hectares, the JDA, against the will of farmers, acquired 1,270 hectares in access.Anurag Sharma, an affected land owner said, “As JDA did not have money to take up the multi-crore project, the idea was to acquire the excess land from farmers and sell it off after constructing a development corridor. From the farmers land, 30% share was given as compensation, claiming that JDA will provide developed land, which can be utilised as commercial, residential and for other purposes. However, besides roads, no development has been taken in the development corridor.”Farmers claimed that the JDA has not developed sewerage, electricity and water facility in the area as per the promise. The farmers, who surrendered their entire land, cannot construct a house on those plots. “We cannot construct a house on our plot as there is no facility. The JDA duped poor farmers and did not leave land with us from which we were earning our livelihood,” said Sher Singh, an aggrieved farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/affected-plot-owners-of-ring-road-continue-to-wait-for-compenstaion/articleshow/78975763.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two Maoists held in Bhadradri, guns seized||HYDERABAD: Two cadre of Communist Party of India (Maoists) were nabbed on Saturday while the Bhadradri-Kothagudem police conducting combing operations at Thirlapuram forest area. The arrested Maoists were identified as Manguru area committee local guerilla squad commander Madavi Mangulu, 35, and squad member Magakam Desai, 20. Police seized guns, three pen drives, one card reader, four connectors, one man-pack, 14 gelatin sticks, three detonators, one tiffin box, 75 meter wire, 1.5V batteries and Maoist party literature from their possession. Police said that there are 60 pending cases against Madavi. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-maoists-held-in-bhadradri-guns-seized/articleshow/78974729.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Voting for 150 seats of Jaipur Greater today||JAIPUR: The residents of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Greater will elect their councillors on Sunday. Out of 150 seats, there will be triangular contest on 35 seats. This could change the dynamics of major political parties like the Congress and the BJP in these wards. As size of the wards are reduced and highest number of voters in Jaipur Greater is 13,281, the situation will hamper prospects of candidates belonging to big parties. Sushil Sharma, independent candidate, said, “The size of the wards has been reduced and average population of each is between 10,000 and 12,000. This will help independent candidates where there is triangular contest and who are associated with people of their wards by carrying out development work,” he said. Sources at BJP said, “The independent candidates will play crucial role in these elections. The parties will soon be packing off their councillors before the mayoral elections.” The parties would focus more on 52 wards where there is direct fight and no triangular contest. Four women belonging to the Other Backward Class (OBC) category, who are contesting the civic polls, are eyeing the mayor’s post in Jaipur Greater. Experts claimed that the city will elect woman mayor for the fourth time in history. After the state government reserved the posts of mayors for women candidates, the battle within the Congress and the BJP will be intense. In Congress, 28-year-old Divya Singh, who studied diploma in business management from Oxford, is among the frontrunners for the mayor’s post in Jaipur Greater. Divya’s father Sanjay Singh is AICC member and close aide of urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal. Congress candidate Kiran Dewal has emerged as another contender for the mayor’s post in Jaipur Greater. Dewal is supported by cabinet minister Lal Chand Kataria and her husband Ghanshyaam Singh has strong connections on the ground. In Jaipur Greater, BJP candidate Sheel Dhahabai, first woman mayor of Jaipur, and Somaya Gujjar, women commission member, will be the strong contenders for the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/voting-for-150-seats-of-jaipur-greater-today/articleshow/78975758.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Meerut||Meerut techie turns to her school hobby of composting, now earns Rs 2 lakh a month||MEERUT: Payal Agarwal had learnt composting during her school days, and later started making compost from kitchen waste for plants at her home. After completing engineering, the 27-year-old tech graduate decided to turn her hobby into a business. She took a 1.25-acre land on lease and gave it a try. She now earns Rs 2 lakh per month and runs a successful venture. And not just that. Payal also runs a YouTube channel and helps farmers in adopting organic farming for free. “It was at school that I learnt composting. I used it for plants at home, and later gave it to my neighbours. I then went on to pursue engineering from Meerut. I also prepared for the banking exam, but couldn't clear it,” said Payal, who was never keen on a private job. During this time, a cousin encouraged her to come up with her own business. “I made three business plans - handmade paper industry, herbal products and vermicomposting. The first two plans did not work out due to huge investment. It was then I started pursuing my school hobby as a business,” said Payal, who comes from a humble family. Her mother works as a beautician while her father used to work at a private firm. Her cousin Manish Allen and sister in-law Loveena Allen have been instrumental in her success. In mid-2016, Payal planned to pursue vermicomposting and her cousin helped her in leasing a land. She gradually grew confident of her target audience by visiting various 'kisan melas'. “We have 225 beds of vermicomposting of 30 feet by four feet in size. First, the land is flattened, then a polythene sheet is spread on it, followed by cold cow dung and then worms. It takes 45 days for it to yield the manure,” Payal said. The best part of her business, she added, is that the main raw material - cow dung - is readily available and hence doesn’t need much investment. “I even gave free consultancy on YouTube and over the phone because I want others to adopt the idea and move into organic farming. At present, I earn nearly Rs 2 lakh a month and work freely - all thanks to my school hobby,” Payal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-techie-turns-to-her-school-hobbyof-composting-now-earns-rs-2l-a-month/articleshow/78973630.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||41 Gujjar leaders, govt reach an agreement on 14 demands||Jaipur: The 41 leaders of the breakaway group of Gujjar community and the ministerial sub-committee on Saturday reached a mutual agreement on 14 key demands of the community.Following the meeting with health minister Raghu Sharma and sports minister Ashok Chandna, the representatives of the Gujjar community has decided not to launch an agitation. The Gujjar leaders said they are in touch with Kirori Singh Bainsla, convenor of Gujjar Aarakshan Sangarsh Samiti, and urged him to call off the agitation. The 41-member group was led by Gujjar leader Himmat Singh. However, Vijay Singh Bainsla refused to budge saying he doesn’t accept the 14-point agreement. He said the agitation will begin at 10 am in Pilupura on Sunday. “On the issue of recruitments of 372 candidates under REET 2018, the state government has sought seven days’ time. We will meet chief minister Ashok Gehlot in 2-3 days to discuss the matter. Bainslaji has said if something concrete comes out of the meeting, he will call off the agitation. There is no reason left to call an agitation now. All the demands of Bainslaji have been agreed upon,” said Diwan Singh Shergar, one of the Gujjar representatives. “Backlogs don’t exist in OBCs and MBCs. The matter with regard to reserved posts which are earmarked for SBCs (special backward classes) is pending in the Supreme Court. Once the decision comes in the matter, the 4 per cent reserved posts will be provided,” he added.The other key demands of the Gujjars include financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of three persons who died after the agitation and a job for one family member in Nagar Nigam/Nagar Parishad; regularising the pay of 1,252 MBC candidates; implementation of Devnarayan scheme and setting up of a three-member committee; review meeting of sub-committee every month with representatives of Gujjar community; withdrawal of police cases filed during the agitation (37 cases are yet to withdrawn), appointments in recruitments that are under process (1300-1400 posts), including provision related to quota for MBCs in the ninth schedule of the Constitution. The other points include work of residential schools under Devnarayan scheme to be started soon, setting up of a stadium under Devnarayan scheme and ensuring quota in REET 2018 Level 1 recruitments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/41-gujjar-leaders-govt-reach-an-agreement-on-14-demands/articleshow/78975780.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Trichy||Ground work for mass literacy movement gains pace in Trichy||TRICHY: Government school teachers in Trichy district have started groundwork for another mass literacy movement which is expected to begin in the next few weeks. As per 2011 census, there are about 3 lakh people in Trichy district alone who cannot put their signature on their own. Such people will be identified across the district and will be given training in basic reading, writing and putting their signature. Government school teachers across the district will be roped in to identify such people in villages around their schools and are being given orientation about the scheme by officials from the school education department. Three decades back, Arivoli Iyakkam initiative, which means the light of knowledge initiative, was instrumental in improving literacy rate especially among rural folks in many districts. A similar initiative has been mooted by the union and state governments with revenue sharing of 60:40 ratio respectively, said K Ramakrishnan, Trichy district chief education officer. “The new scheme Puthiya Vayathu vanthor kalvi thittam will cover people above the age of 15 years with no upper age limit. The idea is to help people who cannot read, write or put their signature to teach the basics by hiring volunteers,” he said. “Centres with 20 people each would be formed to take classes in the evening by hiring volunteers,” said K Marudhanayagam, block education officer (BEO) of Manikandam. “We have formulated strategies to identify such people by visiting the places where workers are engaged for MNREGA scheme. By checking the salary book, we can identify people who have put their finger prints instead of their signature,” said Marudhanayagam said. “Such people will be taught to read and write and even help interested people to get certificate from the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) Board,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ground-work-for-mass-literacy-movement-gains-pace-in-trichy/articleshow/78976446.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Results to decide future of Vaibhav, Shekhawat||Jodhpur: The absence of chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the municipal election in his hometown has come as a disappointment for the Congress candidates who had been looking forward to his visit during campaigning as a boost to their winning prospects.The candidates, who have already been grappling with rebels, have been finding it tough to ensure their victory and have been mostly campaigning on their own, with most of the senior leaders keeping themselves restricted to their own areas or to the localities of the candidates of their choice.However, this was for the first time that Gehlot’s son Vaibhav has been given the baton on his father’s behalf to lead the election right from selection of the candidates to campaigning for them.His presence in the city during the election is being seen as a launch pad for him by his father who is said to have purposefully kept away from Jodhpur giving charge to his son right from ticket distribution to campaign for the party candidates.Party spokesperson Ajay Trivedi, however, said that Gehlot has hardly ever made sure to rein in municipal elections.“He has not been regular during municipal election. He even has skipped voting on some occasions,” he said.But there is a clear buzz in the party corridors that Vaibhav is being projected as replacement of his father and his regular visits to city is an evidence to this notion.While, Vaibhav campaigned for party candidates, Gajedndra Singh Shekhawat has feverishly campaigned for the BJP candidates.Shekhawat, who is being seen a replacement to the existing power centre in Rajasthan, had a crucial role in finalization of the list of candidates to leading the campaigning.These elections are being seen as the future of both these leaders, one of which has been trying to emerge as an alternative power centre in the state and other desperate to assume the legacy of his father, especially after losing to Shekhawat in the Lok Sabha election from Jodhpur constituency. The results will decide that what direction their political fate will take them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/results-to-decide-future-of-vaibhav-shekhawat/articleshow/78975783.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Jaipur||Civilian driver with army held for spying for Pakistan||JAIPUR: Based on input provided by Military Intelligence (MI) Jaipur, the police on Saturday arrested Ramniwas Gaura (28), a civil defence employees at Military Engineering Services (MES) Niwaru, on charges of spying for a Pakistani intelligence agency. It was reported that in September 2020, the MI Jaipur learnt about an espionage agent in Niwaru who was passing military information to his handlers in Pakistan. The individual was identified as Gaura who was working as civil motor driver working with MES. “It was learnt that Gaura was in contact with one Pakistan Intelligence Operator (PIO) namely Ekta aka Jasmeet Kour through Facebook and WhatsApp. During his two years contact with PIO, he shared the information about unit’s formation at Niwaru and Jaipur as well as information about various offices, posted personnel at these two locations,” said an army official. The case details were shared with police HQ Jaipur and a joint operation was planned to apprehend Gaura. Umesh Mishra, ADG Intelligence said, “We received information from the army officials about the suspected spy who we detained on Friday. Joint questioning was done and he was arrested on Saturday.” A joint team was formed of police and military intelligence officials who re-examined all the findings again. Further details were acquired and conclusive evidence were gathered. During the questioning, Gaura reportedly confessed that he had received a friend request from the PIO’s Facebook Profile, “Ekta” in the month of February/ March 2020 and had accepted the same. According to officials they became very friendly, shared their WhatsApp numbers with each other and started chatting as well as making audio/video calls. The PIO used an Indian WhatsApp number and claimed that she was working with Principal Controller of Defence Account (PCDA) Shimla. After initial chats, Ekta started asking Gaura information of military nature which he readily shared and the handler agreed to help in monetarily. Gaura, for monetary favours shared his account details with Ekta and in March this year asked for Rs 10,000. Further details are being examined by Jaipur police intelligence and MI. Other agencies have also joined the investigation after the arrest. The individual is likely to be produced before a local court soon by the police. Officials claimed that they expected more persons to be involved in this and likely arrests are to follow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civilian-driver-with-army-held-for-spying-for-pak/articleshow/78975796.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 1, 2020||Lucknow||‘Backed Independent to expose those hand in glove with BJP’||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party national president on Saturday said the party supported an independent candidate in Rajya Sabha polls to expose those who have underhand dealing with the ruling BJP which they never admit in public. Though the former chief minister did not name Bahujan Samaj Party but the reference was more than obvious. “BJP can get together with anyone and anything. We supported the independent candidate to expose those who they are siding with,” Akhilesh said. This was the first time that Akhilesh spoke on the issue of BSP chief Mayawati attacking the SP over supporting an independent candidate in RS polls which hampered the prospects of BSP candidate in the elections to the Upper House. The SP chief made the comments while interacting with the media at an event where he paid tribute to Acharya Narendra Dev on his anniversary. Akhilesh’s statement comes two days after BSP supremo Mayawati announced that she tried to reach out to the SP leadership in connection with the RS polls but the latter did not take calls and went on to support an independent candidate. Mayawati also announced that in the forthcoming Council elections BSP will do everything to defeat SP candidates even if it means supporting the BJP or seeking their support. In a dig at the BJP-led state government, Akhilesh Yadav enquired about the present state of the cleaning of river Gomti, a work started by his government. He also rued that there has been no expansion of the Lucknow metro project which his government had started. In a major twist to the biennial Rajya Sabha elections, Prakash Bajaj had filed his nomination papers from Varanasi as an independent candidate on the last day for the filing with the Samajwadi Party's support. He had filed them minutes before the closing of the filing on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/backed-independent-to-expose-those-hand-in-glove-with-bjp/articleshow/78976472.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
November 1, 2020||Lucknow||Theatre artist Salim Arif to relive univ days, stage his acclaimed play ‘Paansa’||Lucknow: Wearing a pair of khaki trousers, T-shirt and bathroom slippers, he used to rush to the Lucknow University campus to attend lectures and run back to Ravindrayala to pursue his passion for theatre. This simple boy, who was famous on the campus for his creativity in the ’70s, later became a big name in Indian theatre and films. Salim Arif, a director, writer and theatre personality, will return to the campus with ‘Paansa’, a famous international level play written by poet, lyricist and screenwriter Gulzar, based on Pavan K Varma’s long English poem ‘Yudhishthar and Draupadi’, which will be staged during the university’s centenary celebrations. Recalling his college days, Arif, who pursued BA in 1978, said: “Be it Tagore Lawn or auditorium of English department’s PG block, the campus is a witness to my love and passion for creativity. Be it my paintings exhibited in Tagore lawn or the Lucknow University Study Circle – a cultural group which gave students a platform to showcase their talent – all have shaped my life.” Arif says during post-Emergency era, student union polls on the campus were nothing less than national election battlefield. “The beauty of the university was that it had all kinds of elements – from rowdy students to studious and hyper-creative ones. The most interesting memory of university days are two words – ‘Piya ka Ghar’ used by students for PG block and ‘Lallu Jagdhar’ – a fictitious candidate created by students out to lampoon political representatives,” he said. “Staging of ‘Paansa’ at LU is the most emotional episode of my theatre life. In arts quadrangle, as many as 45 artists from across the country will present ‘Paansa’ – a play which gives us a new and challenging interpretation of the encounter between Pandavas and the Yaksha of the poisoned pool which is in one of the most important episodes from the Mahabharata,” Arif added. “The beauty of arts quadrangle will light up with one of the best theatre performances. I am happy to be back to my alma mater and want to make it proud with one of my finest works,” he said. Convener of centenary celebrations Prof Nishi Pandey said, “Theatre, arts quadrangle and a play like ‘Paansa’ will make for a perfect 100-year celebration for the university which nurtured a number of students who have made a mark in the world of films, television and theatre. We have decked up the campus to host the play.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/theatre-artist-salim-arif-to-relive-univ-days-stage-his-acclaimed-play-paansa/articleshow/78976498.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 1, 2020||Hubballi||Amidst drama, Congress wins Haveri CMC polls||Haveri: The high voltage Haveri City Municipal Council elections (CMC) held on Saturday ended peacefully with Congress’ Sanjeevkumar Neeralagi and Jahedabanu Jamadar being elected unanimously as president and vice-president respectively. Congress is the single largest party with 15 members out of 31 and it came to power with the support of four independents. Independent member Basavaraj Belavadi, who had submitted his nomination for the president’s post with BJP support, withdrew his candidature at the last minute. The election officer refused to receive nominations from BJP’s Mallavva Gourammanavar for the vice-president's post at 11.05am, as she was late by five minutes. This is said to be a big setback to BJP MLA Nehru Olekar. Hundreds of leaders and party workers had gathered around the CMC, prompting the DC to impose Section 144 in the area and increase security. Earlier, three Congress members - Manjunath Bistannavar, IU Pathan, and Peerasab Chopdar were facing the threat of being arrested in an atrocity case. However, police didn’t arrest them and allowed them to participate in the election process. Former minister and Congress leader Rudrappa Lamani alleged, “BJP MLA Nehru Olekar was trying to kill democracy in this election, but failed. A woman had complained against our CMC members with the MLA’s support. Olekar has been involved in similar filing of atrocity cases during his tenures in Byadagi and Haveri. The people are struggling to lead their life as the MLA is always threatening them without reason.” “Luckily the bureaucrats saved our democracy by conducting a legal and peaceful election. People are slowly knowing the real face of Olekar and they will teach him a lesson in the next assembly polls,” he added. When contacted, Olekar said there was no link between the election and atrocity cases. “Moreover, I was never involved in this case and these are baseless allegations by Congress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/amidst-drama-congress-wins-haveri-cmc-polls/articleshow/78973978.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 1, 2020||Trichy||Scientific centre for Olive Ridley sea turtle may take off soon||TRICHY: The scientific centre for conservation of Olive Ridley sea turtles in Kodiyakkarai wildlife sanctuary in Nagapattinnam district that was announced last year is yet to take off. The project has been facing delay as the authorities have not been able to identify a suitable land to establish the centre. Officials hope that they will be able to kick start the construction of the centre in the current financial year. The project worth Rs 2 crore is aimed at sensitising fishermen and public on conservation of Olive Ridley sea turtles. The first-of-its-kind scientific centre in the state for marine species, will also accommodate a three-dimensional museum with advanced facilities. Point Calimere coast in Tamil Nadu receives thousands of Olive Ridley sea turtles every year. However, their population is affected by multiple factors. A good number of the eggs laid by the turtles are eaten by dogs and jackals while man-made intervention too has been adversely affected their population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/scientific-centre-for-olive-ridley-sea-turtle-may-take-off-soon/articleshow/78976501.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 1, 2020||Hubballi||CM BS Yediyurappa Promise to rename Mumbai-K’taka reg as Kittur-K’taka remains on paper||HUBBALLI: Chief minister B S Yediyurappa renamed Hyderabad-Karnataka region as Kalyan Karnataka in September 2019. This was an effort to remove the colonial nomenclature associated with the erstwhile Nizams of Hyderabad. Following this, the people of Mumbai-Karnataka region had also put pressure to rename their region as Kittur Karnataka, to which the CM and his cabinet colleagues responded positively. However, the demand has not been met. While the state is all set to celebrate Rajyotsava on November 1, the activists of the region are hoping that the government will consider their plea. Ashok Chandargi, president of Belgaum District Kannada Organisations’ Action Committee, told STOI that renaming the region as Kittur Karnataka was a long-pending demand and the dream of veteran research scholar late M Chidananda Murthy. “Proposal for renaming the regions as Kittur Karnataka and Kalyan Karnataka were made together. We have been distributing pamphlets on every Rajyotsava to draw the government’s attention. Twenty-five MLAs, irrespective of party affiliation, from Kalyan Karnataka had submitted a memorandum to the government in 2015-16. But there has been no such effort from the elected representatives of Mumbai-Karnataka region. Our agitation is one part of the efforts. Legislative procedure is also a valuable part in a democracy,” he said. Amruth Ijari, president of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (Dharwad district), said that the Mumbai-Karnataka region was supposed to be renamed as Kittur Karnataka last year itself. “But it’s not yet done and the reason for the delay is also not revealed. A decision in this regard was taken earlier. Belagavi district minister Jagadish Shettar was reportedly supposed to announce it during Kittur Utsav celebrations on October 23 last year. We do not know who stopped the announcement. Yediyurappa should announce it at the earliest,” he added. Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha (Kudala Sangama) said Kittur Chennamma was the first Indian queen to raise voice for getting freedom for India in 1824. “Kittur was the princely state having about 300 villages and it was called ‘Kittur Naadu’ in folklore and literature. After wresting their control on Kittur state, the Britishers merged it into Mumbai presidency,” he recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/promise-to-rename-mumbai-ktaka-reg-as-kittur-ktaka-remains-on-paper/articleshow/78974069.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 1, 2020||Surat||‘Sacrifice of Covid warriors unmatched in history’||Kevadia (Narmada): Paying glowing tributes to corona warriors, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that all those who have sacrificed their lives while serving people during the pandemic have been immortally etched memory of Indians and the country is fast recovering from Covid-19 to chart the development path. “People across the length and breadth displayed an example of unity by honouring the corona warriors. After Independence, nearly 35,000 policemen have laid down their lives for security of people. But in the last eight months, police jawans have sacrificed their lives in line of Covid duty to save lives of people. This dedication of cops and all other warriors deserves a salute,” Modi said here addressing probationary civil servants on Rashtriya Ekta Divas observed on the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel. PM said people have fought Covid-19 with their immense capability and will power at a time when other developed countries became helpless against the viral attack. Europe is already battling a second wave of coronavirus infections with several countries going for complete or partial lockdown. “No one had imagined a year ago that the entire humanity would have to face such a global pandemic like corona. This calamity struck suddenly and affected human lives. But the way the 130 crore people of this country have fought this situation with sheer collective grit and will-power is unparalleled in history,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sacrifice-of-covid-warriors-unmatched-in-history/articleshow/78973681.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 4 lakh kids missed inoculation due to curbs, drive from Monday||LUCKNOW: To reach out to nearly 4 lakh children who missed their vaccination shots because of the Covid-19, the UP government is launching a massive immunization campaign from November. In an interview with TOI, UP CM Yogi Adityanath said: “The state has worked hard to boost routine immunization. In fact, Mission Indradhanush was taken up on mission mode. The special campaign aims to ensure that the momentum is maintained.” The move comes after the state government realized that over 3.96 lakh children had missed their vaccine during the lockdown period. Health officials said that this group includes parents who kept their kids away from health teams fearing that they may contract the infection. The children were line listed in the door-to-door Dastak campaign organized in the second week of October. To cover the additional target, the state government has added Monday to the routine immunisation days which till now were Wednesday and Saturday. “The drive begins on the first Monday of November and will continue for the next three months. In case Monday is a holiday, the campaign will take place on the subsequent day. It will also cover 4.96 lakh pregnant women,” said senior health officials. “It not only ensures that the beneficiary child is prepared to fight a number of diseases, but also guarantees the well-being of all children in the neighbourhood by creating herd immunity,” said Dr Praful Bharadwaj, health officer, Unicef. The campaign will be formally launched by the CM on Sunday while the booth activity will start across urban and rural areas of the state from Monday. Health officials lauded the hard work put in by field workers especially, ASHAs, anganwadi workers and ANMs to list out every child. They also urged the people of the state to come forward in the best interest of their child and get them vaccinated. On March 20, the state was forced to suspend all fixed and outreach immunization sessions. Only birth doses continued at government delivery points. The situation remained the same till May 2. Besides the problem of convincing parents, the key challenges in resumption of services included engagement of health workers in Covid-19 surveillance, maintaining the quality and supply chain of vaccines and logistics, effective adherence to Covid-19 protocols and following basic principles of immunization. Officials thanked partners, particularly Unicef, and other communication channels for spreading awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4l-kids-missed-inoculation-due-to-curbs-drive-from-mon/articleshow/78976536.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Notice to civic and VIDC chiefs, collector||Nagpur: Taking cognisance of a complaint filed by activist Pravin Mahajan, the Maharashtra Water Resources Regulation Authority has issued a show cause notice to Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation executive director, Nagpur municipal commissioner and district collector over the delay in taking up strengthening work of Ambazari lake. The MWRRA has asked the respondents to file affidavits on or before November 23.TOI had reported about the deplorable condition of the lake’s embankment and its spillway. Recently, the central design organization had approved the irrigation department’s design for strengthening and beautification of the lake after suggesting some modifications.In his complaint filed on October 12, Mahajan said the lake walls, nearly 150 years old, its dam and spillway had become dilapidated. Water was flowing out of cracks in the wall. “If it bursts, about 10 lakh people will be affected and there will be a danger of submergence of surrounding areas under 15-20 feet of water,” he said.Mahajan added that the water is not being used even during a scarcity and NMC should given directions for its use.The MWRRA has also observed that despite the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court directives on March 21, 2018 no necessary steps have been taken to avoid a flood-like situation.Due to this, the health and life of citizens is at risk, stated the notice signed by secretary of the authority Ramnath Sonawane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/notice-to-civic-and-vidc-chiefs-collector/articleshow/78973678.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||98-year-old Nagpur man recovers from severe Covid pneumonia; Vid recovery rate nearing 91%||Nagpur: A 98-year-old man from Sawarkar Nagar recovered from Covid pneumonia with drop in oxygen level within seven days of admission in a city hospital on Saturday.Doctors at nectar critical care unit at Sushrut Hospital told TOI that the man was admitted on October 23 in unconscious condition. He also had low cardiac reserve, which is a risk factor in Covid. A team of doctors including Dr Mahesh Sarda, chief Intensivist and Dr Tapan Badole and Dr Santosh Shingore treated the nonagenarian for seven days. He was discharged on October 31 with all vital parameters reported good. Vidarbha’s recovery rate continued to improve and was nearing 91% on Saturday with 1,287 recovering in a day. Only 736 new patients were reported on Saturday.Reconciliation of Nagpur district brought additional 7,357 cases, 7,007 recoveries and 275 deaths into the account of district. Vidarbha tally also witnessed a major change due to this on Saturday. Now, out of 1.98 lakh patients reported till date, 1.80 lakh have recovered. Total 25 deaths were reported in a day. Deaths came from Nagpur (11), Bhandara (2), Wardha (4), Gondia (1), Chandrapur (1), Washim (3), Akola (2), and Buldhana (1). With total 5,509 deaths reported till date, Vidarbha’s case fatality rate increased to 2.7%. BHANDARA: Two patients died on Saturday taking total death toll to 219. Total 101 patients recovered in a day while 77 new patients were detected.BULDHANA: A 65-year-old patient from Chikhli died on Saturday taking death toll in the district to 126. Out of 550 plus tests conducted in a day, 55 tested positive. On the other hand, 147 patients recovered in a day. AKOLA: Lowest in last two months, only 12 new cases were reported. With this, total number of cases reached 8,396. Two under-treatment patients died in Akola on Saturday taking death toll to 281. GONDIA: Gondia district saw 38 new cases while 81 patients recovered. With one death reported on Saturday, death toll reached 126. GADCHIROLI: The number of patients recovering in a day was more than double the number of new cases on Saturday. Total 51 new patients were reported while 110 recovered in a day. No death was reported.WASHIM: Only 19 new cases in a day and 25 recoveries indicated that Covid is now receding in the district. However, 3 deaths were reported in a day. AMRAVATI: The district did not report any death on Saturday even as 54 new cases took the caseload to 16,302. The count of recoveries reached 15,278, with a recovery rate of 93.7%. YAVATMAL: For the second day in a row, no Covid death was reported from the district. 344 reports were received, of which 34 were positive. The number of active positive patients is now 362.CHANDRAPUR: One death and 137 new cases were detected, taking the total caseload to 15,772. Recovery of 148 patients took the count of cured patients to 12,670. WARDHA: Four deaths, 23 new cases and 80 recoveries were reported in district on Saturday. The number of active patients reduced to 300. The district’s caseload reached 6,290, and recoveries to 5,778. The four deceased include three women (aged 24, 38 and 96) from Wardha and a 72-year-old from Hinganghat. Wardha’s death toll is now 212.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/98-year-old-nagpur-man-recovers-from-severe-covid-pneumonia-vid-recovery-rate-nearing-91/articleshow/78973693.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 1, 2020||Agra||80 CRPF jawans deployed for protection of Hathras victim’s family||Agra: A team of 80 CRPF jawans will take over the security of the family of the Hathras gang-rape victim on Sunday following the directions of the Supreme Court earlier this week. CRPF Commandant Manmohan Singh arrived in Hathras from Rampur on Saturday and after meeting district police chief Vineet Jaiswal, he visited the victim’s house and met her family members. According to police, 80 jawans will reach the city by Saturday night and will be deployed on security duty from Sunday. The commandant also visited a local school where arrangements for the stay of the CRPF personnel have been made by the district authorities.Earlier this week, the apex court said that all the aspects of the case, including monitoring of the probe and providing security to the victim’s family as well as the witnesses, would be considered by the Allahabad high court.A bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde said that plea for transfer of trial out of Uttar Pradesh in the case would be considered later after the CBI probe is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/80-crpf-jawans-deployed-for-protection-of-hathras-victims-family/articleshow/78973683.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Aurangabad||CMIA comes up with helpdesk to assist MSMEs||Aurangabad: The Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) has come up with a ‘CMIA-UNDP Covid-19 MSME Helpdesk’ in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The helpdesk has also prepared a booklet on post Covid-19 business recovery for micro small medium enterprises (MSME) to help and guide the businesses on how to deal with the challenges that the pandemic has thrown up. The CMIA-UNDP has also prepared a survey form to ascertain the losses in terms of manpower, finance and business faced by the MSMEs during the pandemic. This form is now being treated as an ideal form by other chapters of MSMEs across the country. Secretary of CMIA Satish Lonikar said the 83-page long booklet would provide the MSMEs with useful data related to Central government schemes, bank schemes, state government schemes, special schemes for women entrepreneurs, schemes for start ups, etc. The booklet also covers post covid-19 SOP for MSMEs at workplaces like standard and expected practices of cleaning and decontamination of respective premises, medical facilities to be put up at the premises, measures to protect workers, etc The booklet also has helpline and contacts numbers of all the leading banks, important government offices and major hospitals in and around Aurangabad. A dedicated email ID cmiaundp@gmail.com has also been provided where in MSMEs can drop in their concerns related to safe resumption of operation/production and transportation, facilitation of workers and bridging the skill gaps, providing advisory services and hand holding support, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cmia-comes-up-with-helpdesk-to-assist-msmes/articleshow/78975857.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||‘Somebody had to take the first step in def production, we did’||A decade ago, with a corporate office in the middle-class Bharat Nagar locality, Solar Industries Limited (SIL) was — like its low-profile chairman Satyanarayan Nuwal — not much known. It supplied commercial explosives for mining projects, and to leading players globally. Since 2010, the company has emerged as a key player in the defence segment. From making explosives for mines and quarries, it has now got technology from Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) for over a dozen items, ranging from grenades to propellants for Brahmos missile. In most of the cases, it’s the sole technology partner from the private sector. With its sudden rise, controversies too have arisen, with Solar Group dubbed as a ‘favourite’ of the BJP government, and in 2015 its detonators being found with Islamic State (IS) operatives. Solar Industries chairman Satyanarayan Nuwal speaks to TOI. Excerpts from the interview... Q. It is said that it was because of your links with the RSS and BJP that you could bag all the transfer of technologies (ToTs) from DRDO. This could be an out-of-the-way favour to your company? A. I know politicians in their individual capacity, but that does not mean I have any political affiliation. If they say I was favoured by the BJP, then let me clarify that I got the licence in 2011, when the UPA government was in power. Q. The issue of Solar Industry detonators being found with ISIS has cropped up again. The decision of granting contracts and ToTs was questioned on that basis. A. It’s an old matter and we have already clarified. SIL was not alone, material from 60 different companies was found with the militia. We have units making commercial explosives in Turkey, Malaysia, South Africa, Ghana and Nigeria. Theft of explosives from the users’ end cannot be ruled out. There have been many such incidents in the entire sector. Even Conflict Armament Research (CAR), which had reported the matter, has given us a clean chit. (CAR in its letter issued in 2019 has said it does not say that SIL had carried out any illegal trade.) Q. Do you think the system needs to be strengthened to prevent diversion. A. We have already begun bar coding each of our cartridges meant for commercial use, both in India and abroad. This will ensure precise tracing. The practice in the industry is to just bar code the container. Despite the higher cost, each piece is being bar coded. Q. How did you diversify into defence from being a manufacturer of commercial explosives. A. It started in 2010-11 with a single contract to make pyros (propellant and ignition systems) for the ordnance factory. It was cleared by both ministry of defence and Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). The order was meant to fill the gap in existing supply, but it never took off. After a pause of around five years, there was a contract to make similar systems for Aakash missiles and then finally the latest multimode hand grenade. The grenades are the first ever order for a full-fledged ammunition system. The defence business is carried out under Economic Explosives Limited (EEL), a 100% subsidiary of SIL. We are the first private company to make an entire ammunition system. Q. What is the order position for EEL at present? A. The major order is of the multimodal hand grenades. It is under process at various stages for rest of the ammunition systems. After this, we expect to bag a contract to make Pinaka rockets. The company is making propulsion systems and similar components for Brahmos, Akash and even for satellites of ISRO. Q. EEL is the sole ToT holder for a slew of ammunition types, from Pinaka rockets, anti-personal mines, anti-tank mines to aerial bombs. Questions are being raised how can a single company get all the TOTs. A. Whenever DRDO or any of its labs want to share the technology, expression of interests (EOI) are invited. The private players respond to the EOIs and those having the required infrastructure at their units get the technology. Our company had applied only for the projects for which it has the manufacturing capacity. Some other companies too have got TOT for similar items but finally only EEL has developed the product. The company has technical collaboration with certain foreign players too. Q. You have even got the TOT for the Brahmos missiles. How did it happen? A. The propulsion system for the missiles were imported from Russia. The Russians said it was not easy to indigenize the component. However, we could make it in alliance with the DRDO and the first order was received. We expect to get fresh orders too soon. Q. What is the investment in the defence projects and the turnover of EEL. A. We have pumped in Rs600 crore in the defence business. However, the revenue is not more than 5% of Solar Group’s overall turnover of Rs2,400 crore. Q. There is always a concern orders from the armed forces cannot be viable for a private player. A.That’s true to a certain extent, which is the reason EEL has been sustaining losses so far. However, somebody had to take the first step, so we did. There is a huge gap in the current supply and the dependence on imports has to be reduced too. We hope to make gains once the order for Pinaka rockets is received. The Rs1,000 crore order can lead to profits. A major jump is expected as orders for other items under ToT materialize. It will also provide support to an entire system of ancillary industries. The export market will also be tapped eventually. Q. How are you funding your defence venture, any plans to invest further or come up with an IPO. A. So far the investment is being made out of internal accruals. We plan to invest another Rs1,300 crore but no IPO is planned. The fresh investments will also happen over a period of time from internal accruals only. Q. What are your views on corporatisation of the OFB? Corporatisation will certainly lead to competition over both quality and cost. As far as OFB is concerned, our company is too small a entity to pose any threat to such a mammoth organization. We will only be just another source of supply for the defence forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/somebody-had-to-take-the-first-step-in-def-production-we-did/articleshow/78973707.cms||Shishir Arya
November 1, 2020||Trichy||TN govt school starts spoken English classes on WhatsApp||TRICHY: Watching Kalvi Tholaikatchi and textbook revision from home leaves little scope for government school students to enhance their language skills. To bridge the gap created by Covid-19 pandemic, the Panchayat Union Middle School at Avanathankottai West of Pudukottai district has decided to create a WhatsApp group to teach students basic English beyond textbook learning. Audio of simple sentences are posted on the WhatsApp group called ‘Spoken English.’ Apart from sending the same content in text format with the meaning in Tamil, students are made to learn the sentences. Students are asked to record these sentences in their voice and send it back. Competitions are conducted once in two weeks based on the sentences taught and best five students are given prizes and certificates. S Baskaran, bachelor teacher assistant for English from the school initiated the process and he could add more than 100 students out of the total 166 students in his school. “We received good response from students as we taught them simple sentences instead of complicated grammar. Winners were selected based on correct pronunciation and style,” he said. We have framed the programme for three months in which we are planning to teach the student basic English so that they don’t shy away from the language, said Basakran. S M Dharshini, a class V student, who has been the winner of last week’s competition, came to the school to collect the certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-school-starts-spoken-english-classes-on-whatsapp/articleshow/78976547.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 1, 2020||Surat||India charting a path of four ‘S’||KEVADIA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi listed out four ‘S’s for nation-building as he reiterated the ‘Atmnanirbhar Bharat’ pitch, asserting that only self-reliance was the key for not just the country’s progress but to defend itself also. “Today, we are building a nation which is sashakt (empowered), saksham (capable), full of samaanta (equality) and sambhavna (opportunities),” Modi said, invoking Sardar Patel’s views on empowering farmers and labourers. “Sardar Patel had said that farmers and labourers are the cornerstones of this world. I am striving to empower them, alleviate their poverty and give them a dignified life,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/india-charting-a-path-of-four-s/articleshow/78973703.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||150 not out and still going strong, but Eden Gardens didn’t have an easy start||Kolkata: Before the government allowed construction of a pavilion and a club house on April 19, 1871, where the iconic Eden Gardens stands now, at least two plots were identified between 1804 and 1864 in the vicinity of Government House (now the Governor House) and Fort William but none materialised due to a tussle between the British Military and the British civil society. The Englishmen visiting India on business purpose were always fearful of either dying of diseases or wars, so they took refuge in cricket which led to the formation of Calcutta Cricket Club in 1792, the first outside Britain. An archivist working for the Directorate of State Archives has pieced together information from British-era records of the home department, judicial department and other government journals to trace the journey of the iconic Eden Gardens from the when the first cricket match was played on the Indian soil to how several attempts to build a permanent playground fell through due to distrust between the British Military and the British civil society. “Eden Gardens has cemented India’s position in the global sports map but there are so many untold stories about how this place evolved. The records reveal that the entire Maidan area was sporting hub even 200 years ago with several senior British bureaucrats and members of the civil society playing cricket very often,” said Sumit Ghosh, who has made a documentary on his findings called ‘Eden er Itikatha’. The first-ever instance of cricket on Indian soil is mentioned in Clement Downing’s book ‘A Compendious History of the Indian Wars’ when a group of British sailors stuck in India in 1721 played cricket to kill boredom in Port of Cambay on the coast of Gujarat. But the first formal cricket match in Kolkata — then Calcutta — was played on January 18 and January 19, 1804, between the civil servants of the British government in an open space in front of the Governor House. The first recorded century on Indian soil was scored in this match by a gentleman named Robert Vansittart. “After this match, the Englishmen felt the need to find a permanent playground and in 1825, they managed to obtain a plot on the Maidan between Government House and Fort William which ran north-east and south-east across what is known as the approach to the Plassey Gate of Fort William,” Ghosh mentions in ‘Eden er Itikatha’. But in 1841, when the club was permitted to enclose the ground by putting a fence around it, the army garrisoned at Fort William “noticed the club as an encroacher and was extremely suspicious of its alleged motives”. The army won the legal case and as a compensation, a large stripe of land to the “westward and northward side of the Maidan” was handed over. But this too was lost to a legal tussle. The present position of the cricket ground is the extended part of the Eden Gardens located adjacent to the stadium. In 1868, there was a proposal for the erection of a new building of the Calcutta Cricket Club ground, but it was not sanctioned by the government. The construction of a pavilion was sanctioned on April 19, 1871, on conditions that the club will have to remove all erections at any point of time without any compensation. “In 1884, a team from Sri Lanka is believed to have a played a match in Kolkata,” said an official of Cricket Association of Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/150-not-out-and-still-going-strong-but-eden-gardens-didnt-have-an-easy-start/articleshow/78974714.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 1, 2020||Madurai||BJP public meet in Madurai throws caution to wind||MADURAI: Madurai saw the biggest political meeting post lockdown on Saturday when the BJP east zone booth committee organized its conference which was attended by party state president L Murugan. The meet drew large crowds which threw all Covid precautions to wind despite the organisers distributing masks and sanitizers at the entrance. Despite the previous night’s rain, the venue was ready with the audience queuing up from 4 PM. More than 90% of the participants were women, many of them very old and in the Covid risk category, and many accompanied by children. Murugan reached the venue at 6pm with much fanfare. Women carrying the traditional ‘mullaipari’ walked in procession dressed in green and orange saris. Though immunity tablets and masks were distributed at the entrance, many of them did not wear it at the venue, where plastic chairs were placed touching each other. Cadres who accompanied Murugan also crowded around him. Speaking to reporters before the meeting, Murugan said DMK president M K Stalin should apologize to the people for hurting their sentiments by refusing to accept the vibhoodi offered to him at the Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar memorial. “Thevar’s memorial is a temple. When the DMK does not consider it so, it should refrain from playing the political game to fool the people,” he said. Asked about BJP’s stand on Manusmriti, Murugan said he had already made it clear that it was an illusion. ``Show me where it is?’’ he said. The Vel Yatra was being organised to showcase the welfare measures that the central government had implemented. Tamil Nadu was the state where the largest number of schemes had been implemented, he said. They would also unmask the DMK and its allies which were demeaning the women of the state, he added. Murugan said that the yatra would be conducted successfully overcoming all hurdles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bjp-public-meet-in-madurai-throws-caution-to-wind/articleshow/78976544.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Madurai||BJP shouldn’t be allowed to use yatra for religious propaganda: CPI||TUTICORIN: The BJP should not be allowed to use its Vel yatra for religious propaganda as it is against the Constitution, said senior CPI leader R Nallakannu. Speaking to reporters after participating at the valedictory function of the centenary event of the AICTU, and hoisting the trade union flag in Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district on Saturday, he said that secularism is the basis of the Indian Constitution. “There should be brotherhood and secularism at all levels. If the Constitution was to be protected the basic rights should be ensured to all. The BJP can conduct the Vel yatra as it was that party’s policy, but they should not use it for religious propaganda,” Nallakannu said. When asked about CPI state secretary R Mutharasan’s demand that the government should lift the partial lockdown and restore normalcy, the veteran CPI leader said that the government should open all establishments after ensuring that all precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19, are adhered to. He also charged the AIADMK government for only trying to retain power and not focusing on people or welfare measures.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bjp-shouldnt-be-allowed-to-use-yatra-for-religious-propaganda-cpi/articleshow/78976545.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||‘I’m glad BJP agrees with us on unemployment’||RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav doesn’t regret his party’s earlier alliance with JD(U) that made possible forNitish Kumar to become the state’s CM. He also tells Rohan Dua during an interaction that talkabout his camaraderie with LJP’s Chirag Paswan is ‘planted gossip’. Excerpts from the interviewFive years after you campaigned together and formed a coalition government with JD(U), what do you think has changed now? JD(U) co-opted BJP’s ideology and the style of government functioning became dictatorial. The government became apathetic and discriminatory towards the poor, which was evident most recently in the Covid-triggered lockdown and then during the passage of anti-farmer bills. We are a pro-people’s party. We fight for the rights of farmers. People are by and large fed up with the rising unemployment, inflation, day-to-day corruption, deteriorating law and order, and crumbling healthcare. We are fighting on these issues and I am glad these have become the fulcrum of this election. With JD(U) as ally, your party got 80 seats in 2015. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, you allied with Congress but results did not go in your favour. Congress is our oldest ally and we fought the 2014-2015 elections together too. The situation in 2019 was different and state elections are mainly fought on local issues... LJP and its chief Chirag Paswan are coming into their own. Some say you have struck a bond with him and have found a strategy to attack Bihar CM Nitish Kumar. Is there scope for a post-poll alliance?  This is all gossip, planted by JD(U)-BJP. Chirag openly says he is with the BJP and wants to see a BJP CM in Bihar. I can tell you that our Mahagathbandhan will comfortably form a government. Your hypothesis has no basis. Do you regret that in 2015 your party allowed Nitish Kumar to become CM when you had won more seats? Lalu ji is someone who keeps his word... He had given his word to Nitish ji, that he would make him CM, and he did. We don’t have any regrets. We fulfilled our commitment. Your manifesto focuses on 10 lakh jobs for the youth, higher MSP. BJP offers 19 lakh jobs, free vaccines, appointment of 3 lakh teachers. How does it compare? I am glad to see that the BJP is at least agreeing to the fact now that unemployment is the most critical challenge facing Bihar. But, sadly, in the last 15 years of its rule in partnership with the JD(U), it did absolutely nothing to address this problem. Finding opportunity in a pandemic is a singular skill. Not surprising to see them (BJP) seeking votes promising free vaccines. Ours is a collective resolve to provide jobs, restore dignity of Bihar and bring the state to the top five in the country. Thirty-three of RJD’s candidates are Yadavs, and the BJP has more than 50 upper caste candidates. Your comments. We are fighting on 144 seats. Can you look into the castes of candidates put up by the other parties too? Ours is the most inclusive and equitable ticket distribution this time. It has taken care of all sections. We are the party of A-Z.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/im-glad-bjp-agrees-with-us-on-unemployment/articleshow/78976878.cms||Rohan Dua
November 1, 2020||---||‘I’m glad BJP agrees with us on unemployment’||RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav doesn’t regret his party’s earlier alliance with JD(U) that made possible forNitish Kumar to become the state’s CM. He also tells Rohan Dua during an interaction that talkabout his camaraderie with LJP’s Chirag Paswan is ‘planted gossip’. Excerpts from the interviewFive years after you campaigned together and formed a coalition government with JD(U), what do you think has changed now? JD(U) co-opted BJP’s ideology and the style of government functioning became dictatorial. The government became apathetic and discriminatory towards the poor, which was evident most recently in the Covid-triggered lockdown and then during the passage of anti-farmer bills. We are a pro-people’s party. We fight for the rights of farmers. People are by and large fed up with the rising unemployment, inflation, day-to-day corruption, deteriorating law and order, and crumbling healthcare. We are fighting on these issues and I am glad these have become the fulcrum of this election. With JD(U) as ally, your party got 80 seats in 2015. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, you allied with Congress but results did not go in your favour. Congress is our oldest ally and we fought the 2014-2015 elections together too. The situation in 2019 was different and state elections are mainly fought on local issues... LJP and its chief Chirag Paswan are coming into their own. Some say you have struck a bond with him and have found a strategy to attack Bihar CM Nitish Kumar. Is there scope for a post-poll alliance?  This is all gossip, planted by JD(U)-BJP. Chirag openly says he is with the BJP and wants to see a BJP CM in Bihar. I can tell you that our Mahagathbandhan will comfortably form a government. Your hypothesis has no basis. Do you regret that in 2015 your party allowed Nitish Kumar to become CM when you had won more seats? Lalu ji is someone who keeps his word... He had given his word to Nitish ji, that he would make him CM, and he did. We don’t have any regrets. We fulfilled our commitment. Your manifesto focuses on 10 lakh jobs for the youth, higher MSP. BJP offers 19 lakh jobs, free vaccines, appointment of 3 lakh teachers. How does it compare? I am glad to see that the BJP is at least agreeing to the fact now that unemployment is the most critical challenge facing Bihar. But, sadly, in the last 15 years of its rule in partnership with the JD(U), it did absolutely nothing to address this problem. Finding opportunity in a pandemic is a singular skill. Not surprising to see them (BJP) seeking votes promising free vaccines. Ours is a collective resolve to provide jobs, restore dignity of Bihar and bring the state to the top five in the country. Thirty-three of RJD’s candidates are Yadavs, and the BJP has more than 50 upper caste candidates. Your comments. We are fighting on 144 seats. Can you look into the castes of candidates put up by the other parties too? Ours is the most inclusive and equitable ticket distribution this time. It has taken care of all sections. We are the party of A-Z.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/im-glad-bjp-agrees-with-us-on-unemployment/articleshow/78976874.cms||Rohan Dua
November 1, 2020||Madurai||Cyclist, 63, drowns in stagnant water as rain lashes Madurai at night||MADURAI: Heavy rain lashed Madurai city and suburbs on Friday night, resulting in the district receiving an average rainfall of 21mm, leaving many areas inundated and resulting in the drowning of a man in stagnant water. S Srinivasagam, 63, from Jawaharpuram in K Pudur, fell down from his bicycle and drowned in the stagnant rain water on Workshop Road near Meenakshi Bazaar in the early hours of Saturday. He was a goldsmith in Coimbatore and had come to Madurai a few days ago to attend a family function in Virudhunagar district. He was staying with his daughter at Palanganatham and planned to leave for Coimbatore after leaving his bicycle at his Jawaharpuram house. Srinivasagam was riding the cycle along Workshop Road around 4.30am under the Garudar Bridge. Being a low-lying area, the road had about three feet of water stagnating due to the rain during the night. A police officer at Karimedu station said the bicycle hit something on the road and the man fell into the water along with his cycle. He could not get up and drowned in the water subsequently. The incident came to light only after the water receded from the road. Many places in the city including Periyar, Duraisamy Nagar, Sellur, South Veli Street witnessed water-logging. A higher official in Madurai corporation said that water-logging has been plaguing the city for long. However, the time taken for the water to recede had come down in the last one year or so due to various measures taken by the corporation. “The time for the water to recede has come down to just two to three hours at many places, where it took six hours before. That is because of the construction of rainwater harvesting systems. At some places we have enabled water to reach the waterbody whereas in some other place groundwater recharging structures were constructed,” he said. Viraganur received the highest rainfall of 101.50 mm while Madurai airport recorded 81.10 mm, Thirumangalam 74.60 mm, Sholavandan 30 mm, Chittampatti 28.20 mm, Kallandiri 20.60 mm, Tallakulam 14.20 mm and Madurai north 18.32 mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cyclist-63-drowns-in-stagnant-water-as-rain-lashes-madurai-dist-at-night/articleshow/78976548.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Amid pandemic, airline to make Kolkata debut today||KOLKATA: When the Fly Dubai flight touches down in Kolkata on Monday, it will be the first carrier to connect a new city in India post lockdown. With Emirates and IndiGo also set to resume services between Kolkata and Dubai next week, there will be five direct connections in a week. “Fly Dubai will operate flights between Dubai and Kolkata on Mondays and Thursdays under the air bubble agreement between India and the UAE. The government-owned budget carrier has been studying the Kolkata market for the past couple of years and its decision to arrive in Kolkata amidst the pandemic only points to the traffic potential on this route,” a travel trade industry veteran said. With economies gradually returning to normal after the prolonged lockdown since March-end, introduction of Fly Dubai, which is offering return travel at Rs 25,000 per head, is much in demand among traders, also known as carriers. With flights to Bangkok and Kuala Lumpur yet to resume, Dubai has emerged as the largest market for traders in apparel and electronics goods. IndiGo, which operated daily flights to Dubai before the lockdown, has decided to make a cautious beginning with one flight a week from Friday. Emirates, which used to operate 12 flights a week till February-end, will add a second flight on Friday to the one it has been operating for the past couple of weeks on Wednesdays. “On four days a week, there will be direct flights between Kolkata and Dubai under the air bubble pact. Etihad is yet to start flights to Kolkata, but when it does connect Abu Dhabi, it will also be covered under the agreement,” said Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. However, passengers travelling from Kolkata to Dubai, as well as those going from Dubai to Kolkata, are required to get themselves tested for Covid before departure. Travel Agents Association of India chairman (east) Manav Soni termed the arrival of Fly Dubai a major fillip to the aviation scene in Kolkata. “We have been passing through a particularly tough time owing to the curbs on flights from six Indian cities. It is heartening to see at least international sectors take off and a new airline arrive in the city,” he said. At present, there are flights connecting Kolkata with London, Dhaka, Chittagong, Doha and Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amid-pandemic-airline-to-make-kolkata-debut-today/articleshow/78974724.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: October saw marked dip in infections, fatalities||PANAJI: The state reported two Covid-related deaths on Saturday, of which one victim a 46-year-old cancer patient from Ponda died in the surgery ward of the GMC, Bambolim. “The patient was admitted with a primary diagnosis of carcinoma with brain metastasis, in whom Covid-19 was an incidental finding,” said Dr S M Bandekar, GMC dean and in-charge of Covid hospitals. The second patient, a 75-year-old man from Dodamarg with an underlying condition of metastasis lung cancer, was diagnosed with Covid pneumonia. Overall, however, October saw less Covid-19 fatalities as compared to September. While 235 deaths were recorded in September, October witnessed 175. The month of September also saw the highest number of Covid-19 infections vis-a-vis October. The total of new cases reported came down to 10,208 as against 16,000 during the preceding month. The positivity rate, too, has dropped. For the most part of October, it hovered between 15 and 25 % and has been in the range of 10-15% over the past eight days. The last month also saw the recovery rate going up to 93%, with 40,678 people cured out of the 43,626 infections that were reported. The situation in Porvorim, the centre that reported a high number of cases in North Goa, followed by Sakhali, has been under control, said Dr Roshan Nazareth, medical officer at the Porvorim centre. On Saturday, its caseload was 130 while that of Panaji was 142. The only other centres in North Goa that have reported over 100 cases are Colvale and Chimbel. In South Goa, Margao with 211 and Ponda with 136 new infections, have comparatively higher cases than the other centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/october-saw-marked-dip-in-infections-fatalities/articleshow/78976554.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Contact tracing, quarantining of no use now, say doctors||Nagpur: With community spread of Covid19 and unlocking of movement restrictions, city doctors feel initial containment measures like contact tracing and institutional quarantine may not be required now.Against the backdrop of sharp decline in active as well as daily cases, TOI spoke to well-known doctors about their view on the two measures.Vidarbha Hospital Association secretary Dr Alok Umre said currently everyone should be prepared for the second wave in November post-Diwali. “I pray it doesn’t come. Yet, the global data suggests there is a strong possibility of a second Covid wave. Europe is reporting 90,000 cases per day though its population may be less than Vidarbha. Hence, all preparation must be done by doctors, medical colleges and civic body,” he said.Dr Umre added that the two measures are not recommended now. “Those testing positive must keep in regular touch of doctor. Up to 95% cases can be handled through online consultation. People must carefully monitor their blood oxygen saturation level and report any breathing difficulties,” he said.Dr Sadashiv Bhole, a director in Seven Star Hospital, said the available resources must be utilized to “increase awareness among masses, promote use of mask, personal hygiene and distancing norms”. “The measures were adopted to limit the infection as health care resources were limited then. Since, the entire population has not been tested we don’t know actually how many have become resistant to virus or developed antibodies,” he said.Consulting cardiac surgeon at VIMS Dr Ashish Badkal said, “It is not a practical solution. But, every fever should be treated for Covid and home isolation is must.”IMA president Dr Archana Kothari said the idea for institutional quarantine was to keep the cases under check when there weren’t many. “Now, people are also aware and know how to live in isolation. Self discipline and new normal life norms are important now,” she said.Consulting pulmonologist at Kingsway Hosptials Dr Vikram Rathi feels that though numbers are going down, the disease is still prevalent. “A big population is still not infected. Though it may not be on similar scale like before, contact tracing is needed. Quarantine admissions can be decided on a case-to-case basis. Home isolation is sufficient,” he said. Asked what would be the outcome of contact tracing now, Dr Rathi explained that it is important to know who is Covid positive. “Contact tracing should continue for next few months,” he said.Dr Hema Dhoble, head medical administration of Suretech Hospital, said the measures have their own merits and demerits. “Proper guidance by NMC is must. The civic body must deploy its doctors in clinically monitoring home isolated patients,” she said.OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar said contact tracing must be done. “We have gone beyond institutional quarantine phase now. Yet, if anyone is found violation home isolation norms, they can be put in quarantine centres,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/contact-tracing-quarantining-of-no-use-now-say-doctors/articleshow/78973714.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Finally, CS reconciles district’s Covid data||Nagpur: The district civil surgeon (CS) has finally reconciled the data of Covid-19 cases and deaths. Now, the district’s caseload has surpassed the 1-lakh mark also as per the CS’s data. The CS also added 275 deaths and 7,007 recoveries to the district’s data.TOI on Saturday had reported that the district’s cases crossed 1 lakh on October 25, as per the data of state government’s public health department (PHD) but the CS and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had reported less numbers. The CS and NMC had also reported less fatalities than the PHD.Taking cognizance of TOI’s report, guardian minister Nitin Raut on Saturday directed officials to clear the discrepancies. Accordingly, civil surgeon VD Paturkar did massive reconciliation in the district’s data. The CS has added 7,357 positive cases in district’s tally, taking the tally to 1,02,786. These cases were not uploaded on ICMR portal by Dhruv laboratory between July and September. NMC had exposed it, took action against the laboratory and ensured updation on ICMR portal few days ago. But the reconciliation was awaited from NMC and CS.The number of fatalities in the city was different as per CS and NMC. There was difference of 275 deaths. The CS on Saturday added them to the district’s toll which is 3,403 now.Similarly, CS has added 7,007 recoveries, taking the number to 95,103.Now, the data provided by the CS is same as that of NMC, PHD and ICMR portal.However, CS hasn’t done reconciliation for number of tests. Over 13,000 negative tests reported from Dhruv Laboratory are yet to be uploaded on ICMR portal. It will result in inaccurate test positivity rate for the district.———————————-Dist Caseload Over 1 Lakh 10,000-wiseAug 11------10,361Aug 23------20,439Sept 1-------31,002Sept 7-------41,032Sept 12-----50,128Sept 18-----60,593Sept 24-----71,616Oct 3--------80,844Oct 17------90,301Oct 31------1,02,786(Oct 31 cases include 7,357 detected from July to September)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/finally-cs-reconciles-districts-covid-data/articleshow/78973711.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Trespasser on rly track turns out to be a train dacoit||Nagpur: A 22-year-old man, Shaikh Shahrukh, was nabbed by the railway protection force (RPF) as one of the trespassers on the tracks near Mominpura in the early hours of Friday. During questioning, Shahrukh had the beans. He was a part of the dacoit gang which had gone on robbing spree in one of the coaches of Samta Express on October 28. Shahrukh was aided by Hira Sonu, Junaid, Nauwa and another unidentified person. They robbed passengers when the rain halted at the outer signal. One of the passengers, Jitesh Patle, a resident of Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh, was also injured when he was attacked with a knife by one of the robbers. Several passengers were robbed of their cash and mobile phones. After the incident sent shock waves, combined teams of RPF of central railways (CR), south eastern central railways (SECR) and government railway police (GRP) were formed under IG AK Sinha. The teams were combing the slums adjoining the tracks for clues and suspects under supervision of SECR RPF chief AK Swamy. Shahrukh was nabbed after he was spotted moving on the tracks suspiciously in the wee hours. He was taken to the Motibagh RPF post for questioning under senior inspector Ganesh Garkal, RK Singh and Vikas Kumar. After his confession, Shahrukh was handed over to the GRP for further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trespasser-on-rly-track-turns-out-to-be-a-train-dacoit/articleshow/78973722.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Prohibitory orders in Thiruvananthapuram till November 15||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The district administration extended prohibitory orders imposed as part of checking the spread of Covid-19 till November 15. Section 144 was imposed in the district on October 2 and was in effect till October 31. The number of active cases in the district have reduced by more than half since October 2. The active cases dropped from 33% in the first week of October to below 15% by October 31. The recovery rate also improved from 65% to over 84% by October-end. While the recovery rate was below 0.7% towards September-end, it started to get better since October first week. As many as 17,233 persons recovered in first three weeks in October while 15,031 got infected. The recovery rate has gradually improved from 65% to 72% between October 1 and 10 and since then the rate has improved, steadily growing from 73% to 78.7% making it the highest recovery rate in the state. District collector Navjot Khosa said the spread of disease has been effectively controlled owing to stringent regulations. As per the order, more than five persons shall not gather in a place. The maximum number of persons allowed to attend funerals and marriages in containment zones is 20. Essential services will be allowed in containment zones. Exit of people from containment zones, except for emergency medical needs and to ensure availability of essential commodities will be strictly regulated. Public conventions and gatherings with participation of more than five persons will not be allowed in areas other than containment zones. In case of social, cultural, political, educational and religious functions in indoor settings, maximum of 20 persons can participate. Marriages outside containment zone can have maximum participation of 50 persons. Social distancing shall be strictly followed in all the functions. Public examinations fixed before October 2 shall be held as per the schedule in compliance with Covid-19 protocol. The examinations to be announced from now on shall be finalised in discussion with district disaster management authority. All banks shall follow Covid-19 prevention protocol. Not more than five people will not be allowed in banks, shops and other commercial institutions at a time. As many as 790 persons were confirmed with Covid-19 infection on Saturday. While 562 persons recovered from the infection, 8,774 persons are currently under treatment for Covid -19 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/prohibitory-orders-in-dist-till-nov-15/articleshow/78974727.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Madurai||DMK played no role in medical quota, says minister||TUTICORIN: The DMK had no role in giving 7.5% internal reservation for government school students in medical admissions, said minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajenthra Bhalaji on Saturday. Interacting with reporters in Tiruchendur, the minister accused DMK president M K Stalin of trying to take credit for the seeds sown and nurtured by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami by claiming that the reservation came into effect because of its protests. He said the IT wing will lend a hand for the victory of Palaniswami in the assembly polls, just as the youth wing played an active role in propelling J Jayalalithaa to victory in the 2011 elections.. He said many educated youths are joining the ruling AIADMK as they see scope for growth in the party. “You can see many youths dressed in shirts and pants (instead of traditional dhoti), holding double degrees and master’s degrees (in the IT wing),” he said. On religious politics, he said, “A Dravidian party is not one that humiliates a religion.” The minister, an ardent fan of Rajinikanth, said, “We will accept him whether he comes (to politics) or not. He will take the right decision. We and the people will accept it. He will support good governance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-played-no-role-in-medical-quota-says-minister/articleshow/78976549.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Surat||India determined to protect borders, jawans capable of giving befitting reply||KEVADIA (NARMADA): Amid the on-going border stand-off with China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that his government was not just determined but also well equipped to protect the country’s sovereignty and the armed forces are capable of giving a befitting response to anyone eyeing India’s territory. Addressing probationary civil servants here, Modi said India’s views as well as standpoints on border issues have changed now and the country’s defence sector too is fast becoming ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant). “Our jawans are building hundreds of km of roads, bridges and several tunnels,” he said. Earlier this month, Modi had inaugurated the 9.02 km-long Atal Tunnel at Rohtang, the world’s longest all-weather highway tunnel connecting Manali to Lahual-Spiti built by Border Roads Organisation (BRO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/india-determined-to-protect-borders-jawans-capable-of-giving-befitting-reply/articleshow/78973724.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Surat||PM invokes Article 370 abrogation, Ram Mandir||KEVADIA (NARMADA): The abrogation of Article 370 that gave a special status of Jammu & Kashmir and the Ram Mandir found a special mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the probationary civil servants on the occasion of Rashtriya Ekta Divas at Statue of Unity on Saturday. Modi said despite these difficult times, Kashmir is charting a new path of progress and all the obstacles in its development have been cleared. “Despite calamities and challenges, several decisions were thought to be impossible in the past have been taken (by the government). It’s one year now that Article 370 was abrogated. Had Sardar Patel been tasked with this work, the onus for completion would not have been on me. But it was left incomplete and I am fortunate to have finished it,” he said. Modi also said that the entire country is a witness to Supreme Court’s judgement on Ram Mandir and the construction of a grand temple at Ayodhya. “The resolve to reclaim our cultural glory began with Sardar Patel’s perseverance to reconstruct Somnath temple. This has been taken further and today the country is the witness to SC’s verdict on Ram temple as well it’s construction,” Modi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pm-invokes-article-370-abrogation-ram-mandir/articleshow/78973712.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Mega cleanliness drive begins in Aurangabad, to go on till Diwali||Aurangabad: The civic administration initiated a fortnight-long mega cleanliness drive in the city as part of the the ambitious ‘Love Aurangabad’ campaign that kickstarted a couple of days ago. Officials from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASCDCL) have been working on a year-long clean-up operation and have accordingly planned a series of initiatives aimed at bagging a slot in the top 10 rank of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The cleanliness drive will continue till Diwali. Municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said, “Along with the sanitation staffers, we expect the citizens to voluntarily come forward and take initiatives for ensuring the success of the campaign.” Pandey has appealed to the citizens to cooperate with the civic administration by maintaining cleanliness in their respective homes, premises, societies and localities. On the first day of the drive, the sanitation staffers were deployed in all the nine zones. The ‘Love Aurangabad’ campaign launched by the AMC and ASCDCL was inaugurated by district Guardian Minister Subhash Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mega-cleanliness-drive-begins-in-aurangabad-to-go-on-till-diwali/articleshow/78975894.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Madurai||New Covid cases below 50 in south, central districts except Madurai||MADURAI/TRICHY: Fresh cases in the south and central districts continue to come down as southern districts recorded 204 cases while central districts recorded 216 cases on Saturday. This is the lowest in the southern region since June 19. On June 18 the region recorded 183 fresh cases after which the number has not come below 200 cases. Except for Madurai (51), the other districts in the region recorded less than 50 cases each. Dindigul (7) recorded the lowest number of fresh cases, followed by Ramanathapuram (8), Theni (10), Tenkasi (10), Tirunelveli (15), Virudhunagar (17), Sivagangai (19), Kanyakumari (25) and Tuticorin (42). Active cases in two districts – Tenkasi (31) and Dindigul (40) – dropped below 50. Tenkasi has the least active cases in the whole State while Dindigul has the third lowest. Madurai (508) continues to be the lone district with more than 500 active cases. As Ramanathapuram (6,004) crossed the 6,000 total cases mark on Saturday, Sivagangai (5,901) is the only district in the region with less than 6,000 cases. Of the 31 Covid-19 deaths in the State on Saturday only one is from the southern districts. The lone death is a 65-year-old man from Madurai with type 2 diabetes, systematic hypertension and coronary artery disease who was admitted at a private hospital in Madurai on October 18. He tested positive two days later and died on Friday after suffering difficulty in breathing for six days. All the districts in the central region recorded less than 50 fresh cases on Saturday. Nagapattinam (43) reported the highest number of cases followed by Tiruvarur (42). Thanjavur district which had been peaking with fresh cases in the recent times registered only 32 cases and 260 active cases. Trichy recorded 32 cases and has the highest number of active cases at 446. For the first time in the recent times, the active cases (1,919) in the region went below 2,000 on Saturday. On Friday, the region had 2031 active cases. Perambalur (4) maintained fresh cases in single digits while Ariyalur recorded 10 cases. The death toll in Tiruvarur touched 99 after the deaths of two Covid-19 patients. Trichy recorded the death of one patient. The deceased included an 80 year old man and a 60 year old man from Tiruvarur and a 76 year old man from Trichy. The overall death toll in the region was 863.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-cases-below-50-in-south-central-dists-except-madurai/articleshow/78976546.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Trichy||New Covid cases below 50 in south, central districts except Madurai||MADURAI/TRICHY: Fresh cases in the south and central districts continue to come down as southern districts recorded 204 cases while central districts recorded 216 cases on Saturday. This is the lowest in the southern region since June 19. On June 18 the region recorded 183 fresh cases after which the number has not come below 200 cases. Except for Madurai (51), the other districts in the region recorded less than 50 cases each. Dindigul (7) recorded the lowest number of fresh cases, followed by Ramanathapuram (8), Theni (10), Tenkasi (10), Tirunelveli (15), Virudhunagar (17), Sivagangai (19), Kanyakumari (25) and Tuticorin (42). Active cases in two districts – Tenkasi (31) and Dindigul (40) – dropped below 50. Tenkasi has the least active cases in the whole State while Dindigul has the third lowest. Madurai (508) continues to be the lone district with more than 500 active cases. As Ramanathapuram (6,004) crossed the 6,000 total cases mark on Saturday, Sivagangai (5,901) is the only district in the region with less than 6,000 cases. Of the 31 Covid-19 deaths in the State on Saturday only one is from the southern districts. The lone death is a 65-year-old man from Madurai with type 2 diabetes, systematic hypertension and coronary artery disease who was admitted at a private hospital in Madurai on October 18. He tested positive two days later and died on Friday after suffering difficulty in breathing for six days. All the districts in the central region recorded less than 50 fresh cases on Saturday. Nagapattinam (43) reported the highest number of cases followed by Tiruvarur (42). Thanjavur district which had been peaking with fresh cases in the recent times registered only 32 cases and 260 active cases. Trichy recorded 32 cases and has the highest number of active cases at 446. For the first time in the recent times, the active cases (1,919) in the region went below 2,000 on Saturday. On Friday, the region had 2031 active cases. Perambalur (4) maintained fresh cases in single digits while Ariyalur recorded 10 cases. The death toll in Tiruvarur touched 99 after the deaths of two Covid-19 patients. Trichy recorded the death of one patient. The deceased included an 80 year old man and a 60 year old man from Tiruvarur and a 76 year old man from Trichy. The overall death toll in the region was 863.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/new-cases-below-50-in-south-central-dists-except-madurai/articleshow/78978767.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Sonagachhi sex workers caught in debt trap: Survey||KOLKATA: At least 89% of the sex workers of Sonagachhi are in deep debt bondage and need to be rescued immediately, according to a survey report that has been submitted to the state social welfare department. Out of work because of the safety restrictions in place during the pandemic, these women had to borrow money from informal sources. Unable to pay back, they have now been enslaved by the money lenders, who are also brothel owners and pimps in many cases, according to the report. The survey has been conducted by Anti Human Trafficking Organization, an NGO that has sought the immediate intervention of the state to help bail out the sex workers in distress, many of whom are at risk of being trafficked. The report goes on to say that 81% of the sex workers are being threatened and extorted and are being forced to give free services to clients of pimps and brothel owners. About 98% of the women have revealed that they were ready to quit sex trade if they got alternative earning opportunities. “Despite knowing that we are running huge health risks, we are being forced to accept clients. There is no other way of coming out of the debt warp,” said a voice that has been quoted in the survey. There are 93% women who know that they are running huge risks by doing business but are helpless because many would otherwise starve with small hungry mouths to feed. The survey has also pointed out that there are state-run welfare schemes such as Muktir Alo that are meant for rehabilitation of sex workers but since 2015, only 75 women have been rescued and rehabilitated. Women who have been surveyed have pointed out that the scheme needs to be refreshed and emboldened and used properly in these pandemic times. “The dynamics of the red light area are traditionally such that women have no identity proof here and so no bank or financial institution gives us loans. Naturally, we have to depend on private money lenders,” women have said in the survey. “We urge the state to step in immediately to bring these women back from the brink of life,” said Tapan Saha, spokesperson of the NGO, who has submitted the report to the state social welfare department. Shashi Panja, state minister for social welfare, sounded sympathetic. “Sonagachhi is within my constituency and since the lockdown, I have ensured that dry ration reaches as many women as possible. I am yet to go through the report, but I must say that Durbar Mahila Samanway Samiti and its partner NGOs have been of great help,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sonagachhi-sex-workers-caught-in-debt-trap-survey/articleshow/78974719.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Rain helps fill recently revived water bodies||MADURAI: Heavy rain, which lashed Madurai city on Friday night has helped fill several water bodies, which were recently revived by Madurai corporation on its own and in association with residents, NGOs and private companies. There are 33 water bodies spread across various parts of the city, which come under the corporation. It was decided last year to revive them all. Private companies like Hi-Tech Arai, HCL foundation and NGOs like Dhan Foundation joined hands with the corporation. Kosakulam Oorani, Silaiyaneri, Kottankulam, Kamban, Uthangudi, Muthupatti Kalthar, Suravalimedu, Managiri, Thirupalai Vannan, Anupanadi Sokkayi and Mattuthavani Sokkayi, Milagaranai, Ulaganeri Kuttam, and Masthanpatti have been restored so far. Corporation officials said that all the tanks have a considerable quantity of water due to good rain on Friday. Most of the tanks were revived by involving local residents in order to improve the relationship between the people and water bodies. “We hope for good rains this season so that water level in the tanks go up. Earlier, most of the tanks were found with overgrown bushes and they did not receive water as the inlet channels were silted. Residents are happy with the development as every drop of water harvested will help increase yield in borewells around the tanks,” an official from the engineering wing said. He urged the people to take good care of the revived water bodies. “While the corporation is doing its part in augmenting groundwater table, it is high time residents play their part. People should come forward to install a rainwater harvesting system,” he added. Corporation has created 280 recharge pits so far at places where water stagnates. Totally, 412 unused borewells have been identified and have been turned into groundwater recharge pits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rain-helps-fill-recently-revived-water-bodies/articleshow/78976555.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Madurai||Tourism stakeholders seek easing of curbs on inter-state movement||MADURAI: Relax restrictions on inter-state movement for tourism and promote tourist places in southern Tamil Nadu in order to revive the industry which has come to a standstill due to the lockdowns induced by Covid-19. This was the general refrain at a brainstorming meeting on ways to get tourism back on track organized by Travel Club, Madurai here on Saturday. Revenue minister R B Udayakumar, corporation commissioner S Visakan and airport director S Senthil Valavan attended. Travel Club’s former president and managing director of Pandian Hotel G Vasudevan said it was important to focus on domestic tourism for now as international tourists may not plan activities in the next 18 months. He urged the state government to open interstate borders and assure tourists on safety measures to promote domestic tourism. He demanded that the state government allow mobile phones and cameras in Meenakshi Amman temple as tourists are disappointed that they are not allowed to take pictures of the architectural marvel and intrinsic sculptures inside. “While other famous temples like Thanjavur Big Temple and Srirangam temple allow mobile phones and photos, it is restricted in Meenakshi amman temple,” he said. He also called for the development of pristine beaches including Ariyaman and Manappad beaches, heritage sites including Jain sites, bird and animal sanctuaries like Keelaselvanoor, Melaselvanoor in Ramanathapuram, Kootankulam in Tirunelveli, Kalakkad Mundandurai, Vallanadu and Meghamalai, trekking spots in Kodaikanal, Kurangani and Alagar Hills. Revenue minister R B Udayakumar assured the stake holders to apprise the chief minister of the matter and secure a positive decision. He said that the problems faced by the tourism sector are only temporary. While it will soon start to revive, the state government will provide all possible assistance to boost it, he said. CII Madurai vice-chairman Dr Sathish Devadoss, operations director of South India Hotels and Restaurants Association Sundar Singaram and president of Travel Club Madurai G Raveendran also took part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tourism-stakeholders-seek-easing-of-curbs-on-inter-state-movement/articleshow/78976553.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Madurai||Man, 32, ends life after getting job to ‘fulfil vow to God’||KANYAKUMARI: A 32-year-old man, who had vowed to sacrifice his life as an offering to God if he gets a job, ended his life by jumping in front of a train. ‘I am going to God, who gave me a job,’ read the suicide note of C Naveen of Elluvilai near Nagercoil in Kanyakumari district. In the suicide note addressed to his parents, that was found in his pocket, Naveen stated that he promised to offer his life to God if he got a job. Inquiries by police revealed that the man was an engineering graduate and did not have a job for many years. It was at this juncture he took the vow. Recently, he got selected as assistant manager in a leading nationalised bank and was posted at Mumbai earlier this month. After joining duty a couple of weeks ago, he flew to Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday and headed to Kanyakumari district. He met his friend at Marthandam and took a bus to Nagercoil town, from where he went to the railway track at Putheri village on the outskirts and jumped before a speeding train. The body was retrieved by the railway police and shifted to the Kanyakumari government medical college hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-32-ends-life-after-getting-job-to-fulfil-vow-to-god/articleshow/78976552.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hubballi||Non-stop flight between Kalaburagi, Delhi from Nov 18||Kalaburagi: In what is likely to give a much-needed boost to the credentials of the Kalaburagi Airport, the operations of which are still in a fledgling state, Star Air will operate a non-stop flight between the North Karnataka district and Delhi thrice a week — Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday — starting November 18. While the flight will depart from Kalaburagi on all three days at 10.20am, reaching Delhi (Hindon) at 12.40pm, the return flight from Delhi will depart at 1.10pm and arrive in Kalaburagi at 3.30pm. Star Air is operating the flight under the RC-UDAN scheme, which is aimed at boosting flight connectivity from Tier-II and Tier-III cities across India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/non-stop-flight-between-kalaburagi-delhi-from-nov-18/articleshow/78973858.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Madurai||Dengue cases less in Madurai, but health department stays vigilant||MADURAI: A total of seven dengue cases (three in September and four in October), have been reported in the last two months in Madurai, which is lesser compared to the same period last year with 60 cases having been reported. However, the health department is not taking any chances as the district has been witnessing intermittent rain with the onset of the northeast monsoon season and dengue cases expected to peak in November. “Both fever and dengue cases have shown a drastic drop this year so far. However, there is still a need to be vigilant because cases may peak in November. Public are urged to follow preventive measures,” said Dr KV Arjun Kumar, deputy director of health services, Madurai. He also said that extensive fever surveillance is being carried out across the district for all viral diseases along with Covid-19, including dengue. Health officials said that one of the factors for the sharp decline in dengue cases this year, in Madurai and across Tamil Nadu, is the closure of schools, colleges and offices due to Covid-19. “The aedes aegypti mosquito usually appears during the day time, which is why dengue cases are more likely to occur in places like institutions or offices. More than in houses, mosquito-breeding spots and sources in these places are more common to develop and neglected,” said a health official. Children, especially are at higher risk as they are more prone to developing a severe form of dengue called dengue haemorrhagic fever, which can cause severe bleeding shock and death. As many as 1,086 domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) are involved in carrying out surveillance and preventive measures across Madurai district. Efforts are on to remove probable breeding places for mosquitoes including stagnant water sources, spraying of abate solution and sprinkling of bleach powder. Fogging is also being done periodically once in 15 days to cover all areas across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dengue-cases-less-in-madurai-but-health-dept-stays-vigilant/articleshow/78976560.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Murder accused rushed to hospital||Aurangabad: A man arrested by the Satara area police station on the charges of attempt to murder was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Saturday morning after he suddenly fell ill. The accused, Shaikh Altaf, along with one Shaikh Abrar, was arrested on the charges of attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy after they allegedly fired a round on one Shaikh Imran on Thursday. As per the complaint lodged by the injured youth, a bid was made on his life on the directives of his uncle Shaikh Yunus, who has been named as the key accused in the case. Altaf’s family members have alleged that he was tortured by the police for confessing to the crime which led to health complications. However, the police have refuted the allegations. Inspector of Satara area police station Surendra Malale told TOI, “The accused had not eaten food since Friday afternoon. We believe he started suffering from acidity. He started vomiting after having food in the morning (Saturday) and was rushed to the hospital.” Malale said after the required treatment, Altaf would be discharged and be put in police custody along with the other accused. Medical authorities at GMCH could not be reached for comments. Sources said Altaf was admitted in the hospital till late evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/murder-accused-rushed-to-hospital/articleshow/78975943.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Madurai||BJP will be part of next AIADMK-led govt in TN: Pon Radhakrishnan||MADURAI: Former union minister Pon Radhakrishnan said that Tamil Nadu would see an AIADMK-led government of which the BJP would be a part of in 2021. Speaking to reporters in Madurai on Saturday, he said that the BJP was working on gaining victories in many constituencies. He said that the DMK president Stalin refusing to accept the ‘vibhuti’ that the priest offered to him, in the Muthuramalingam Thevar memorial on the occassion of Thevar Jayanti, had hurt the sentiments of people as Thevar was considered a deity by many. ``People who had no intention of giving the memorial its due respect could refrain from going there,’’ he said. Radhakrishnan said that he hoped Stalin would seek the pardon of the people of the state for his deed. Congress leader K S Alagiri’s statement that the Vel Yatra would not yield any benefit shows that they have started fearing it, he said. On being asked about actor Rajnikanth’s latest statement on his political entry, he said Rajnikanth had made his stand clear. It is the opposition parties that were spreading unwanted rumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bjp-will-be-part-of-next-aiadmk-led-govt-in-tn-pon/articleshow/78976573.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Sr inspector Hiware shifted to Ambazari||Nagpur: In the statewide reshuffle, senior inspector Narendra Hiware was transferred from Lakadganj to Ambazari police station by city police chief Amitesh Kumar. Hiware will replace Vijay Kare who was shifted out of the city. Hiware, who had courted controversies following allegations of manhandling by advocate Ankita Shah, was among the 20 inspectors who were transferred for ‘administrative’ reasons. Former traffic inspector Parag Pote will be the new senior inspector for Lakadganj. The important police station of Sitabuldi will also have a new senior inspector in Atul Sabnis, a former Mumbai-based ATS officer, who played an important role in busting several terrorist modules. Sabnis will replace Raghavendra Rajput. Senior inspector NR Fatangare of Kalamna police station will take over the reigns of Jaripatka police station following the retirement of Khusal Tijare. Tehsil’s second inspector DD Sagar will take over the charge of Sonegaon police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sr-inspector-hiware-shifted-to-ambazari/articleshow/78973756.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Agra||Pay Rs 2,000 fine for a halt at undesignated spotson 80-km Yamuna E-way stretch in Mathura dist||Agra: Days after a fatal accident claimed lives of three travellers who had taken a halt for refreshment on the roadside at Noida-Agra Expressway in Mathura’s Mahavan area, Mathura police has decided to charge a penalty of Rs 2,000 for a halt at undesignated spots on the 80-km expressway stretch passing through the district. Superintendent of police (rural) Shireesh Chandra told TOI that those found taking selfies or having food at undesignated spots on the Yamuna Expressway would be fined under the Motor Vehicles Act. The SP, however, said 40 signage boards and flex banners — 20 each on both sides (up and down) — of the Agra-Noida would be installed. “The move is aimed at informing travellers about the distance of the nearest rest area while warning them against stopping mid-way and the risk it poses to their lives,” added the SP. On October 26, three members of a Gurugram-based family were killed after the car they were travelling in was rammed by another speeding car on the Yamuna Expressway. They had taken a halt on the roadside near milestone 114 in Mathura for refreshment when the accident took place. Till July 2019, 145 people died and 822 injured in 357 accidents, according to information furnished by the authorities in response to a query filed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act by Agra-based lawyer Krishna Chand Jain. According to data available with the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA), which manages the expressway, said Jain, in 2018, 659 road accidents claimed 111 lives and left 1,388 people injured, while 146 people died and 1,426 injured in 763 accidents in 2017; 133 died and 1,524 injured in 1,219 accidents in 2016; 142 died and 1,392 injured in 919 accidents in 2015; and, 127 people were killed and 1,335 injured in 771 accidents in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pay-rs-2000-fine-for-a-halt-at-undesignated-spotson-80-km-yamuna-e-way-stretch-in-mathura-dist/articleshow/78973746.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 1, 2020||Lucknow||Cycling to office & pedding 10km for inspections no publicity stunt: Energy minister||LUCKNOW: After grabbing eyeballs for cycling 10km to inspect power sub-stations and pledging to peddle to office every day, energy minister Srikant Sharma said this was no gimmick, but a commitment to leave behind a cleaner environment for the next generation. Talking to TOI, Sharma said, when a discom manager stopped by his home and offered him a lift to office, “I politely told him that you are an officer, please go by car. I am an ABVP product and prefer to perform daily chores even with our own hands.” Just two days back, Chief Justice of India lamented about rising pollution in the country and appealed to the people to adopt remedial steps, he said. “His appeal moved me to go to office on a bicycle and motivate my family to cycle to the market or places nearby,” said Sharma. While working with late BJP stalwart Arun Jaitley in his early political career, he was particularly impressed by Jaitley’s gesture of making coffee for friends and serving them too. “I decided to adopt simplicity in every walk of life and learnt much from both Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj, who despite holding high office, remained grounded till their last breath,” he said. “As a boy I would stare at the starry skies while sleeping on a bamboo cot outside my village home. I still remember seeing the celestial bodies with impeccable clarity, which was possible due to a pollution-free air. But what are we handing over to the next generation? Clouds of pollution, contaminated air, water and a chemical-filled soil. This has to be stopped and a beginning has to be made,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/energy-min-cycling-to-office-pedding-10km-for-inspections-no-publicity-stunt/articleshow/78976584.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Two days to go for polling, BJP and Cong up the ante||Hyderabad: The main opposition parties BJP and Congress have upped the ante against each other with hours left for canvassing to end and just two days to go for polling in the Dubbak assembly constituency. While BJP is telling voters that a vote for Congress is a vote for TRS, Congress too has been going to the electorate asking them to realise that BJP and the pink party are two sides of the same coin. Several BJP leaders, including Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, said what was the guarantee that Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy would not go back to TRS after the elections. “The people of the state know that 12 MLAs of Congress joined TRS. Development is possible only through BJP,” Kishan Reddy said while addressing a rally in the constituency recently. BJP Telangana president Bandi Sanjay charged the ruling TRS of delivering governance under the influence of Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) party. On its part, Congress claimed BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao had earlier served as TRS district president and is also cousin of state finance minister T Harish Rao. Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy, while addressing street corner meetings, said TRS has been sailing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government and even supported it on demonetisation, GST, president and vice-president elections, Triple Talaq Bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-days-to-go-for-polling-bjp-and-cong-up-the-ante/articleshow/78974821.cms||Roushan Ali
November 1, 2020||Trichy||Disruptive technologies will transform business: Kris Gopalakrishnan||TRICHY: Disruptive technologies will transform every business in the coming days and the need of the hour is to create new solutions and business models, said Kris Gopalakrishnan, co-founder of Infosys and chairman, Axilor Ventures. He was addressing graduands virtually at the 34th convocation of Sastra Deemed University, Thanjavur on Saturday. Kris said the fourth industrial revolution is a game-changing opportunity powered by multiple technologies like artificial intelligence and machine le ning(AI/ML), Internet of Things (IoT), augmented reality and virtual reality (AR/ML), cloud computing, smart phones, 3D printing, genomics, biotechnology and nanotechnology. He advised the graduands to ride the appropriate digital wave, work as a team player, engage in lifelong learning, set aspirational standards, follow one’s heart and be courageous. The best outgoing BTech student award was presented virtually to Shrute Kannappan, who is currently pursuing her PhD in biomedical sciences, at Sungkyunkwan University in South Korea. The founder chancellor’s best PhD thesis award for engineering was presented to Kishan Kumar and for sciences to M Veena. While 81 PhD graduands and over 12 special award winners were presented their degrees and awards physically, over 4,800 graduands were presented and conferred their UG and PG degrees virtually. Chancellor R Sethuraman presided over the convocation which also saw the customary procession led by the nadaswaram team, dress code of handwoven kurta or sari with stole along with contemporary and next generation procedures powered by modernity and technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/disruptive-technologies-will-transform-business-kris/articleshow/78976601.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Surat||Surat: Covid patient breathes freedom after 97 days||SURAT: Ketan Umrigar, 41, walked out of the New Civil Hospital (NCH) after 97 days of treatment on Saturday, the first patient from the city to have spent the longest time under the intensive care, fighting the dreaded coronavirus.A resident of Umara village, Umrigar is employed with a private designing company in Surat and had tested positive following breathlessness, severe cough and fever on July 27. He was admitted in the ICU of NCH as his oxygen levels had gone down to below 48% and was put on Bipap support. On August 11, his health further deteriorated from severe breathing problems and the doctors put him on invasive ventilator support. Nodal officer of NCH, Dr Amit Gamit said, “We had to keep Umrigar in the ICU for about 32 days. After he showed improvement we shifted him to the general ward.” Flanked by his wife Mithila Umrigar, a jubilant Unrigar said: “I will never forget the 97 days spent at the NCH.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-patient-breathes-freedom-after-97-days/articleshow/78973771.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cantonment gate to be redesigned||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government will renovate the cantonment gate of the secretariat at a cost of Rs 28 lakh in order to improve the security system as well as to avoid heavy traffic congestion in the area. The gate will now be used as the main gate of secretariat, which has three more entrance gates. The general administration department had issued an order last week giving administrative sanction to redesign the entry into the secretariat through the cantonment gate. The decision was taken on the basis of a detailed discussion between public works (buildings) section and the national transportation planning and research centre (Natpac). At present, it is through the cantonment gate that ministers and senior officials enter the secretariat compound. Though there is a smaller wicket gate meant for the entry of pedestrians visiting the secretariat, it is not used by them. According to the new plan, the pedestrians as well as vehicles will have demarcated entries to the secretariat. “The visitors who come walking too enter through the gate meant for vehicle entry. It increases chances for accidents. So, there will also be a demarcation for the pedestrians as well as vehicles in the new design,” Natpac sources said. Also, close to the gate, there is a low-lying area, which gets waterlogged during heavy rains. Hence, the gradation in the area will also be corrected, so as the water gets quickly drained off. The redesigning will be done without flouting conservation norms as the secretariat building is a heritage structure, said sources. The cantonment gate, which is also cited as gate number one of the secretariat, is crucial in many ways. Being the main entry to the secretariat, the gate is guarded more unlike the other three gates. In case of protests, the police do not allow protestors to block the cantonment gate. During the previous UDF government’s tenure, LDF protestors had tried to block the cantonment gate as well, which had led to the police fortifying the route right from the Bakery Junction till the cantonment gate for ensuring the smooth passage for ministers. Since the gate opens to a junction, the vehicles coming in and out of the secretariat through the gate along with the heavy pedestrian movement, has been resulting in heavy traffic congestion in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cantonment-gate-to-be-redesigned/articleshow/78974835.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Bhopal||I’ll continue to campaign, BJP is flustered, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: A day after the Election Commission of India revoked his star campaigner status, PCC chief Kamal Nath on Saturday refused to comment on the decision. Speaking to the media at the state Congress headquarters here on Saturday morning, he said, “There is nothing preventing me from campaigning. I am going to Agar and Hatpipliya today and I will also be campaigning tomorrow”. Early on Saturday, Nath reached the PCC office to pay tributes to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on her 36th death anniversary and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his birth anniversary. Asked about the Tuesday’s bypolls in 28 assembly seats across Madhya Pradesh and BJP’s claims of victory, the former chief minister said, “In my long political life, I have seen many elections in the country and abroad. I have contested many elections and made others contest polls also. I know the situation of rival political parties when they are losing and getting routed. It is during these times that they start misusing the administration and police and bank on liquor and money.” The veteran Congress leader and former Union minister said he has full faith in the people of the state. “I know that voters of MP are alert and will secure the future of the state. They will definitely protect our democracy and Constitution,” Nath said. “People understand the truth behind the formation of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government after bargaining and wheeling-dealing. People of the 28 constituencies will give a befitting reply on November 3,” Nath said. “Today, I am going to campaign in Agar and Hatpipliya. I will also campaign on Sunday. I have not been prevented from campaigning. BJP is trying its best and is flustered. The question now is no longer about their defeat. The only question now is, by how much margin will they lose each seat,” Nath added. Campaigning will come to an end at 5pm on Sunday. In the morning, Nath will address a public meeting in Morena assembly seat and campaign for party candidate Rakesh Marwai. There will also be a roadshow. In the afternoon, he will take a workers’ meeting in Gwalior and also address a press conference at 2:30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ill-continue-to-campaign-bjp-is-flustered-says-nath/articleshow/78973763.cms||Suchandana Gupta
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Online classes burning a hole in teachers’ pockets||Nagpur: Online classes have led to increased costs for teachers as they not only purchased new smartphones/laptops, but also have to bear higher Internet pack costs. While some of the big brand schools have pitched in by offering use of their e-classrooms and higher bandwidth to teachers, budget schoolteachers have been left to fend for themselves.A CBSE schoolteacher told TOI that she had to purchase smartphone as both her children have to attend online classes. “My daughter is in college so she had a smartphone, but I had to buy one for my son who is in school. On my daughter’s advise, I had to buy a better phone as apparently many apps need to be downloaded,” said the teacher. She added that her husband’s laptop is then used in the evening to create online tests.A teacher from a budget school said the costs were not suited for her. “Even my husband is a teacher in a different school and our salaries got reduced due to lockdown and fee payment issues. But we have to purchase higher Internet packs as online classes go on from Monday to Friday. Unfortunately, my phone was already creating problems since last year, and now with the increased usage it is deteriorating fast. But, I cannot afford to spend my entire month’s salary on a phone,” she said while adding that her monthly take home has now been reduced to around Rs11,000.A CBSE school’s trustee said that they are offsetting the increased costs by now allowing teachers use of the school’s infrastructure. “Now, that the government has allowed us to call half of our staff to campus, we have opened up the digital classrooms for them. Our Internet bandwidth has also been increased so that online teaching can happen easily. Many teachers simply come to school and teach from their classroom using our infrastructure,” said the trustee.Another school’s principal, whose family manages the state board affiliated school, said, “We have spent a lot of money on training our teachers because not everyone is tech-savvy. We still have at least a dozen of them coming to school and using the computers here to conduct online classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/online-classes-burning-a-hole-in-teachers-pockets/articleshow/78973773.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 1, 2020||Bhopal||Nath remains arrogant despite EC notice, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that there is no change is Congress leader Kamal Nath’s arrogance despite the election commission action stripping him of the star campaigner tag. Chouhan said “In Nath’s eyes all others are wrong, including his party leader Rahul Gandhi, election commission, government officers and employees. Then who is right?, he asked. Chouhan said Kamal Nath is trying to threaten officials and employees saying he will see them later. What will he see? Such language should not be used. MP knows the language of love. He should be ashamed of questioning constitutional bodies like EC. BJP is heading for victory and Nath is in pain, his power has gone. He wanted power to loot the state. He turned the state into a mandi of agents due to which he has to see these days, he said. He reacted in response to Nath’s reaction to EC action against him. EC on Friday removed Nath from Congress’s star campaigner list for ‘repeated violation’ of the model code of conduct, just two days ahead of campaigning for by-polls to 28 seats in MP that would decide the fate of the state government. Nath had reacted strongly on it and said “Now the people will decide. This is an attempt to subdue and suppress my voice, to crush the voice of Congress. Truth can be harassed but not defeated. People will support the truth. BJP state president VD Sharma also hailed the EC decision and said, Kamal Nath used foul language against a dalit woman (on Nath referring Imarti Devi as an item). Should he have not apologized?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-remains-arrogant-despite-ec-notice-says-cm-chouhan/articleshow/78973780.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttam: Cong will win Dubbak comfortably||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday charged the TRS government with not only neglecting Dubbak but also ignoring its legislator Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy who had represented the constituency for four terms. Addressing party leaders, incharges and cadre of Dubbak constituency through an app, Uttam said Congress campaign had been successful so far and the party was able to reach all the voters in every polling booth. “Congress is getting an overwhelming response from the voters. Our party candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy will register a comfortable victory in the by-election,” Uttam said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-cong-will-win-dubbak-comfortably/articleshow/78974836.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Agra||45 test Covid-19 +ve in Agra, tally now 7,233||Agra: At least 45 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 7,233. The patients included two staffers of SN Medical College, six patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, three of severe acute respiratory infection, three of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 23 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 7,233 cases reported in the district, 93.1% have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases increased from 329 on Friday, to 351 on Saturday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 6,737 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/45-test-covid-19-ve-in-agra-tally-now-7233/articleshow/78973774.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 1, 2020||Bareilly||With nearly 80% work done, Bareilly Airport likely to start operations by December 2020||Bareilly: With nearly 80% of work complete, the Bareilly Airport at the Civil Enclave here is likely to be thrown open to the public by December 2020. According to an official release by Airport Authority of India (AAI), the Bareilly Airport is likely to witness the commencement of civil flights connecting Bareilly to Lucknow and Delhi, under the regional connectivity scheme of the Central government — UDAN (Ude Desh Ka Aam Naagrik). Divulging details, airport director of Bareilly, Rajeev Kulshrestha told TOI, “An interim terminal building on a 525 sqm area along with an apron for parking one ATR 72 aircraft, has been developed by the AAI, so far. The other major works taken up by the AAI at the airport include construction of pre-engineered regular terminal building along with associated facilities and apron and taxi track for the operation of two ATR 72 aircraft. Cost of these works is estimated around Rs 70 crore.” “Now, the process of seeking clearances from various departments such as DGCA [Directorate General of Civil Aviation], among others, is underway in phase 2. Efforts are on to make the airport functional by year end,” Kulshrestha added. The pre-engineered regular terminal building at the Civil Enclave, with an area of around 2,530 sqm, would be able to manage up to 150 passengers (75 passengers at arrival and 75 passengers at departure), during the rush hours. Moreover, equipped with as many as six check-in counters, the upcoming airport will also have a vehicle parking facility to accommodate up to 90 cars. The project of Bareilly Airport (Civil Enclave) has met several roadblocks even as the inauguration of the same was done by state civil aviation minister, Nand Gopal Nandi, and Union minister and local MP, Santosh Gangwar, ahead of the imposition of model code of conduct for the Lok Sabha elections, in March 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/with-nearly-80-work-done-bareilly-airport-likely-to-start-operations-by-december-2020/articleshow/78973079.cms||Maria Khan
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||E-resources will revolutionize India’s judicial system: Bobde||Nagpur: To keep pace with the fast-changing world predominated by increasing technological reliance on artificial intelligence, the Indian judicial system must look to reach out to everyone by way of setting up e-resource centres across the country, said Chief Justice of India Sharad A Bobde. He was speaking at the launch of the country’s first e-resource centre ‘Nyay Kaushal’ at Judicial Officers’ Training Institute on Saturday. To ensure equality for those who cannot afford or access online resources, Justice Bobde emphatically called for creating similar e-resource centres across the country which would revolutionize the entire dispensation of justice delivery. Terming it a “very significant” development in the history of the Indian judiciary, Justice Bobde said Nagpur being the first centre is of symbolic importance due to ‘Zero Mile’, the monument which is at the centre of the country and from where “it (the centre) should spread in all directions to mitigate problems”. “The e-resource entre is connected to the Supreme Court, all high courts and all subordinate courts, including tribunals in India. For senior judges and lawyers and even for me, it’s a huge achievement to imagine that a place like Katol is connected to the entire country,” he said, adding, 54 cases were filed in ‘Nyay Kaushal’ in an hour. Pointing out that switching to the virtual platform has resulted in dependency on technology to access justice, the CJI said it also led to creation of the obvious distinction between those who can afford it and those who can’t. “This has created unintentional inequality. I was told by the chairman of the Bar Council of India (BCI) that some lawyers suffered due to inaccessibility to e-resource to such an extent that they had to quit practicing law to sell vegetables to survive. There were reports that some wanted to end their careers and even their lives. We must place emphasis on making this technology available everywhere and to everyone. This will also eliminate the feeling of being ‘less equal’,” the CJI said. On his favourite topic of using artificial intelligence (AI) in the judiciary, the CJI said a lot of progress has been made in this field. “Due to AI, we can find anything, right from case papers of over 20,000 pages to the blood group of the deceased or the accused in just five seconds. However, its use is possible only if cases are e-filed. This (AI) is going to change the functioning of the judiciary and the way litigation is filed. It will help in reducing the pendency of cases pertaining to motor vehicles by 30%,” said Bobde. Stressing on the need to extend the video conferencing facility to alternative disputes redressal (ADR) and mediation, Bobde said the judiciary is going to face a glut of litigations after the end of lockdown and pendency would rise. “I don’t know how to manage it, but ADR is the best way available. Location of courts and modes of transportation play a pivotal role in the litigants’ decision to approach the courts. We should think of how a poor farmer or a village woman who has been molested would access the courts in the pandemic. Some states which started mobile vans with such facilities need to be appreciated,” he said. Quoting Mahatma Gandhi, the CJI said we need to follow his thoughts to visualize the tears in the eyes of a needy person and aim to wipe them. “It would be a failure on our part if we fail to reach out to the last man standing. Such facilities should be offered free of cost. I would request all CJs to motivate their states to ensure e-resource technology reaches the poor and needy in the remotest part of the country,” summed up Bobde. Supreme Court judge Bhushan Gavai, Bombay High Court Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, Nagpur bench administrative judge Ravi Deshpande and senior judge Sunil Shukre shared the dais. SC judge Dhananjay Chandrachud joined the event through video conferencing from Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/e-resources-will-revolutionize-indias-judicial-system-bobde/articleshow/78973790.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Tour operator cheats Umrah pilgrims of over Rs 37 lakh, held||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad rural police have arrested a tour operator based in Nanded on the charges of duping several people on the pretext of taking them for Umrah — a mini pilgrimage to the holy cities of Mecca and Madina in Saudi Arabia — in 2019. The accused, Mohammed Sultanuddin Qureshi (50), a resident of Degloor Naka in Nanded, was produced before a Vaijapur court on Friday which remanded him in police custody for five days. Police said that Qureshi operated Al-Qureshi Tours and Travels in Nanded. In 2018, after one of his relatives, Nadeem Ul Haq, retired as a teacher, Qureshi convinced him to start a franchise of his tours and travel business. Nadeem started an office and started collecting money from people. He transferred the entire amount to Qureshi in 2018. When the tour failed to materialize, Nadeem and one more member of his family were booked on the charges of cheating people to the tune of over Rs 6 lakh. Perturbed for being blamed of cheating people, Nadeem moved the local court and submitted all the evidence about the money he collected from the prospective pilgrims and transferred over Rs 37 lakh to Qureshi. Taking cognizance of the same, the local court issued directives to the Vaijapur police to register an offence against the suspect and carry out a detailed probe. On cross verifying the evidence produced by Nadeem, who died recently, Vaijapur police sent a team to Nanded and arrested Qureshi on the charges of cheating.Sources in the police said at least two dozen people have come forward claiming that they too have been duped by the same tour operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tour-operator-cheats-umrah-pilgrims-of-over-rs-37-lakh-held/articleshow/78975974.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Agra||A month since 47 child labourers rescued from Agra, no FIR, no action against perpetrators||Agra: In September, a month-long ‘no child labour’ campaign was organised in Agra district during which 47 children—all in the age group of 9 to 17—were rescued. The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) had then directed the district magistrate to take legal action against the employers. A month has passed but, none of the perpetrators have been held accountable so far. A child rights activist, Naresh Paras, has claimed that the district authorities failed to punish any of the violators under the Juvenile Justice Act. The child rights activist also alleged that the rescued children, all residents of Agra, were not even produced before the district child welfare committee (CWC) and were sent back home without proper rehabilitation. “The police and labour department officials were directed by the state authorities to take legal action against the business owners engaged in child labor under the relevant sections of the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976, Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986, Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, and the Indian Penal Code, etc. But even after a month, no FIR has been registered,” Paras told TOI. Confirming the activist’s claim, the chairperson of the Agra district CWC, Gopal Sharma, said, “None of the children rescued during the month-long campaign was produced before CWC for rehabilitation. We have sought clarification from the concerned district probation officer.” Responding to the matter, deputy labour commissioner, Dharmendra Kumar Singh said, “A total of 47 child labourers were recused from 42 business entities in Agra district. We had also issued notices to the business owners who employed these children. A suitable action will be taken against them. The kids were not produced before the CWC as they were engaged in non-hazardous activities.” Senior superintendent of police, Babloo Kumar ensured that suitable action would be taken against the violators. “A team was constituted for conducting the ‘no child labour’ campaign. I will check the report submitted by the team. Required action will be taken against the business owners engaged in child labour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/a-month-since-47-child-labourers-rescued-from-agra-no-fir-no-action-against-perpetrators/articleshow/78973803.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 1, 2020||Bhopal||Sachin Pilot attacks Madhya Pradesh CM, keeps mum on Scindia||INDORE: Congress star campaigner Sachin Pilot on Saturday addressed a public meeting in bypoll-bound Suwasra and Agar constituencies in Ujjain division and blamed chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for the police firing that killed six farmers in Mandsaur in 2017. “Around two years back, the voters of Madhya Pradesh had given a farewell to the Chouhan government, but you (Chouhan) did not accept their mandate. Congress came to power, which you could not digest and became the chief minister from the backdoor”, the former Union minister said. “I want to ask Shivraj ji that if he has respect for democracy and voters’ mandate, he should have done some introspection to know the reasons behind electors sending him home in 2018,” said Pilot. Pilot said that Chouhan is the same ‘farmer-friendly’ chief minister, who had ordered policemen to open fire on unarmed farmers in Mandsaur. “They (BJP leaders) talk of doubling the income of farmers, depositing Rs15 lakh into the bank accounts of every citizen and generating two crore jobs every year. But, when they are asked questions about jobs, they only talk about China, Pakistan, Ram temple and castes. They don’t talk about electricity, water, schools, hospitals and healthcare (basic amenities),” the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister said. Pilot said that Vyapam was the biggest scam in MP’s history, which claimed so many lives but the chief minister (Chouhan) never spoke a word about it. In his public addresses at Suwasra and Agar, Pilot slammed BJP and Chouhan and blamed the saffron party for forcing bypolls in 28 seats. But he avoided speaking about BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, whom his party leaders have blamed as a ‘traitor’ after he joined BJP along with 22 MLAs that ultimately toppled the 15-month-old Kamal Nath government in March. In July, Pilot, who was speculated to follow Scindia’s footsteps, along with 18 other MLAs who had rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan. “Kamal Nath ji called me last month and asked me to campaign for Congress in MP. I told him that whenever and wherever the party would require my assistance, I will be there for Congress on ‘danke ki chot' (without any hesitation)”, Pilot said in Agar. Pilot added that Congress doesn’t believe in any chicanery. “If we would have committed any mistake, we have no hesitation to accept it. There is, however, no difference in policy and intention of the Congress party” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pilot-attacks-cm-keeps-mum-on-scindia/articleshow/78973797.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Septuagenarian beats Covid after 51 days at Aurangabad GMCH||Aurangabad: Gayabai Pawar, a 71-year-old resident of Aurangabad city, has defeated Covid-19 after 51 days and has earned the title of being the senior citizen who fought the longest and successfully recovered from the viral infection in the district. Her grandson Akshay said that in August-end, she had a runny nose. The family contacted the nearest doctor. “Despite medication, my grandmother started suffering from cough and later breathlessness. We then rushed her to GMCH on September 3. She tested positive for Covid-19 and was kept on ventilator in the ICU as her condition deteriorated. The tireless efforts of the GMCH team helped my grandmother defeat Covid,” said Akshay. Sudhir Chaudhari, the officer on special duty at the super-speciality building of GMCH, said Pawar was on ventilator for 27 days and was on oxygen support for the remaining 24 days till her discharge on October 24. “The veteran did not have any comorbidity, but was suffering from spondylitis. She developed a severe cytokine storm, which is a common cause of mortality among elderly patients of Covid-19,” said Chaudhari. A cytokine storm refers to the immune system’s inability to differentiate the good cells affected by the virus from the bad cells. In effect, the immune system, which is supposed to attack the novel coronavirus, goes into hyperdrive and begins destroying all the cells in the body. “The patient was offered the best medication as per protocol,” said Chaudhary adding that the strong willpower plays a crucial role in defeating the viral infection. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar has congratulated her team of doctors, including Chaudhari, and nursing staff for providing the best possible treatment and assisting in the recovery of the veteran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/septuagenarian-beats-covid-after-51-days-at-aurangabad-gmch/articleshow/78975976.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Agra||19 illegal Bangladeshis sent to Kolkata from UP for deportation||AGRA: At least 19 Bangladeshi nationals, including two minors, were sent to Kolkata by Mathura police on Saturday for deportation after they completed their conviction for illegal stay in India. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover said that they were in judicial custody for more than two years for illegally staying in Mathura. All of them were booked under section 14 of the Foreigners Act, 1946, in April 2018. Escorted by a Mathura police team of around 15 personnel, including women officers, the group of Bangladeshi nationals have been sent by road. “They are supposed to reach Kolkata by November 1 and are scheduled to be deported the next day,” said an official of the Local Intelligence Unit in Mathura. Talking to TOI, senior jail superintendent Shailendra Maitrey said 17 adults, including nine women, were released from Mathura district jail and three women from Agra jail who had been shifted there due to overcrowding. Among 19, two minors, including a 13-year-old girl, who had been shifted to an observation home for girls in Ghaziabad and a 10-year-old boy who had been shifted to Firozabad were also released on Saturday, officials confirmed. “About 60 Bangladeshi nationals are still in prison for illegal stay in India and of these 19 inmates, including eight women, will be released by December and January,” he said. One of the Bangladeshis, who was travelling to Kolkata after completing his conviction, told media persons that he and 19 other members of his group had paid Rs 8,000 each for crossing the border. “We were working here as ragpickers to earn a livelihood,” he said, expressing his happiness after being released from the jail. According to senior officials, due to the large influx of international tourists in the temple town and easy access to food and employment, illegal immigrants usually find it lucrative to settle here. Interestingly, some of the illegal immigrants managed to get Aadhar cards, voter cards, PAN cards and even Indian Passport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/19-illegal-bangladeshis-sent-to-kolkata-from-up-for-deportation/articleshow/78973792.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 1, 2020||Goa||Wrong decisions have led to fall of tourism: Lobo||Calangute: Attributing Goa’s tourism’s downfall to “ a lot of wrong decisions” in the past, ports minister and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo has once again called for attracting high quality foreign visitors to the state. “It’s true that Goa gets crowded with tourists. But, this is not the premium crowd that the state used to attract in the past. We have to see that this crowd comes back. If you see Maldives, they have very few tourists, but their turnover is high.” Lobo, who co-owns resorts, said he has been witnessing this decline in Goa. “When we opened around 14 years ago, our room rate was around Rs 8,000. Now its between Rs 4,000-5,000. We don’t want numbers, we want quality. The crowds who drive down are not tourists - they come for one day, cook in the fields, eat and defecate in the open, eve tease and stare at women on the beaches. Foreign quality tourists have opted out of Goa because of these ‘kuch bhi chalta hai’ crowd,” he said. The Calangute MLA said this has happened because of wrong decisions taken by the tourism ministers and tourism department in the past nine years. “We will have to work to make Goa a quality destination again. Whatever needs to be done, we will have to work collectively - the industry and the government has to work together,” Lobo said. “In Goa, we have natural beauty; we have the sea, lakes, rivers, Dudhsagar... everything is there. But something is wrong somewhere. We have to see where we’ve gone wrong and find a solution for that,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrong-decisions-have-led-to-fall-of-tourism-lobo/articleshow/78976617.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Accused murdered actor as he was unable to repay loan to him||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada district police, who are investigating the murder of actor and rowdy-sheeter Surendra Bantwal, 39, have taken into custody one more accused in connection with the case, an associate of fugitive Vikki Shetty, who is currently lodged in Bengaluru Central Jail. Police said that they have taken into custody Akashbhavan Sharan, who is an associate of fugitive Vikki Shetty. Sharan was lodged in the Bengaluru Central Jail since the last two years. Prior to taking him into their custody, police arrested Pradeep Kumar aka Pappu,38, Sayyad Shareef, Vekappa Poojary,45, Satish Kulal,39, a resident of Amtady and Girish,28, a resident of Bodantila. Earlier, it was believed that the crime was committed as an act of revenge for a murder. It was suspected that it was in retaliation to the murder of Kishan Hegde that took place in Udupi. The investigation has now brought a sudden twist to the case. The police said that Surendra was allegedly hacked to death for demanding money, which he had given to Pradeep Kumar to invest in a jewellery shop. Surendra was murdered inside his apartment in Bantwal taluk on October 20. Police said that while interrogating the suspects, they spilled the beans about the role played by Pradeep Kumar, who had borrowed money from Surendra for a jewellery business. Out of the total money he borrowed, Pradeep still had to repay about Rs 7 lakh. Pradeep was a close friend of Surendra, but the relationship turned sour as he failed to pay back the borrowed money on time. Surendra started pestering him to repay the same. Pradeep, who couldn’t repay the money, hatched a plot to kill Surendra. To carry out the plan, he got in touch with Akashbhavan Sharan, who was in jail, and paid about Rs 2 lakh to him. The district police took Sharan into their custody from the Bengaluru Central Jail, for the purpose of investigation. They said that he had a personal rivalry with Surendra Bantwal. He made Girish and the other accused believe that they were carrying out the murder to avenge Kishan Hegde’s murder. Sharan also made arrangements to flee along with all the other accused, after the murder was committed. Divyaraj, a resident of Pumpell, helped in arranging transport and Rajesh,33, a resident of Belthangady, provided shelter to the accused. Divyaraj is accused in the murder of Ashraf Kalayi that took place in 2017, and a close associate of Kishan Hegde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/accused-murdered-actor-as-he-was-unable-to-repay-loan-to-him/articleshow/78972428.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Agra||AMU student booked for remark against Macron||Agra: Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student Farhan Zuberi was booked by Aligarh police on Saturday for his remarks during a protest march against cartoons of the Prophet in France two days ago. The students were demanding an apology from the French president for hurting sentiments of Muslims across the world. An FIR has been registered against former member of the AMU students’ union, Zuberi, under section 153 A (promoting enmity) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC at Civil Lines police station, said SP (city) Abhishek. The protest march, which was led by Zuberi on the campus on October 29, condemned French president Emmanuel Macron’s stand on publication of caricature of Prophet Muhammad and demanded a boycott of French products from the Muslim community across the world. “We can’t tolerate deliberate insults to the Prophet. In fact, no follower of any religion can do this,” he said, adding that they would put their point non-violently across the community. Reacting to the recent killings in a French church, he said, an individual’s act should not be associated with the entire community. The students, who had participated in the protest to boycott French products by burning them on the campus, said they will intensify the ongoing protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-student-booked-for-remark-against-macron/articleshow/78973826.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 1, 2020||Bhopal||Need no star campaigner tag to talk to people: Kamal Nath||INDORE: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Saturday said that he does not need the status of ‘star campaigner’ to talk to the public. MPCC chief addressed two public meetings in by-poll bound Hatpipliya and Agar constituencies of Ujjain division as he shared the stage with former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot, Acharya Pramod Krishnan and Chhindwara MP Nakul Nath. “Shivraj Singh ji got angry and lodged a complaint against me with the election commission alleging that I said Shivraj Singh….. I had said something about mafia… but, it was not me, the public had said it,” said Nath. He then asked the gathering, ‘Mafia kiske saath hain’ and ‘Shivraj kiske saath hain’, the crowd respded “With Shivraj” and “With Mafia”. “It’s not me but the public is saying so. Do remember this” Nath said. “Shivraj Singh objected to the aforesaid statement and complained to ECI) to muzzle my voice and now, ECI is saying that I am no longer a star campaigner. What is this tag for and do I need this status,” asked Nath, further adding, that he can go to the street to talk to the public. Acharya Pramod Krishnan, who is making news due to his ‘controversial statements’ in Madhya Pradesh by-polls, said, “Yesterday, a news came that EC revoked the star campaigner tag from Kamal Nath ji. He is a devotee of Hanumanji. He (Chouhan) has got as much scared from ‘Hanuman Bhakt’ Kamal Nath ji as Ravana was frightened by Hanumanji… still, Ravana could not save himself and Shivraj will also not be able to save self”. Comparing ‘Mama’ (Chouhan), with ‘Kans Mama, Shakuni Mama and Marich Mama’ – evil characters from Hindu mythology, Krishnan said the Constitution guarantees some rights to institutions like EC, so that they cannot be misused by politicians. But, the EC is nowadays working as if subservient to the state government. Taking a dig at the chief minister, Krishnan said, ‘Corona Shivraj se kam nahi hain, dono ko bhagana padega’ (Corona is not less than Shivraj. Both needs to be chased away). He BOX Help make grooms, ‘damaad’: Nakul TNN Indore: Addressing the gathering in Agar and Hatpipliya constituency, Nakul Nath said that Vipin Wankhede (Agar) and Rajveer Singh Baghel (Hatpipliya) Congress candidates are the grooms of this ‘Baraat’ and urged people to vote for them and make them ‘damaad’ (son-in-law). To this, BJP’s ‘war-room’ media in-charge Govind Malu said, “Nakul Nath’s appeal to make Congress candidates as ‘damaad’ prove that they still don’t want to serve the public, but want people to serve them. People do not want to give any chance to ‘seth’ and ‘damaad’ but they want a public servant and thus, they will vote for BJP.'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/need-no-star-campaigner-tag-to-talk-to-people-nath/articleshow/78973808.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||MSEDCL in dire straits as consumers not paying bills||NAGPUR: State-run power discom Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) is in dire straits as consumers are not paying bills and their dues are continuously mounting. Director (finance) Ravindra Sawant has asked all chief engineers (CEs) to start recovering dues but has not ordered disconnection of defaulting consumers. In a recent letter to the CEs, Sawant stated, “Considering the acute shortage of funds, it has become very difficult to manage even day-to-day expenditures. To improve the liquidity position of MSEDCL we need to start recovery of current demand as well as arrears by taking appropriate action.” The arrears owed by non-agricultural consumers to MSEDCL in March 2020 were Rs2,726 crore. This figure shot up to Rs6,829 crore in September 2020, which translates into an increase of 150%, or 2.5 times the March figure. In addition, farmers owe thousands of crores to the discom. An MSEDCL official told TOI, “Due to the low recovery, we are unable to pay off generation companies, which in turn are defaulting on bills of coal companies. Consumers should realize that power does not come for free and start paying their bills regularly, and also clear their past dues. Otherwise it will become difficult to run the show.” According to the official, opposition parties were largely responsible for the mess. “Even though we did not send inflated bills to consumers and provided them instalments, the opposition parties created an impression that we were overcharging the consumers,” he said. The official added, “Consequently, many consumers just refused to pay their bills. They have been told by opposition leaders that the latter will not allow their connections to be disconnected.” The steps recommended by Sawant include: approaching high-value consumers through telephone or e-mail and taking continuous follow-ups till complete recovery, resolving billing complaints of consumers immediately, increasing consumer awareness regarding online payment of bills as a completely safe option through advertisements, and approaching division-level government officers for recovery of dues owed by their departments. Former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, however, blamed the company for the mess. “MSEDCL issued average bills during the summer and sent huge bills after that. People felt cheated and hence did not pay the bills. MSEDCL should correct the bills first,” he told TOI. Bawankule added, “Secondly, state government should waive 300 units per family for the months of March, April, May and June and compensate MSEDCL for the same. MSEDCL should then recover the remaining dues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msedcl-in-dire-straits-as-consumers-not-paying-bills/articleshow/78973811.cms||Ashish Roy
November 1, 2020||India||Kamal Nath moves SC to get back status of ‘star campaigner’||NEW DELHI: Former MP CM Kamal Nath on Saturday moved the Supreme Court seeking quashing of the Election Commission’s order revoking his “star campaigner” status for Congress for bypolls to 28 assembly seats in the state, reports Dhananjay Mahapatra. In his writ petition, he termed the EC’s decision as arbitrary and illegal and passed behind his back on the complaint of BJP. He said though the EC has given notice to him alleging repeated violation of the model code of conduct, the decision to revoke his “star campaigner” status was taken unilaterally by the Commission without giving him a chance to explain the frivolity of the charges. Nath, who was cautioned for using the word “item” for a woman politician, said the EC had sent him a notice on October 21 and he had replied to it the next day. Thereafter, he was heard by the commission, which on October 26 asked him not to use such words during campaigning. Nath said the EC on October 30 passed an order revoking his “star campaigner” status for Congress without hearing him and solely on the basis of a complaint by BJP. He said though BJP members have been making statements during campaigning which were ex-facie in violation of the MCC, the EC had taken no action against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kamal-nath-moves-sc-to-get-back-status-of-star-campaigner/articleshow/78976881.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 1, 2020||Mangaluru||DK police to invoke Goonda Act against 3 notorious criminals||Mangaluru: In the backdrop of back-to-back murder and other crimes in the recent past, the Dakshina Kannada district police is in the process of booking three notorious criminals under the Goonda Act. After taking up a special drive against rowdyism, police have picked up noted criminals to book under Goonda Act (or The Karnataka Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Drug Offenders, Gamblers, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders and Slum Grabbers Act-1985). SP B M Laxmi Prasad told STOI that the three are notorious criminals involved in murder, extortion, rioting and other cases. “So we have taken a decision to book them under the Goonda Act. There has been a feeling of insecurity and alarm among the public due to these criminal elements. The procedure is getting ready and it will be submitted before the DC to invoke the act at the earliest,” he added. Interestingly, the district police is invoking the Goonda Act against criminal elements after a gap of 4-5 years. “We have not booked anyone under the Goonda Act in the past few years. In 2018, the then DC had passed an externment order against two persons who were allegedly responsible for the communal violence in Kalladka. Those booked under the Goonda Act will be sent to jail under preventive custody for at least six months, and the same will be reviewed further by the court,” Prasad explained. Anyone who is active in criminal activities for continuous three years can be booked under the act. Since the DK police is still in the process of booking three under the Goonda Act, officials refuse to reveal their names. In DK district police limits, there are 400 rowdy-sheeters, including 280-300 active ones. Incidentally, two of them were recently murdered in Bantwal taluk. However, the Mangaluru city commissionerate has been invoking the Goonda Act time and again. In the past, it has booked many persons involved in rioting, murder, attempt-to-murder, sexual assault and habitual drug dealers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-police-to-invoke-goonda-act-against-3-notorious-criminals/articleshow/78973838.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 1, 2020||Agra||AMU student booked for remark against Macron||Agra: Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student Farhan Zuberi was booked by Aligarh police on Saturday for his remarks during a protest march against cartoons of the Prophet in France two days ago. The students were demanding an apology from the French president for hurting sentiments of Muslims across the world. An FIR has been registered against former member of the AMU students’ union, Zuberi, under section 153 A (promoting enmity) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC at Civil Lines police station, said SP (city) Abhishek. The protest march, which was led by Zuberi on the campus on October 29, condemned French president Emmanuel Macron’s stand on publication of caricature of Prophet Muhammad and demanded a boycott of French products from the Muslim community across the world. “We can’t tolerate deliberate insults to the Prophet. In fact, no follower of any religion can do this,” he said, adding that they would put their point non-violently across the community. Reacting to the recent killings in a French church, he said, an individual’s act should not be associated with the entire community. The students, who had participated in the protest to boycott French products by burning them on the campus, said they will intensify the ongoing protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-student-booked-for-remark-against-macron/articleshow/78973834.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 1, 2020||Bareilly||UP min to release audio-visual tourism promo of PTR today||Pilibhit: For the first time since it was declared a tiger reserve six years ago, UP's minister of environment, forest and climate change Dara Singh Chauhan will release an audio-visual promo at a virtual inaugural ceremony in Lucknow on Sunday.The eco-tourism promo of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) includes all 16 destinations of tourist interest in and around Chuka tourist spot in PTR.The promo will be displayed on giant LED panels at the main gate of PTR, near the reserve's headquarters. They will also be on display at the Chuka gate in Mahof forest range and near Jahanabad town on the Bareilly-Hardwar national highway-74, said Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR.To facilitate tourists, five booking points have been set up this year in addition to the online facility.Tourists can stay at the renovated huts at Chuka as well as avail of home stay facility at three destinations near PTR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-min-to-release-audio-visual-tourism-promo-of-ptr-today/articleshow/78971697.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Agra||Dust mitigation norms swept away by winds in Agra district||Agra: Throughout Saturday, swirls of dust whirled over national highway-19 and Fatehabad road, where construction works are underway. The wind spread the dust all over Agra district and beyond. As per state government's dust mitigation norms, water should have been sprinkled at all the 25 spots identified by the state pollution control board for spreading dust. But not a drop was sprayed at most of these spots. The air quality (AQI) index in Agra which is in the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) was recorded at 332, "very poor" category, by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Particulate matter 2.5 (with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) remained a prominent pollutant in the city of Taj. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was recorded at 415 milligram per cubic meter, considered hazardous to health by doctors.According to CPCB, AQI in very poor category results in respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. City-based doctor and environmentalist, Sharad Gupta, said, “Construction activities are taking place in violation of environmental norms and the main reason behind the explosion of PM 2.5 in Agra. All construction and demolition debris and building material need to be covered when stored or while they are being transported. Barricades should be raised along the perimeter of construction or demolition sites. Shade net, tarpaulin or plastic sheet can be used for scaffolding. Besides, regular sprinkling of water is required to be done to settle down the dust. All these measures mandated by the National Green Tribunal for construction and demolition sites are not being followed in Agra district. Authorities have been focusing on paperwork and common people are left to suffer high level of pollution ” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “At present, 25 major spots of dust blow have been identified. Water sprinkling is being done at these places. Officials have been assigned responsibility to ensure dust mitigation norms are followed at the construction and demolition sites. Strict action will be taken against agencies causing dust pollution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dust-mitigation-norms-swept-away-by-winds-in-agra-district/articleshow/78973859.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Traffic violations rise, over 86,000 fined in Oct||Nagpur: The Nagpur city traffic police had challaned 1,392 motorists per day in January. The number more than doubled in October when 2,874 motorists were penalized daily. In September, about 2,770 motorists were booked for violating the Motor Vehicles Act (MVA). In October (till October 30), the traffic police penalized 86,244 motorists for not abiding by MVA. Overall, 5.31 lakh motorists have been booked for various traffic offences till October 30. They have paid fine of Rs7.5 crore so far. Sources attributed the sudden rise in traffic violations challans to action taken by police following high court’s strictures to improve traffic management in the city. According to the data provided by the city traffic police, 43,168 motorists were found violating traffic rules and paid Rs69.71 lakh fine. In February and March, 49,405 and 50,761 motorists were caught flouting traffic rules and paid Rs7.24 lakh and Rs70.17 lakh fine. There was a dip in violations in April and May when the roads wore a deserted look due to Covid-19 induced lockdown. The traffic police caught 21,481 and 36,878 motorists in these two months. Following relaxation in Covid-19 restrictions and reopening of commercial establishments and industries, traffic too increased. In June, traffic police penalized 49,726 violators, and the number increased to 59,876 in July. Traffic violations increased by almost 32% in September when the cops booked 83,116 motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traffic-violations-rise-over-86000-fined-in-oct/articleshow/78973863.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Faridabad||Air pollution: 3,471 stubble fires around Delhi on Friday||NEW DELHI: Friday recorded the season’s highest daily number of harvest remains burning in the neighbouring states. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, there were 3,471 instances of stubble burning on the day, putting into shade the 2,912 fires recorded on Wednesday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe portion of emission from stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 rose from 19% on Friday to 32% on Saturday. Delhi’s Air Quality Index read 367 on Saturday and remained in ‘very poor’ category. SAFAR has predicted the AQI is likely to be better on Sunday and Monday. “Improvement in the AQI did not take place as expected in spite of much better ventilation, mainly because of the highly favourable north-north-westerly boundary-level wind direction and perfect wind speed for intrusion in Delhi combined with the season’s highest fire count,” said SAFAR’s bulletin. A Met official said, “The wind speed picked up during the day on Friday but there was no significant improvement in air quality due to increase in fire counts and transfer of pollutants to Delhi. Better wind speed is predicted for the next two days.” Last year, SAFAR reported over 2,700 farm fires in a single day in the neighbouring states on October 26. Nearly 2,500 farm fires incidents were observed on an October day in 2018 too. “The stubble burning counts recorded in a single day in October this year is higher than last year perhaps because the harvesting started earlier in 2020,” said an official of SAFAR. However, the farm fires were at their peak in November last year when the single-day count crossed the 5,000 mark. According to the Air Quality Earth Warning System for Delhi, also developed by the Union ministry of earth sciences, the fire counts increased to an unusual high on Friday in Punjab (approximately 4,266 cases), Haryana (155), UP (51) and MP (381) and this was likely to impact air quality in Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India. Asked why there was a difference in fire counts recorded by SAFAR and Earth Warning System for Delhi, a SAFAR official explained to TOI, “The fire counts vary depending on the resolution of different satellite images. SAFAR releases synergised fire counts based on two satellites each of India and NASA and the ground report. Our report includes fire counts of areas that affect the air quality of Delhi.” L S Kurinji, research analyst, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, told TOI, “Earlier this season, farm fires were predominantly observed in districts such as Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Firozpur and Fazilka in Punjab. Over the last few days, fires have progressed in other districts in Punjab, including Sangrur, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Faridkot and Bathinda. In Haryana, the crop fires were mostly seen in districts such as Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Fatehabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/at-3471-farm-fires-touch-a-new-high/articleshow/78977133.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 1, 2020||Delhi||Air pollution: 3,471 stubble fires around Delhi on Friday||NEW DELHI: Friday recorded the season’s highest daily number of harvest remains burning in the neighbouring states. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, there were 3,471 instances of stubble burning on the day, putting into shade the 2,912 fires recorded on Wednesday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe portion of emission from stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 rose from 19% on Friday to 32% on Saturday. Delhi’s Air Quality Index read 367 on Saturday and remained in ‘very poor’ category. SAFAR has predicted the AQI is likely to be better on Sunday and Monday. “Improvement in the AQI did not take place as expected in spite of much better ventilation, mainly because of the highly favourable north-north-westerly boundary-level wind direction and perfect wind speed for intrusion in Delhi combined with the season’s highest fire count,” said SAFAR’s bulletin. A Met official said, “The wind speed picked up during the day on Friday but there was no significant improvement in air quality due to increase in fire counts and transfer of pollutants to Delhi. Better wind speed is predicted for the next two days.” Last year, SAFAR reported over 2,700 farm fires in a single day in the neighbouring states on October 26. Nearly 2,500 farm fires incidents were observed on an October day in 2018 too. “The stubble burning counts recorded in a single day in October this year is higher than last year perhaps because the harvesting started earlier in 2020,” said an official of SAFAR. However, the farm fires were at their peak in November last year when the single-day count crossed the 5,000 mark. According to the Air Quality Earth Warning System for Delhi, also developed by the Union ministry of earth sciences, the fire counts increased to an unusual high on Friday in Punjab (approximately 4,266 cases), Haryana (155), UP (51) and MP (381) and this was likely to impact air quality in Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India. Asked why there was a difference in fire counts recorded by SAFAR and Earth Warning System for Delhi, a SAFAR official explained to TOI, “The fire counts vary depending on the resolution of different satellite images. SAFAR releases synergised fire counts based on two satellites each of India and NASA and the ground report. Our report includes fire counts of areas that affect the air quality of Delhi.” L S Kurinji, research analyst, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, told TOI, “Earlier this season, farm fires were predominantly observed in districts such as Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Firozpur and Fazilka in Punjab. Over the last few days, fires have progressed in other districts in Punjab, including Sangrur, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Faridkot and Bathinda. In Haryana, the crop fires were mostly seen in districts such as Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Fatehabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-3471-farm-fires-touch-a-new-high/articleshow/78976043.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 1, 2020||Delhi||‘NDMC insensitive towards pensioners’||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party functionary Durgesh Pathak on Saturday demanded immediate release of pension of 24,000 pensioners belonging to North Delhi Municipal Corporation. Their pension is pending since May. “In September this year, these old people moved the Delhi high court on the issue. On September 21, the high court came down heavily on the north corporation and directed it to release the pension of these 24,000 people. Despite the high court order, the BJP-run municipal corporation showed its insensitivity and was yet to pay the pension,” Pathak said in a press conference adding that the retired people were completely dependent on their pension amount. Pathak added that the pensioners were in deep trouble. “Some of them are taking loans and some others are breaking their savings to survive. We all know that old people have a necessity of medical arrangements and due to this unfortunate behaviour of the corporation, they are unable to get medical attention,” Pathak said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said AAP functionaries were expert at shedding crocodile tears over problems they have given to people in general and municipal employees in particular. “BJP is deeply concerned about problems being faced by civic bodies pensioners as well as those in service due to stalled pensions and salaries because of grave financial situation. BJP wants to release due pensions immediately and we call upon Delhi government to release pending civic funds on Monday as promised by minister Satyendar Jain,” Kapoor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-insensitive-towards-pensioners/articleshow/78976040.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Surat||Daughter’s tears, people’s love pour on Covid hero||SURAT: Seeing her father emerging on a wheelchair at the arrival area, an eight-year-old girl breaks security cordon, runs to hug her dad, tears streaming down her little face – a happy reunion after more than three long months that seemed almost a lifetime. The airport’s sterile precinct was indisputably the most emotionally surcharged area with spontaneous flow of emotions when 37-year-old city-based anaesthesiologist Dr Sanket Mehta and his wife Pinal arrived in the Indigo flight from Chennai. There was nobody that remained unmoved by the emotionally heart-wrenching scene between Covid hero and his daughter Reeva. Everybody, including the stiffest of uniforms stood to cheer, clap and pour their unconditional love for the braveheart doctor at Surat airport on Saturday morning. The doctor won millions of hearts with his selfless act of risking it all to intubate a Covid-19 patient. That was the cornerstone of the epic battle that spanned over 100 days, one of the longest for any coronavirus patient from Gujarat, which the doctor had to fight the dreaded virus both at home and in Chennai’s MGM hospital till he overcame it all and was discharged on Saturday. Dr Mehta was flown to Chennai’s MGM hospital on September 13 after his condition in the city-based BAPS hospitalwhere he was under treatment since July 28, deteriorated. While Reeva performed aarti of her father and prayed for her well-being and speedy recovery, Dr Mehta wheeled out of the terminal building to a shower of flower petals by kin and admirers. “I asked my father about his health. But papa was unable to speak and only placed his hand on my head and smiled,” sobbed Reeva, while talking to TOI. Dr Mehta was on the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) treatment that uses a pump to circulate blood through an artificial lung back into the bloodstream. Talking with TOI, Dr Mehta’s wife, Pinal said, “He is unable to speak, but communicates in sign language. He was very happy to see our daughter at the airport after such a long time. He will undergo intense speech therapy and physiotherapy for about a month. We are hoping that he will recover soon and will be able to serve the patients in Surat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/daughters-tears-peoples-love-pour-on-covid-hero/articleshow/78973889.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
November 1, 2020||Bareilly||Two govt agencies surrender 45 procurement centres in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Two government procurement agencies, National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited (NAFED) and Upbhokta Sahkari Sangh (UPSS), have surrendered a total of 46 paddy centres in Pilibhit district, citing shortage of resources, including cash.Terming the act as anti-farmer, district vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Manjit Singh slammed the state government for negligence and jeopardizing the paddy procurement system. Avinash Jha, district food and marketing officer, said paddy procurement had begun with 165 procurement centres. Soon after, Karmchari Kalyan Nigam (KNN) had closed two of its centres. Now, UPSS and NAFED have surrendered their 31 and 15 procurement centres, respectively.NAFED's action comes close on the heels of the district administration's move against its officials heading three centres for their alleged unfair way of functioning. The trii is lodged in jail for the last fortnight, said Jha.To fill the gap of procurement due to surrender of 46 centres, DM Pulkit Khare has increased the daily procurement target of the remaining 115 centres of eight government agencies from 600 tonnes to 900 tonnes. Each centre has been provided with one additional weighing facility to fill the gap of 46 surrendered centres, added Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-govt-agencies-surrender-45-procurement-centres-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78971716.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ghaziabad||Air pollution: 3,471 stubble fires around Delhi on Friday||NEW DELHI: Friday recorded the season’s highest daily number of harvest remains burning in the neighbouring states. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, there were 3,471 instances of stubble burning on the day, putting into shade the 2,912 fires recorded on Wednesday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe portion of emission from stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 rose from 19% on Friday to 32% on Saturday. Delhi’s Air Quality Index read 367 on Saturday and remained in ‘very poor’ category. SAFAR has predicted the AQI is likely to be better on Sunday and Monday. “Improvement in the AQI did not take place as expected in spite of much better ventilation, mainly because of the highly favourable north-north-westerly boundary-level wind direction and perfect wind speed for intrusion in Delhi combined with the season’s highest fire count,” said SAFAR’s bulletin. A Met official said, “The wind speed picked up during the day on Friday but there was no significant improvement in air quality due to increase in fire counts and transfer of pollutants to Delhi. Better wind speed is predicted for the next two days.” Last year, SAFAR reported over 2,700 farm fires in a single day in the neighbouring states on October 26. Nearly 2,500 farm fires incidents were observed on an October day in 2018 too. “The stubble burning counts recorded in a single day in October this year is higher than last year perhaps because the harvesting started earlier in 2020,” said an official of SAFAR. However, the farm fires were at their peak in November last year when the single-day count crossed the 5,000 mark. According to the Air Quality Earth Warning System for Delhi, also developed by the Union ministry of earth sciences, the fire counts increased to an unusual high on Friday in Punjab (approximately 4,266 cases), Haryana (155), UP (51) and MP (381) and this was likely to impact air quality in Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India. Asked why there was a difference in fire counts recorded by SAFAR and Earth Warning System for Delhi, a SAFAR official explained to TOI, “The fire counts vary depending on the resolution of different satellite images. SAFAR releases synergised fire counts based on two satellites each of India and NASA and the ground report. Our report includes fire counts of areas that affect the air quality of Delhi.” L S Kurinji, research analyst, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, told TOI, “Earlier this season, farm fires were predominantly observed in districts such as Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Firozpur and Fazilka in Punjab. Over the last few days, fires have progressed in other districts in Punjab, including Sangrur, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Faridkot and Bathinda. In Haryana, the crop fires were mostly seen in districts such as Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Fatehabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/at-3471-farm-fires-touch-a-new-high/articleshow/78977132.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 1, 2020||Gurgaon||Air pollution: 3,471 stubble fires around Delhi on Friday||NEW DELHI: Friday recorded the season’s highest daily number of harvest remains burning in the neighbouring states. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, there were 3,471 instances of stubble burning on the day, putting into shade the 2,912 fires recorded on Wednesday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe portion of emission from stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 rose from 19% on Friday to 32% on Saturday. Delhi’s Air Quality Index read 367 on Saturday and remained in ‘very poor’ category. SAFAR has predicted the AQI is likely to be better on Sunday and Monday. “Improvement in the AQI did not take place as expected in spite of much better ventilation, mainly because of the highly favourable north-north-westerly boundary-level wind direction and perfect wind speed for intrusion in Delhi combined with the season’s highest fire count,” said SAFAR’s bulletin. A Met official said, “The wind speed picked up during the day on Friday but there was no significant improvement in air quality due to increase in fire counts and transfer of pollutants to Delhi. Better wind speed is predicted for the next two days.” Last year, SAFAR reported over 2,700 farm fires in a single day in the neighbouring states on October 26. Nearly 2,500 farm fires incidents were observed on an October day in 2018 too. “The stubble burning counts recorded in a single day in October this year is higher than last year perhaps because the harvesting started earlier in 2020,” said an official of SAFAR. However, the farm fires were at their peak in November last year when the single-day count crossed the 5,000 mark. According to the Air Quality Earth Warning System for Delhi, also developed by the Union ministry of earth sciences, the fire counts increased to an unusual high on Friday in Punjab (approximately 4,266 cases), Haryana (155), UP (51) and MP (381) and this was likely to impact air quality in Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India. Asked why there was a difference in fire counts recorded by SAFAR and Earth Warning System for Delhi, a SAFAR official explained to TOI, “The fire counts vary depending on the resolution of different satellite images. SAFAR releases synergised fire counts based on two satellites each of India and NASA and the ground report. Our report includes fire counts of areas that affect the air quality of Delhi.” L S Kurinji, research analyst, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, told TOI, “Earlier this season, farm fires were predominantly observed in districts such as Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Firozpur and Fazilka in Punjab. Over the last few days, fires have progressed in other districts in Punjab, including Sangrur, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Faridkot and Bathinda. In Haryana, the crop fires were mostly seen in districts such as Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Fatehabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/at-3471-farm-fires-touch-a-new-high/articleshow/78977129.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 1, 2020||Noida||Air pollution: 3,471 stubble fires around Delhi on Friday||NEW DELHI: Friday recorded the season’s highest daily number of harvest remains burning in the neighbouring states. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, there were 3,471 instances of stubble burning on the day, putting into shade the 2,912 fires recorded on Wednesday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe portion of emission from stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 rose from 19% on Friday to 32% on Saturday. Delhi’s Air Quality Index read 367 on Saturday and remained in ‘very poor’ category. SAFAR has predicted the AQI is likely to be better on Sunday and Monday. “Improvement in the AQI did not take place as expected in spite of much better ventilation, mainly because of the highly favourable north-north-westerly boundary-level wind direction and perfect wind speed for intrusion in Delhi combined with the season’s highest fire count,” said SAFAR’s bulletin. A Met official said, “The wind speed picked up during the day on Friday but there was no significant improvement in air quality due to increase in fire counts and transfer of pollutants to Delhi. Better wind speed is predicted for the next two days.” Last year, SAFAR reported over 2,700 farm fires in a single day in the neighbouring states on October 26. Nearly 2,500 farm fires incidents were observed on an October day in 2018 too. “The stubble burning counts recorded in a single day in October this year is higher than last year perhaps because the harvesting started earlier in 2020,” said an official of SAFAR. However, the farm fires were at their peak in November last year when the single-day count crossed the 5,000 mark. According to the Air Quality Earth Warning System for Delhi, also developed by the Union ministry of earth sciences, the fire counts increased to an unusual high on Friday in Punjab (approximately 4,266 cases), Haryana (155), UP (51) and MP (381) and this was likely to impact air quality in Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India. Asked why there was a difference in fire counts recorded by SAFAR and Earth Warning System for Delhi, a SAFAR official explained to TOI, “The fire counts vary depending on the resolution of different satellite images. SAFAR releases synergised fire counts based on two satellites each of India and NASA and the ground report. Our report includes fire counts of areas that affect the air quality of Delhi.” L S Kurinji, research analyst, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, told TOI, “Earlier this season, farm fires were predominantly observed in districts such as Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Firozpur and Fazilka in Punjab. Over the last few days, fires have progressed in other districts in Punjab, including Sangrur, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Faridkot and Bathinda. In Haryana, the crop fires were mostly seen in districts such as Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Fatehabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/at-3471-farm-fires-touch-a-new-high/articleshow/78977131.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Fumes from bedbug tablets kill woman, daughter in TN||COIMBATORE: A 70-year-old woman and her 40-year-old daughter died on Saturday after inhaling poisonous fumes from tablets placed to kill bedbugs in their house at Ramasamy Nagar extension in Nallampalayam here. The deceased were identified as S Premakumari and her daughter M Anuradha. “Anuradha’s husband Murali and son Sabarish had placed the tablets in a room and locked it two days ago. Premakumari and Anuradha, who were sleeping in an adjacent room on Friday night, inhaled the fumes and were found dead on Saturday morning. Premakumari's husband Shanmugam, 75, who also inhaled the fumes, developed breathing problems and was admitted to a private hospital,” a police officer said. The bodies were shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. Thudiyalur police inspector Balamurali Sundaram and sub-inspector Kuppuraj inspected the house. Police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-daughter-die-after-inhaling-toxic-fumes/articleshow/78976045.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||In 1st major order, NMC states norms for new med colleges||NEW DELHI: In its first significant move, the newly constituted National Medical Commission (NMC) has notified its first major regulation, the ‘Minimum Requirements for Annual MBBS Admissions Regulations 2020’. It does away with the requirement of minimum five acres of land for setting up a medical college and its affiliated teaching hospitals, while mandating the availability of a fully functional 300 bed multi-speciality hospital for at least two years at the time of application for establishing a new medical college. The earlier regulations did not specify the period of functionality for such hospitals. The new regulation shall be applicable to all new medical colleges proposed to be established and to the established medical colleges proposing to increase their annual MBBS intake from the academic year 2021-22. During the transitory period, the established medical colleges will be governed by the relevant regulations existing prior to the current notification. The new norms also mandate all teaching spaces to be enabled for e-learning and also digitally linked to one another to ensure sharing of all available teaching spaces by all departments compared to the inflexibility in the regulations so far. Besides, the new regulations mandate a “skills laboratory” that have mannequins for training of students. All buildings are also expected to conform to existing building bye-laws. The notification defines the minimum requirements of space for all student centric areas in the institution and the functional areas required. Full report on www.toi.in Content state: Writing In use by: Reporter(s): Last modified: 31-10 22:50 - Rajyashree Dutta Requested size: 53 lin Actual size: 59 lin - 532.99p Category: Contextual use: Normal Description: Correction: Usages of this branch: TOIDelhiBS 01-11-2020, Delhi/1 - Nation, A/1 TOICAP17 All usages:||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-1st-major-order-nmc-states-norms-for-new-med-colleges/articleshow/78976883.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 1, 2020||Coimbatore||NGO fights for domestic workers’ rights||COIMBATORE: The missed call campaign launched by the NGO ActionAid to draw the government’s attention to frame policies and laws to protect the domestic workers’ rights ended on Saturday. A total of 7,617 people from across the state have responded to the campaign. The NGO members have demanded the Union government to sign and ratify the Domestic Workers’ Convention, 2011 (known as C189) that was drafted by the International Labour Organization (ILO). A Vijiliya, coordinator of the campaign that started on August 7, said, “The convention speaks about the working conditions of domestic workers, including their social security, violence free workplace and working hours, among others.” She said they wanted the government to increase the minimum wage of domestic workers to Rs70 per hour from Rs37, simplify the registration process to enrol in the welfare board, allocate 1% of the housing tax to the domestic workers’ welfare board and provide financial assistance till the pandemic receded. “While these problems are specific to a certain section of people, changes could be brought about only with the support of public. So, we created awareness among the workers, conducted webinar to educate the student community and ran social media campaigns in the past few months. Now, we have started to submit memorandums to the concerned departments at the state and central government level to frame policies for the welfare of domestic workers,” Vijiliya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ngo-fights-for-domestic-workers-rights/articleshow/78976052.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man, 33, attempts to murder wife, her brother, held||COIMBATORE: A 33-year-old ambulance driver was arrested for attempting to murder his estranged 25-year-old wife and her brother after she refused to reunite with him. A Singanallur police officer said Rajitha had separated from her husband C Vijayshankar, of Kannampalayam near Sulur, three months ago after he began to torture her, suspecting her character. The couple have two daughters. “When Rajitha left Vijayshankar, she had taken the daughters with her and they were residing at her parent’s house at Sowdeswari Nagar at Irugur,” the officer said. On Friday, Vijayshankar went to his wife’s house and asked her to live with him. “When she refused, Vijayshankar stabbed her with a knife, injuring her forehead and face. When her younger brother Ranjith went to her rescue, Vijayshankar also stabbed him and fled,” the officer said. Rajitha and her brother were subsequently admitted to a private hospital, where their condition is said to be stable. Based on Ranjitha’s complaint, the Singanallur police registered a case against Vijayshankar under Section 75(i)(c ) of the Tamil Nadu City Police Act and Sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him. Vijayshankar was later remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-33-attempts-to-murder-wife-her-brother-held/articleshow/78976050.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Meerut||Four of Bareilly family killed after car falls into lake in Bijnor||MEERUT: Four out of five members of a family from Bareilly were killed in an accident when their car lost control and fell into a lake in Bijnor. They were on their way to Piran Kaliyar Sharif in Roorkee district. Police said they were able to rescue the only survivor who is undergoing treatment at the district hospital. The family had started their journey on Friday evening. And later that night at 11:45 pm, when they were crossing Nahtaur town of Bijnor, their car skidded of the road and fell into the lake, police said. “Four car occupants died on the spot. The deceased were identified as Tanveer (35), Chhotu (33), Raju (48) and Iskaar(30) died on the spot while Hanif alias Bablu was rescued. All were from Ravadi Tola under Bardari police station area limits. Their bodies have been sent to district hospital for autopsy and their family have been informed. All the car occupants were identified by the documents which were kept in their pockets,” Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said. In a separate accident, a husband-wife duo was killed after their bike was hit by a tractor in Laalwala village, Bijnor. The couple have been identified as Suresh Kuma r(50) and his wife Lata Devi (48). Both were from Sabuwala village under Nagina Dehat police station. Police said the driver of the tractor escaped and they have formed a team to trace him. A case is being registered against unidentified driver, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-of-bareilly-family-killed-after-car-falls-into-lake-in-bijnor/articleshow/78973872.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC unhappy with forest rights implementation||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court expressed its displeasure at government inaction on protecting the interests of tribal people, by rejecting their claims to land for cultivation and expediting conversion of forest settlements into revenue villages. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said, “We are sad that almost 18 years have elapsed, but there is no further progress” concerning the matter of accepting claims to cultivable land by tribals and forest dwellers. This happened after a PIL complained that despite clear directions by the high court in 2013, there was no resolution to as many as 1.28 lakh claims by tribal people and forest dwellers on cultivable land under the Scheduled Caste and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (recognition of) Forest Rights Act, 2006. Earlier this week, the high court directed the state government to come up with a reply by December 2 as to why there was no progress after its directions seven years ago. This happened after an NGO, Action Research in Community Health and Development (Arch), filed a PIL and drew the court’s attention to the directions issued in 2013 on two PILs. The PILs said that though there were specific provisions made for ensuring tribal peoples’ rights to forest land, nearly 1.13 lakh claims to forest land, which were approved by gram sabhas, were rejected by the district-level and state-level committees. Of the 1.13 lakh claims, 45,000 claims were rejected on the grounds that the claimants did not have two pieces of evidence and their claims to cultivatable land were not supported by the BISAG map. A few years before the PILs were filed, the state government also got into action for implementation of the Forest Rights Act after an incident of firing, in which two persons were killed in the tribal areas of Sabarkantha, over a conflict between forest department officials and local residents. In 2012, the PILs complained that tribal people living in 13 districts were waiting for their rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-unhappy-with-forest-rights-implementation/articleshow/78974902.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||Navi Mumbai woman dies in car crash on expressway||Pune: A woman died and seven others were seriously injured after a speeding car rammed another car at Malavli on the Pune-Mumbai expressway, 53km from the city, on Saturday morning. Lonavla (rural) police said both the vehicles were headed towards Pune when the accident occurred, around 8.45am. Police have identified the deceased as Janabai Ananta Sanas (37), a resident of Kopar Khairane in Navi Mumbai. The driver of the car that was rammed into, Suyesh Shantaram Bhikule (27), a resident of Mankhurd in Mumbai, has lodged a complaint with the police. Bhikule and his relatives, Janabai and Ananta Sanas, were headed for their native village in Bhor taluka from Navi Mumbai, police said. Bhikule was driving in second lane of the high-speed corridor, when the other car rammed his vehicle at a high speed. Police said the other vehicle, carrying five people, is registered with the Pune regional transport office. Personnel from the highway safety patrol and the Lonavla (rural) police rushed to the spot. “All of them have suffered serious injuries in the accident and have been admitted in a hospital in Somatne Phata,” a police officer said. Janabai succumbed to her injuries at the hospital, police said, adding that they would file a case of rash and negligent driving once they identify the driver of the second car. ”Right now, the injured are undergoing treatment,” the officer said. The 95-km high-speed corridor witnesses a number of fatal accidents on a regular basis, especially on the 49km strerch between Kiwali and the now-demolished Amrutanjan bridge. The pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns and travel restrictions have contributed to a dip in such accidents this year. In June, TOI — citing data of Pune rural police, whose jurisdiction covers this 49km stretch — had reported that six people died in fatal accidents in this stretch between January and June this year. In the same period last year, the police had recorded 19 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/navi-mumbai-woman-dies-in-car-crash-on-expressway/articleshow/78974904.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Coimbatore||1 killed in wall collapse||A 27-year-old guest worker was killed and two others were injured after the sidewall of a private steel firm’s godown at the Sipcot industrial estate at Hosur in Krishnagiri: district collapsed on Saturday.The Sipcot police identified the deceased as K Maheswar, a native of Odisha. He was working as a labourer with the steel firm.An investigation officer said Maheswar and his colleagues Malik, 50, and Sarath, 55, also from Odisha, were collecting scrap materials at the godown when the sidewall suddenly collapsed.The trio were trapped under the debris and Maheswar succumbed to his injuries on the spot.Fellow workers rescued Malik and Sarath and rushed them to the government hospital in Hosur. “Their condition is currently said to be stable. Anything could be said only after 48 hours,” the officer said.The Sipcot police have registered a case and further inquiry is on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1-killed-in-wall-collapse/articleshow/78976047.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Vadodara||Modi shows his Tamil prowess||Prime Minister Narendra Modi also recited poems of sage Valmiki and legendary poets and social reformers — Subramania Bharathi of Tamil Nadu and Bihar’s Ramdhari Singh ‘Dinkar.’ He flawlessly recited the Tamil verses of Subramania’s poem and even expounded its meaning which, he said, hailed India’s cultural, geographical and social unity and diversity. He said that the legends championed cultural unification ages ago. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/modi-shows-his-tamil-prowess/articleshow/78973877.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Delhi||AUD aspirants seek clarity on test dates||NEW DELHI: Lack of clarity on entrance examination dates for postgraduate courses has left Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) aspirants in a fix. The varsity has not yet sent an official communication to the registered candidates, they say. AUD vice-chancellor Anu Singh Lather, however, said: “The exams for postgraduate courses will start from November 6 or 7 and will be completed by November 20-22. We will also start their classes from late November.” The varsity had earlier stated that the entrance exams could take place in October. “We were then planning to hold proctored exams wherein candidates could give exams from home. But the idea was not conducive so we would now hold an online computer-based test. The delay was also because of the Covid-19 crisis,” a senior AUD official said. “We are now planning to hold the exams in early November in the MCQ format. Interviews will be conducted online,” the official added. Meanwhile, applicants are clueless about the dates. Delhi-based Tanyaa Sharma who had registered for the Sociology course, told TOI that “the uncertainty about the exam has caused a great deal of discomfort to me. With no clarity on the dates, I am finding it difficult to schedule my office plans and leaves for the next month.” Another applicant, Charu Dwivedi from Banaras, said that the university had not yet even given them the tentative dates. “How does it expect us to plan our travel? It has also suddenly decided to change the exam pattern, which has left us in a state of anxiety,” Dwivedi said, claiming that the university did not even respond to queries from the candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aud-aspirants-seek-clarity-on-test-dates/articleshow/78976058.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
November 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Nip in air changes weather conditions all of a sudden||PUNE: People stepping out in evenings would be in a bind over whether to carry an umbrella or not till the last week. The nip in the air in the past couple of days has elbowed out the dilemma, boosting their confidence to go for a tryst with the balmy sun. The city has seen a sudden shift in its weather dynamics in barely a week from clammy and humid conditions to a dry, winter-like weather. The nip in the air came suddenly after Pune escaped much of its October heat this time because of an extended rainy season. Arjun Arora, a working professional from Mumbai, who visits the city frequently, said, “I came here a week back. The weather was cloudy and rainy then. When I arrived here again on Thursday, I was amazed to see the drastic change in weather. There’s no sign of rain. In fact, it has become nippy.” An analysis of the India Meteorological department (IMD)’s relative humidity (RH) data revealed that the evening humidity levels in Shivajinagar, Lohegaon and Pashan on October 25 were as high as 98%, 86% and 95%. By Thursday, it fell to 66%, 46% and 63%, respectively. On Friday evening, it further dropped to 59% in Shivajinagar and 40% in Lohegaon. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, said the weather situation in Pune currently was mimicking the winter pattern (though it is not winter yet) with moderate relative humidity in the morning, around 35-40% in the afternoon and lower RH during the evening. The IMD forecast has shown dry weather for Pune during the next few days, with the cold to increase further. Kashyapi told TOI that a shift in the wind patterns was bringing these weather changes, apart from no significant rain-triggering system being present over the Arabian Sea or the Bay of Bengal. “Around the middle of October, the wind regime in parts of the state was southwesterly or westerly, coming from the Arabian Sea. These winds bring along moisture as they blow from the sea. By October 25, the wind regime became marginally north-easterly or east-north-easterly, blowing from the northeast or around east and bringing in moisture partially from the system over the Bay of Bengal then.” Pune was thus witnessing convective showers because of the winds bringing in some moisture, coupled with the high day temperature in the city. Kashyapi said the wind regime around October 28 was easterly to north-easterly, but till then, the moisture had begun depleting as the system over the Bay of Bengal changed direction and stopped affecting the city, Pune district as well as the state. This caused the weather to suddenly go from clammy and moist to almost dry in a matter of days. Kashyapi said lack of moisture and clear night skies caused the night temperature in Pune to drop significantly, as the warm outgoing long-wave radiation got a chance to escape into the atmosphere unhindered. “From October 31, the wind regime became predominantly northerly or north-north-easterly, increasing the chill in Pune,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nip-in-air-changes-weather-conditions-all-of-a-sudden/articleshow/78974898.cms||Neha Madaan
November 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Allow farmers to use road, revenue department tells CRPF||COIMBATORE: The revenue department has asked the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to open their private approach road at Kurudampalayam to all vehicles after a section of farmers complained that they could not approach their farmland for the past one year as the CRPF had closed the road. In 1994, 400 acres of farmland was handed over to the CRPF to establish the central training college. Dr Karunanidhi, a farmer, said, “However, there was no approach road to the facility from Kurudampalayam. CRPF officers had then approached us through the district administration for some land to lay the approach road. Subsequently, nearly 10 to 12 farmers sold up to 50 cents each to the CRPF after getting a written agreement on December 5, 1994, that they would be allowed to use the road to drive tractors and other heavy vehicles to their lands for farming purposes.” Farmers said they had no issues until 2019, when the college management laid a fresh road and closed it from both the sides. “We could walk and ride two-wheelers, but can’t drive small vans and tractors. As a result, we could not harvest and cultivate.” The farmers had on March 16 approached the national human rights commission, which shot off a letter to the district collector ordering a fact-finding report on the issue by August 2. On Tuesday, based on the collector’s instruction, revenue divisional officer Suresh had held a meeting with the farmers and CRPF representatives to broker peace. “I have asked the CRPF to open the road and allow heavy vehicles until the NHRC verdict comes, and instructed farmers to ensure that drunk men don’t misuse the road.” However, on Saturday, the road was not opened by the CRPF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/allow-farmers-to-use-road-revenue-dept-tells-crpf/articleshow/78976049.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||Covid warriors as brave as cops killed in line of duty: Modi||PM Narendra Modi on Saturday equated the sacrifices of all Covid warriors who died after contracting the virus at work with the bravery of nearly 35,000 police personnel killed in the line of duty since Independence. “In the last eight months, apart from health workers, so many police personnel have died in the line of duty. This dedication of our cops and all other warriors deserves a salute,” he said at a Rashtriya Ekta Divas event marking the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-warriors-as-brave-as-cops-killed-in-line-of-duty-modi/articleshow/78976884.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Plants pip sweets as Diwali gifts in Corona season||BHOPAL: As people grapple with ways to adapt to the new normal, a lot has changed when it comes to the way festivals are celebrated. While Diwali celebrations remain incomplete without oodles of sweets and dry fruits, during the pandemic people are increasingly resorting to plants as befitting, colourful gifts in place of mithai dabbas. With weather turning slightly nippy, it is the time when a lot of seasonal plants bloom across the city nurseries. A lot of people are buying these for their homes as well as for gifts, said Shehzad Khan of Shahnawaz Nursery, near Dana Pani, Bawadia Kalan. “Flowering seasonals, including French marigold, salvia, petunia, dianthus, dog-flower, dahlia, pansy are in demand for home gardens as well as Diwali gifts. Priced at Rs 15 - Rs 30, they are bought in bunches and still remain within budget.” Covid-19 has made people more conscious about the health benefits of certain plants, that is why there is a lot of demand for air purifying oxygen plants, said Pankaj Saxena of Chitransh Nursery near Shahpura Lake. He added, “Areca palm, zamia palm, ficus etc produce plenty of oxygen; hence they are quite in demand during Diwali season. They are priced anywhere between Rs 350 and Rs 1000, but people are buying them as gifts for their special friends and associates.” An entrepreneur, Mahima Sahu believes that ‘green gifts are the best ones’. She said, “Sweets are definitely festive, but these days most of the people generally avoid outside food. So I would rather give my friends something that pleases the eyes and remains fresh for long. That is why I have opted for six varieties of money plants and succulents, for which I have ordered some handmade ceramic pots. Just before Diwali, I will send them over to spread eco-friendly cheer.” Medicinal plants and herbs are the first choice of IT professional Avinash Jain. “Tulsi, ashwagandha, drumsticks, neem-giloy, amla, bay leaf, aloe vera and insulin plants - I have chosen different medicinal plant for each friend of mine, keeping the size of their home in mind. Sweets will be consumed in a week or so, but plants will remain in their lives for years,” said Avinash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/succulents-seasonals-spices-plants-pip-sweets-as-diwali-gifts-in-corona-season/articleshow/78973890.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
November 1, 2020||Pune||Newborn’s father, friend in net for bid to bury him||Pune: The father of the rescued two-day-old baby boy and one of his friends were arrested on Saturday for trying to bury the newborn alive at Ambodi village near Saswad on Wednesday afternoon. Inspector D M Hake of the Saswad police said, “We have arrested Arbaz Iqbal Bagwan (25), the father of the baby, and his friend, Aniket Sampat Ingavle (24), both residents of Saswad.” Bagwan had an affair with a 21-year-old woman. Before they could marry, the woman conceived the baby. “The duo kept their family in the dark about the pregnancy,” he said. “The woman developed labour pains. She and Bagwan went to a hospital posing as husband and wife and the baby boy was delivered in the hospital on Tuesday,” Hake said. “The next day, Bagwan took the baby and told the woman he would look after him. He then called his friend, Ingavle, and decided to bury the baby boy alive,” Hake said. Bagwan and Ingavle went to the open plot at Ambodi village with the baby and dug up the ground. “A farmer spotted them and rushed towards the site, but they fled,” Hake said. Police studied CCTV camera footage and visited nearby hospitals to find out where the baby was delivered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/newborns-father-friend-in-net-for-bid-to-bury-him/articleshow/78974906.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||Crime branch cracks Rs 17L ATM fraud, 3 UP men held||Pune: The crime branch of the city police has arrested three men who exploited a technical glitch in automated teller machines (ATMs) and cheated a public sector bank of as much as Rs17 lakh this month. Police said the fraud occurred over two weeks, between October 7 and 21 this year, and came to light when the manager of the bank’s Vitthalwadi branch lodged a complaint with the Sinhagad Road police. As per the original complaint, the three (then unidentified men) tampered with the ATM and withdrew cash totalling Rs96,000 over multiple transactions. The crime branch conducted a parallel investigation and found that the total quantum of fraud could be as high as Rs17 lakh. Police studied CCTV footage from the kiosks and tracked down the suspects. “Unit 3 of the crime branch has arrested three men for ATM fraud. The suspects used a technical flaw in the cash dispensing mechanism to trick the system into registering a failed transaction, even though they would collect the dispensed cash. A larger racket is suspected and a further investigation is on,” deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh told TOI via an SMS.. “The suspects, all residents of Uttar Pradesh, are genuine account holders with the bank and used their own debit cards in the fraud,” an officer from the Sinhagad Road police said. Police explained that the suspects would withdraw a nominal amount — usually Rs10,000 — from their accounts. “As soon as they remove the cash from the dispenser, they insert an object to stop the flap from closing. This would send a signal to the bank’s server that the transaction failed, even though the amount would be debited from the account,” the officer said. The suspects would then raise a dispute with the bank and get the money refunded into their accounts. Police said the suspects deposit a small sum in their accounts in UP and visit other states to execute the fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crime-branch-cracks-rs-17l-atm-fraud-3-up-men-held/articleshow/78974909.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Teachers to stage protest in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: Primary school teachers would protest in front of the chief educational officer (CEO)’s office on November 9, demanding to withdraw proceedings under rule 17(b) of the Tamil Nadu Civil Services Rules against the teachers who had participated in the 2018 protest. In November 2018, teachers had staged a massive protest demanding the state government to clarify the anomalies in grade pay of secondary grade teachers in the recommendations of the pay commission and the government order. Police had filed a first information report against 67 teachers and the school education department had issued them a memo under the rule 17(b), said A Thangabasu, district secretary, Tamil Nadu Primary School Teachers' Association. “Based on the high court direction, the FIR was quashed, but the school education department is not withdrawing the proceedings against the teachers, many of who have lost their promotions,” he said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teachers-to-stage-protest/articleshow/78976055.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Coimbatore||27-year-old man loses money in online gambling, kills self||COIMBATORE: A 27-year-old man committed suicide after losing money in online gambling at his residence at Seeranaickenpalayam, police said. Police identified him as R Madan Kumar of Radhakrishnan Street. Kumar, who had studied till Class X, was working as an office assistant at a private bank’s Kavundamapalaym branch. He was a bachelor and was addicted to alcohol, a police officer said. “Kumar had shifted to a rented a house at Samichettipalayam around six months ago along with his father S Ravi, a construction worker and mother Manonmani. He had left for work from the rented house on Thursday around 8.30am. When he failed to return in the evening, his parents though he would have gone to the house at Seeranaickenpalayam. When Kumar failed to return even on Friday, Ravi sent Manonmani and his son-in-law Velusamy to Seeranaickenpalayam. They reached the house around 2pm and knocked the door. As there was no response, Velusamy broke open the door to find Madan hanging from the ceiling with a sari. A liquor bottle and a pesticide bottle were found at the place,” the officer said. Kumar’s friend told Ravi that he was addicted to online gambling. “He had borrowed money from some people and was not able to repay. So, he took the extreme step,” the officer added. The RS Puram (law & order) police have registered a case under Section 174 CrPC. The body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem and was handed over to the family on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/27-yr-old-man-loses-money-in-online-gambling-kills-self/articleshow/78976057.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Delhi||In 3 days, Green Delhi app gets 820 complaints||NEW DELHI: The “Green Delhi” mobile app, which became operational on Thursday, has been a hit in just three days of its launch. According to data accessed by TOI, nearly 820 complaints regarding violation of anti-pollution norms were registered on it by Saturday noon. The complaints are being registered under nine heads of different departments. Of the total complaints lodged so far, nearly 300 were about illegal dumping of garbage on roadside/vacant land, while around 130 were about road dust. The lowest complaints were related to air and noise pollution from sources other than industry (20) and burning of biomass and garden waste (25). “Since the launch, we have received an overwhelming response from the locals. Over 250 complaints are being lodged every day. Of the total 820 complaints so far, nearly 140 have been resolved, around 600 are pending, 20 have been rejected and remaining were unrelated,” said an official, adding that, about 80 were overdue by Saturday afternoon. Nearly 830 enforcement field personnel from different departments are attached to the app, who are working to resolve all the complaints within 48 hours, the official said. Following the launch on Thursday, environment minister Gopal Rai said 12 co-ordinators would check every complaint and oversee their resolution. “If the complaints are not resolved within 48 hours, they will coordinate with senior officials of the departments concerned and work towards resolving them. A meeting on the complaints and overall monitoring with the nodal officers and coordinators will be held on November 2 at 4pm,” Rai had said. For monitoring, 21 departments, including Delhi Pollution Control Committee, municipal corporations, Delhi Development Authority, Public Works Department, Delhi Cantonment Board, Delhi Jal Board, transport department and revenue department, have been attached. Every department has a nodal officer along with a senior head, who is in charge of all the complaints registered related to the department. Besides, 70 green marshals have been deployed for ground verification of the complaints. The app, which was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, is a part of anti-pollution measures announced earlier in October by Delhi government under the ‘Yuddh, Pradushan Ke Viruddh’ campaign. For registering a complaint, any person can upload a picture or video on the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-3-days-green-delhi-app-gets-820-complaints/articleshow/78976061.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two minors detained for sodomizing 5-year-old boy||PUNE: The Kondhwa police on Friday detained two minor boys on the charge of sodomizing a five-year-old boy at a site under construction in Meethanagar on Thursday night. The allegedly sodomized five-year-old boy and the detained duo — aged 14 and 10 years — were friends.  They used to play outside the construction site every day, said police. Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police said on Saturday, “The duo lured the child inside the construction site and sodomized him.” The sexual abuse came to light after the boy complained to his mother of severe pain in his private parts. The five-year-old boy then told her about the incident. Gaikwad said, “The mother then registered an FIR against her son’s tormentors under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.”  Questioning revealed that the duo were sexually harassing the boy for a week, he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect hir privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-minors-detained-for-sodomizing-5-yr-old-boy/articleshow/78974912.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Coimbatore||New TN govt college for women gets lukewarm response||COIMBATORE: Three weeks after the admission process started, only 135 students have enrolled in the new government arts and science college for women in the city, which has 240 seats. As the state government had passed the order to set up the college on October 7, months after the counselling process to admit students in arts and science colleges across the state, the higher education department had conducted spot admission. The college offers BA Tamil, BA English, BCom, BSc Mathematics and BSc Computer Science. There are 40 seats each for the BSc courses while the remaining courses have 50 seats each. “We received over 10 enquiries on Saturday, the last day of the admission process. As on Saturday evening, 135 students were admitted. Only 56% of the seats were filled,” said an official from the college. “As there was a huge demand for BCom, the college management obtained an additional 20% of seats. All the 60 seats are filled. As on Saturday morning, 28 seats in BSc Computer Science, 25 in BA Tamil, 16 in BA English and six in BSc Mathematics were filled.” There was an increase in the number of students enrolling in the college following the announcement of Class XII supplementary exam results on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the higher education department started online classes for the students from Wednesday. “As professors are yet to be posted, the department has asked faculty members from the L.R.G. Government Arts College for Women in Tirupur to conduct classes. In addition to the regular classes conducted by merging students of both the colleges, the teachers are conducting separate classes to cover the pending portions,” the official said. The department is planning to send faculty members on deputation or transfer them to the college. Teachers are expected to be posted within a couple of weeks. The plan was to convert the corporation’s school at Puliyakulam into the women’s college that will have 14 professors, a principal, a physical education director, a librarian and 13 non-teaching members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-govt-college-for-women-gets-lukewarm-response/articleshow/78976053.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 1, 2020||India||Forcing Raj farmers to sell below MSP to attract jail term||JAIPUR: Forcing a farmer to enter a contract of sale of his agricultural produce at a price below the minimum support price (MSP) may lead to imprisonment for three to seven years and/or a fine up to Rs 5 lakh, says one of the six amendment bills tabled in the Rajasthan assembly on Saturday. ‘Harassing’ farmers may also invoke the same punitive action, says another bill. It defines harassment as traders not accepting delivery of farm produce agreed upon or not making payment within three days from the date of receipt of delivery. Rajasthan’s amendment bills do not make MSP mandatory for purchases made by individuals or brokers outside contract farming. However, it will be mandatory for contract farming. “That is outside the state’s purview. Only the Centre can make MSP mandatory,” said Congress state president and cabinet minister Govind Singh Dotasra. Punjab, on the other hand, made MSP mandatory for the sale and purchase of wheat and paddy recently. Four of the six amendment bills tabled in Rajasthan assembly are related to farmers and seek to ‘override’ the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September. The amendment bills are likely to be passed on Monday. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/forcing-raj-farmers-to-sell-below-msp-to-attract-jail-term/articleshow/78976885.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
November 1, 2020||Ranchi||Security forces on anti-Red drive across state||Ranchi: Joint teams of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and state police are carrying out operations to flush out Maoist leaders holed up in tri-junctions of Khunti-Ranchi-Chaibasa and Khunti-Ranchi-Saraiekla districts, Burha Pahar and other areas. CRPF sources said the focus is on Chaibasa as several top Maoist commanders, including politburo member Misir Besra and Anal Da are suspected to be hiding in the district. The Chaibasa district has large tracts of forest and has boundaries with several districts and states, providing an ideal place for extremists to hide. Similarly operations are also being undertaken on Burha Pahar in Palamu and other sensitive areas in Chatra and Hazaribag districts. Maoist leader Vimal Yadav is said to be in the Burha Pahar region. An official said, “Unlike the past, when operations lasted for for 10 to 15 days, these raids are short and target-oriented. Extensive operations will also be executed soon.” Police said even though extremist outfits have been weakened, there are reports that they have recruited some migrant workers who returned home in Chatra and Saraikela districts during the lockdown. Meanwhile two jawans who were injured in a improvised explosive devise explosion and firing by Maoists in Lohardaga on Friday afternoon are said to be stable. Doctors said they have been operated upon and splinters have been from their body . Jharkhand DGP M V Rao said, “Anti-LWE operations are going on across the state and these will continue. We will send the injured jawans to AIIMS if needed.” Notably, Governor Draupadi Murmu and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon also visited the injured jawans at Medica on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/security-forces-on-anti-red-drive-across-state/articleshow/78975721.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Ranchi||Double murder: DGP rushes to Gumla, orders SP to axe cop||Gumla: In an exception, Jharkhand DGP M V Rao on Saturday personally visited Gumla to speed up the investigation into the abduction and murder of Sanjiv Ranjan Bhagat (27) and his sister Mamta Khakha (22). He also asked Lohardaga SP Priyanka Meena to suspend the officer in-charge of Lohardaga police station for not taking any action despite a written complaint. Rao’s visit was triggered by media reports, he said. Police suspect that on October 24, when the siblings were returning to Lohardaga in their Baleno car from Ghaghra in Gumla, at 7pm they were first abducted from near a bridge near Kotamati village and taken 18km away from the spot at Kusum More in Itkiri village and then killed by their assailants. The motive, however, is unknown and sources said neither was there any sexual assault on Mamta nor was there any trace of a loot. When the duo did not return home, their parents, who stay in Lohardaga, informed police, but no action was taken. On Saturday, Rao first visited the spot from where the siblings were abducted and then went and met the duo’s parents and finally reached the spot from where the bodies were recovered. Rao said, “I was distressed when I read reports on the brother and sister being killed so I came down to Ghaghra and met their family members.” The DGP also met locals and questioned them about the incident. Rao then asked DIG Akhilesh Kumar Jha and Gumla SP Hrudeep P Janardhanan to investigate the case from all angles. “Those involved in the crime must be arrested and sent to jail,” he told them. In Lohardaga, Rao directed SP Priyanka Meena to suspend officer in-charge of Lohardaga police station. “Such personnel should be removed from the force. I have asked the SP to initiate a departmental proceeding against him and dismiss whoever is guilty of not taking action. If a written complaint does not get police working, what will?” Rao asked. He also asked the public in general to inform him on WhatsApp or on Twitter if their cases are not attended to at any police station. In Gumla, Rao was told by police that they are at times not sure what to do when they see someone brandishing a firearm. He said, “If any criminal is holding a firearm, he will use it on someone and if they are seen doing so, police should immediately gun them down without hesitation. Security of law abiding citizens is above anything else for police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/double-murder-dgp-rushes-to-gumla-orders-sp-to-axe-cop/articleshow/78975576.cms||K A Gupta
November 1, 2020||Ranchi||Bermo candidates’ kin hit streets to seek votes||Bokaro: Candidates of both Congress and BJP in Bermo on Saturday pressed in their family members to campaign for them for the upcoming bypoll on November 3. While Congress has pitched Kumar Jaimangal from the seat, BJP has fielded Yogeshwar Kumar Batul. Jaimangal’s mother Rani Singh on Saturday hit on a whirlwind of tour to villages to seek votes for her son. His wife, Anupama, also held similar campaigns separately and so did Kumar Gaurav, Jaimangal’s brother. Jaimangal happens to be the son of former Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh, who died in May this year, necessitating a bye-election. Gaurav said, “My father has a clean image and worked for the public for many years here. The tide is in our favour and my brother will win.” For BJP’s Mahto, his son Mahender began jan-sampark programmes to cover areas uncovered by his father to woo voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bermo-candidates-kin-hit-streets-to-seek-votes/articleshow/78975686.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 1, 2020||Ranchi||Migrant crisis during lockdown dominates JMM’s Dumka campaign||Dumka: Chief minister and star campaigner of the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD combine, Hemant Soren, on Saturday put opposition BJP on the backfoot over the migrant crisis during the lockdown. BJP tried to defend itself, albeit weakly, saying the promises made by the Hemant government have not been fulfilled. Party spokesperson Misfika Hasan said most of the workers have now gone back to their former workplaces as the government could not take care for their needs. Attacking BJP at a poll campaign at Masalia here for his younger brother and Mahagathbandhan candidate Basant, Hemant said when the saffron party-led government at the Centre left the migrants to "suffer on the roads" in the initial stage of the lockdown, he was the first chief minister in the country to bring them back to their homes by flights and trains. Notably, Hemant hit the headlines in May when the first Shramik Special train from Telangana arrived in Jharkhand bringing hundreds of stranded migrants home. Thereafter, the state also became the first in the country to airlift workers from Leh in a charter flight. “Even with limited resources and fund crunch, we went ahead to bring back our migrant brothers safely back to their homes via train and flights, showing the way for the other states to follow us. The Union government put the migrants on the streets, literally, but we cared for them.” He stressed that after bringing them home safely, his government ensured that they get employment in their respective villages by rolling out various schemes under the MNREGA. “Not only this, but we also contributed to the nation-building by sending workers from our state to build roads along the Sino-Indian borders. We have ensured that all those who go for the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) project are given adequate pay and their well-being is monitored properly,” Hemant added. Later, JMM issued a press statement listing its achievements during the lockdown to impress upon the voters. The statement highlighted the efforts taken for rehabilitation of migrants, creation of jobs, running of uninterrupted ration supply and free community kitchens among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/migrant-crisis-during-lockdown-dominates-jmms-dumka-campaign/articleshow/78975664.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 1, 2020||Ranchi||474 fresh Covid cases, one death reported in state||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Saturday reported an increase in the number of fresh infections after a special mass testing drive was conducted across the state. One death was also reported from Dhanbad, taking the toll to 81 in the district and 884 in the state. According to the state health department, the number of daily fresh cases surpassed the recovered cases for the first time in more than a month after the special drive. It said while 474 fresh cases were detected, the number of recovered cases stood at 367. The state has now a cumulative caseload of 1,01761, of which 5,302 are active and 95,575 have recovered. Despite the spike in new cases, only a few districts reported an increase, including Ranchi which detected 139 cases, Bokaro with 73 and East Singhbhum with 61 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/474-fresh-covid-cases-one-death-reported-in-state/articleshow/78975608.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Environment ministry cancels licences granted to 50 sawmills||Nagpur: In a blow to the state government and forest department, which hesitated to take a call on the controversial issue of additional horizontal band saw (AHBS) licenses to 50 sawmills, the environment ministry has scrapped their licenses. It has also ordered that an inquiry and contempt proceedings be initiated against ex-PCCF (HoFF) Umesh Agrawal who took the decision to award the licences as head of the state-level committee (SLC).The 11th SLC meeting headed by Agrawal on July 23, 2018, had issued the licenses against the Supreme Court orders. Subsequent PCCFs did not cancel the licenses.On an appeal filed by city’s wildlife and environment lawyer Manish Jeswani, a meeting of the 16th SLC was held on October 15-16. It was chaired by PCCF (HoFF) N Rambabu. The SLC did not take any action following which the environment ministry issued a note of dissent.A day before the meeting, the PCCF asked forest minister Sanjay Rathod to sign the reply on behalf of the state government. “I refused. The PCCF and other officials are advisers to the government and should have briefed me properly on the issue. We will abide by the ministry order,” Rathod told TOI. Deciding the appeal of Jeswani on Saturday, the ministry’s regional officer VN Ambade at Nagpur quashed and set aside the decision taken on July 23, 2018, with immediate effect.“It is a landmark order. The ministry has upheld the sanctity and majesty of orders of the Supreme Court. It will discourage the passing of mechanical orders by the SLC in contravention of laws. Already forest and tree cover is dwindling. Granting such permissions to sawmills without a timber availability report posed an imminent threat to forests and environment,” said Jeswani.Quoting the TN Godavarman case (WP 202/1995) in the apex court when the forest minister and secretary were sentenced in a similar case, the order said, “Neither the state government nor the forest officers have learnt any lessons. There has been a blatant disregard to the authority of law on part of SLC.”“The SLC and its chairman Agrawal were found to be having no regard to the rule of law and abused the discretionary powers vested in him and he has never been fair in the instant case,” adds the order.The order says that when discretionary power is conferred on administrative authority, it is required to be exercised according to law, which has been abused by Agrawal by exceeding his jurisdiction. The order says that the state government simply gave directions to Agrawal without initiating any action due to which ex-PCCF has been habitually violating the rule of law with blatant impunity.The state has been asked to initiate an independent inquiry against Agrawal and complete it in two months from the issuance of the order and start contempt proceedings.The ministry has said that SLC should have satisfied that timber is legally available in the entire state by way of undertaking an appropriate study before granting fresh licenses for AHBS. The order says that guidelines are crystal clear that whenever SLC wishes to enhance existing license capacity, it should have a timber availability report available, which was not done by Agrawal.Even the National Forest Policy (NFP) 1988 has highlighted the need for assessment of timber availability for wood-based industries, says the order. While granting licenses, the SLC simply relied on the letters based on erstwhile Bombay Forest Rules (BFR) 1942, which have become redundant after the enactment of Maharashtra Forest Rules (MFR) 2014.The MoEFCC says that the SLC completely ignored to see if the addition of an extra machine to the existing set-up enhances the conversion capacity of the sawmills or not. The impugned decisions taken on July 23, 2018, were not based on an in-depth study of timber availability in the state.“Therefore, the impugned decisions of the SLC provide a backdoor entry for increasing the number of licenses without going into the assessment of timber availability. This goes against the spirit of the apex court order of 1997,” says the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/environment-ministry-cancels-licences-granted-to-50-sawmills/articleshow/78973948.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 1, 2020||---||Nitish: Students in distress won’t have to repay govt’s edu loan||PATNA: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced relief on Saturday for beneficiaries of the state government’s student credit card scheme (SCCS), promising to waive education loans provided under the scheme if a student was not in a position to repay. The state government provides education loans of up to Rs 4 lakh to intermediate pass students under the SCCS to pursue higher education. “I always tell people to help your children pursue higher education. The government is giving this money (Rs 4 lakh) for pursuing higher education. Lekin agar lautane ki sthiti mein nahi honge to maaf kar diya jayega,” the CM said, addressing an election rally in Saharsa’s Simri Bakhtiarpur assembly seat. Speaking at another rally in the same district, Nitish claimed that the illegal liquor lobby wants him out. “I am only interested in serving the people, but those involved in the illegal liquor business want to defeat JD(U) in this election.” Nitish had imposed prohibition in the state in April 2016, barely four months after coming to power for a third consecutive term in November 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-students-in-distress-wont-have-to-repay-govts-edu-loan/articleshow/78976889.cms||Madan Kumar
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Flouted traffic norms? You can pay fine online||Nagpur: To enhance the judiciary’s digital footprint, Maharashtra’s first virtual court was set up in Katol on Saturday to deal with traffic-related offences. Traffic violators can now pay fines online instead of physically doing so in court. Inaugurated by Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde, the court would be presided over by a magistrate who would determine the fine to be paid. “If a vehicle driver doesn’t pay the fine on the spot or is unable to pay, the traffic police will register a petty offence against him with a hand-held device and issue a challan. The police personnel will then upload it on the portal where the magistrate — who will assess all challans — would determine the fine as per his discretion and in accordance with the law. A message regarding the fine to be paid would be sent to the offender on the mobile phone. Fines can be paid through debit/credit cards or net banking,” said justice Nitin Jamadar, the chairman of the computer committee of Bombay High Court. Endorsing Jamadar, HC registrar Anju Shende said that in case offenders disagree with the fine amount, they can approach the court in their respective jurisdiction. “The court at Katol is only for those who are willing to pay. Thousands of offenders across the state stand to gain provided they admit their guilt,” she said. In his introductory remarks, justice Jamadar explained that through this landmark initiative, the proceedings of the court would be simplified. “Drivers of light or heavy commercial vehicles can benefit from this system. Maharashtra has 18 national highways, the most in terms of the number of state highways and roads. The magnitude of vehicles passing through the state is one of the highest in the country. Many drivers and owners are residents of other states. If they can’t pay the fine on the spot then they need to travel to their state to appear before the court,” said Jamadar. The virtual facility will save money, time, energy and also reduce the footfall in courts. “It will also save judicial time. Through a special notification, a magistrate would be entrusted the responsibility to handle all the cases statewide. This will reduce the workload of several magistrates. We preferred to set up this court in Katol and not in any big city. A statewide initiative on such a large scale is the first in the country,” said Jamadar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flouted-traffic-norms-you-can-pay-fine-online/articleshow/78973967.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||State discriminating with pvt docs on vaccine distribution: IMA||Nagpur: A vaccine for Covid-19 is yet to arrive but blame games about discrimination and step-motherly treatment have already begun. On Saturday, the Maharashtra branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA) wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, alleging that the state government was discriminating with doctors in private services while planning the distribution of Covid-19 vaccine — which is expected to be available in three months. According to IMA president Dr Avinash Bhondve, the health secretary of Maharashtra had changed central government’s guidelines and only included ‘Doctors registered with the district’ while enumerating the private medical facilities. “The secretary has also directed that only the doctors and medical staff of hospitals registered under the Bombay Nursing Home Act should be registered for vaccine. This rule will keep more than 2 lakh doctors outside vaccination priority in the state,” said Dr Bhondwe. “The central government has planned to vaccinate all these health workers on a priority basis. But the change in protocol made by Maharashtra has led to the exclusion of doctors from privately-run hospitals, clinics, pathology clinics, and X-ray sonography clinics," Bhondwe added. There are 1 lakh allopathic doctors registered with Maharashtra Medical Council. Apart from this, about 1.2 lakh doctors of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) are working in the state. With the revised policy, around 2 lakh doctors will miss the vaccination, claimed IMA in a letter. According to IMA, the private medical professionals have played a key role in treating patients in the pandemic, along with government doctors. “Of the 61 private doctors who died of corona in Maharashtra, the number of general practitioners and private clinic owners was higher. Yet, we feel they have been left out for reasons known only to the government,” reads their statement. Earlier too, IMA Maharashtra had alleged that the state government rejected the applications of 61 private doctors in Maharashtra for Covid Kavach posthumous insurance of Rs50 lakh, declared by the central government. “Private doctors have always been denied their requests for getting PPE kits, masks from a certified company and at reasonable prices. Unlike other states, Maharashtra is treating private doctors with great disdain,” said Dr Pankaj Bhandarkar, IMA Maharashtra secretary. What IMA has alleged: Covid-19 vaccines will be available in three months Guidelines for health care workers database for Covid-19 vaccination releasedCentre’s guidelines say health workers from all government and private hospitals to be included in this database But state guidelines mention only doctors from private hospitals registered with district to be included in database This will exclude 2 lakh doctors from privately-run hospitals, who are working hard in Covid-19 times||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-discriminating-with-pvt-docs-on-vaccine-distribution-ima/articleshow/78973984.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Vid’s Oct cases nearly 50% less than Sept, drop in deaths||Nagpur: October ended on a positive note for Vidarbha as the month saw new Covid-19 cases drop nearly 50% as compared to September when the region reached the peak of novel coronavirus infections. As against over 90,000 cases reported in September, there were 49,000-odd cases in October, including the reconciliation done for Nagpur district on October 31 which added over 7,300 cases to the tally in a day. The region had witnessed 2,400 deaths due to Covid-19 in September, while the toll was 1,492 in October. The decrease in new cases and deaths is a strong indicator that Covid-19 infection is under good control. But the picture is not uniform in all districts. Districts in Nagpur division are witnessing more deaths and new cases as compared to Amravati division. In September, Akola, Washim and Buldhana districts in Amravati division had high number of deaths and cases. As October progressed, the three districts witnessed decline in number of new cases as well as deaths. On the other hand, districts like Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Gondia and Bhandara, where deaths and caseload were less in September, recorded more cases and deaths in October. Even on October 31, districts in Amravati division reported only six out of 25 deaths and only 174 of the 700-plus new cases reported in the region. Unlike September when the day’s recoveries were rarely higher than day’s cases, October reported higher recoveries almost every day, with October 21 being the only exception. The month registered 66,161 patients against 49,823 new cases, which means 132% recovery rate for the month. The month began with more than 20% patients of total reported cases under treatment. By month-end, less than 7% of the total cases are under treatment. Many of them are recovering at home and beds are vacant in almost all hospitals across Vidarbha. But this should not be considered as the end of the pandemic. Experts are expecting another wave of infections by the end of December. Even the administration is thinking on the same lines. A senior official from the divisional health department told TOI that despite repeated requests from private hospitals, the administration is not considering to give them relaxation from Covid services. “In case the second wave hits the region, we must be prepared for the worst. Be it private hospitals or Covid care centres in rural Vidarbha, the government will not reduce capacity at least until November 30,” the official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vids-oct-cases-nearly-50-less-than-sept-drop-in-deaths/articleshow/78974002.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 1, 2020||---||As Tejashwi emerges GA’s biggest crowd-puller, NDA sharpens attack||PATNA: The Mahagathbandhan’s CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav appears to have become the lone crusader not only for RJD but for the entire alliance, crisscrossing the state in his chopper pulling massive crowds wherever he goes. Tejashwi is not only campaigning for RJD candidates but is also canvassing for his allies as his crowd-pulling abilities have made him the most sought-after campaigner among the candidates fielded by Congress, or Left contestants. On Saturday, Tejashwi held 17 rallies, breaking his previous record as well as that of his father Lalu Prasad, whose record was 16 rallies in a day. Many are now comparing Tejashwi’s campaign-style with his father’s ability to connect with the audience. RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said Tejashwi has been holding so many rallies following demand from all candidates across Bihar to campaign for them. “He is campaigning for Congress and Left contenders with the same dedication as those of RJD’s,” he said. An RJD member said contestants are making a beeline to get Tejashwi to be in the state with them. A Congress member also accepted that Tejashwi is playing a big role in Mahagatbandhan and his brand of politics and campaigning was benefiting other partners. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwary said Tejashwi has caught the imagination of the young. “Union minister Nityanand Rai brought Kashmir and terrorism here while Griraj Singh talked of Jinnah. But Tejashwi kept his focus on employment and youth issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/as-tejashwi-emerges-gas-biggest-crowd-puller-nda-sharpens-attack/articleshow/78976892.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 1, 2020||Nagpur||Upgrade of 3.6k CCTVs to give better results||NAGPUR: The 3,600 high-tech CCTV cameras installed in the city by Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) are set to get upgraded with more precise outputs, for improving crime and traffic management. Plans are in place to install additional cameras at 25 crime ‘hotspots’ and near lakes (as an anti-suicide measure), for which experts have been flown in from Mumbai. Within a month, the CCTVs would have several value additions to them, like detecting wrong side movements, overspeeding and a more accurate e-challan generation system for red light jumping, which were not in the original scheme of things in such a focused manner. Features like preset peak hour camera displays would be also used after the latest upgrade for purpose-specific functions like capturing morning walkers at different places in the early hours, and reflecting the scenes of congested junctions in rush hours. The CCTV cameras, despite their contribution in crime detection and traffic control, had come under criticism for their below-par performance. With the crippling of several built-in features like automatic number-plate recognition (ANPR), red light violation detection (RLVD) and peak hour camera display, their quality was called to question. After city police chief Amitesh Kumar visited the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC)’s city operation centre a fortnight ago to hold talks with NSSCDCL authorities and the service provider, a fresh initiative is underway to enhance the capacities of the CCTV network, qualitatively and quantitatively. “Every feature of the CCTVs which existed in the scope of work when the private service provider had taken up the project should work in its full capacity without compromise,” he said. “The service provider should set the system’s accuracy to a higher level, train their manpower to operate and maintain it, or face penalty for non-performance,” the CP added. It’s learnt that teams of CCTV software experts are currently working on upgrading the system, with city police team under nodal officer zonal deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Neelotpal monitoring the process. Sources stated crime branch is now analysing crime patterns, locations and timings to earmark the hotspots across the city. CP Kumar asked the service providers to ensure that the defunct CCTV cameras are made operational, and the ones removed for work be reinstalled. Around 186 CCTV cameras were not functioning on the day Kumar had reviewed NMC’s city operation system, of which only 76 are not functioning now. The top cop has also urged the service provider to ensure that the downtime of cameras suffering technical glitches be reduced drastically with immediate attention. The top cop has also urged to expedite the work of the upcoming command-and-control (CoC) centre near the control room, which is being prepared with a budget of Rs10 crores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/upgrade-of-3-6k-cctvs-to-give-better-results/articleshow/78974025.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 1, 2020||India||Access to food is a problem in India: WFP||Why does India continue to fall behind other south Asian nations when it comes to battling hunger? The answer has less to do with food production — there is enough to go around — than access to it. India has been ranked 94th in a list of 107 countries on the Global Hunger Index, released a fortnight ago. It’s behind Nepal (73rd), Bangladesh (75th) and Pakistan (88th). But food production has not been a problem in India. The problem is economic access (whether people can afford food) and physical access (whether it is reaching them). “The virus worsened both, everywhere," Dr Arif Husain, chief economist of the Nobel-winning humanitarian organisation World Food Programme (WFP), told TOI. “Think of a village in India. It’s not enough to have food in the country or the state, it has to get to that village … Dr (Amartya) Sen said this — famines are caused by an access problem. About one-third of the total food produced in the world is wasted. We could feed 9 billion today if we weren’t wasting food.” That wastage happens in different ways. “In rich countries, we waste food on the plate because we don’t spend that much as a portion of our income on food,” he said. “In poor countries, people don’t do that. There, food loss happens because it is not treated well.” The latest WFP report that came out this month calculates how much a plate of food costs around the world. If a person in New York would have to pay $1.26, that same plate would cost six times more in India ($7.37) and 14 times more in Pakistan ($15.77), the study found. In South Sudan, which fares the worst, it would be 310 times more — $392.82 for a plate. “About 7 to 9 million people die every year of hunger or hunger-related causes. Just think about this for one second. This is the 21st century. We got satellites all over the place, we talk about going to Mars. But at the same time, we have people dying because they don’t have enough to eat. There is something really, fundamentally wrong with this scenario,” he said. Three things, he added, have shaped global hunger — climate, economic marginalisation and conflict. The pandemic worsened that. “Globally, this year, we need to feed about 138 million people. To put that in perspective, we assisted about 100 million people last year. And the highest we have ever done before that was 113 million right after the Iraq War. So our target this year, by a mile, will be a record.” In fact, when the Covid-19 outbreak began, Husain had warned that the number of people affected by hunger would double “catastrophically” from the record 130 million in 2019 because of the pandemic. “Our bottomline figure of 270 million affected worldwide has not changed … despite a massive economic response. Countries big and small have responded with whatever they have got. And this year, governments have been able to make a massive response. They may not have the capacity to do it again in 2021,” he said. “My hope is that coming out of this crisis, we start to take things seriously. The planet does not need to come to a standstill for us to realise this.” Because this has been a worsening problem. Three things, he said, have shaped global hunger — climate, economic marginalisation and conflict. “We had 100 climatic shocks a year 20 years ago. Today, that number is 213 … A study in 2017 found that the agricultural season is either starting early or late in 51 countries. In 28 countries, the agricultural season had shrunk. We have about 500 million smallholder farmers in the world, many many of them in India. You plant in March, but rains come late. You have run out of seeds by then or have seeds that used to mature in four months but now the season only lasts three months. What happens?” Then, rising debt and falling currency push food affordability down. “Inequality in income is bad, but inequality in opportunity is worse … By 2030, we would have another 500 million young people in the labour workforce worldwide, mostly in Africa and South Asia. Think about all the nice things we talk about — artificial intelligence, automation. That is going to take away labour-intensive jobs.” Finally, conflict pulls focus from priorities. “Nigeria is a country of 200 million people. There are just about 10-15 million in the north. But because of the war there, a lot of the government’s resources go towards that which, if there was no conflict, would have funded education, health and social insecurity,” he said. “Globally, a vast majority of hungry people, wasted and stunted children are in conflict-affected countries … What a recognition like the Nobel Peace Prize means is that the world is recognising the relationship between conflict and hunger. It gives us an even bigger voice to talk about what needs to happen and what is the cost if we don’t. That, to me, is the biggest power of this award — the ability to speak with a louder voice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/access-to-food-is-a-problem-in-india-wfp/articleshow/78976894.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
November 1, 2020||India||Assam relief for officials on covert visits||GUWAHATI: In a partial modification of the SOP for persons arriving in Assam by any mode of transportation, the state health department has decided to exempt central government officials on covert visits to the state from Covid-19 tests to protect their identities. The notification says persons belonging to the category of “officials of investigation/ intelligence/agencies like National Investigation Agency, Central Bureau of Investigation, Enforcement Directorate, Intelligence Bureau etc. on official/covert visit” are exempted from the tests. The income tax department officials on official visits have also been put on the exempted category of visitors. “These categories of officials need to keep their identities concealed and so we are exempting them from Covid tests on arrival. They just need to inform the deputy commissioners of the districts where they are bound to,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/assam-relief-for-officials-on-covert-visits/articleshow/78976898.cms||Prabin Kalita
November 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Child trafficking networks uncovered in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A slew of recent incidents in the state revealed organised child trafficking networks dealing in young girls in Andhra Pradesh. In recent months, three major bonded labour cases were reported from Guntur, Prakasam and Anantapur, where young girls were found to have been trafficked. According to reports, little girls are sold for Rs 20,000-Rs 50,000 in the state for purposes ranging from house work to sex work. Traffickers reportedly ‘buy’ the girls from their parents living in backward villages. A recent case-in-point: Guntur (urban) police found eight girls aged between 13 and 16 engaged in bonded labour in well-to-do families on October 2. All the girls were employed without pay and given leftover food and a place to sleep. The rescue of a minor girl at Mahadevapuram village in Prakasam district brought to light a sex work racket. Police found that the girl was sold to a woman running a sex racket for Rs 27,000 and was forced into sex work for a period of four months when she was subjected to rape and physical assault. Child trafficking cases have also been reported from Visakhapatnam and Anantapur recently. According to data of trafficked children rescued in Andhra Pradesh, around 10% were found to have been forced into bonded labour. A majority, 40%, of trafficked children, were forced into labour whereas 10% were found to have been sexually exploited. Five per cent of trafficked children were engaged in begging while a small number was also found to have been engaged in drug smuggling and theft. According to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data from 2019, seven per cent of all victims of human trafficking happen to be children. NCRB data showed that 74% of trafficked victims are subject to sexual exploitation while 7% are forced into domestic servitude. A more recent report released by the Union ministry of women and child development — ‘Commercial sexual exploitation in India’ — revealed that trafficking runs rampant among semi-nomadic tribal communities residing in slums across various towns in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/child-trafficking-networks-uncovered-in-ap/articleshow/78974272.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Male farmers more prone to suicide, finds AU study||Visakhapatnam: In a bid to get a firmer grasp on the causes of farmers’ suicides in the country, three researchers from the psychology department of Andhra University (AU) recently conducted a study on ‘Well-being impacts on suicidal ideation or tendencies among farmers in Visakhapatnam district’. The sample being studied comprised 100 farmers, 50 men and 50 women, and 50 children from farming families aged between 17 and 69 years. The study, undertaken by research scholars Subhashini Akurathi, Ch Vasantha and senior professor MVR Raju, was published in the International Journal of Academic and Applied Research (IJAAR) in October. The survey was performed among farmers of Donkada and Kothuru villages of Nakkapalli mandal in Visakhapatnam district. Nearly 90% of the farmers surveyed belonged to lower, lower-middle and middle classes. The study found prevalence of depression, poverty and debt as the main causes of farmers’ suicides in Visakhapatnam. One of the researchers, Prof MVR Raju said, “Key findings showed that there is a significant difference between male and female farmers with the former experiencing higher depression and suicidal ideation. There is a positive or direct correlation between depression, anxiety and suicidal ideation.” 10.52% male farmers were found to be more prone to suicide compared to females. “The study is aimed at examining the effect of demographic variables such as age, educational qualification, marital status and gender on suicidal ideation and well-being. Although there is significant difference between suicidal ideation and well-being based on income, no such significant difference was found for suicidal ideation on grounds of gender, age and educational qualification,” added the professor. The examination of psychological aspects of distressed farmers revealed that suicide among working people such as farmers is the outcome of a complex interaction between worker vulnerabilities (mental health problems) and stressful working and living conditions (social and environmental stressors).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/male-farmers-more-prone-to-suicide-finds-au-study/articleshow/78974282.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Record sale of scrap by Waltair division||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to generate additional revenue amid the Covid-19 crisis, Waltair railway division’s materials management department has sold around Rs 15crore worth of scrap (unserviceable material) in a month. Senior divisional commercial manager AK Tripati said that the division sold scrap material worth Rs 7.43crore in a single day in October, a record in the East Coast Railways. Soon after, the division surpassed its own record by selling scrap that fetched Rs 7.59crore in a day. The materials management department identified the scrap lying around the track and at workshops during the lockdown. Within a short span of time, the scrap was segregated and auctioned. All auctions were done online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/record-sale-of-scrap-by-waltair-division/articleshow/78974301.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Man attacks wife and daughter with acid, held||VISAKHAPATNAM: A woman and her 12-year-old daughter suffered burn injuries when the woman’s husband attacked her with acid in Sivajipalem area on Saturday. The man had been reportedly suspecting his wife of infidelity. According to the police, the accused is an alcoholic who regularly beat up his wife under the influence of alcohol. The woman, 28-year-old Tila Devi, and her daughter are out of danger as the acid used was not very strong. The accused, Eswara Rao who is a painter by profession, has been taken into custody. On Saturday morning, during a fight with his wife, the accused took a glassful of toilet-cleaner liquid and poured it on her face. Seeing this, her daughter rushed to her rescue with both sustaining burns due to the acid. The two were taken to the emergency ward and are now said to be safe. MVP police station has started investigation into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-attacks-wife-and-daughter-with-acid-held/articleshow/78974331.cms||Siva G
November 1, 2020||World||Priest shot outside French church, suspect arrested||LYON: An attacker armed with a sawn-off shotgun seriously wounded a Greek Orthodox priest in a shooting outside a church in the French city of Lyon on Saturday, with the country still reeling from a deadly church attack days before. Nikolaos Kakavelaki, 52, was closing his Lyon church mid-afternoon when he was attacked and is now in a serious condition in hospital, said a police source who asked not to be named. The attacker fled the scene but Lyon's public prosecutor later announced that a suspect had been arrested. "A person who could correspond to the description given by the initial witnesses has been placed in policy custody," prosecutor Nicolas Jacquet said, adding that the suspect had not been carrying a weapon when he was arrested. The priest was shot twice in the chest at point-blank range, according to sources close to the inquiry. The motive for the attack was not clear. "At this stage, no hypothesis is being ruled out, nor favoured," Jacquet said. But it comes at a time when France is already on edge after the killing of three people inside a church in Nice on Thursday and the beheading of a teacher earlier this month who had showed his class a cartoon of the prophet Mohammed. The Lyon prosecutor's office said in a statement that witnesses, and a passing police patrol, heard gunshots then "saw an individual fleeing and discovered a man with gunshot wounds at the back door of the church". The prosecutors said that an investigation had been launched, and it remains "in close contact with the national anti-terrorist prosecution". The small, art-deco style Orthodox church is situated in a residential area of Lyon which was especially quiet due to the new lockdown measures introduced in France on Friday to stem the growing coronavirus pandemic. In Paris, Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin opened a crisis cell meeting to consider the situation. Archbishop Ieronymos, the head of the Greek Orthodox church, denounced a "horror that defies human logic". "Intolerant and fanatic extremists, fundamentalists of violence and death use religion as a bullet which aims at the heart of freedom and especially the freedom of belief of others," he told reporters in Athens. European Council President Charles Michel condemned "this new abominable act in Lyon". He added in a tweet that "in Europe, the freedom of conscience is guaranteed for all and must be respected, violence is intolerable and must be condemned". EU Parliament President David Sassoli said that "Europe will never bow to violence and terrorism". Saturday's shooting comes after three people were killed in a knife rampage inside a church in the southern town of Nice on Thursday. A Tunisian suspect was shot and injured by police near the scene of that attack. France was already tense after the republication in early September of cartoons of the prophet Mohammed by the satirical Charlie Hebdo magazine, which was followed by an attack outside its former offices, the beheading of the teacher and the attack in Nice. After the teacher's death, President Emmanuel Macron said France would never renounce its laws permitting blasphemous caricatures, sparking protests across the Muslim world. In an apparent bid to reach out to Muslims, Macron gave an interview with Qatar-based TV channel Al-Jazeera on Saturday in which he said he understood that caricatures of Mohammed could be shocking. He also lashed out at "lies" that the French state was behind the caricatures, and said he will "always defend in my country the freedom to speak, to write, to think, to draw". Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian has warned that French citizens face a security risk "wherever they are", saying alerts had been sent to all French nationals abroad. Prime Minister Jean Castex spoke of "the government's determination to allow each and everyone to practice their worship in complete safety and in complete freedom." He was speaking in the northwestern town of Saint-Etienne-du-Rouvray, where a catholic priest was killed in an Islamist attack in 2016. France went into a second coronavirus lockdown on Friday but the government has exempted places of worship until Monday, allowing them to celebrate the Christian All Saints' Day on Sunday. After the deadly attack in Nice, Macron announced increased surveillance of churches by France's on-the-street military force, which is to be bolstered to 7,000 troops from 3,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/priest-shot-outside-french-church-suspect-arrested/articleshow/78976939.cms||---
November 1, 2020||India||I-T searches on govt contractors yield ₹75 crore in ‘illegal assets’||PATNA: Searches by the income tax department on the offices and residential premises of four contractor groups based in Patna, Bhagalpur, Hilsa (Nalanda) and Katihar have yielded Rs 3.21 crore cash and fixed deposits of over Rs 30 crore. The department has started scrutiny of the seized documents related to investments by the contractors linked with different government welfare schemes, including the ‘Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal’ project. Fixed deposits and properties worth Rs 16 crore were placed under prohibitory orders. “The searches have led to unearthing of unaccounted income of about Rs 75 crore so far,” said an official statement issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes on Friday, adding evidence of unaccounted cash entries, sales and purchase worth over Rs 8 crore were found during survey of contractors engaged in Gaya rock mining. The I-T raids have generated political heat in Bihar, with LJP chief Chirag Paswan saying the flames of the probe may “engulf ’ even CM Nitish Kumar.” The raids were conducted on Thursday. The four contractor groups engaged in stone quarrying in Gaya were found to be evading taxes by inflating expenses for the supply of material and labour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-t-searches-on-govt-contractors-yield-75-crore-in-illegal-assets/articleshow/78976942.cms||Ramashankar
November 1, 2020||India||Will jail MLA for ‘lungi in museum’ remark: Himanta||GUWAHATI: The BJP-led government in Assam, if voted back to power, has vowed to put Congress MLA Sherman Ali behind bars for saying that the “blue-coloured lungi” that is typical of the attire of migrant Bengali-speaking Muslims should be displayed at the “Miya museum” he wants set up within the Srimanta Sankardev Kalakshetra. “How can someone stoop so low and say that a lungi be kept in a revered place like the kalakshetra. We are not arresting him now because that would give him votes . We will arrest him once we are voted back to power — if he does not apologise in public now,” finance and health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday. In a letter to the director of museums, Ali had said that a museum reflecting the culture and heritage of the people living in the char-chaporis (sandbars) of Assam had already been recommended by an assembly standing committee on the premises of the kalakshetra in Guwahati. Minister Sarma said BJP was all for preserving “charchapori culture” but not that of the Miyas, a term often used disparagingly in Assam to refer to illegal Muslim immigrants from Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-jail-mla-for-lungi-in-museum-remark-himanta/articleshow/78976958.cms||Prabin Kalita
November 1, 2020||Delhi||At average night temperature of 17.2°C, Delhi has coldest October in 58 years||NEW DELHI: Weeks before the usual onset of winter, Delhiites have been feeling the chill. Here’s why. Night temperatures over Delhi this October were the coldest recorded during the month in 58 years. The average minimum temperature at Safdarjung during October was 17.2 degrees Celsius, nearly two notches below normal, and the lowest since 1962, when the monthly mean minimum was 16.9 degrees Celsius. The normal minimum temperature for October is 19.1 degrees Celsius. While night conditions have been giving Delhiites a feel of November a month in advance, days have been particularly warm. The average maximum temperature in October was 34.5 degrees Celsius, the second highest for the month in at least the past 10 years. Experts said both conditions were linked to the absence of cloud cover during the month, which made days warm but allowed the heat to quickly dissipate at night. Min temp may not fall in next 6 daysThe last rain spell in the capital was on September 8 and the monsoon withdrew on September 25. Since then, clear skies have been making the days warm while the heat is quickly dissipating at night, leading to a sharp fall in temperature,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. On Wednesday, the city recorded its coldest night in the month of October in 26 years when the temperature dropped to 12.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. The last time the mercury had dipped lower during the month was on October 31, 1994, when 12.3 was recorded. “Apart from clear skies, nights have had very still winds during October. Calm wind conditions cause a decrease in night temperature but makes days warmer,” Srivastava said. The low night temperatures could be a precursor to an early winter as La Nina conditions prevail over the Pacific Ocean, which generally cools a large portion of the globe. However, IMD’s winter forecast is expected soon, and that is likely to give a more reliable picture. Met officials said the city recorded its all-time lowest mean minimum temperature in the month of October in 1954 with 16.7 degrees Celsius. According to the forecast of IMD, the minimum temperature is likely to remain 12-13 degrees Celsius in the next six days, and the maximum 30-31 degrees Celsius. The sky is predicted to remain clear along with mist in the morning hours for the next six days. Watch Delhi has the coldest October in 58 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-average-night-temperature-of-17-2c-delhi-has-coldest-october-in-58-years/articleshow/78976963.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt mulls Kannada test to shore up jobs for locals||BENGALURU: In a bid to provide home advantage to Kannadigas, the state government is looking at introducing a Kannada Language Skill Test (Kannada Bhasha Kaushalya Parikshe) for those aspiring for a job or for admission in educational institutions in the state. The test is being conceptualised on the lines of the Centre’s National Eligibility Test to screen candidates for Group C and D posts. “We have mooted the idea of Kannada Language Skill Test to ensure opportunities for those who know the local language. The objective is not just to protect the interest of locals but also to ensure better interaction between locals and those who are on the job. We have requested CM Yediyurappa to include this announcement in his Rajyotsava address,” chairman of Kannada Development Authority TS Nagabharana said. Kannada minister CT Ravi said the cabinet will deliberate on the matter before coming up with a law. Test a tool to localise job market: MinThe state celebrates its 65th formation day on Sunday. Test credentials will serve as a certificate to apply for jobs and college seats, and it will be made available for Group A and B jobs also. Group Cand D refers to mechanics, clerks, accountants, supervisors and peons among others, while Group A and B includes management-level posts. “We are looking at the language skill test as an effective tool to localise the job market. The cabinet will discuss this before coming up with legislation,” said Kannada and culture minister CT Ravi. “At present, in some sectors, including banking, employees are allowed to learn Kannada within six months after joining. Students of professional courses are being taught Kannada after getting admission. But the language skill test will help us screen candidates at the entry level itself,” said Nagabharana. Sources said a language test is being seen as an alternative route to ensure a “quota” for Kannadigas, since efforts to reserve jobs for locals could face legal challenges. Successive governments have struggled to walk the talk ever since the Sarojini Mahishi report, which recommended reservation of a majority of jobs in both government and private sectors to Kannadigas, was accepted in 1986. “As such, asking companies to reserve jobs for locals or anybody goes against the spirit of the Constitution, although state governments are empowered to bring in policies with the objective of protecting the interests of locals. The idea of using the Kannada Language Skill Test as an eligibility criterion seems to be a good one given the limitation to implementation of the direct reservation policy,” said M Sridharacharyulu, dean, School of Law, Bennett University. Labour minister Shivaram Hebbar said the government was committed to reserve jobs to Kannadigas. “The policy has been implemented informally. Recently, I took stock of the situation as I spoke to representatives of industries. About 70% of employees in the lower rung in these companies are local,” said Hebbar. He said the proposal under examination is to ensure 100% of Group B and C jobs, and at least 50% of posts from Group A and C categories for Kannadigas. Watch Karnataka mulls language test to boost job chances for locals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-mulls-kannada-test-to-shore-up-jobs-for-locals/articleshow/78976953.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
November 1, 2020||World||Obama: Trump failed to take pandemic, presidency seriously||DETROIT: Calling Joe Biden his "brother,'' Barack Obama on Saturday accused Donald Trump of failing to take the coronavirus pandemic and the presidency seriously as Democrats leaned on America's first Black president to energize Black voters in battleground Michigan on the final weekend of the 2020 campaign. Obama, the 44th president, and Biden, his vice president who wants to be the 46th, held drive-in rallies in Flint and Detroit, predominantly Black cities where strong turnout will be essential to swing the longtime Democratic state to Biden's column after Trump won it in 2016. "Three days until the most important election of our lifetime - and that includes mine, which was pretty important,'' said Obama, urging Democrats to get to the polls. The memories of Trump's win in Michigan and the rest of the Upper Midwest are still searing in the minds of many Democrats during this closing stretch before Tuesday's election. That leaves Biden in the position of holding a consistent lead in the national polls and an advantage in most battlegrounds, including Michigan, yet still facing anxiety it could all slip away. As of Saturday, nearly 92 million voters had already cast ballots nationwide, according to a tally by The Associated Press. Tens of millions more will vote by the time polls close on Tuesday night. The former president hammered on Trump's continued focus on the size of his campaign crowds. "Did no one come to his birthday party when he was a kid? Was he traumatized?'' Obama said in a mocking tone. "The country's going through a pandemic. That's not what you're supposed to be worrying about." Throughout the day, Trump and Biden, both septuagenarians, threw stinging barbs at one another that at moments verged into schoolyard taunt territory. Speaking in Flint, Biden joked of Trump, "When you were in high school, wouldn't you have liked to take a shot?'' He also mocked the president as a "macho man." Trump, too, on Saturday suggested he could beat up Biden if given the chance and suggested the former vice president wears sunglasses to cover up "surgery on the eyes.'' "He's not a big guy,'' Trump said of Biden. "A slight slap, you wouldn't have to close your fist.'' Later in Detroit, Biden ridiculed Trump for calling himself a "perfect specimen," called him Russian President Vladimir Putin's "puppy,'' and joked about a New York Times report that showed Trump had spent $70,000 on hair care. As Biden campaigned in Michigan, Trump made an aggressive play for pivotal Pennsylvania, focusing largely on his white, working-class base. At an evening rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, Trump announced that he had issued a memorandum that calls on government agencies to determine fracking's impact on the economy and trade and the costs of banning the oil and gas extraction through fracking. The president has repeatedly charged that Biden will end fracking - a big industry in Pennsylvania and other states - even as the former vice president has said that he does not support a ban on fracking. "In other words, if one of these maniacs come along and they say we're gonna end fracking, we're gonna destroy the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania," Trump said in announcing his memorandum. "You can say, sorry about that." Earlier in the day in a small town in Bucks County on the eastern edge of the state, Trump raised baseless concerns about election fraud, pointing specifically at Philadelphia, a city whose large African American population is key to Biden's fate in the state. "They say you have to be very, very careful - what happens in Philadelphia," Trump charged. "Everybody has to watch.'' Republicans are betting that Trump can win a second term by driving up turnout among his strongest supporters - white, non-college-educated men and rural voters - while limiting Biden's advantage with Blacks and Latinos. Democrats in several swing states worry that voters of color may not be excited enough about Biden to show up in the numbers they need. In Michigan, Rep. Dan Kildee, a Democrat who represents the Flint area, said he had been pressing for a couple of months for Biden or Obama to visit the majority Black city where a water crisis that began in 2014 sickened the city's residents, exposing stark racial inequities. "Showing up matters,'' Kildee said. "The message is important, no question about it. But there's a message implicit in showing up, especially in Flint.'' Biden's campaign announced it was sending Obama to Florida and Georgia on Monday. He is the campaign's most valuable asset to help energize the nonwhite voters Democrats so badly need to defeat Trump. "Joe Biden is my brother. I love Joe Biden, and he will be a great president," Obama said Saturday. The press for Michigan's Black voters comes after voting was down roughly 15% in Flint and Detroit four years ago - a combined 48,000-plus votes in a state Trump carried by about 10,700 votes. Overall, the Black voter turnout rate declined for the first time in 20 years in a presidential election, falling to 59.6% in 2016 after reaching a record-high 66.6% four years earlier, according to the Pew Research Center. Trump isn't ceding Michigan to Biden. He visited Waterford Township, near Detroit, on Friday and held a rally in the state capital, Lansing, this past week, though the surging coronavirus cases are clouding his presidency. The worst week of the year, in terms of new infections, arrived with Election Day looming. More than 99,000 Americans reported new infections on Friday, a record high, according to Johns Hopkins University. Trump told Pennsylvania voters that his administration has done "an incredible job'' dealing with the pandemic. He promised that the mass distribution of a vaccine was "just weeks away.'' He's been saying that since August, Biden has focused almost exclusively on Trump's inability to control the pandemic. "We're gonna beat this virus and get it under control and the first step to doing that is beating Donald Trump," Biden said. With the campaign down to the final days, Trump's closing sprint includes, in addition to the four stops in Pennsylvania, nearly a dozen events in the final 48 hours across states he carried in 2016. Biden will close out his campaign on Monday in Pennsylvania, the state where he was born and the one he's visited more than any other. The Biden team announced that the candidate, his wife, Jill, running mate Kamala Harris, and the senator's husband, Doug Emhoff, plan to "fan out across all four corners of the state.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/obama-trump-failed-to-take-pandemic-presidency-seriously/articleshow/78976968.cms||---
November 1, 2020||World||Obama: Trump failed to take pandemic, presidency seriously||DETROIT: Calling Joe Biden his "brother,'' Barack Obama on Saturday accused Donald Trump of failing to take the coronavirus pandemic and the presidency seriously as Democrats leaned on America's first Black president to energize Black voters in battleground Michigan on the final weekend of the 2020 campaign. Obama, the 44th president, and Biden, his vice president who wants to be the 46th, held drive-in rallies in Flint and Detroit, predominantly Black cities where strong turnout will be essential to swing the longtime Democratic state to Biden's column after Trump won it in 2016. "Three days until the most important election of our lifetime - and that includes mine, which was pretty important,'' said Obama, urging Democrats to get to the polls. The memories of Trump's win in Michigan and the rest of the Upper Midwest are still searing in the minds of many Democrats during this closing stretch before Tuesday's election. That leaves Biden in the position of holding a consistent lead in the national polls and an advantage in most battlegrounds, including Michigan, yet still facing anxiety it could all slip away. As of Saturday, nearly 92 million voters had already cast ballots nationwide, according to a tally by The Associated Press. Tens of millions more will vote by the time polls close on Tuesday night. The former president hammered on Trump's continued focus on the size of his campaign crowds. "Did no one come to his birthday party when he was a kid? Was he traumatized?'' Obama said in a mocking tone. "The country's going through a pandemic. That's not what you're supposed to be worrying about." Throughout the day, Trump and Biden, both septuagenarians, threw stinging barbs at one another that at moments verged into schoolyard taunt territory. Speaking in Flint, Biden joked of Trump, "When you were in high school, wouldn't you have liked to take a shot?'' He also mocked the president as a "macho man." Trump, too, on Saturday suggested he could beat up Biden if given the chance and suggested the former vice president wears sunglasses to cover up "surgery on the eyes.'' "He's not a big guy,'' Trump said of Biden. "A slight slap, you wouldn't have to close your fist.'' Later in Detroit, Biden ridiculed Trump for calling himself a "perfect specimen," called him Russian President Vladimir Putin's "puppy,'' and joked about a New York Times report that showed Trump had spent $70,000 on hair care. As Biden campaigned in Michigan, Trump made an aggressive play for pivotal Pennsylvania, focusing largely on his white, working-class base. At an evening rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, Trump announced that he had issued a memorandum that calls on government agencies to determine fracking's impact on the economy and trade and the costs of banning the oil and gas extraction through fracking. The president has repeatedly charged that Biden will end fracking - a big industry in Pennsylvania and other states - even as the former vice president has said that he does not support a ban on fracking. "In other words, if one of these maniacs come along and they say we're gonna end fracking, we're gonna destroy the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania," Trump said in announcing his memorandum. "You can say, sorry about that." Earlier in the day in a small town in Bucks County on the eastern edge of the state, Trump raised baseless concerns about election fraud, pointing specifically at Philadelphia, a city whose large African American population is key to Biden's fate in the state. "They say you have to be very, very careful - what happens in Philadelphia," Trump charged. "Everybody has to watch.'' Republicans are betting that Trump can win a second term by driving up turnout among his strongest supporters - white, non-college-educated men and rural voters - while limiting Biden's advantage with Blacks and Latinos. Democrats in several swing states worry that voters of color may not be excited enough about Biden to show up in the numbers they need. In Michigan, Rep. Dan Kildee, a Democrat who represents the Flint area, said he had been pressing for a couple of months for Biden or Obama to visit the majority Black city where a water crisis that began in 2014 sickened the city's residents, exposing stark racial inequities. "Showing up matters,'' Kildee said. "The message is important, no question about it. But there's a message implicit in showing up, especially in Flint.'' Biden's campaign announced it was sending Obama to Florida and Georgia on Monday. He is the campaign's most valuable asset to help energize the nonwhite voters Democrats so badly need to defeat Trump. "Joe Biden is my brother. I love Joe Biden, and he will be a great president," Obama said Saturday. The press for Michigan's Black voters comes after voting was down roughly 15% in Flint and Detroit four years ago - a combined 48,000-plus votes in a state Trump carried by about 10,700 votes. Overall, the Black voter turnout rate declined for the first time in 20 years in a presidential election, falling to 59.6% in 2016 after reaching a record-high 66.6% four years earlier, according to the Pew Research Center. Trump isn't ceding Michigan to Biden. He visited Waterford Township, near Detroit, on Friday and held a rally in the state capital, Lansing, this past week, though the surging coronavirus cases are clouding his presidency. The worst week of the year, in terms of new infections, arrived with Election Day looming. More than 99,000 Americans reported new infections on Friday, a record high, according to Johns Hopkins University. Trump told Pennsylvania voters that his administration has done "an incredible job'' dealing with the pandemic. He promised that the mass distribution of a vaccine was "just weeks away.'' He's been saying that since August, Biden has focused almost exclusively on Trump's inability to control the pandemic. "We're gonna beat this virus and get it under control and the first step to doing that is beating Donald Trump," Biden said. With the campaign down to the final days, Trump's closing sprint includes, in addition to the four stops in Pennsylvania, nearly a dozen events in the final 48 hours across states he carried in 2016. Biden will close out his campaign on Monday in Pennsylvania, the state where he was born and the one he's visited more than any other. The Biden team announced that the candidate, his wife, Jill, running mate Kamala Harris, and the senator's husband, Doug Emhoff, plan to "fan out across all four corners of the state.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/obama-trump-failed-to-take-pandemic-presidency-seriously/articleshow/78976969.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi sadar hosp organises screening camp for cancer suspects||Ranchi: The Ranchi sadar hospital on Saturday organised a screening and counselling programme in its campus for people with symptoms of cancer, like breast lumps, chronic ulcers caused by wounds and endometrioma in ovaries, in order to detect the genetic disease early on and thereby, prevent deaths. A team of experts, including oncologist Dr Ajit Kushwaha from state’s only cancer centre Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Dr Ajit Kumar from sadar hospital and others, attended to more than 50 patients. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said, “The idea behind organising a cancer screening programme was pitched by a few doctors from our team. Often cancer goes undetected in the absence of super specialised diagnosis and today’s programme will help patients in early detection of the disease.” Of all the participants, 25 were detected with suspected symptoms of the disease. “Upon examination, many were found with breast lumps and chronic ulcers. Some women also showed symptoms of endometrioma in their ovaries which ultimately develops into ovarian cancer. Some of them have also been asked to undergo tests like cytology and biopsy and report to us on a regular basis,” Dr Ajit said. Speaking on the measures that they are taking for early detection of breast and cervical cancer — the two most common types of cancer in women — Dr Kushwaha said, “Patients above the age of 30 will go for clinical breast examination and for detection of cervical cancer, a VIA/VILA — a visual inspection with ascetic acid and/or Lugol’s iodine — will be done. The cost-effective method is expected to deliver immediate results as the change in colour of the cervix after application of the liquid is a big giveaway. Those diagnosed with breast cancer would be referred for mammography, biopsy or other types of treatment depending on the severity of the disease while those with cervical cancer will be referred for colposcopy.” He further said that such screening camps must be organised periodically in all the sadar hospitals as they are the first point of contact for anyone looking for healthcare services in the district. “If cancer is detected in its early stage, it will help in timely treatment of the patient and thereby, save his/her life. Such screening camps can help in the early detection of the disease. And if the hospital plans to start an operation theatre, I will be happy to help in the days to come,” he added. Hospital authorities said that if the screening camp gets a good response, they will seek permission from the state health department to conduct such programmes on a regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-sadar-hosp-organises-screening-camp-for-cancer-suspects/articleshow/78974911.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 1, 2020||Ranchi||Bars to remain shut to press for license fee waiver||Ranchi: Even though the state government has allowed bars to reopen from Sunday, the 150-odd watering holes across Jharkhand will remain shut unless their demand for licence fee waiver is fulfilled. The Jharkhand Bar Restaurant Association (JBRA) delegation on Saturday submitted a memorandum to the state excise department, seeking waiver for the months the establishments remained closed owing to the lockdown. JBRA president Ranjan Kumar said, “The state government takes an annual license fee of Rs 9 lakh from each bar. However, this year we remained closed from March 23 owing to the lockdown and did not earn any revenue. If we pay Rs 9 lakh now, we have to pay the same amount again in April for renewal of the licence.” He added, “We have been getting calls from excise officials, asking us to pay the license fee to resume operations. We are ready to pay, provided it is only for the months when we did business. Like every other trade, we too are hit by the pandemic and despite that, we had to pay fixed electricity charges, rents, salaries to staff and so on. In such a scenario, we can rightfully demand a relaxation.” An excise official said the government will take a decision on the matter soon. “It is a policy decision and the department cannot take an arbitrary call. We have asked the bar owners to put their demands before the government,” he said. State excise minister Jagarnath Mahto, who also holds the education portfolio, is currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in Chennai. Excise secretary Vinay Kumar did not respond to TOI’s calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bars-to-remain-shut-to-press-for-license-fee-waiver/articleshow/78974901.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Barrage breach fuels fears of water crisis in Durgapur||Durgapur: People living in and around this town, as well as industrial units, are fearing an acute water crisis following a breach in a sluice gate of Durgapur Barrage on Saturday morning. The authorities have, however, promised to repair the damage by Monday. This is the second such incident in three years that has caused grave worries, especially among factory workers who are finally coping after the lockdown blow and farmers who fear they won’t have enough water to irrigate fields being prepared for rabi crops. Engineers and officials from the state irrigation department and Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) are taking stock of the situation at sluice gate 31. While repair equipment have been deployed, police teams are on active duty to control curious crowds and divert heavy vehicles from the area. In 2017, gate 1 of the barrage had been damaged. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has ordered “comprehensive restoration and repair” of not only Durgapur Barrage but also the one over Teesta, along with Massanjore and Kangsabati dams. Work at the Teesta site has been completed while the other projects are in progress. West Burdwan DM Purnendu Majhi allayed fears of flooding because of the breach. “Repair at gate 31 has begun on a war-footing. There is no possibility of floods,” he told TOI. Executive engineer (Durgapur Barrage) added that they expected to finish repairs within 48 hours. “Three of our engineers have also been rushed to the spot. We are going to restrict water release from Maithon and Panchet dams,” DVC chief engineer Satyabrata Banerjee told TOI. On the spectre of a water crisis, Durgapur mayor Dilip Augasti said: “We will supply drinking water to all wards of the corporation. People should not panic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/barrage-breach-fuels-fears-of-water-crisis-in-durgapur/articleshow/78976301.cms||Mohammad Asif
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||TMC talks invite to Gurung rivals for a ‘golden mean’||Darjeeling/Kolkata: The Trinamool Congress brass has invited Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) leader Binoy Tamang and Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) chairman Anit Thapa to Kolkata for talks at a time the Bengal governor is headed for the Hills. The two leaders are likely to reach the city on November 5. The invite comes amid the GJM Tamang faction organizing public rallies in the Hills against fugitive GJM leader Bimal Gurung who surfaced in Kolkata a few days ago and pledged support to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The Tamang faction, which held public meetings in Kalimpong and Mirik in the past and in Kurseong on Saturday, plans another in Darjeeling next week. Rivals see Gurung’s pledge to Mamata as a ploy to secure fresh entry to Hills politics three years after he deserted his own people following a 104-day shutdown in 2017. The situation is further complicated now because arch-rivals Tamang and Gurung are seeking a ride on the same boat against BJP. A section of Trinamool leaders in north Bengal believe that the aggressive campaign by Tamang and Thapa against Gurung might deflect a chunk of Gurung’s support base towards BJP. The Trinamool isn’t taking governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s month-long sojourn to the Hills lightly either. “In train for North Bengal to connect with people and work towards fulfilment of their expectations,” he recently tweeted. As head of state, the governor is likely to meet public representatives, prominent citizens and members of the administration to gauge ground reality. He may try to work out a “permanent political solution” to the Hills issue, albeit within his constitutional capacity. Trinamool insiders say the party will strive to strike a “golden mean” between Gurung and Tamang during the talks in Kolkata. Derived from Greek philosophy, the golden mean is the “most desirable middle path”, which in this case may come in handy to corner the BJP in the Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-talks-invite-to-gurung-rivals-for-a-golden-mean/articleshow/78976405.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Ranchi||Pandemic rages, but healthcare still missing from poll promises||Ranchi: While the curtains on the hectic campaigning for November 3 bypolls in Dumka and Bermo will come to an end on Sunday, political parties have largely refrained from bringing healthcare on the campaign even as the Covid-19 rahes ain the state. Age-old issues — Sarna code, reservation, adivasi-moolvasis vs outsiders and dynasts, blame-game over funds share between state and — continued to hog the political airwaves, but hardly no prominent campaigner spoke about his her or vision to revive the pathetic healthcare sector and ramp up medical facilities at rallies and gatherings in Dumka and Bemo constituencies. Since the outbreak of the pandemic in the state in March, Covid cases in Jharkhand have crossed the 1 lakh-mark and the toll is nearing the 900 milestone. Notably, Dumka, the subcapital, got its own Covid-19 testing almost six months after the outbreak started. Even after two decades since being was carved out of Bihar, quality and affordable healthcare remains a major concern in the state as issues of bed crisis, shortage of doctors, unavailability of medical facilities in remote areas continue to pose challenges. But ironically, the poll planks remained unchanged with both UPA and NDA camps putting blame on each other for trying to deviate from the real issues and making distasteful comments. Two of the three ruling alliance partners — JMM and Congress — have claimed that they are highlighting the efforts undertaken by the state government for Covid combat, especially in handling migrant crisis during the lockdown, at their rallies and blamed BJP of changing the narrative. Congress spokesperson Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo said, “We tried to stick to the burning issues and approached voters on the basis of the work done by us in the 10 months since we won the assembly polls in Secember. But BJP and its ally (Ajsu Party) began making distasteful comments and personal attacks on our leaders and candidates to divert the people’s attention from the mishandling of the pandemic by the Narendra Modi government at the Centre.” He added, “Having said that, in an election like these, with stakes high, issues of livelihood, unemployment, farming, poverty etc weighs more than just healthcare. In Jharkhand, the fight is to safeguard the interest and pride of tribals and the marginalised against the pro-capitalist BJP and its corporate friends.” Congress has nominated Kumar Jaimangal, son of the party’s former MLA on Bermo seat while JMM has fielded chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant. From BJP, ex-MLA Yogeshwar Mahto Batul will take on Jaimangal in Bermo while former lawmaker Lois Marandi will try her luck in Dumka. Both had lost their sitting seat in the 2019 assembly polls. JMM spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharjee said BJP has ruled the state for 16 of 20 years and the saffron party is responsible for the present state of healthcare employment. “The BJP governments failed to do anything to improve the ailing healthcare sector and they will never want to make it a poll campaign,” he said, adding that they have released a charter of things their government did since the pandemic struck. “Despite a poor state treasury and funds blockade by the BJP-led government in the Centre, we were the first to take the lead in bringing our migrant workers on train, and flights, run community kitchens for the poor during the lockdown and take Covid testing labs to the grassroot,” he said. BJP on the other hand accused the ruling alliance of refraining from talking on healthcare as it has nothing to show. Spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “The Jharkhand government has failed in covid-19 combat and has strategically refrained from talking about the poor healthcare sector during campaigning. In turn, it began levelling wild allegations against our leaders forcing us to counter them with facts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pandemic-rages-but-healthcare-still-missing-from-poll-promises/articleshow/78974862.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Shah on 2-day visit to Bengal from Nov 5||Kolkata: Union home minister Amit Shah is coming on a two-day visit to Bengal on November 5. Shah will chair a meeting of two BJP organization zones in Bankura on November 5 and address party organizers working in Kolkata zones the day after as a warm-up exercise to the 2021 Bengal assembly polls. Bengal BJP came to know about Shah’s visit late on Friday when they were busy making preparations for BJP national president J P Nadda’s visit on November 6. The last-minute change in the itinerary has sparked speculation about some important political development. Shah is likely to take stock of the emerging situation in the Hills after Bimal Gurung pulled out of the NDA and pledged support to Mamata Banerjee. “Amitji will meet representatives of various sections such as school teachers, those in the jute sector, small transport operators, idol-makers, fishermen and members of Matua community,” said BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shah-on-2-day-visit-to-bengal-from-nov-5/articleshow/78976320.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Dalit boy death: BJP to move Prez, NHRC||Birbhum: Supporters of BJP Yuva Morcha, led by the party’s Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan, scuffled with police on Saturday during the 12-hour bandh called to protest against the death of a 15-year-old Dalit boy in custody on Thursday. Their efforts to enter Mallarpur police station thwarted, the protesters sat on a dharna some 200 metres away. Khan, who is also state BJP Yuva Morcha president, announced that they would take the custody death complaint to Rashtrapati Bhavan, besides approaching both the National Commission for SC/ST and National Human Rights Commission. BJP Yuva Morcha agitations will continue across the state for the next three days while a protest rally will be organized in Kolkata on November 7. The teenager was picked up by Mallarpur police on Thursday in connection with a petty theft and was supposed to be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board on Friday. He was reportedly found hanging in the thana toilet on Thursday night, sparking allegations of police torment. “How could a minor boy die in police custody? Cops could have slapped charges on him if he was an accused in an offence. They cannot beat up a minor. We demand arrest of the Mallarpur OC,” the BJP MP said. Countering allegations, Trinamool Congress leader and minister Ashis Banerjee said the BJP was “searching for bodies” to cause unrest in Bengal. “It is unfortunate that they are trying to politicise a boy’s death,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dalit-boy-death-bjp-to-move-prez-nhrc/articleshow/78976468.cms||Someswar Boral
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||In 21st attack this yr, tiger mauls crab-catcher in Sunderbans||Kultali (Sunderbans): A crab-catcher from Jogerhat in Kultali, Sunderbans, who illegally entered Kalasdwip Island with four others, was mauled by a tiger on Friday. Tapas Mondal (45) has been admitted to hospital in Kultali. Forest officials suspect that Mondal’s teammates left the tiger badly injured. Fishing and crab-catching are strictly prohibited within the Sunderbans biosphere reserve. The aim is to restrict entry of humans into the tiger habitat. The group of five left Jogerhat for Kalasdwip on Wednesday. They were returning to their boat after a catch on Friday evening when the tiger pounced on Mondal. The others attacked the tiger with large knives and bamboo poles. The big cat eventually retreated into the forest. The four carried Mondal to their boat and set out for Kultali hospital. Mondal’s wife, Sumitra, said: “We are poor and have to risk our lives to catch crabs for a living. This is the first time my husband was attacked by a tiger. He has been catching crabs off forests in Kultali for 12 years now.” Forest officials said there had been 21 tiger attacks on fishermen and crab-catchers in the Sunderbans so far this year. Some of those venturing illegally onto tiger turf were migrant workers, who lost jobs during the Covid lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-21st-attack-this-yr-tiger-mauls-crab-catcher-in-sunderbans/articleshow/78976503.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Green shoots? Kolkata vehicle registration zooms in October||KOLKATA: If buying new cars is an indicator of economic revival, then Kolkata seems to have started turning the tide with vehicle registrations in the city in October surpassing that for the same month in 2019 and 2018, leading to a corresponding growth in revenue for the government. The rest of Bengal, too, has shown a similar trend. Pan-India though, the scene is somewhat different. Though there is recovery in sales and registrations across the country, these are yet to touch the numbers witnessed in October 2018 and 2019. The Public Vehicles Department (PVD), which is the regional transport office (RTO) for Kolkata core area, displayed early signs of recovery in July when automobile registration jumped to 3,080 from 1,840 in June. In May, there were no registrations due to the lockdown. The registration figures kept increasing steadily and finally broke through the ceiling in October, when despite fewer working days owing to festival holidays, the PVD registered 2,790 cars against 1,720 in the corresponding month last year, a jump of 62%. As a result, the PVD’s revenue shot up to Rs 16.2 crore this October despite waiver on permit fees and road taxes as against Rs 14.8 crore and Rs 14.6 crore respectively in the same month in the two previous years, transport officials said. Across Bengal, 99,410 vehicles were registered across 55 RTOs in Vahan 4 centralized database this October, against 60,980 vehicles in October 2019 and 48,810 vehicles in October 2018. Consequently, revenue from registration earned in October went up to Rs 177.7 crore in October 2020 from from Rs 144 crore in October 2019 and Rs 143.6 crore in October 2018. According to economist Abhirup Sarkar, growth in sale of vehicles is one of the indicators of economic revival, though it may not be a conclusive one. “Surpassing past registration figures in one or two months is too little a time to tell if the economy has turned around. But signs are definitely good and this, when sustained on a long-term basis, would say a lot about the resilience of the state’s economy. The pattern of vehicle registration also requires further study. There should be comparison with the states where Covid-9 affliction rate was higher,” Sarkar said. Economist Dipankar Dasgupta refused to conclude anything from the automobile registration figures. “It is really strange to see such growth at a time when people’s livelihood is at stake. This requires an extensive study before making any comments,” he said. Automobile experts, however, attributed the growth to pent-up demand, not only for this year but the past two years as well when sales were poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/green-shoots-kol-vehicle-registration-zooms-in-oct/articleshow/78976602.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 1, 2020||Ranchi||Witch-hunting on rise in J’khand: NCRB data||Ranchi: Jharkhand has witnessed a spurt in witch-hunting cases recently and in the last two months alone, at least eight persons have become victims of the social evil. The National Crime Record Bureau data for 2019 revealed that Jharkhand was ranked third in witch-hunting cases and recorded 15 murders related to the crime. Chhattisgarh with 22 murders was on top of the list. Police said killing in the name of witch-hunting keep increasing despite taking up awareness campaigns, strict action against the culprits and an existing rule to curb the menace. On October 12, three members of a family, identified as Birsa Munda, Sukru Purti and Somwari Purti, of a village under Saiko police station area in Khunti district were abducted and killed on charges of practising witchcraft. Police had arrested three persons in connection with the incident and raids are on to nab the other accused in the case. Four days later on October 16, a "witch doctor" named Kurchu Munda was killed with a sharp weapon in Bedo police station area in Ranchi district. Earlier on September 15, a woman was beaten to death in Bundu police station area of Khunti district for allegedly practising witchcraft. Her husband also died in the incident while trying to save her. Another woman was killed for the same reason in Gumla district during the same month. Concerned over the rising incidents, Khunti police held a discussion with the district administration recently to intensify mass awareness campaigns in local languages. Khunti SP Ashutosh Shekhar said, “Superstition seems to be most the common reason behind the murders. However, in a significant number of cases, many were also killed in the name of witch-hunting while hiding the real reasons like land grab and quarrels over assests.” Former IPS officer Arun Oroan said even though a law on preventing witch-hunting exists, it has not been effective so far. He said, “In many cases, illiteracy and superstition are the main reasons for the murders. Mostly, Adivasis fell victims to the social evil.” He also said that because of the poor healthcare services in villages, people are dependent on unscientific practices like black magic to find a cure for their ailments. “Such practices are aggravating the problem of witch-hunting,” Oraon added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/witch-hunting-on-rise-in-jkhand-ncrb-data/articleshow/78974831.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu to hold Nandigram rally on Nov 10||Nandigram: Trinamool rebel Suvendu Adhikari sent out a message to the party brass from his home turf Nandigram on Saturday saying that he was not going to respond to the “nonsense remarks” made against him by some “subordinates”. Instead, the “janaganer sevak” announced that he would hold a public rally at Nandigram on November 10, sparking speculation that Adhikari might roll out his roadmap that day. Adhikari’s remarks came two days after Trinamool senior and state urban development minister Firhad Hakim made an oblique remark at Suvendu quoting Tagore: ”Rath bhabe ami deb, path bhabe ami, murti bhabe ami deb, hashe antarjami.” Without taking names, Adhikari said: “There’s no use trying to provoke me. Some subordinates are speaking nonsense against me. Dogs can bite your leg. Will you do the same?” He added: “I didn’t descend to this place in a parachute neither did I ascend in a lift. I reached where I stand today by breaking stairs. I was a councillor of the undivided Congress in 1995. I was an MLA from Dakshin Kanthi in 2004. I led the Nandigram land stir from the front. I have never engaged in narrow politics.” Hakim reminded the rebel leader that everyone in Trinamool could become what they are now by carrying the picture of Mamata Banerjee. “We didn’t ascend in a lift or descend in a parachute. But none of us could have made it alone without the picture of Mamata Banerjee behind us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-to-hold-nandigram-rally-on-nov-10/articleshow/78976372.cms||Suman Mandal
November 1, 2020||Ranchi||After cases decline, Koderma de-notifies Covid hosp||Koderma: Koderma DC Ramesh Gholap on Saturday said the only Covid-designated hospital in the district, Holy Family Hospital, has been de-notified after the number of active cases and new infections have decreased. Moreover, the step was also taken because of the high rate of recovery, which currently stands at 98%, so that other patients can also be treated at the private hospital, which is the biggest healthcare centre of the district. Of the 24 districts, Koderma, with 31 active cases, has the lowest number of Covid patients after Latehar (17) and Sahebganj (30) as of Saturday morning. However, with 28 deaths, it is the fourth worst-affected district behind East Singhbhum, Ranchi, Dhanbad and Bokaro. Talking to TOI, Gholap said, “Since the last couple of months, Covid cases have gradually declined in the district. The overall positivity rate is 3.38% at the moment, though it was high in July (7.06%) and August (7.08%). The district also has a low fatality rate of 0.86%.” He further said a total of 96,895 swab samples have been tested in the district so far and only 3,275 turned out to be positive. “Of the total positive cases, 3,216 patients have recovered. The district, which reported its first case on April 11, had put 1,165 patients in home isolation and the rest were treated in institutional Covid care centres and hospitals,” Gholap said, adding, "Of the total patients in home isolation, 1,138 recovered fully." The DC also said a special swab collection and testing drives were conducted from October 24 to 30 to cover a larger section of the population. “It was a matter of relief as only 28 samples returned positive of the 6,805 tested during the period. Early detection and proper treatment has made it possible for us to reduce the numbers,” Gholap added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-cases-decline-koderma-de-notifies-covid-hosp/articleshow/78974838.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Elephant electrocuted in Dooars, 1 arrested||Jalpaiguri: An adult makna (tuskless male) elephant died of electrocution at Khairkata Basti under Diana Range in Jalpaiguri’s Nagrakata. The elephant’s body was recovered on Saturday morning. “Some galvanized iron wires have been recovered from the spot. One person, Sh Mofidul Haque, has been arrested and is being interrogated,” said Vinod K Yadav, principal chief conservator of forests, wildlife. The animal had entered Haque’s betel nut plantation, where live wires had been set up. This was the eighth such case in four-and-a-half months. In seven instances, the culprits had illegally tapped power from high-tension lines to stop elephants from entering paddy fields or betel nut plantations. Around 30 elephants have died of electrocution in the Dooars and the Terai regions over the past decade. Environmentalists blame this on the indiscriminate growth of human habitats in and around forests. “With their lands taken over by humans, elephants have nowhere to go. Their behavioural change is a result of continuous man-elephant conflict,” said Animesh Basu, a member of the state wildlife advisory board. “We have decided to conduct a door-to-door awareness campaign to stop people from tapping into power lines to lay traps, and circulate a conflict-resolution advisory to all tea gardens,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/elephant-electrocuted-in-dooars-1-arrested/articleshow/78976392.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
November 1, 2020||Kolkata||Guv eyes ‘solution to Hills problem’, TMC smells a rat||Malda/Kolkata: On a train journey to Darjeeling via Malda, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday said he would meet politicians, spiritual leaders and intellectuals to thrash out a solution to the Hills problem during his month-long stay. The Trinamool Congress, however, is sniffing “a political agenda” in his overtures. “No one ever thought Article 370 will be revoked in Jammu and Kashmir or that the Ram Mandir issue will be resolved; but, they are a reality today. The country is marching ahead on a new path, which the whole world is witnessing. Every problem has a solution; a solution that can be found within constitutional limits. I will do my homework on the Hills,” the governor said. BJP MP Khagen Murmu and the party’s Baishnabghata MLA Swadhin Sarkar met the governor when he reached Malda. There was no one from the district administration to welcome him. Continuing his tirade against a section of the Bengal bureaucracy, days after he raised the matter with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, Dhankhar said: “Most officers obey the Constitution, but some senior officers are now political servants instead of public servants. I urge them not to forget their duty. The long arm of the law will spare none.” Trinamool MP Saugata Roy said the governor was welcome to spend a month at Raj Bhavan in Darjeeling, but he should not engage in “a political conspiracy” against the state. “We will oppose him if he keeps on issuing statements against the government. We will counter use of the governor’s office to hatch a political conspiracy. Whatever he does, his overtures won’t have any effect on the people of the Hills,” Roy said. Trinamool’s Malda president and MP Mousam Noor said the governor was acting as a politician. “He has a particular political agenda. He has been mum on issues like Covid-19 or plight of migrant workers, but chooses to comment on divisive issues. He is acting like the BJP’s mouthpiece here and demeaning the position of a governor,” Noor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guv-eyes-solution-to-hills-problem-tmc-smells-a-rat/articleshow/78976433.cms||Subhro Maitra
November 1, 2020||Delhi||Water crisis in south Delhi for second successive day||NEW DELHI: The weekend didn’t bring any relief to some areas of the city despite the assurance by Delhi Jal Board that normal water supply would be restored by Saturday morning. With only 80% operational capacity restored by the afternoon, tail-end areas like Vasant Kunj, Mehrauli and Tahirpur continued to rely on water tankers. It was only around 8 pm that DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha could confirm that 100% operations had been restored at both Bhagirathi and Sonia Vihar plants. However, RWAs of areas like Greater Kailash-I, Greater Kailash-II, Lajpat Nagar, Hauz Khas, RK Puram and New Friends Colony reported the morning water supply to be normal. DJB assures normal supply todayChadha visited one of the affected plants at Sonia Vihar and later announced in the evening that ammonia levels had been brought within acceptable parameters. DJB has assured normal supply on Sunday. The Bhagirathi and Sonia Vihar plants — which have a combined water treatment capacity of 250MGD — have been impacted for the past two days due to the twin problems of spike in pollutants from Haryana and UP's Upper Ganga Canal being under annual maintenance. Explaining the reason behind some areas in east and south Delhi having to go without water on Saturday, a senior DJB official said that another spike in the ammonia levels in the water coming from Haryana was noticed around 1 am due to which some operations remained hampered. Senior DJB officials explained that they were using pumps and other machinery at different locations to pump the water from one place to another in Yamuna. “This will remove the stagnated water with increased ammonia, which will be replaced with the water that will come from Haryana through Yamuna and from UP through its alternative route up to the affected plants," said an official. Some residents in tailend colonies had to rely on tankers through the day. Harjinder Saroha, vice-chairman of the Vasant Kunj federation of RWAs said that their area faced immense hardship on the second day of the crisis. After Friday’s announcement of things being brought back on track, DJB said the production capacity at Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi water treatment plants had increased to almost 100%, but due to the overnight increase in levels of ammonia, both plants had to once again reduce it to 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/water-crisis-in-south-delhi-for-second-successive-day/articleshow/78976986.cms||---
November 1, 2020||World||England to enter new lockdown; UK virus cases pass 1 million||LONDON: British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday announced a new month-long lockdown for England after being warned that without tough action a resurgent coronavirus outbreak will overwhelm hospitals in weeks. On the day the UK passed 1 million confirmed Covid-19 cases, Johnson made a sudden about-face and confirmed that stringent restrictions on business and daily life would begin Thursday and last until Dec. 2. He said at a televised news conference that "no responsible prime minister'' could ignore the grim figures. "Unless we act, we could see deaths in this country running at several thousand a day,'' said Johnson, who was hospitalized earlier this year for a serious case of Covid-19. Under the new restrictions, bars and restaurants can only offer take-out, non-essential shops must close and people will only be able to leave home for a short list of reasons including exercise. Activities ranging from haircuts to foreign holidays must once again be put on hold. Unlike during the UK's first three-month lockdown earlier this year, schools, universities, construction sites and manufacturing businesses will stay open. As in other European countries, virus cases in the UK began to climb after lockdown measures were eased in the summer and people began to return to workplaces, schools, universities and social life. The Office for National Statistics estimated Friday that 1 in 100 people in England, well over half a million, had the virus in the week to Oct. 23. Johnson had hoped a set of regional restrictions introduced earlier in October would be enough to push numbers down. But government scientific advisers predict that on the outbreak's current trajectory, demand for hospital beds will exceed capacity by the first week of December, even if temporary hospitals set up during the first peak of the virus are reopened. The scientists warned Covid-19 hospitalizations and deaths could soon surpass the levels seen at the outbreak's spring peak, when daily deaths topped 1,000. The government's chief scientific adviser, Patrick Vallance, said the mortality rate had "potential to be twice as bad, if not more'' than it was during the pandemic's first European wave, if nothing was done. As European countries such as France, Germany and Belgium in imposing a second lockdown amid surging caseloads, it looked inevitable that Johnson would have to follow. Official figures announced Saturday recorded 21,915 new cases confirmed in the last 24 hours, bringing Britain's total since the start of the pandemic to 1,011,660. Britain's death toll from the coronavirus is 46,555, the highest in Europe, with 326 new deaths announced Saturday. The United States, India, Brazil, Russia, France, Spain, Argentina and Colombia have also recorded more than 1 million cases, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. Scientists say the true number of cases is much higher because not everyone with the virus is tested. Any new lockdown will need Parliament's approval, and a vote is scheduled for Wednesday. The new restrictions would apply to England. Other parts of the UK set their own public health measures, with Wales and Northern Ireland already effectively in lockdown and Scotland under a set of tough regional restrictions. Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said Saturday that for now people in Scotland should not travel to or from England, "except for essential purposes.'' Throughout the pandemic, many British scientists and public health experts have accused Johnson of being too slow to act. London School of Hygiene epidemiologist John Edmunds, a member of the government's scientific advisory group, said that even with the new lockdown, Britain was facing "deaths in tens of thousands from this wave.'' Keir Starmer, leader of the main opposition Labour Party, said in response to the lockdown announcement, "There's no denying these measures are necessary and I'm glad that the government has finally taken the decision that it should have taken weeks ago.'' But Johnson is under pressure from some members of his Conservative Party, who oppose tighter restrictions because of the economic damage they cause. Owners of businesses that have struggled to get back on their feet since the first lockdown was eased said the impact of new closures would be devastating. "People have borrowed up to the hilt and spent money in order to get Covid-secure,'' said Kate Nicholls of pub and restaurant industry group Hospitality UK "There is no spare capacity in the tank to be able to fund a lockdown, even for three to four weeks.'' A government program that has paid the wages of millions of furloughed employees during the pandemic was due to end Saturday, but will be extended during the new lockdown. Johnson had planned to announce the lockdown in Parliament on Monday, but was forced into early action after the Times of London reported the news. The government said there would be an investigation into the leak. Johnson said the government had to make "incredibly difficult'' judgments during the pandemic. He said it was "a constant struggle and a balance that any government has to make between lives and livelihoods - and obviously lives must come first.'' England's chief medical officer, Chris Whitty, said at the news conference that "there is basically no perfect time (to act), and there are no good solutions.'' "We're trying to have the least bad set of solutions,'' he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/england-to-enter-new-lockdown-uk-virus-cases-pass-1-million/articleshow/78977017.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Woman stabs tenant over unpaid rent of 24k; arrested||BENGALURU: A fight over unpaid rent of Rs 24,000 ended in the house owner stabbing her tenant, a 28-year-old homemaker, in Rajagopalnagar on Friday night. R Poornima is undergoing treatment at a hospital. The accused, K Mahalakshmi of Marutinagar, Laggere, has been arrested on the charge of attempt to murder. She is in judicial custody now. Poornima and her husband Ravichandra, a private company employee, have been staying in the single-bedroom house owned by Mahalakshmi for the last one year. The couple had made an advance of Rs 65,000 and paid a rent of Rs 6,000 per month. Due to Covid-19, Ravichandra had lost his job as sales executive with a solar light distributing agency in May. He recently joined another company. “Owing to financial crisis, Ravichandra had not paid rent for the last four months. On Friday night, Mahalakshmi went to their house and fought with Poornima. Though the couple requested her to wait for one more month, Mahalakshmi refused to get out of the house unless the money was paid. Poornima suggested she cut the dues from the advance amount. But Mahalakshmi was not ready to do so as she claimed it was invested in chit funds. When Poornima reiterated their helplessness, Mahalakshmi lost her cool. She rushed to the kitchen, pulled a knife and stabbed Poornima on her hands and neck. When Ravichandra intervened and stopped her, she fled. We detained Mahalakshmi the same night and shifted her to a women’s rehabilitation centre. She was arrested on Saturday,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-woman-stabs-tenant-over-unpaid-rent-of-24k-arrested/articleshow/78977006.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Bineesh under NCB scanner, sleuths visit ED’s office||BENGALURU: A Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) team visited the Enforcement Directorate office in Bengaluru on Saturday evening, probably to quiz Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who was arrested by ED on Thursday. NCB, which had earlier arrested Bineesh’s aide Mohammed Anoop on drug-peddling charges, is yet to establish drug-trade links between the duo. Around 5pm, the NCB team reached the Shantinagar office, where Bineesh was being questioned by ED sleuths on his money link with Anoop for the second day. Sources said the narcotics agency is yet to register a case against him and the purpose of the visit could be to gather information about him or interrogate him unofficially about his connection with Anoop. While NCB sleuths in Bengaluru remained tight-lipped about Bineesh’s involvement in drug trade, sources revealed the agency could register a case against him and approach the special court seeking custodial interrogation to establish his ties with Anoop. Brother not allowed to meet him Bineesh’s elder brother Binoy Kodiyeri, who’s in Bengaluru since the former’s arrest, approached ED sleuths with his lawyers twice on Friday in an attempt to meet Bineesh, allegedly for some paper work pertaining to the case. But he was denied permission. Binoy later attempted to file a petition with the chief justice of Karnataka high court by visiting his official residence on Friday night, but his request was turned down. He is expected to approached the court on Monday, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-bineesh-under-ncb-scanner-sleuths-visit-eds-office/articleshow/78977001.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Mumbai||Day after 28th birthday, Mumbai woman crushed to death in Metro trailer mishap||MUMBAI: Just a day after she celebrated her 28th birthday, an Andheri woman was killed in a freak mishap on the Western Express Highway around 6am on Saturday. A trolley connected to a trailer (a puller axle truck) detached and veered out of control when a locking pin broke, and knocked down the woman, Falguni Patel, and her cousin Tulsi , who were standing on the kerb. The incident took place in Andheri (E) as the south-bound trailer was returning from a Metro 2A site. After the trolley knocked down Falguni and Tulsi, it hit two other people before ramming into a stationary auto, a taxi and then smashing into a Metro pillar. Falguni’s body was completely crushed under the weight of the metal and wedged amid the mangled heap, and had to be extricated. Woman dead in mishap was family’s sole breadwinnerAndheri resident Falguni Patel who died in a tragic accident a day after celebrating her 28th birthday was waiting at Gundavli with her cousin Tulsi when the accident took place. Tulsi injured a leg, while the other two—an autorickshaw driver and a taxi driver--sustained minor injuries. Their vehicles were damaged. The driver of the trailer, Vinod Yadav, fled the spot, abandoning the vehicle. Deputy commissioner of police Maheshwar Reddy said Yadav has been booked for negligence and police are looking for him. Several cranes had to be deployed to lift the trolley. “We had to lift Falguni’s smashed body from beneath...” a relative said, haltingly. “We are unable to get that scene out of our minds.” At the civic-run Cooper Hospital, Falguni’s friends and relatives rallied around her family. Speaking in hushed tones, her friends recalled how much fun Falguni had had during her birthday party just a day earlier. Falguni was the sole breadwinner of her family. “She worked for a private firm at Bandra-Kurla Complex,” said a relative, adding that Falguni also worked as caterer at small functions to supplement the family’s income. On the fateful morning, Falguni had borrowed a friend’s two-wheeler to go to the highway with Tulsi to pick up a parcel that was coming from Gujarat. The parcel was arriving by a bus that was to pass that way around the time. “The parcel contained a saree that Falguni wanted her mother to wear at her brother’s wedding. MMRDA, the agency that is handling Metro construction work, has constituted a three-member committee to probe the matter and has set a deadline of two days for its completion. The contractor will be penalised for negligence and damage caused. MMRDA said the accident damaged a pier of metro 7. Heavy traffic jam was reported on the highway after the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/day-after-28th-birthday-mumbai-woman-crushed-to-death-in-metro-trailer-mishap/articleshow/78977036.cms||Nitasha Natu
November 1, 2020||Bengaluru||6 Karnataka cops win home minister’s medal for busting Al-Hind module||BENGALURU: Six cops from the state have been selected for the Union home minister’s Special Operation Medal-2020 for having busted the Al-Hind terror module operating in south India. Additional commissioner of police Soumendu Mukherjee, DySPs Umesh SK and D Kumar, inspector Susheela and constables Shankar Y and Prakash N will be felicitated by the Union home ministry. The team from internal security division (ISD) had arrested nine people on terror charges between December 2019 and January 2020, following an alert from Tamil Nadu police, who were tracking Kwaja Moinuddin alias Jalal in connection with the murder of TN Hindu activist Wadi Suresh in 2014. While escaping, Kwaja had procured around 20 sim cards using fake documents. One of them was found to be active in Jayanagar and was being used by a bus driver named Ejaz Pasha. Based on the input, ISD picked up Pasha. Subsequently, the cops arrested his aide Haneef, who was part of the Al-Hind trust headed by his uncle Mehboob Pasha at New Guruppanapalya. The team relentlessly pursued the case and was successful in arresting seven other members in the state. Three pistols, 89 rounds of bullets, bow and arrows, laptops, tablets and tent material were seized from them. The team came across some text messages, in which the accused had said the Babri Masjid judgment and NRC were unfavourable to Muslims and had supported anti-CAA and NRC protests. They also talked about making a list of people who spoke ill against the community and eliminating them. The officers also discovered that the accused were planning to carry out some ‘action’ in Mumbai and were asked to set buses on fire during anti-CAA protests. Umesh said the accused were in contact with a handler in Pakistan and the arrests not just exposed the outfit’s presence in south India but also foiled its attempts to incite violence in the country. The handler had reportedly told Mehboob Pasha to identify four individuals to be sent for training in terrorist camps in foreign countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/6-karnataka-cops-win-home-ministers-medal-for-busting-al-hind-module/articleshow/78976987.cms||---
November 1, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Deaths fall 40% to 74 in Maharashtra, fewest in 5 months||MUMBAI: Along with a dip in new coronavirus infections, the state recorded a drop of over 40% in deaths on Saturday, the clearest indicator that the Covid-19 wave was waning. A state government update said 74 patients died because of Covid-related complications in 24 hours compared to 127 the previous day. The new deaths took the toll to 43,911. The latest state figure for fatalities was the lowest in 159 days. On May 25, authorities had reported 60 deaths. With 32 fatalities, the city accounted for 43% of the 74 deaths in the state. Fatalities in the state have been below 200 for 14 days now. Positivity rate down in state despite 70,000 tests per dayThe state added 5,548 Covid-19 patients on Saturday, taking the case tally to 16,78,406. The city added 992 new cases, taking its tally to 2.57 lakh. State officials were hopeful the Covid-19 numbers would drop further over the next two weeks. “Our positivity rate is down even though we have been trying to maintain 70,000 tests on average every day,” Dr Pradeep Awate, head, epidemiology cell of the state public health department, said. The city death toll touched 10,293 with 32 new fatalities on Saturday. The city figure was 43% of the 74 deaths in the state. “The downward trend [in deaths] has been noticeable for a few weeks. It is not surprising that we had a lower number of deaths to report on Saturday,” Awate said. A BMC official said there was unlikely to be a second wave because of the “scientific unlocking” process. “We went step by step in unlocking services, thereby ensuring that people are gradually acclimatised to the viral load in the city,” the official said. “According to the bulletin issued by the public health department, many corporations and districts in the state reported zero deaths on Saturday, including neighbouring corporations like Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayandar, Ulhasnagar and Bhivandi-Nizampur. Of the eight corporations in the Mumbai region, four did not report a single Covid death.” The BMC has also begun closing down facilities and increasing the non-Covid services at its hospitals. “However, we are not reducing the CC1 and CC2 facilities,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. During the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign held in the September-October period, BMC officials found many residences in slums and slum-like pockets were locked as their inhabitants had gone back to their home towns and villages in other states. Community health workers have been asked to keep a watch on these closed houses and, whenever the inhabitants return, counsel them on the need to observe a 14-day quarantine period. On Saturday, the state continued with the trend of discharging more patients than detecting new patients. There were 7,303 discharges, taking the total to 15.1 lakh. The recovery rate touched 90%. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region added 1,924 cases and 40 deaths, taking the tally to 5.8 lakh and toll to 17,982. In Thane, 163 cases and three deaths were registered, taking the tally to 46,666 and the toll to 1,152. The recovery rate shot up to 93% with only 2,097 active cases left. In Navi Mumbai, there were 149 positive cases, taking the tally to 44,521. The recovery rate was 93%. Three deaths took the toll to 901. Panvel reported 78 cases and two deaths. The tally touched 23,533 and the toll, 552.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-deaths-fall-40-to-74-in-maharashtra-fewest-in-5-months/articleshow/78977055.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 1, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Deaths fall 40% to 74 in Maharashtra, fewest in 5 months||MUMBAI: Along with a dip in new coronavirus infections, the state recorded a drop of over 40% in deaths on Saturday, the clearest indicator that the Covid-19 wave was waning. A state government update said 74 patients died because of Covid-related complications in 24 hours compared to 127 the previous day. The new deaths took the toll to 43,911. The latest state figure for fatalities was the lowest in 159 days. On May 25, authorities had reported 60 deaths. With 32 fatalities, the city accounted for 43% of the 74 deaths in the state. Fatalities in the state have been below 200 for 14 days now. Positivity rate down in state despite 70,000 tests per dayThe state added 5,548 Covid-19 patients on Saturday, taking the case tally to 16,78,406. The city added 992 new cases, taking its tally to 2.57 lakh. State officials were hopeful the Covid-19 numbers would drop further over the next two weeks. “Our positivity rate is down even though we have been trying to maintain 70,000 tests on average every day,” Dr Pradeep Awate, head, epidemiology cell of the state public health department, said. The city death toll touched 10,293 with 32 new fatalities on Saturday. The city figure was 43% of the 74 deaths in the state. “The downward trend [in deaths] has been noticeable for a few weeks. It is not surprising that we had a lower number of deaths to report on Saturday,” Awate said. A BMC official said there was unlikely to be a second wave because of the “scientific unlocking” process. “We went step by step in unlocking services, thereby ensuring that people are gradually acclimatised to the viral load in the city,” the official said. “According to the bulletin issued by the public health department, many corporations and districts in the state reported zero deaths on Saturday, including neighbouring corporations like Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayandar, Ulhasnagar and Bhivandi-Nizampur. Of the eight corporations in the Mumbai region, four did not report a single Covid death.” The BMC has also begun closing down facilities and increasing the non-Covid services at its hospitals. “However, we are not reducing the CC1 and CC2 facilities,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. During the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign held in the September-October period, BMC officials found many residences in slums and slum-like pockets were locked as their inhabitants had gone back to their home towns and villages in other states. Community health workers have been asked to keep a watch on these closed houses and, whenever the inhabitants return, counsel them on the need to observe a 14-day quarantine period. On Saturday, the state continued with the trend of discharging more patients than detecting new patients. There were 7,303 discharges, taking the total to 15.1 lakh. The recovery rate touched 90%. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region added 1,924 cases and 40 deaths, taking the tally to 5.8 lakh and toll to 17,982. In Thane, 163 cases and three deaths were registered, taking the tally to 46,666 and the toll to 1,152. The recovery rate shot up to 93% with only 2,097 active cases left. In Navi Mumbai, there were 149 positive cases, taking the tally to 44,521. The recovery rate was 93%. Three deaths took the toll to 901. Panvel reported 78 cases and two deaths. The tally touched 23,533 and the toll, 552.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-19-deaths-fall-40-to-74-in-maharashtra-fewest-in-5-months/articleshow/78977058.cms||Bhavika Jain
