November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengalureans set out to celebrate Halloween at city hot spot||Bengalureans love to dress up, and even more so when they can add a touch of creativity to it to turn out in their macabre best and celebrate Halloween. Although the spook-fest was rather low-key across the city this time around, given the ongoing pandemic, a few dared to venture out with their pals and have a fun time. BT was at one such do in the city, which had a minimal guest list, in keeping with safety protocols. While guests arrived kitted out in various spooky outfits, social distancing norms were soon forgotten, as were masks, as they hung out with pals they hadn’t seen in a long time. DJ Rohan, though, never once took off his mask, as he hung out at the console spinning some great tunes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalureans-set-out-to-celebrate-halloween-at-city-hot-spot/articleshow/78984117.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai cyclists go spooking as ghosts and witches on wheels||In these pandemic times when there’s a limit on gatherings and festivities, Mumbai’s cyclists found a way to bring out the spooks and chills on Halloween. They embarked on some fun trails with the spookiest costumes, eerie masks and make-up on October 31 before dusk. For the riders, the Halloween-themed ride got them into a fun mode that was different from their regular heritage and history trails, midnight and breakfast rides. Witches, wizards and pirates on an open roadCheck out the spooks on wheelsThe Halloween rides took place in different areas, one of which was a 10-km ride from Gorai to Manori Sunset Point. Instead of broomsticks, witches were seen on cycles and loving it! Mumbai’s bicycle mayor Firoza Suresh, who organised the themed ride, says, “It was nice to see such a great turnout. We went out on a spin and it was themed ‘Trick the traffic, treat the city’, which was on the lines of the ‘Trick or treat’ phrase. Nowadays, kids and families have no avenue for a good outing, so, when you have something like this, you are actually getting them together to have fun, with a nice theme and a bicycle ride attached to it.” The group started at the jetty and after a round of greetings and pictures, set off towards the Manori Hills to catch the sunset. This was followed by dinner. “It was perfect as it was a full moon that night and we had outdoor dinner under the moonlight,” she adds. Mumbai needs such ‘social fitness’ activities The kids had a blast dressed as Harry Potter, pirates, wizards and more. Corporate head honcho Bhavesh Rakhasia went as Dracula. “I bought the costume specifically for the ride and also made sure I had black shoes, hand guards and gloves to match,” shares the Kandivali resident. Karmel Nair, a life-coach from Dahisar, also participated in the ride. “This is the first time I did a Halloween ride and it was such fun. Though we had costumes on, we still managed to ride for over 20kms. Mumbai doesn’t offer much in terms of group interaction when it comes to the outdoors, so this made for a superb ‘social fitness’ activity. I was dressed as a witch and my husband, as Pennywise from the film 'IT'. We got the best-dressed-awards,” she laughs. Hollywood movies inspired this groupThe other eerie-themed ride took place from Ghatkopar to Shivaji Park. Physiotherapist and avid cyclist Vidhi Bhanushali, who organised the trail, says, “We had planned our Halloween ride a week in advance. The group was excited as it was like a theme-party on wheels. This was like having a party in a safe way, which is so important during a pandemic.” They got creative with their costumes. She adds, “There are a lot of Hollywood movie lovers in our group, so one participant came as Walter White from 'Breaking Bad', another was the character from 'Black Swan', someone else was dressed as ‘Casper’. There were many Jokers around. The scariest was ‘Billy the puppet’ from the film 'Saw'. What was really nice was the way people stopped to look at us, especially at traffic signals.” The fun trail ended in a chai-samosa party after which they all rode home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cyclists-go-spooking-as-ghosts-and-witches-on-wheels/articleshow/78986571.cms||Ismat Tahseen
November 2, 2020||Goa||Devil in the details: A coal corridor that cuts across Goa’s green heart||MARGAO: Margarette Dourado grew up in urban Goa but fell in love with the Bhagwan Mahavir National Park at Mollem and the Dudhsagar waterfall right from her childhood. “Every time we go out to the forests and the waterfall, it’s an absolutely amazing experience,” the youngster says. “As part of the 150 million-year-old Western Ghats, they are the green heart that makes this little state a hub of biodiversity.” But today, she’s worried that double tracking of the railway line to facilitate coal transportation from the Mormugao port will threaten the very survival of the forests and destroy the homes of the amazing creatures of the wild. “The root of the problem,” points out RTI activist and lawyer Savio Correia, “is the Sagarmala programme for port-led development which received the Centre’s nod in 2016 and aims to convert Goa into a coal transportation corridor.” Project proposals of double-tracking railway lines, creating a new flyover, constructing nine jetties along the Zuari and the Mandovi rivers and four-laning of NH-4A form a part of the Sagarmala programme. Under the master plan report for Goa, the Mormugao port is envisaged as a coal/coke import hub with a projected capacity of 51 MTPA (million tonne per annum) by 2035 to cater to existing and proposed steel plants in and around Karnataka’s hinterland. The Sagarmala project envisages various infrastructural projects to evacuate this 51 MTPA coal/coke from Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) and enable a quick turnaround for the ships. Hence, it has proposed the double-tracking of the Hospet-Vasco rail line and four-laning of NH-4 from Panaji to Belagavi (the missing link of NH-17B connecting Verna and Ponda that connects Mormugao port to NH4). In addition, several jetties are proposed along Goa’s rivers (national waterways) essentially for coal transportation. Capital dredging or deepening of approach channels of Mormugao port, to enable navigation of coal-laden capesize vessels, is also a part of this Sagarmala plan. “The Major Port Authorities Bill 2020 passed by Lok Sabha in the last session puts the critical missing link of the Sagarmala programme in place,” says Correia. “They have done it beautifully. Breaking up the larger project of coal hub and transportation into small projects, like pieces in a jigsaw puzzle, so that the true picture, and hence, the cumulative impact of the project on Goa will never be known.” The master plan for Mormugao port prepared in 2016 envisaged completion of the double line railway track with last mile connectivity by 2019 “in order to improve the port’s evacuation capacity”. “Doubling of the line has to be completed with last mile connectivity by 2019 in order to ensure the port’s evacuation capacity is in line with terminal capacity and demand in the hinterland. This is the most important initiative and lifeline for the port operations in the future. Local government has to be pressurised from the Centre for the completion of doubling of the line,” the report says. With the state government having given the approval for the three projects in June 2020, “they have, in a way, succeeded in doing just that,” Corriea says. The master plan for Mormugao port has advanced several arguments in favour of its recommendations for port capacity enhancement. It stresses on the fact that as many coal-based power and coking plants are proposed to come up in the hinterland in the next 5-10 years, the MPT has to develop additional coal handling capacity to meet the resultant surge in demand for both coking and steam coal. “MPT’s primary hinterland includes Goa, North Karnataka, and southern Maharashtra. Both public and private sectors have huge investment plans for steel plants as well as coal-based power plants. We have identified multiple plants in the pipeline at Bellary, Hospet, Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad, Kudgi, Solapur, Bijapur, Gulbarga, Vijayanagara and Raichur. Goa is strategically located with shorter distance to districts where the new plants are to be commissioned. However, the current capacity at MPT will not be able to cater to the demand in the hinterland,” the master plan for the port states. Read AlsoDouble tracking an MPT fraud, we don’t want it, Parrikar had saidCortalim MLA Alina Saldanha is the sole BJP legislator who is opposing the railway’s double tracking project. To buttress her arguments against the project, she invoked the memories of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar who, she pointed out, had declined permission to the Railways to lay theThe plan recommends construction of a new terminal at an estimated cost of Rs 500 crore to cater to this surge in coal demand. “Doubling of the line enables the port to handle additional demand in the hinterland. The expected benefit, along with new terminal construction in the long term, would be Rs 100 crore per annum. Currently, there is only one line that connects the port to the hinterland. The capacity of this line restricts the total cargo that can be evacuated from the port to 15MTPA. After dredging, the combined capacity of JSW coal terminal and Adani is ~19MTPA. Hence, the railway line has to be doubled,” reads the master plan. Currently, coal handled at MPT is 8MTPA. Raising objections to the MPT’s expansion plans at the public environmental hearing at Vasco held in April 2017, Correia pointed out how the EIA study totally ignored the environmental impact of coal transportation by railway wagons en route to destinations in Karnataka and elsewhere. “Coal dust can travel into and along the rail corridor due to the movement of coal trains themselves, open wagon surfaces, parasitic coal and spillage from wagons. Coal dust particulate matter is known to escape from surface of loaded wagons (even though covered by tarpaulin), dust emission re-trained from spilled coal in the corridor, residual coal in unloaded wagons and dust induced by turbulence caused by two passing trains,” Correia said in his submission. He underlined the gravity of the threat posed to public health if Goa is allowed to become a “coal corridor”. “Studies have shown that 0.05% to 1% of coal is lost during transit. The amount is dependent on mode of transit and length of trip but can be a sizeable amount especially for unit coal transit across the country. Interpolating the data with coal quantity proposed to be transported by rail after proposed expansion, up to 1.2 lakh MT of coal/coke (mostly in form of particulate matter) could be lost/spilled annually along the railway line by the proposed project at operations stage.” Rajendra Kakodkar, management consultant and an expert in mining matters, says that the entire exercise—port expansion to double tracking—will neither accrue any benefits to Goa nor add anything to the state’s coffers. He pointed out that despite the state government having levied Rs 2 per tonne and Rs 5 per tonne as cess for transportation of iron ore and coal, respectively, the transporters have largely failed to pay their dues resulting in CAG having raised the objections twice. “The bottom line is that,” Kakodkar says, “except for some corporate giants, nobody will gain from the project.” He is convinced that it’s a lose-lose situation for Goa as well as for the country. “By importing coal, the nation will lose valuable foreign currency,” Kakodkar explains. “Besides, while Goa stands to get no revenue despite serving as coal corridor, even Karnataka will have to suffer from heavy pollution owing to several power plants there. The coal dust pollution caused during transportation will be huge, as with specific gravity of coal being just 0.5, the fine particulate matter remains in the air for up to 3-4 days, unlike iron ore (specific gravity 2.7) which settles down within 3-4 hours.” Meanwhile, the Mollem national park and the bewitching Dudhsagar continue to beckon nature lovers, oblivious of the existential threat that lies ahead. A voice over in a short video clip ‘Amchem Mollem’ sums up the emotions of a child nature lover. “I don’t want my friends in the forests to lose their homes and Goa to lose its heart.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/devil-in-the-details-a-coal-corridor-that-cuts-across-goas-green-heart/articleshow/78989359.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
November 2, 2020||Goa||Double tracking an MPT fraud, we don’t want it, Parrikar had said||Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha is the sole BJP legislator who is opposing the railway’s double tracking project. To buttress her arguments against the project, she invoked the memories of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar who, she pointed out, had declined permission to the Railways to lay the second track in Goa. “Parrikar had said that the doubling of track is an MPT fraud and we have the press cutting,” she told reporters earlier this month after meeting chief minister Pramod Sawant over the issue. Parrikar, soon after South Western Railway (SWR) had laid the foundation stone to lay the second track from Goa border to Hospet in Karnataka in July 2013, had told reporters, “I have refused the permission to double the track of SWR in Goa. We don't want it.” Parrikar’s refusal for railway double tracking in Goa was seen as a major setback to the SWR’s ambitious plan. “The state is happy with the single line and does not need to double it. We are not giving any permission for the double tracking,” Parrikar had then said, adding that the proposal of increasing the tracks was mooted at the behest of a few industries which wanted to transport coal from MPT. “The industrial activity in the state is unlikely to be increased due to this new project. The double track can be laid up to the Goa border but within the state limits we won't allow," he had categorically said. “It is this authoritative leadership that would stand up to the Centre when Goa’s interests are at stake is what Goa now misses,” a protester said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/double-tracking-an-mpt-fraud-we-dont-want-it-parrikar-had-said/articleshow/78989412.cms||---
November 2, 2020||India||After UP, Haryana plans law against ‘love jihad’||CHANDIGARH: A day after UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced his intent to bring a law against “love jihad”, his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar said his state, too, was contemplating a legislation to combat the alleged trend of Hindu women being drawn into relationships with Muslim men and forced to convert. The BJP-led coalition’s move comes amid outrage over the daylight murder of a 21-year-old college student by her stalker, a former classmate, in Faridabad’s Ballabhgarh last week. Speaking in Karnal on Haryana Day, Khattar said the girl’s killing was “linked to love jihad” and that both the Centre and the state government were taking the issue “very seriously”. The Haryana CM said not for nothing were two governments seeking legal advice on the scope for laws to prevent a recurrence of forced conversions and, sometimes, killings like the one in Ballabhgarh. “Legal provisions are being contemplated so that the guilty don’t escape and innocents are not punished.” Last month, the BJP-led government in Assam had said that if voted back to power next year, it would crack down on “marriages by deception” involving prospective grooms lying about their religion to marry Hindu girls. After the murder of Nikita Tomar outside her college in Ballabhgarh on October 26, her family had alleged that her stalker Tauseef, who belongs to an influential political family from Mewat, had abducted her two years ago and tried to get her to convert to Islam and marry him. However, at that time, the FIR did not include these details. Khattar’s remarks came just after Haryana home minister Anil Vij’s one-line tweet about the BJP-JJP government mulling a legislation to counter forced conversion for marriage. “We need to have a cure for this problem called ‘love jihad’ so that we save young girls. If required, shall bring law and will pass to do this or we shall have some other measures, but one thing is for sure — that we shall not allow this to happen in Haryana,” Vij said in Ambala. The special investigation team set up by the Haryana government to probe the murder has been asked to ascertain if there was any organised group or move behind incidents of forced conversions in Haryana, Vij added. Senior police officers said they didn’t have information about “love jihad” or forced conversion in Haryana. “Of hand, we don’t have any such details as a lot of things happen in a day. We need to take details from the districts. Hence, it would take time to get the complete picture,” said a senior cop. Haryana Congress leaders were cautious about commenting on the topic. “A crime is a crime and the law of the land has sufficient provisions of punishment, depending on the gravity of crime. Since this kind of statement about bringing legislation has come from many states, including Haryana, hence let them come out first, only then we shall be able to comment,” Haryana PCC president Kumari Selja told TOI on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-up-haryana-plans-law-against-love-jihad/articleshow/78989570.cms||---
November 2, 2020||India||Right to life violated if reason behind verdict delayed: SC||NEW DELHI: Breach of a 19-year-old guideline laid down by the Supreme Court to high courts and trial courts to be prompt in providing reasons behind judgments led the SC to observe that inordinate delay in giving reasons for a verdict violated litigants’ right to life. The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court had pronounced a cryptic judgment in a case on January 21, saying “reasons will follow”, meaning that the detailed judgment would be given later. The litigant filed an appeal in March against the HC judgment well within the 90-day limitation period. The appeal could not be listed as the litigant had not provided the detailed judgment giving reasons behind the verdict. Finally, the appeal got listed before a bench of Justices Sanjay K Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy in the SC. The bench was informed by the appellant that the reasoned order has not yet followed, even after almost nine months of the cryptic order deciding his case. When the SC sought an explanation from the registrar of the Aurangabad bench of the HC, the reasoned order was given on October 9, almost nine months later. Speaking for the bench, Justice Kaul said, “We must note with regret that the counsel extended through various judicial pronouncements, including the one referred to aforesaid, appear to have been ignored, more importantly where oral orders are pronounced. In case of such orders, it is expected that they are either dictated in the court or at least must follow immediately thereafter, to facilitate any aggrieved party to seek redressal from the higher court.” Terming delays in giving reasons behind judgments as violation of right to life of a litigant, the bench said, “The problem gets aggravated when the operative portion is made available early and the reasons follow much later. It cannot be countenanced that between the date of the operative portion of the order and the reasons disclosed, there is a hiatus period of nine months.” The SC set aside the HC order and asked the Aurangabad bench, which does not comprise the earlier judges, to hear the case afresh while giving protection against coercive action from Maharashtra government to the litigant. The SC in its 2001 judgment in the Anil Rai case had said that pronouncement of a judgment must not exceed two months after a bench reserves verdict. It had said that if the judgment was not given even after expiry of three months, then the parties could move the chief justice concerned for a direction for early pronouncement of judgment. If no judgment was given even after six months of reserving the verdict, the parties concerned could move the chief justice for a fresh hearing in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/right-to-life-violated-if-reason-behind-verdict-delayed-sc/articleshow/78989707.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 2, 2020||India||Covid in India: Cases fall for 7th week, but decline slows||NEW DELHI: Fresh Covid-19 cases continued to fall for the seventh straight week in the country but with a lower rate of decline. A 12% drop in new cases was recorded in the week ending on Sunday, as opposed to a 16% decline in the previous week. This was the first time in five weeks that the fall in cases was lower than that recorded in the preceding week, both in percentage and absolute terms. If the trend extends into subsequent weeks, the country could be seeing a flattening of the Covid-19 graph, which is currently falling sharply.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Nearly 3.2 lakh new cases were reported during the week (October 26-November 1), 42,738 less than the numbers in the previous week. That week (October 19-25), Covid-19 cases had fallen by 67,490 -- the highest weekly decline seen so far.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); However, the weekly death toll continues to decrease rapidly, with 3,586 fatalities recorded in the current week marking a 21% fall from the number in the previous seven days when 4,513 deaths were reported in the country. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusThis was the sixth consecutive week of falling coronavirus-related deaths in India. The highest deaths from the virus were recorded during the September 14-20 week, when 8,175 people had succumbed to the infection. The current week’s toll, at 3,600, is a 56% fall from the peak. Read AlsoCovid vaccine delivery: India to help neighbours scale up cold chain, storage capacityIndia will help all countries, especially its neighbours, in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for delivery of Covid-19 vaccine, the government said on Thursday. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); On Sunday, 46,253 fresh coronavirus infections were reported, comparable to the numbers recorded last Sunday (46,135). With this, India's Covid-19 caseload has risen to 82,29,301, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. The day’s death toll was 493, staying below the 500-mark for the second day running.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Most of the major states reported case counts more or less similar to the previous day. At 7,025, Kerala registered the highest tally of new cases in the country for the 10th day running. Delhi continued to report a high number of cases, with 5,664 fresh infections on Sunday. The highest single-day count in the capital so far was 5,891 reported on October 30. Maharashtra, for the second day in a row, recorded a little over 5,000 cases although the number of Covid-19 deaths continued to fluctuate considerably. On Sunday, the state reported 5,369 cases, taking the overall tally to 16,83,775. The cumulative Covid deaths rose to 44,024 with an addition of 113 deaths on Sunday. Just a day prior, only 74 deaths were reported, the state's lowest addition in 159 days. Mumbai maintained the declining trend in cases and deaths. On Sunday, the city reported 908 cases and 25 deaths, taking the case tally to 2,58,405 and casualties to 10,318. Watch Covid-19: New cases fall for 7th week, but decline slows in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-in-india-cases-fall-for-7th-week-but-decline-slows/articleshow/78989742.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Business||Hyundai, Hero’s Oct sales at all-time high||NEW DELHI: A cracker of a Diwali came home early for the auto industry that reported bumper sales in October, holding out hope that the Covid-induced slowdown may be on the wane. Hyundai and Hero Moto, India’s two top automakers, reported lifetime-high monthly volumes in wholesale deliveries to dealerships. The passenger vehicles industry has been under severe pressure over the last two years and after an 18% fall in 2019-20, demand was weak even this year. But demand has come back, largely led by the generally positive sentiments around Navaratri and Diwali. A section of analysts and industry players, however, said that weak sales during lockdown has resulted in pent-up demand, which is now playing out in the market. Maruti, which accounts for nearly half the passenger vehicles market, recorded sales of over 1.6 lakh units in October, growing 18%, on the back of strong demand for its wide portfolio of hatchbacks and entry-level cars. Maruti chairman RC Bhargava said that demand remained strong so far in the festive period, but warned that there was a need for cautious optimism when it came to predicting demand in the fourth quarter of the current financial year as well as 2021-22. Hyundai has been going strong with products such as Venue and Creta SUVs, while Tata Motors too has been witnessing a strong resurgence of late. “October sales performance has set a positive tone for the overall business environment and we are confident that Hyundai will continue to strongly contribute towards sustainable growth of the economy,” a top company executive said. Festive offers and new models have been keeping the buyers excited and companies hope that this will keep the numbers ticking even beyond the festive period. Models such as Kia’s Sonet and Mahindra’s Thar have seen strong demand, while new ones that are about to hit the market are Hyundai’s i20 hatch and Maruti’s Celerio. (FOLLOW TOI AUTO ON YOUTUBE)2020 Hyundai Tucson | Review | Don’t mend what isn’t broken“The new Thar has set new records within just a month of its launch. For Mahindra, the festive season has started on a positive note… this augurs well for a robust festive demand which in turn will help the industry in the short term,” Veejay Nakra, CEO (Automotive Division) at M&M said. But even as the industry has been registering growth for the past few weeks, companies fear that this may be short-lived and have been making a case for a tax cut. Auto body Siam has said that the government should reduce GST rates from 28% to 18% to bring in higher affordability. Watch Hyundai, Hero Moto’s sales hit all-time high in October||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hyundai-heros-oct-sales-at-all-time-high/articleshow/78989769.cms||Pankaj Doval
November 2, 2020||Business||October GST collection tops Rs 1 lakh crore, 1st time since February||NEW DELHI: For the first time since February, goods and services tax (GST) collections topped Rs 1 lakh crore in October, indicating that economic activity is headed to pre-Covid-19 levels. The mop up last month was 10.2% higher at Rs 1,05,155 crore, making it the fastest rise since the 15.6% growth recorded in March 2019, latest data released by the finance ministry on Sunday showed. Collections in October are for September sales. “Collections which are higher by nearly Rs 10,000 crore compared to the same period in 2019 indicate the definitive revival of consumption and festival spends across the economy,” said M S Mani, senior director at consulting firm Deloitte India. “Given the festivities, collections in November could also be robust,” said Pratik Jain, who leads the indirect tax practice at consulting firm PwC India. In October 2019, collections had dropped by over 5% to Rs 95,380 crore. This time, domestic sales resulted in an 11% rise in collections, while those due to imports were estimated at 9%. “Given the surge in number of returns filed and the fact that there is clear uptick in demand due to revival of the economy as well as upcoming festive season, it’s not surprising that collections in October exceeded 1 lakh crore. One of the reasons for the higher number of returns could be the fact that the last date for claiming input credit for 2019-20 was September 30 and a lot of companies would have carried out a yearly reconciliation and asked their vendors to file returns or report missing transactions,” said Jain. Last year, festival sales were bunched up in October due to Dussehra and Diwali. This time, Dussehra sales took place in October, and the numbers will be clearer next month. Diwali sales are expected to be captured in the December numbers. The government sees the numbers as a pointer towards growth slowly coming back and strong signs of recovery in the months ahead. However, some of the service sectors are still witnessing muted demand. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that there could be a strong bounce back next year after near zero growth during the current financial year. Watch GST: Collection tops Rs 1 lakh crore in October, 1st time since Feb||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/october-gst-collection-tops-rs-1-lakh-crore-1st-time-since-february/articleshow/78989783.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jammu||L-G nod to law to take back J&K land given under Roshni scheme||SRINAGAR: J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday gave his assent to a law department order to reclaim large tracts of encroached government land that had been officially transferred to individuals and businesses at much less than their market value, using the nowdefunct Roshni scheme. The reclamation order overturning registration of encroached plots in the names of the occupants, including politicians and bureaucrats, comes just over a fortnight after the J&K high court directed the administration to take back all such forest and other land acquired through misuse of the scheme. The Jammu and Kashmir State Lands (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001, commonly known as the Roshni Act, had been declared “unconstitutional and void ab initio” by the division bench of Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajesh Bindal on October 13. The verdict came in response to two PILs. Citing a CAG report, the PILs had questioned why revenue of only Rs 76 crore was collected through land transfer against a claimed target of Rs 25,448 crore. The petitioners also challenged the huge rebates offered to the beneficiaries, translating into over 80% of the land being given to the unauthorised occupants almost for free. “The principal secretary to the government’s revenue department shall work out a plan to retrieve the land... shall also work out the modalities to evict encroachers within a period of six months,” the HC order says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/l-g-nod-to-law-to-take-back-jk-land-given-under-roshni-scheme/articleshow/78989812.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 2, 2020||Srinagar||L-G nod to law to take back J&K land given under Roshni scheme||SRINAGAR: J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday gave his assent to a law department order to reclaim large tracts of encroached government land that had been officially transferred to individuals and businesses at much less than their market value, using the nowdefunct Roshni scheme. The reclamation order overturning registration of encroached plots in the names of the occupants, including politicians and bureaucrats, comes just over a fortnight after the J&K high court directed the administration to take back all such forest and other land acquired through misuse of the scheme. The Jammu and Kashmir State Lands (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001, commonly known as the Roshni Act, had been declared “unconstitutional and void ab initio” by the division bench of Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajesh Bindal on October 13. The verdict came in response to two PILs. Citing a CAG report, the PILs had questioned why revenue of only Rs 76 crore was collected through land transfer against a claimed target of Rs 25,448 crore. The petitioners also challenged the huge rebates offered to the beneficiaries, translating into over 80% of the land being given to the unauthorised occupants almost for free. “The principal secretary to the government’s revenue department shall work out a plan to retrieve the land... shall also work out the modalities to evict encroachers within a period of six months,” the HC order says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/l-g-nod-to-law-to-take-back-jk-land-given-under-roshni-scheme/articleshow/78991301.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 2, 2020||India||KPCC chief under fire for sexist remarks||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran has landed in trouble once again after making sexist remarks against a woman. He had said in a function that the LDF government was using an “adulteress” to file cases against the Congress leaders. He was referring to the woman who had come out against the UDF leaders in the solar scam. He later apologised in the same venue for his remarks. While speaking at the inauguration of the ‘betrayal day’ organised by the UDF before the Secretariat to protest against the CPM-led government, the KPCC president said, “The LDF government, which is facing various corruption allegations, are now depending on an adulteress to divert attention and file cases against UDF leaders.” “This woman had cried that the entire state had raped her. We can understand if a woman gets sexually abused once. But if it gets repeated, then any woman with self esteem would either commit suicide or try to prevent such a thing from happening again. But this woman has been saying she was repeatedly abused,” the KPCC president had said. However, Ramachandran tendered apologies in the same function after he was informed that his words have triggered a controversy. The KPCC chief had earlier courted controversy when he addressed health minister K K Shailaja as “Nipah princess” and “Covid Queen”. Though his remarks had invited widespread criticism, he was not ready to withdraw this statement. Shailaja came down heavily against the KPCC president saying Ramachandran’s remarks about rape were condemnable. “It is dangerous that people hold anti-women sentiments in their mind,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kpcc-chief-under-fire-for-sexist-remarks/articleshow/78989848.cms||---
November 2, 2020||India||‘Aladdin’s lamp’ makes doctor's Rs 2.6 crore vanish||Meerut: A doctor in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut allegedly paid Rs 2.6 crore for a mythical “Aladdin’s lamp”, after two conmen convinced him about its “magical powers”. But, when none of the wishes of Dr Laeek Khan turn into reality, he rushed to Meerut’s Brahmpuri police station seeking help to recover his money. Khan claimed that he paid Rs 2.62 crore to them in several installments. After registering a case, police have arrested the two accused, Ikramuddin and Anees, and recovered a rusty replica of the mythical lamp. Based on the complaint, an FIR under IPC sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) and under 420 (cheating) was registered against three persons, including the two main accused. Police said that the extent of the fraud will be known only after going through bank details and other transactions of the victim and the accused. “Ikramuddin told me that he has a magical lamp made of gold and it weighs around 5kg. He also said that a genie resides in it. He said the lamp is magical and all my wishes will come true. But I had to keep it locked in a box for two years or else some untoward incident will happen in my family,” according to the complainant filed by the doctor. But, Khan realised very soon that he has been cheated. Later, police said that the two men have cheated several people with this trick. “They would entice the gullible customers by promising exponential returns. To win their trust, they would initially return money as promised only to ensure the victim returns with a bigger sum,” said Subhash Atri, station house officer at Brahmapuri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aladdins-lamp-makes-doctors-rs-2-6-crore-vanish/articleshow/78989856.cms||Piyush Rai
November 2, 2020||Vadodara||Dirty tap water a big health risk for Barodians: Study||Vadodara: It is no secret that unclean drinking water is a pet peeve for the majority of Barodians. But, what if you were told that as many as 23% people in the city receive dirty water from their taps across the year? And that there are 55 % others who may have not always, but certainly more than once have received dirty water in a year?A study to assess the quality of water and awareness regarding water-borne diseases carried out by statisticians of M S University has made this shocking revelation.The ‘statistical study of water quality and water-borne diseases in Vadodara city’ has revealed that only 22 % of citizens receive clean water from the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC).A team of four MSc (statistics) students — Khushboo Barhate, Mrunali Patel, Sudipta Purkayastha and Ankita Sharma — conducted the project under guidance of Dr Mangala Shah, associate professor from the department of statistics of faculty of science.The study has revealed that while total dissolved solids (TDS) and pH levels are almost maintained by the civic body, the biggest headache for Barodians is water contamination due to faulty pipelines.“Contamination is the biggest issue when it comes to drinking water. A majority of households where we carried out survey complained that they were receiving water with yellow to light brown tinge or peculiar odour or at times even worms were found in the tap water,” said Barhate.The students had taken samples of 267 households which were collected earlier this year by means of questionnaire regarding storage of water, method of purification, awareness of water-borne diseases and experience of water-borne diseases.Of the total 26 tanks in Vadodara city, the study covered 11 tanks. The VMC data of the months between July and November 2019 was studied. The data revealed that most of the tanks had good quality water fit for drinking.“We have observed that pH, TDS and chlorine levels were maintained but turbidity was high and some households receive water which is not fit for drinking due to fault in the pipelines,” she said.At some places, the water got contaminated because the pipelines were near sewage lines. Of the total households surveyed, as many as 52% residents had suffered from some or other kind of water-borne diseases like typhoid, jaundice, dysentery, cholera, e-coli infection or skin related ailments. But 54 % of those who had suffered were not aware that these were water-borne diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dirty-tap-water-a-big-health-risk-for-barodians-study/articleshow/78986102.cms||Prashant Rupera
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||Soumitra gets haemoglobin transfusion||Kolkata: Actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s condition remained stable but critical on Sunday. He also received haemoglobin transfusion due to internal haemorrhage. Doctors are yet to detect the cause of bleeding, but maintained it hasn’t affected his overall condition.  He remains drowsy and on ventilation support. On Saturday, too, he received blood transfusion for a haemoglobin drop. “There has been no significant change or improvement in his condition. His consciousness level is a cause for worry. Overall, he remains critical due to prolonged Covid encephalopathy and it could be difficult to revive him if the condition persists,” said Belle Vue critical care head Arindam Kar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitra-gets-haemoglobin-transfusion/articleshow/78987830.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Business||UPI hits 2 billion payments mark in October on festive, Covid push||BENGALURU: Payments through Unified Payments Interface (UPI) crossed the 2-billion mark in monthly transactions for the first time in October. UPI transactions took three years to clock the 1-billion mark in October 2019, the current leap took just one year. The incremental demand for contactless payments due to the pandemic as well as spends during the ongoing festive season helped fuel this growth. National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), which manages UPI, said the platform saw nearly 2.1 billion transactions in Octover worth over Rs 3.8 lakh crore. This is a 15% growth in volume compared to September, when it had recorded 12% growth over August. Digital transactions through other instruments like IMPS, Bharat BillPay and Fastag, an indicator of vehicular movement, have been rising too. In October, bill payments rose to nearly 24 million compared to just over 23 million in September, while Fastag saw over 122 million transactions in October as against 110 million in September. IMPS clocked 319 million payments in October compared to about 280 million in September, according to NPCI data. While increased demand for digital transactions has accelerated UPI’s journey to the 2-billion mark, industry executives said it would be a challenge to maintain this volume every month, when its stakeholders are shying away from investing in scaling up UPI’s technology infrastructure. This is largely attributed to the zero merchant discount rate (MDR), according to an industry executive. The government had made MDR zero earlier this year to expand digital payments but instead the move has hit banks and payments apps — industry stakeholders — as they are unable to make money on these transactions. Some banks had started to limit free UPI transactions, which prompted the government to issue a circular in August saying lenders must stop charging these transactions and should issue a refund, if case a user has been charged already. “Failure rates are increasing and it takes longer for a transaction to complete. Banks are not investing to add muscle to the infrastructure as they can’t make money on UPI transactions due to zero MDR. It’s being discussed across the industry but there is no respite yet,” an industry executive said, adding that.one of the country’s largest banks had a success rate of about 70% in October. Sajith Sivanandan, MD & business head (Google Pay and Next Billion User Initiatives), Google India, said the latest milestone serves as a “global proof of concept for technology-enabled financial inclusion”. “This offers immense learning for economies around the globe, as much as India. As UPI grows from strength to strength, there is a need for continued technology investments towards the infrastructure in order to bring a reliable and failure-proof experience to the user,” he said. Google Pay processes the highest volumes of UPI payments with roughly over 40% share. While PhonePe comes in the second position, Paytm and Amazon Pay are the other top UPI apps. “UPI is now the digital currency of the country and we are taking this deeper & deeper into tier-4,-5,-6 towns & villages both with consumers and merchants. Such deeper adoption of digital payments will usher in financial inclusion & accelerate economic progress in the country. All the stakeholders will have to continuously invest to be able to manage the scale and growth of UPI,” said Hemant Gala, head (payments, banking & financial services), PhonePe. A Paytm Payments Bank spokesperson said it was among the top contributors offering the best technology to support UPI transactions that results in the lowest decline rate, “thereby accelerating the overall growth of digital payments in small cities and towns”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/upi-hits-2bn-payments-mark-in-oct-on-festive-covid-push/articleshow/78989365.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 2, 2020||Business||Infra trust to take over IL&FS road assets||MUMBAI: The setting up of a framework to transfer road assets of IL&FS Transportation Networks (ITNL) into an InvIT has paved the way for resolution of about Rs 13,000-crore worth bad loans. An InvIT or an infrastructure investment trust is a mutual fund-like investment vehicle that is used to raise money by monetising operational infrastructure assets. IL&FS has set up Roadstar Infra Private (RIIPL) as a new subsidiary of ITNL to act as a sponsor company for the road assets and has infused Rs 75 crore into it. Another arm, North Karnataka Expressway (NKEL) has been appointed as an investment manager to the proposed InvIT and 11 road projects will be transferred of which seven in the first phase and four in the second. Sebi norms require the sponsor company to invest Rs 100 crore in the corporate entity, which establishes the InvIT. The decision to transfer ITNL’s road assets to an InvIT was taken after the board was not satisfied with the bids received for an outright sale of the road assets. Despite ITNL having several revenue-generating road assets, the board could not find buyers at their price as there was a glut of road assets in the market. ITNL’s committee of creditors has already provided in-principle approval for formation and transfer of assets to the proposed InvIT. SBI, PNB, Canara Bank, BoI and IOB are some of the lenders that participated in the e-voting process with other creditors and debenture holders. Once the assets are transferred into InvITs, banks will be relieved of their bad loans. However, instead of recovering funds they will get units in the InvIT, which can be sold to long-term investors. According to the plan drawn up by IL&FS, Roadstar Infra will set up NKEL, the proposed investment manager of the InvIT and transfer the company to ITNL. IL&FS has received in-principle approval from Sebi for registering the InvIT and will approach the regulator for final registration of the trust. The exact quantum of debt that will be addressed by transferring the road assets will depend on the valuation of the projects. In addition to the approval from lenders, the transfer of road assets to the InvIT will have to be cleared by retired Supreme Court justice D K Jain, who has been appointed as an adviser to oversee asset sales by the board, and the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The seven road projects that will be transferred in the first phase include — Moradabad Bareilly Expressway with debt of around Rs 2,486 crore; Jharkhand Road Projects Implementation Company (Rs 2,387 crore); Baleshwar Karagpur Expressway (Rs 614 crore); Sikar Bikaner Highway (Rs 561 crore), Western Gujarat Expressway (Rs 222 crore); East Hyderabad Expressway (Rs 218 crore); Barwa Adda Expressway (Rs 1,941 crore). When set up, the proposed InvIT could become the largest in the country and if it is successful in drawing global investors, it could become a strong infrastructure player in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infra-trust-to-take-over-ilfs-road-assets/articleshow/78989396.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP reports 2,618 new cases, tally at 8.25 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,618 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,25,966. The toll increased to 6,706 as 16 more peoplesuccumbed to the novel coronavirus disease. As many as 3,509 Covid-19 patients were declared cured. There are currently 23,668 active cases with 7,95,592 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 96.3%. The recovery rate was over 98% in Vizianagaram, Kurnool and Nellore districts. Andhra Pradesh tested 88,780 Covid-19 samples and detected 2,618 new cases on Sunday, reflecting a case positivity rate of 2.9%. This was the highest single-day test count conducted so far in the state. Some districts like Srikakulam recorded only a 1% case positivity rate on Sunday. Chittoor reported 423 new infections on Sunday, followed by Guntur 387, Krishna 328 and West Godavari 296. For the first time in months, East Godavari was not featured in the top three case-contributing districts of the day. While all districts registered less than 500 cases, five districts reported less than 100 cases on Sunday with Kurnool reporting the lowest case load of the day of 40 infections. Of the 16 deaths registered on Sunday, four are from Krishna, three each from Chittoor and Guntur, two from Anantapur, and one each from East Godavari, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh so far tested 81.17 lakh Covid-19 samples with a case positivity rate of 10.1%. The mortality rate stood stable at 0.81%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-2618-new-cases-tally-at-8-25-lakh/articleshow/78986735.cms||---
November 2, 2020||---||Campaign ends for Phase II Bihar assembly polls||PATNA: The campaigning for the second and penultimate phase of assembly polls, to be held in 94 constituencies spread over 17 districts on November 3, came to an end on Sunday evening. All political parties on Sunday made their last-ditch efforts to woo the electorate, who will decide the fate of 1463 candidates, including seven ministers, on Tuesday. Additional chief electoral officer (ACEO) Sanjay Kumar said, “The cacophony of electioneering for the second phase came to an end at 6pm on Sunday. Henceforth, no election rallies or corner meetings will be held in all the 94 constituencies going to the polls in the second phase. Door-to-door campaigning by the candidates will be allowed.” In the second round, over 2.86 crore voters, including 1.35 crore women and 980 third gender, will exercise their franchise at 41,362 polling booths. PM Narendra Modi addressed four election rallies in Chhapra, Motihari, Bagaha and Samastipur in favour of the NDA candidates on Sunday. Union minister Anurag Thakur, CM Nitish Kumar and actor-turned-politician Manoj Tiwary also campaigned for the NDA candidates during the day. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav campaigned for Grand Alliance candidates. The fate of seven ministers in Nitish Kumar cabinet – Nand Kishore Yadav (Patna Sahib), Rana Randhir Singh (Madhuban), Shravan Kumar (Nalanda), Ram Sevak Singh (Hathua), Maheshwar Hazari (Kalyanpur), Suresh Sharma (Muzaffarpur) and Madan Sahni (Gora Bauram) – will be decided in the second phase. Heavyweights like opposition’s CM face Tejashwi (Raghopur), his elder brother and former health minister Tej Pratap Yadav (Hasanpur), former minister Manju Verma (Cheria Bariarpur), Chandrika Rai (Parsa), Munna Shukla (Lalganj), Amrendrra Pandey alias Pappu Pandey (Kuchaikot) and retired IPS officer Sunil Kumar (Bhore) are also in the fray. In the 2015 assembly elections, the RJD had won 33 of these 94 seats, while 30 seats had gone to the kitty of JD(U). The Congress had registered victory in seven seats, BJP in 20 seats and LJP in two seats. One seat each had gone to the CPI-ML (Liberation) and an independent. The RJD, JD(U) and the Congress had contested the 2015 assembly elections together. Of the 94 seats going to polls in the second phase, the RJD is contesting 56, the BJP 46 and the JD(U) 43. The Congress has put up its candidates in 24 constituencies, LJP in 52, Left parties in 14, BSP in 33 and RLSP in 36. The VIP has fielded its candidates in five constituencies. In 28 seats, RJD candidates are locked in direct contest with BJP nominees while on 24 seats, they will be taking on JD(U) candidates. Congress candidates are contesting 12 seats each against JD(U) and BJP nominees. .At Raghopur in Vaishali district, Tejashwi is considered to be safe. Tej Pratap, however, is locked in a tough battle with two-term MLA Raj Kumar Rai of JD(U) in Hasanpur assembly constituency in Samastipur district. In 2015, Tej had won from Mahua in Vaishali districtof the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/campaign-ends-for-phase-ii-polling-in-17-districts-tomorrow/articleshow/78987934.cms||Ramashankar
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Retailers to sell old liquor stock at old prices for a few more days||KOLKATA: Tipplers may get some more time to buy their preferred liquor at the existing prices. Bevco witnessed a bumper sale on October 31 as retailers bought old stocks from the state distribution arm in large quantities. Some retailers said that they now have stock for four-five days or more, which can be offered at the old prices. Bevco will start billing products according to the new price slab from November 3, and its impact is likely to be felt from the end of the coming week. India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) across all categories will turn dearer by 20%-25% across the board from November 3. Incidentally, the price of imported liquor (bottled in origin) and some liquors of overseas spirits bottled in India (OSBI) category will go down by 5%-10%. However, these categories constitute only 2%-3% of the total liquor consumption basket. Last year (fiscal year ending on March 31), the state mobilized Rs 11,700 crore from excise. Liquor industry experts are unsure whether last year’s level can be surpassed with the new IMFL pricing strategy. Incidentally, the 20%-25% increase in IMFL price will lead to 45%-50% jump in price of some popular IMFL brands from their pre-Covid prices. Though price of beer had gone down earlier this month based on the new tax structure, the impact on IMFL will be northwards. The new tax structure was supposed to be implemented from September, but was deferred following requests from liquor bodies. A central Kolkata-based retailer pointed out that Bevco still has some old stock of brands which are slow moving. “We have to see whether those slow-moving stocks, too, would be supplied at the old rate,” he added. Some retailers feel the new IMFL price regime is a major blow to the liquor trade. An retailer in south Kolkata opined that this round of price hike would force tipplers to shift to lower brands, which is neither good for the exchequer nor for the health of the customers. Bengal has an annual market of 14.1 million (1.4 crore) cases of hard IMFL and and 8 million (80 lakh) cases of beer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/retailers-to-sell-old-liquor-stock-at-old-prices-for-a-few-more-days/articleshow/78987746.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ludhiana||MC takes over 5 parking lots; receipts through app now||Ludhiana: After the extension given to the contractors came to an end, the civic body took over parking lots at five locations on Sunday. The municipal corporation employees will look after the sites and now at all five locations the parking fee slips will be issued with the help of a mobile application. Earlier, only at Feroze Gandhi market parking site the mobile application was used. This step has been taken to avoid overcharging. The MC has taken over parking sites at multi-storey parking near Mata Rani Chowk, Bhadhaur House, BRS Nagar, I Block of Sarabha Nagar, and Feroze Gandhi Market. On Sunday, the staff was deputed at multi-storey parking site because of the rush in the nearby markets due to the festival season. The staff was from tehbazaari unit and Class IV employees of the civic body too took care of the lot.The civic officials had floated tenders for handing over parking lots to private contractors earlier, but due to lukewarm response tenders were floated again. The technical bid will be opened on November 10. After that, selected contractors will go for e-auction. The officials claimed the process would take at least a month.MC secretary Neeraj Jain said, “We will be using the mobile application for the convenience of the residents and end overcharging disputes. Besides, the money will go directly to the MC account. We have asked the developer of this application to help employees in understanding the application.” The app is known as FINLO (find your parking lot). The residents can purchase the parking tickets in advance and do not require any manual slip. They will have to just show their booking confirmation to the person at the site and park. The 5 sitesThe MC has taken over multi-storey parking near Mata Rani Chowk, lots in Bhadhaur House, BRS Nagar, I Block of Sarabha Nagar, and Feroze Gandhi Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-takes-over-5-parking-lots-receipts-through-app-now/articleshow/78986747.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Vadodara||Pvt doctor slays Covid, joins SMIMER||Surat: "My father has inspired me to work for the society and I got this opportunity to work as a doctor to help patients recover from the infection,'' said Dr Ravi Parmar, son of former cabinet minister Atmaram Parmar, resuming duties at Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER hospital’s Covid ward after recovering from Covid-19 infections. The 35-year-old doctor joined SMIMER hospital as medical officer in August and is working in the Covid-19 ward where he got infected a few days ago and had to be admitted for three days in the hospital and later remained in home isolation for 14 days. His mother, Madhuben, too got infected. However, both mother and son recovered from it. Dr Parmar, a resident of Adajan in Surat city, completed his MBBS from SMIMER hospital in 2008 and started a diagnostic centre in Lucknow but returned to home state after Covid-19. "I wanted to serve in a public hospital where he studied and I got an opportunity to work in SMIMER hospital where I did my MBBS study. This is the best time to serve people in a pandemic as healthcare workers are doing their remarkable work,'' he told TOI. After recovering from Covid, Dr Ravi Parmar had also donated his plasma. Incidentally, Atmaram Parmar will be contesting in the November 3 bypolls as a BJP candidate from Gandhda assembly constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pvt-doctor-slays-covid-joins-smimer/articleshow/78986310.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ludhiana||18 fresh dengue cases||tnnLudhiana: The health department authorities said 18 persons tested positive for dengue on Sunday. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar said, “The total number of dengue cases in the district so far has now increased to 1,145. The total number of suspected patients is 1,643.” To contain the disease, people should check stagnant water in coolers, containers, pots, tyres, on the roofs of houses, among others. Wear clothes that cover the body completely and use mosquito repellent, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/18-fresh-dengue-cases/articleshow/78986729.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Patna||13 green polling stations, 131 pink booths in Patna||PATNA: The district administration has taken all safety measures in view of Covid- 19 pandemic for conducting polls in Bankipur, Bakhtiarpur, Danapur, Digha, Fatuha, Kumhrar, Maner, Patna Sahib and Phulwarisharif in Patna district in the second phase of Bihar assembly elections on November 3. There are 4,830 polling stations in the nine constituencies. As many as 28,980 Covid kits have been provided to the polling personnel. Patna DM-cum-district electorate officer, Kumar Ravi, said altogether 28,20,000 gloves have been provided at the polling stations for electors to use before they press the EVM button. “All the booths would have the thermal screening and hand sanitiser facilities,” he said. “White markers have been made on the floor outside the polling stations to maintain social distancing. Every polling station would be thoroughly sanitised a day before election,” he said. There are 32,32,957 registered electors, including 17,02,287 men and 15,30,530 women and 140 transgenders in the nine constituencies. Of the 4,830 polling stations, 13 will be ‘green polling booths’ named as ‘Vasundhra Kendra’. The voters at these booths will be provided with saplings by the polling personnel after casting their votes. The aim is to spread the message of cleanliness, afforestation as well as to discourage the use of plastic bags, Ravi said. There are five such booths in Kumhrar, four in Patna Sahib and two each in Bankipur and Digha. These green polling stations have painted-pot plants, rangolis, crèches, selfie points and help desks. Instead of water coolers, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has put up ‘mitti ka ghada’ (earthen pot), surahees and ‘kulhad’ (earthen cup) at these booths. The districts administration will broadcast polls live from 331 polling stations. Besides, 131 all-women booths (pink booths) have been set up in the district to encourage women to vote. There are five persons with disabilities (PwD) booths, including one female PwD booth. Ravi said all the booths have wheelchair, ramp, vehicle and other facilities for PwD voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-green-polling-stations-131-pink-booths-in-patna/articleshow/78990693.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 2, 2020||---||13 green polling stations, 131 pink booths in Patna||PATNA: The district administration has taken all safety measures in view of Covid- 19 pandemic for conducting polls in Bankipur, Bakhtiarpur, Danapur, Digha, Fatuha, Kumhrar, Maner, Patna Sahib and Phulwarisharif in Patna district in the second phase of Bihar assembly elections on November 3. There are 4,830 polling stations in the nine constituencies. As many as 28,980 Covid kits have been provided to the polling personnel. Patna DM-cum-district electorate officer, Kumar Ravi, said altogether 28,20,000 gloves have been provided at the polling stations for electors to use before they press the EVM button. “All the booths would have the thermal screening and hand sanitiser facilities,” he said. “White markers have been made on the floor outside the polling stations to maintain social distancing. Every polling station would be thoroughly sanitised a day before election,” he said. There are 32,32,957 registered electors, including 17,02,287 men and 15,30,530 women and 140 transgenders in the nine constituencies. Of the 4,830 polling stations, 13 will be ‘green polling booths’ named as ‘Vasundhra Kendra’. The voters at these booths will be provided with saplings by the polling personnel after casting their votes. The aim is to spread the message of cleanliness, afforestation as well as to discourage the use of plastic bags, Ravi said. There are five such booths in Kumhrar, four in Patna Sahib and two each in Bankipur and Digha. These green polling stations have painted-pot plants, rangolis, crèches, selfie points and help desks. Instead of water coolers, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has put up ‘mitti ka ghada’ (earthen pot), surahees and ‘kulhad’ (earthen cup) at these booths. The districts administration will broadcast polls live from 331 polling stations. Besides, 131 all-women booths (pink booths) have been set up in the district to encourage women to vote. There are five persons with disabilities (PwD) booths, including one female PwD booth. Ravi said all the booths have wheelchair, ramp, vehicle and other facilities for PwD voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/13-green-polling-stations-131-pink-booths-in-patna/articleshow/78987797.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 2, 2020||Patna||Campaign ends for Phase II Bihar assembly polls||PATNA: The campaigning for the second and penultimate phase of assembly polls, to be held in 94 constituencies spread over 17 districts on November 3, came to an end on Sunday evening. All political parties on Sunday made their last-ditch efforts to woo the electorate, who will decide the fate of 1463 candidates, including seven ministers, on Tuesday. Additional chief electoral officer (ACEO) Sanjay Kumar said, “The cacophony of electioneering for the second phase came to an end at 6pm on Sunday. Henceforth, no election rallies or corner meetings will be held in all the 94 constituencies going to the polls in the second phase. Door-to-door campaigning by the candidates will be allowed.” In the second round, over 2.86 crore voters, including 1.35 crore women and 980 third gender, will exercise their franchise at 41,362 polling booths. PM Narendra Modi addressed four election rallies in Chhapra, Motihari, Bagaha and Samastipur in favour of the NDA candidates on Sunday. Union minister Anurag Thakur, CM Nitish Kumar and actor-turned-politician Manoj Tiwary also campaigned for the NDA candidates during the day. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav campaigned for Grand Alliance candidates. The fate of seven ministers in Nitish Kumar cabinet – Nand Kishore Yadav (Patna Sahib), Rana Randhir Singh (Madhuban), Shravan Kumar (Nalanda), Ram Sevak Singh (Hathua), Maheshwar Hazari (Kalyanpur), Suresh Sharma (Muzaffarpur) and Madan Sahni (Gora Bauram) – will be decided in the second phase. Heavyweights like opposition’s CM face Tejashwi (Raghopur), his elder brother and former health minister Tej Pratap Yadav (Hasanpur), former minister Manju Verma (Cheria Bariarpur), Chandrika Rai (Parsa), Munna Shukla (Lalganj), Amrendrra Pandey alias Pappu Pandey (Kuchaikot) and retired IPS officer Sunil Kumar (Bhore) are also in the fray. In the 2015 assembly elections, the RJD had won 33 of these 94 seats, while 30 seats had gone to the kitty of JD(U). The Congress had registered victory in seven seats, BJP in 20 seats and LJP in two seats. One seat each had gone to the CPI-ML (Liberation) and an independent. The RJD, JD(U) and the Congress had contested the 2015 assembly elections together. Of the 94 seats going to polls in the second phase, the RJD is contesting 56, the BJP 46 and the JD(U) 43. The Congress has put up its candidates in 24 constituencies, LJP in 52, Left parties in 14, BSP in 33 and RLSP in 36. The VIP has fielded its candidates in five constituencies. In 28 seats, RJD candidates are locked in direct contest with BJP nominees while on 24 seats, they will be taking on JD(U) candidates. Congress candidates are contesting 12 seats each against JD(U) and BJP nominees. .At Raghopur in Vaishali district, Tejashwi is considered to be safe. Tej Pratap, however, is locked in a tough battle with two-term MLA Raj Kumar Rai of JD(U) in Hasanpur assembly constituency in Samastipur district. In 2015, Tej had won from Mahua in Vaishali districtof the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/campaign-ends-for-phase-ii-polling-in-17-districts-tomorrow/articleshow/78990683.cms||Ramashankar
November 2, 2020||---||Chirag slams Nitish, says won’t join hands with RJD||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Sunday reiterated that CM Nitish Kumar is talking about ‘saat nishchay part II’ in his election rallies to allow plundering of more public money in the name of development and welfare schemes. Talking to media persons here before leaving for the election campaign, Chirag said it seems Nitish is not satisfied with “loot of funds” in the ‘saat nishchay’ project. The Jamui MP further said nobody found to be involved in siphoning public funds would be spared if LJP-backed government was formed in the state. “The recent IT searches on the office and the residential premises of the contractors linked to the scheme proved that gross financial irregularities had occurred,” he added. In reply to a question, Chirag ruled out any possibility of his party joining hands with RJD to form the next government in the state. “I am with PM Narendra Modiji and will remain with him till my last breath,” he said. Recalling his father and Union minister late Ram Vilas Paswan’s long association with PM Modi and the BJP, the LJP national president said, “As my father remained with the PM till his last breath, I will also follow in his footsteps.” He claimed that the BJP-LJP government would be formed in Bihar after the declaration of assembly poll results on November 10. “The mood of the crowd in the election rallies shows that change is imminent in the state,” he added. He said LJP’s ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ vision has become a talking point for people in the state. “It gives me inner strength to work in that direction with more sincerity,” he said, adding the LJP was committed to take Bihar to the top as far development is concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/chirag-slams-nitish-says-wont-join-hands-with-rjd/articleshow/78987705.cms||Ramashankar
November 2, 2020||Patna||18 CISF companies to guard 38 strongrooms in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 18 companies of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) will guard the 38 strongrooms across the state to ensure foolproof security of the EVMs to be stored after polling. Besides CISF, 2,430 CAPF personnel of 18 companies will provide additional security. Magistrates are also deployed along with the security personnel at the strongrooms where counting of votes will be done and results declared on November 10 to declare the winners in the 243 assembly segments. The AN College premises on Boring Road in Patna is the biggest strongroom in the state as the EVMs of 14 constituencies of Patna district would be stored by November 3 night. The premises would be opened only for counting scheduled on November 10. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma on Sunday said there will be three-layer security at AN College. “The innermost periphery is being manned by paramilitary forces while the second and third layers of security will be looked after by state police personnel,” he said. Sharma said only authorized personnel can enter the strongroom when requirement. “No other movement is allowed inside or around the strongroom,” he said. The SSP also said traffic regulation near the AN College would come into effect from November 3 as polling parties would reach there and queue up for submitting the EVMs there. “Traffic regulation would come into effect once again on the day of counting on November 10. Any kind of movement around the strongroom would be prohibited that day till night. Traffic would remain diverted during the period,” the SSP said. Meanwhile, sources said at least two platoons of CISF will be engaged in guarding the strongrooms in Patna and Muzaffarpur, if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/18-cisf-companies-to-guard-38-strongrooms-in-bihar/articleshow/78987695.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||In pandemic year, low demand for recycled Durga Puja props in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The pandemic has resulted in very low demand for recycled puja decorations this year. Durga Puja organizers in the city who usually make a killing by selling the props of their ‘themes’ to those organizing Jagaddhatri and Kali puja have found no takers this year. Kingshuk Maitra, secretary of Suruchi Sangha that had a muted celebration this year, said even artefacts decorating the pandal couldn’t be recycled. “Some of them will be preserved by the artist,” he said. Recycling of the props requires workers to reconstruct the same structures elsewhere. However, Anirban Das, the creator of some of the biggest theme pujas in Kolkata, including Behala Friends and Chetla Agrani, has decided not to allow any of his employees and staffers work outside Kolkata during the pandemic. He has refused several such demands. Several other big-budget pujas don’t expect to recover even a portion of the money spent on the structures by recycling them since organizers of Kali and Jagaddhatri pujas are unsure whether there will be similar restrictions on pandal-hoppers. However, some idols and pandals have got a few opportunities to be preserved. The Barisha Club idol depicting the plight of migrants, conceptualized by Mintu Das and executed by Pallab Bhowmick, will be preserved at Rabindra Sarovar. “We will hand over the fibreglass idols to the state,” said Barisha Club member Animesh Chakraborty. Similarly, the Hatibagan Sarbojanin pandal, which was recycled and sold for Rs 3 lakh last year, will head to Odisha’s Chilka this time. “The folk and tribal art centre there will preserve the structure,” said puja convener Saswata Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-pandemic-year-low-demand-for-recycled-durga-puja-props/articleshow/78987785.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Six straight days of dip in current active Covid cases||KOLKATA: Bengal’s active Covid case growth has slowed down in the past six days and on Sunday, with 36,761, it was at a nine-day low. On October 26, Bengal’s active Covid cases shot up to 37,190. Since then, with more Covid patients being discharged from hospitals than new cases being reported, the active case numbers have come down to what it was before October 24. A section of experts, however, warned that the slide could be a temporary lull leading to another spurt. Active cases refer to the number of Covid patients who require medical attention. Kerala, Delhi and Haryana lead eight states and Union Territories in reporting a growth in active Covid cases. According to the data released by the state health department, the active Covid case count in Bengal swelled by 10,630 in the October 1-October 26 phase, the sharpest active case spike noticed since Bengal reported its first case on March 17. However, in the October 27-November 1 phase, 19,987 Covid patients were discharged from hospitals compared to the 19,872 new cases reported in this period, slowing down the case growth. On the flip side, however, there is the marginal rise in positivity rate across Bengal. On Sunday, among the 44,457 samples tested, around 8.2% tested positive. On October 1, the state had a much lesser positivity rate of 7.9%. On Sunday, Bengal reported a discharge rate of 88.4%, a little less than the national discharge rate of 91.5%. A reason behind the drop in active cases could be a partial herd immunity that has set in, according internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. “A significant section has already got Covid and could now be acting as a shield. They are preventing transmission and keeping the number of cases in check. If more people get affected with mild symptoms, they will get treated and discharged earlier, reducing the number of active cases,” said Jain. Greater awareness and more tests have also contributed to the drop, felt RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences consultant Arindam Biswas. “Initially, there was a tendency to hide the disease and reluctance to get tested. But people are now keen to get tested as they have realized that early detection can save lives,” he said. He added the virus could also have lost some of its sting. “Every virus loses its potency with time and Covid could be no different. With transmission, it is bound to lose strength. But we are still not sure if a fresh wave is imminent and whether the virus will behave the same way,” he added. South 24 Parganas has been consistently reporting more active Covid cases for the past several days. While more cases are being reported in Kolkata and North 24 Parganas daily, the discharge rates have also been significantly higher. Both Kolkata and North 24 Parganas — Bengal’s highest Covid prevalence zones — which reported over 7,000 active Covid cases a few days back, indicated a slowdown with Kolkata reporting 6,971 and North 24 Parganas reporting 6,689 Covid cases on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/six-straight-days-of-dip-in-current-active-cases/articleshow/78987645.cms||Saibal Sen
November 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid recovery rate touches 96.08%||PATNA: Altogether 777 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded in the state on Sunday. With this, the state Covid tally has risen to 2,17,541. The virus claimed lives of seven more people in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s Covid toll to 1,097. As per the state health department, Araria, Banka, Begusarai, Gaya, Munger, Muzaffarpur and Nalanda reported one death each on Sunday. With 1,195 more people recuperating from the virus in the last 24 hours, the number of cured people in the state has increased to 2,09,006. The number of active cases in the state stands at 7,438. The state’s Covid recovery rate further improved to 96.08% on Sunday, 4.54% higher than the national average of 91.54%. Bihar is second in the country after Andhra Pradesh (96.2%) in terms of recovery rate. As many as 1,43,611 new samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories in the state in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,10,66,634 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. AIIMS-Patna reported two deaths on Sunday and the victims were a 70-year-old woman from Alamganj in Patna and a 60-year-old man from Siwan’s Dindyalpur. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 12 patients were admitted to the hospital from different Patna localities like Punaichak, Patrakar Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Mahendru and also from Araria, Supaul and Vaishali districts. Twelve patients were discharged from the hospital on Sunday after they recovered from the virus. At NMCH in Patna, no new Covid casualty was reported on Sunday. However, three Covid positive patients were admitted to the hospital and four discharged on Sunday. Of the 777 new Covid cases on Sunday, Patna accounted for 274. With this, the district’s Covid tally has mounted to 36,204. With 33,786 recoveries and 268 deaths, there are 2,150 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-covid-recovery-rate-touches-96-08/articleshow/78987432.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 2, 2020||Patna||Congress slams Bihar govt over ‘poor’ sanitation||PATNA: Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday chose to hold a press conference at a waste dumping ground near Patna GPO roundabout along with a host of party leaders to highlight lack of sanitation, rising pollution and improper waste collection system in the city. Waste materials collected from different parts of the city are dumped at the ground. “Bio-waste is being dumped in the open here, leading to pollution. This is happening in the heart of the city. Nobody is bothered about it. The waste collection dumping yard was to be used for multi-complex buildings,” he said. Lashing out at the state government for the sorry state of affairs, the Congress leader said, “Most of the seats in the city are being represented by the BJP MLAs, which is part of the NDA government in the state. But nothing has happened on this front.” Surjewala lamented that Patna ranked 33 in Smart City survey. “Is it development? Nitish Kumar should land his chopper to see the waste dumping yard in the heart of the city,” he said. Surjewala alleged that several districts were affected by arsenic in water. “Yet, the government is talking about development in the state. People are forced to drink polluted water,” he said. Taking a potshot at the state government for alleged irregularities in execution of ‘Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal’ project, Surjewala said the IT searches on the office and residential premises of the contractors associated with the project yielded huge money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-slams-govt-over-poor-sanitation/articleshow/78988940.cms||Ramashankar
November 2, 2020||Patna||1,174 CAPF companies to be deployed in 17 districts in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 1,174 companies of central armed police force (CAPF) will be deployed in and around 41,362 polling stations in 17 districts going to polls in the second phase on Tuesday. The 17 districts have 94 assembly seats, including nine in Patna – Bakhtiyarpur, Digha, Bankipur, Kumhrar, Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Danapur, Maner and Phulwarisharif. Districts like Vaishali and Muzaffarpur, where Maoist activities are still reported, will also go to the polls in the second phase. There will be tight security arrangements in Sheohar and Sitamarhi districts too. These four districts have 15 assembly seats and 6,451 polling stations. The CAPF personnel will be deployed at all these stations to thwart any attempt by Reds to obstruct polling. Election Commission sources said the CAPF personnel and polling officers would be deployed at all these polling stations by Monday. In Patna, the EC has allocated 125 companies of CAPF for deployment in nine assembly constituencies. As per a press release issued by Patna district administration, altogether 365 sector magistrates, 84 super sector magistrates, 29 zonal magistrates, nine super zonal magistrates and 305 micro-observers have been deployed in the nine assembly seats. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said CAPF personnel would be deployed at every polling station in the district for free and fair polls. “Each polling station will have five to 15 armed personnel,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1174-capf-companies-to-be-deployed-in-17-dists/articleshow/78987452.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||After Bandi’s arrest, 25-year-old supporter tries to immolate self||HYDERABAD: Claiming to be upset with the arrest of BJP state president Bandi Sanjay last week, a 25-year-old party supporter set himself ablaze in front of the BJP state headquarters in Nampally on Sunday. The passers-by doused the fire with water. Some even captured the incident on their mobile phones. According to Abids police, Srinivas, a cable operator, attempted suicide in front of the BJP office while raising slogans of ‘Jai Sanjay anna, Jai Raghunandan anna and Jai BJP’. He was shifted to a hospital and is undergoing treatment. A native of Rangareddy district, Srinivas said that he was upset after his party’s state president Bandi Sanjay was arrested a few days back. Sanjay told media that they are planning to shift Srinivas to a private hospital. “Srinivas is an active BJP supporter. Doctors said that he suffered 58% burn injuries. Upon his family’s request, we are trying to shift him to a private hospital for better treatment,” Sanjay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-bandis-arrest-25-year-old-supporter-tries-to-immolate-self/articleshow/78989187.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||90% patients hospitalized in last 17 days have hypertension, diabetes||Kolkata: Out of the 150 patients from across the city who were admitted to Kolkata’s Covid-designated hospitals in the past 17 days — recommended by the civic body’s borough executive health officers — 90% were senior citizens suffering from hypertension or high blood sugar. According to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) health department figures, senior citizens in the city suffering from co-morbidities have been getting infected by Covid more frequently than the rest. A senior KMC health department official, who also figures in the state health department’s Covid-19 prevention core committee, said senior citizens with severe co-morbidities were admitted to government hospitals during Durga Puja. “Analyzing the data of hospitalization of Covid patients over the past three months, we have drawn a conclusion that the majority of patients who turned serious and needed hospitalization were in the age group of 65-80 and either had hypertension or diabetes, which complicated the conditions,” the official said. According to a senior civic official, the KMC health department borough executive officers from 16 boroughs recommend around 300 Covid patients every month who are senior citizens and suffer from co-morbidities. In most cases of hospitalization, the KMC physicians at the boroughs kept an eye on the infected senior citizens with co-morbidities and recommended early hospitalization. Based on their recommendations, the civic health department brass sent SOSs to the city’s Covid hospitals. “Though we found Covid patients with hypertension or diabetes the most vulnerable, in some cases, we also needed to get some patients with heart ailments or renal failure urgently admitted to government hospitals,” a KMC borough health executive official said. “Those with hypertension and diabetes have a weaker immune system that can’t fight the virus. A majority of the population above 60 suffers from these co-morbidities, which make them vulnerable. They also take longer to recover,” said AMRI Hospitals consultant Debashish Saha. Apart from this, the KMC health department was instrumental in ensuring government hospitals berths for a large number of Covid patients who had earlier been undergoing treatment at private hospitals but could not afford to pay the bills any more. Complications that had arisen out of their co-morbidity factors had prolonged their treatment and necessitated longer stays at the hospitals. “We had to take care of hospitalization of a considerable number of patients who were at private hospitals but could not pay after a point of time,” a KMC health department official said. A public health expert pointed out that as time goes by, more and more elderly people will be affected since they are more vulnerable than the others. “Eventually, we will develop herd immunity and some will act as a shield for the rest. In such a scenario, the possibility of those with co-morbidities getting affected will be considerably higher due to their lower immunity. And invariably, this vulnerable section will be the elderly who tend to suffer from co-morbidities. So they will need to be protected more than the rest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/90-patients-hospitalized-in-last-17-days-have-hypertension-diabetes/articleshow/78987706.cms||Saikat Ray
November 2, 2020||Business||Reliance life and non-life on the block||Mumbai: Reliance Capital has informed stock exchanges that several of its subsidiaries, including Reliance General Insurance and Reliance Nippon Life Insurance, have been put on the block by a committee of debenture holders (CoDH) as part of an asset monetisation process. The committee was constituted by debenture trustee Vistra ITCL, which has invited expressions of interest from buyers for various subsidiaries. These include Reliance General Insurance, Reliance Securities, Reliance Financial and Reliance Health Insurance, where Reliance Capital holds 100% stake. The insurance companies are expected to be the most valuable among the lot. Also, on the block is the company’s 49% holding in Reliance Asset Reconstruction, 20% stake in Reliance Commodities Exchange and 11% in Naffa Innovation. The last date for submission of bids is December 1, 2020. The invitation for an expression of interest (EoI) states that bidders can apply for one or more investments on an as-is-where-is and as-is-what-is basis (along with their associated liabilities). An investor who bids for multiple companies, cannot make their bids contingent on the bidder being selected as the successful bidder for all the investments. Reliance Capital has total debt of around Rs 15,000 crore and most of it is in the form of debentures. “The asset monetisation process is being initiated by Vistra on behalf of the CoDH and in this regard, JM Financial Limited has been appointed by Vistra on behalf of the CoDH as the sole investment banker to co-ordinate the asset monetisation process,” Vistra said in a statement. The Employee Provident Fund Office (EPFO), Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) and other insurance companies have large investments in Reliance Capital bonds. Lenders are placing their hopes on the sale of the insurance companies for a large part of the recovery. Reliance General has a paid-up capital of Rs 252 crore as of September 30, 2020 and has a market share of 4.5% among private insurers, which places it among the top five. Reliance Nippon Life has a paid-up capital of Rs 1,196 crore as of September 30, 2020 and is among the top 10 private life insurance companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reliance-life-and-non-life-on-the-block/articleshow/78989407.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||5 held with 3 pistols at nakas within 2 hours||Chandigarh: Police arrested five people for allegedly carrying pistols and cartridges from different check posts on Saturday late night. The accused are Lakhwinder Singh (31) and Amritpal Singh (45), both residents of Bathinda, Harpreet Singh (29), a resident of Mansa, Varun Garg, (35), a resident of Zirakpur, and Kuldip Singh (32), a resident of Mansa. A police team laid a naka at the main road in front of TDI mall in Sector 17. Cops signalled Lakhwinder driving a Mahindra Scorpio SUV to stop around 11.30pm, but he tried to flee. Cops stopped him and found a country-made revolver and seven live cartridges on him. The accused runs a sweets shop and a business of tiles in Malout. After two hours, cops at the same naka chased and caught Amritpal and Harpreet when they tried to escape from near the roundabout of sectors 7-8-18-19. They recovered a pistol from Amritpal and seven live cartridges from Harpreet. A court sent Lakhwinder in one-day police remand, while Harpreet and Amritpal were remanded in two-day police custody. At the dividing road of sectors 8 and 18, cops stopped a Ford Endeavour SUV coming from the Sector 18 government press light point around 12 midnight. Kuldeep sitting next to the driver, Varun, tried to flee. Cops caught him and recovered a pistol and two cartridges from him and three cartridges from Varun. A court remanded them in one-day police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-held-with-3-pistols-at-nakas-within-2-hours/articleshow/78989172.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Business||Amazon sought Rs 1.4k crore damages, says Future Retail||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: Future Retail said Amazon has sought damages of Rs 1,431 crore plus interest in a regulatory filing on Sunday. This is the amount the e-tailer has invested in Future Coupons. Future Retail’s exchange notification, which comes close on the heels of Amazon informing the exchanges and Sebi that Future Retail has been misleading shareholders, also urged the BSE and the NSE to ignore the e-tailer’s letter regarding the Singapore-based Emergency Arbitrator’s (EA) interim award, which has directed the Kishore Biyani-led Future Group to put on hold its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries. Read AlsoAmazon tells India regulator its partner Future Retail is misleading publicAmazon.com Inc has complained to India's market regulator that its local partner Future Retail Ltd misled shareholders by incorrectly saying it was complying with its contractual obligations to the US e-commerce giant, a letter seen by Reuters shows.Future Retail’s letter, which is being seen by legal experts as an effort to distance itself from the agreement between Biyani and Amazon, called Amazon’s contention to the EA as “entirely misconceived”. While maintaining that the interim award is not legally enforceable in India, as the deal with Reliance is in line with local laws, Future Group had said it is not a party to the agreement under which Amazon had invoked legal proceedings against it. It said Amazon’s claims are being “motivated by other considerations”. “It is a bit rich for such an argument to be made from someone who is not even a shareholder in Future Retail,” the regulatory filing said. “The EA order accepts Amazon’s contention that two separate shareholder agreement(s), one between Amazon and Future Retail’s promoters (to which Future Retail is not a party) and another between Future Retail and its promoter (to which Amazon is not a party) constitute one single integrated transaction and that by such a composite transaction Amazon has an interest in and rights against Future Retail,” the company said. “This contention raised by Amazon is entirely misconceived. In fact, if the two separate agreements were treated as a single integrated transaction by which Amazon obtained an interest in and rights against Future Retail, then in 2019, when the agreements were executed there would have been a change in control of Future Retail in favour of Amazon, requiring it to make an open offer to Future Retail’s public shareholders in terms of the Sebi regulations. No such open offer was made,” it added. Read AlsoIn fight with Amazon, Future Retail sees liquidation if Reliance deal failsFuture Retail Ltd (FRL) will go into liquidation if its deal to sell assets to Reliance Industries fails, the group told a Singapore arbitrator while arguing against Amazon.com Inc's bid to scupper the deal, a legal order seen by Reuters showed.TOI had reported in its Friday edition saying both Future and Amazon are waiting for the next move from each other before approaching Indian courts, which remains a possibility. A spokesperson of Amazon India declined to comment for this story. “The issues being raised by Future--on two different contracts-- to stock exchanges and Sebi was mentioned in Singapore proceedings and the arbitrator did not allow it. So, they (Future) are essentially, repeating that the international arbitration is not enforceable in India,” a person tracking the ongoing dispute closely said. “The financial damages being sought shows it’s not about monetary losses but broader issues of shareholder rights,” he added. The SIAC interim order passed last Sunday is valid for 90 days. A final order is expected to come before this deadline expires. TOI had reported in its Friday edition saying both Future and Amazon are waiting for the next move from each other before approaching Indian courts, which remains a possibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-sought-rs-1-4k-cr-damages-says-future-retail/articleshow/78989382.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Patna||No Patna University teacher in poll fray this time||PATNA: The election fever seems to have gripped Patna University (PU) as many teachers and non-teaching staff can be seen discussing the prospects of different political parties in the forthcoming assembly elections. Four assembly seats of Patna — Patna City, Kumhrar, Bankipur and Digha — will go to the polls in Phase II on Tuesday. Although several teachers of PU, including some old guards, tried getting tickets from different political parties, none of them succeeded. Prominent among those, who had approached the high commands of their respective parties for a ticket, included Patna Science College ex-principal Ram Jatan Sinha and teachers Abhay Kumar and Randhir Kumar, Patna University Teachers’ Association ex-president Randhir Kumar Singh and former general secretary Anil Kumar, Magadh Mahila College’s Suheli Mehta, Patna Women’s College’s Rupam, and College of Arts and Crafts teacher Binod Kumar. However, nothing happened. Earlier, a number of PU teachers had contested the assembly polls from different parties and emerged victorious. This time only Vanijya Mahavidyalaya principal Chandrama Singh is contesting from the Saran teachers’ constituency on a BJP ticket. The results will be announced on November 12. Majority of PU teachers, who are not directly involved in elections, feel that no party will get a clear majority this time and there will be a hung assembly. One trend of the electoral behaviour of the state voters has been constant since 1977 — they give a clear-cut mandate only when there is a wave in favour of or against a party or a leader. And there is no such wave this time, they say. Patna University (PU) social science faculty’s former dean Nawal Kishore Chaudhary points out that recent developments in the NDA have put the ruling coalition in a tight corner. “The LJP will certainly harm the JD (U) candidates which will ultimately harm the NDA’s prospects. The Nitish government is certainly under pressure,” he says. Chaudhary, however, claims that so far as the leadership is concerned, Nitish has no match in the state. “His leadership credential is much better than that of any other political leader in the state, but a section of the populace, particularly the migrant workers and the unemployed youths, is not satisfied with the present dispensation. The only solace for the NDA is that even the Mahagathbandhan is widely fragmented,” he adds. PU sociology department’s former head V K Lal also feels that no clear-cut outcome of the polls is visible right now as there is no direct contest between two coalitions this time. “Equations have changed considerably with political parties still welcoming turncoats into their folds. The separation of Chirag Paswan-led LJP and the death of his father Ram Vilas Paswan have only complicated the poll outcome. His stand in supporting the BJP and fighting against the JD (U) has confused the voters having affiliation with the NDA,” Lal says. PU political science department head Shefali Roy predicts that there will be a hung assembly this time as both the major coalitions have been weakened by some of their allies. She says, “There will be multi-cornered contests on most seats. If there is an undercurrent in the present elections, it is in favour of the Mahagathbandhan.” B N College geology teacher Akhileshwar Tiwary, however, feels that although the strength of the opposition will increase considerably, the NDA will form the government ultimately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-pu-teacher-in-poll-fray-this-time/articleshow/78987445.cms||B K Mishra
November 2, 2020||Patna||‘Lack of work opportunities glaring in Bihar’||PATNA: CPI(ML) is contesting 19 assembly seats as a part of the grand alliance comprising RJD, Congress, CPI and CPM. Since the first phase of the election for 71 seats is over and the second phase for 94 seats is due on November 3, CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya tells Abhay Singh about the people’s response so far. Excerpts: First phase of the polls is over. Your take?There has been tremendous response in favour of the grand alliance candidates of people in the old Shahabad and Magadh regions. Similar, reports are coming from other areas and districts. On the basis of what is being said, the grand alliance should win in most of the constituencies and by a good margin. Never before did the opposition parties, in combination or otherwise, get such a big spontaneous response as this time, which has been visible in their rallies. Yes, there has been tremendous response of the youths. The problem of unemployment in the country as well as in the state is very glaring. The unemployment rate in the country is 23.50%, but in Bihar it is 45%. The problem was exacerbated by the return of migrant workers due to the lockdown arising from the coronavirus pandemic. Nationally, during the pandemic, the problem facing the workers was mitigated by the work opportunities provided by schemes taken up under MNREGA, but comparatively, in Bihar, the mitigation of the problem was minimal. The farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government also impacted the people’s thinking. It is being said that the grand alliance has set the agenda with RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav promising 10 lakh government jobs. The ruling NDA combine has been forced to go in reactive mode?Earlier, the opposition parties always went to the elections with limited agenda. It is for the first time that the agenda set by the grand alliance and Tejashwi is comprehensive, which promises to build Bihar from its present state of affairs. The agenda is contained in its mutually or commonly agreed 25-point programme. It has appealed to youths and promises to address the concerns of most other sections, including sharecroppers and even the Anganwadi, Jeevika, ASHA workers and pensioners. Women had been a big supporter of Nitish Kumar. What about this election? Yes, it was visible right since November 2005 assembly election and continued to stick to the promises he made and fulfilled. But this time, it is also quite visible that a big chunk of women has deserted him. They queued up at the polling booths to vote for the grand alliance in the first phase of elections. The NDA leaders, be it from the Centre or the state, invoke the 15-year rule of Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi and dub it as the ‘jungle raj’ to show the changes that the NDA government had brought about in 15 years of Nitish rule. I was in Bhore (Gopalganj) assembly constituency where people cutting across parties were angry at the invocation of the jungle raj made by the NDA leaders. Technically, any rule is dubbed as jungle raj to mean the lack of rule of law. Even UP CM Yogi Adityanath refers to jungle raj for Bihar. People in Gopalganj were asking what kind of raj has been prevailing in UP if it is not jungle raj? His rule has seen fake encounters, rapes and killing of Dalit women, their burning and what not. It is the real jungle raj, because the government there is not accountable. Some of the things are happening even in Bihar under CM Nitish and, therefore, his rule can also be called jungle raj. That is the reasoning at the ground level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lack-of-work-opportunities-glaring-in-bihar/articleshow/78987603.cms||Abhay Singh
November 2, 2020||Patna||Danapur, Maner, Fatuha crucial for BJP and RJD||PATNA: There are nine assembly constituencies in Patna district going to the polls on November 3. Among them, Danapur, Fatuha, Maner, Phulwari (SC) and Bakhtiarpur have a direct fight between NDA and the Mahagathbandhan candidates. Danapur has traditionally been a BJP stronghold while RJD has a good influence in Maner and Fatuha. Former minister Shyam Rajak had won the Phulwari seat for maximum six times. But he is not in the fray this time. Shyam left JD(U) and joined RJD, which awarded the seat to ally CPI(ML) in the seat-sharing formula. In Bakhtiarpur, it has always been a close fight between BJP and RJD. Danapur: The battle is between two Yadavs — sitting BJP MLA Asha Devi and don-turned-politician Ritlal Yadav of RJD. Asha has been winning this seat since 2005 after her husband Satya Narayan Sinha’s murder in April 2003. Incidentally, Ritlal is accused in the murder of Asha’s husband. The diara areas in the constituency are underdeveloped. Residents of Panapur, Kasimchak, Patlapur, Hetanpur, Ganghaar and Maanas panchayats have to cross the Ganga on countrymade boats to reach Patna when the pontoon bridge is removed every year before the onset of monsoon. Phulwari (SC): Sitting MLA Shyam Rajak is not in the fray. Gopal Ravidas of CPI(ML) is pitted against JD(U)’s Arun Manjhi. Rajak has represented this seat since 1995, except in 2009 when RJD’s Uday Kumar had defeated him. There are 33 candidates in the constituency reserved for Scheduled Castes. Maner: A part of Patliputra Lok Sabha constituency, RJD’s Bhai Virendra has bee representing this seat since 2010. This time he is facing BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand. Maner covers Chandpur, Anandpur, Makhdoompur, Kateshar, Neora, Sikandarpur, Bela, Parev, Painal, Daulatpur Simri, Sadisopur, Mushepur, Kanchanpur Kharagpur, Rampur, Amhara, Bihta, Dayalpur, Bishunpura, Daulatpur and Purshottampur Painathi gram panchayats. Virendra Sinha (39) of Bahpura says all the government schools in the area are in dismal conditions while the health facilities are also in poor shape. “Roads were constructed before the Lok Sabha election, but these are again in a dilapidated condition,” he said. Bakhtiarpur: BJP’s Ranvijay Singh is the sitting MLA. RJD’s Anirudh Kumar, who had won this seat in 2010 and 2005 (February), is again in the fray against Ranvijay. Fatuha: Sitting RJD MLA Ramanand Yadav had defeated LJP’s Satyendra Kumar Singh in 2015. Satyendra has joined BJP and is again in the fray. Dinesh Kumar Gupta (47) from Ranipur says good roads and proper infrastructure are needed in the area. “Only the main city is developed while the areas on the outskirts are left neglected. There is no proper garbage collection or sanitation facility. Waterlogging is another issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/danapur-maner-fatuha-crucial-for-bjp-and-rjd/articleshow/78987518.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 2, 2020||Patna||Tej Pratap Yadav faces formidable JD(U) MLA in Hasanpur||PATNA: Hasanpur assembly constituency has been in the limelight since RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav filed his nomination papers from this seat in Samastipur district after relinquishing Mahua in Vaishali from where he was elected in 2015. When asked why he changed his constituency, Tej told this newspaper that the people in Hasanpur wanted him to contest from this seat. LJP has fielded Manish Kumar to make it a triangular contest in this constituency, which will go to the polls on November 3. The Janadhikar Party (JAP) of former Madhepura MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav has also fielded Arjun Yadav from the seat. Lalu might have considered Hasanpur as a safe seat for Tej Pratap, but he is facing a formidable opponent in two-time JD(U) MLA Raj Kumar Rai. It is also a Yadav dominated constituency. It is believed that Tej relinquished Mahua as he apprehended that his estranged wife Aishwarya Rai might contest against him and cause huge embarrassment to his family. Lalu’s younger son and the CM face of Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, is not leaving any stone unturned and has aggressively campaigned for his elder brother on Friday. Tej is campaigning in his own style by playing cricket with village youths, ploughing fields with tractor, eating ‘litti-chokha’ and doing what he is known for — playing flute to impress the voters. Though the Yadav voters are the deciding factor, Muslims, Kushwahas and Nishads (fishermen) also have a significant presence in the constituency, which was represented by Gajendra Prasad Himanshu seven times from 1967 to 1980 and 1990 on different symbols, the last one on a JD(U) ticket in 2000. Rai won the Hasanpur seat by garnering 36,767 votes in the 2010 assembly elections by defeating RJD’s Sunil Kumar Pushpam by 3,291 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tej-pratap-faces-formidable-jdu-mla-in-hasanpur/articleshow/78987465.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 2, 2020||Patna||Man arrested for killing sister-in-law in Gopalganj||PATNA: Police have arrested a 30-year-old man on charges of killing his elder brother’s newlywed second wife as he was angry with his family members for not letting him marry and instead solemnising the second marriage of his elder brother. The incident occurred at Sabnahipatti village under Siripur police outpost in Gopalganj district in the wee hours of Saturday when the woman, Meena Devi (34), wife of Ganesh Pandit (45), was fast asleep. Incharge of Siripur police outpost Sanjeet Kumar said the accused was identified as Manoj Pandit. “He had fled the village after committing the crime. However, the police succeeded in arresting him after several raids,” Kumar said. He added, “Ganesh’s first wife had died several years back. He has two married daughters and a minor son from his first wife. He married Meena hardy three months back. This irked Manoj as he is still unmarried.” Kumar said Manoj often used to quarrel with his elder brother, mother and sister-in-law over the issue. “He hit the forehead of Meena with a sharp-edged object around 3am on Saturday. She died on the spot,” Kumar said. “An FIR has been registered against Manoj on the basis of his elder brother’s complaint. Meena’s body was handed over to the family after postmortem,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-arrested-for-killing-sister-in-law-in-gopalganj/articleshow/78987440.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 2, 2020||Business||US funds mark down Paytm & Ola valuation as Covid hits biz||BENGALURU: US-based mutual funds T Rowe Price and Vanguard have marked down the valuation of two of India’s most valued internet companies — mobile payments major Paytm and ride-hailing platform Ola, respectively, as the pandemic disrupted business in the first half of the year. The markdowns come from mutual funds holding about 1% stake in both the companies. T Rowe Price, which invested at least $150 million in Paytm in December 2019, has cut the value of its shares in the company by 26% as of June 2020. The shares — which were acquired for $254 apiece — have now been valued at $188 by multiple funds managed by T Rowe Price, according to filings. Paytm was valued at close to $16 billion, when it last raised funding in December. A source briefed on the matter said Paytm’s shares have been marked up close to their original price during the September quarter, though an exact figure could not be determined. Ola, whose business has taken a bigger hit due to the pandemic, has seen the valuation of its shares fall by nearly 50% by Vanguard as of August 31. Ola’s shares were being valued at $162.5 apiece as against $311 in February, according to filings seen by TOI. Ola was valued at about $6.5 billion, when it raised capital from carmaker Hyundai in the first half of 2019. This is not the first time India’s most valued startups have faced a markdown from mutual funds, and the numbers could swing back. In 2016, e-tailer Flipkart’s valuation was marked down to $5.6 billion by Morgan Stanley and Fidelity but it went on to be acquired by American retail giant Walmart for $22 billion. Earlier, Ola had faced a 40% markdown from Vanguard in 2017 before recovering its valuation in 2018. Both Flipkart and Ola also had to raise capital at lower valuation before recovering. Ola, Vanguard and T Rowe Price spokespersons declined to comment on queries from TOI. A Paytm spokesperson said that June valuation for the company is dated as the markets then were “extremely volatile” and some of its new businesses like payment gateway, UPI money transfer, equity trading, lending, PoS devices and advertising are performing better than expectations. “While we cannot comment on the internal valuation exercise of our shareholders, we understand that such exercises reflect overall uncertainty caused by the pandemic and investor-specific methodologies on valuation. While our last round of funding was about a year ago, we are seeing strong momentum in our business wherein GMV has gone up by nearly 100% in the last 18 months. At the same time, many of our new businesses, particularly payment gateway, UPI money transfer, equity trading, lending, POS devices and advertising are performing far ahead of our internal expectations. Our FY20 revenue has increased to Rs 3,629 crore, even as our burn has reduced by over 60% in the last 18 months. We believe that the document that you are referring to is from June quarter (dated) and from a time when the markets globally were extremely volatile,” said the spokesperson. Investors tracking the startup ecosystem said while digital payments have seen increasing traction due to the pandemic, which should help Paytm, it is the increasing competition that the Noida-based company faces is a challenge. “Two years ago, Paytm was a monopoly in mobile payments but now there is PhonePe, Google Pay, Amazon Pay and also the recent tie-up between Reliance and WhatsApp,” said a venture capital investor, who requested not to be named. The development also comes as the government has imposed restrictions on investments from China amid the border conflict. Paytm counts China’s e-commerce giant Alibaba Group and its fintech affiliate Ant Financial as its largest shareholder, together holding close to 40% stake in the company. For Ola, the markdown comes as there has been a global slowdown in mobility business as the biggest companies in the world have allowed employees to work from home for most of 2020. Even in the US, its rival Uber had said in August that business is down 50-85% in various cities. Sources close to Ola said that business in some cities has started inching back to pre-Covid levels, even as the SoftBank-backed company is increasing its focus on electric vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-funds-mark-down-paytm-ola-valuation-as-covid-hits-biz/articleshow/78989346.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Gill Road man dies, 68 test Covid +ve||tnnLudhiana: A resident of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 68 tested positive on Sunday. About one third of the fresh cases comprised undertrials.As per the local media bulletin, the 67-year-old man of Dashmesh Nagar, Gill Road, died at a city hospital.The day also saw four outsiders succumbing to the virus here and 12 testing positive.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana toll tally has climbed to 838 and that of outsiders to 324.To date, 3,92,263 persons have been tested.Of the 68 new cases, 26 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), four positive cases’ contacts, seven from OPD, one healthcare worker, five through tracing process, 23 undertrials, one pre-operative case and one interstate traveller.The district case count has risen to 20,359 and that of outsiders to 2,767.So far, 19,181 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.21% of the total cases.There are 337 active cases. As many as 891 persons are home quarantined.On Sunday, 30 persons were quarantined and 1,924 samples collected.The number of ventilators in private hospitals is 147, including four government ones installed at CMCH.Twelve patients, including six Ludhianvis, are on ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gill-road-man-dies-68-test-covid-ve/articleshow/78986757.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||CS reports same number of cases, deaths of other dists for 3 months||Nagpur: The district civil surgeon Dr VD Paturkar has been reporting same number of positive cases and deaths for other districts almost on all days for over last three months. It is next to impossible, say doctors of private hospitals and representatives of laboratories. Also, data of CS and state government’s public health department (PHD) continues to differ. TOI in Saturday edition had reported CS and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) were reporting less cases for the district as compared to PHD data. District’s caseload was 1,00,041 on October 25, as per PHD while the tally was 93,646 in the data released by the CS, for a difference of 6,395. The difference was higher if NMC’s data was considered. On Saturday evening, CS did massive reconciliation of 7,357 cases, 275 deaths and 7,007 recoveries for the district, yet discrepancies continue. A close look at the daily data released by CS has revealed that the number of cases and deaths registered for other districts in Nagpur district was same on all days since August. Doctors of private hospitals and representatives of laboratories said on the condition of anonymity that it is next to impossible. “Large number of patients from other districts of Vidarbha as well as neighbouring states Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh came here, tested positive and took treatment. They are supposed to be registered in district’s tally. Majority of patients have recovered and returned to their hometowns,” they said. CS gave separate number of cases and deaths of other districts till July when Nagpur’s district numbers were less. As per norms, other districts will not consider cases registered here. Therefore, chances of these cases having gone unregistered cannot be ruled out. Paturkar did not respond to TOI’s call and message. After reconciliation of cases, the district’s tally was 1,02,786, as per data of CS on Saturday. The number was 1,02,176, as per PHD. Difference of 610 is considered negligible. But there is huge difference when compared cases of city and rural in the data of CS and PHD. As per PHD, 77,725 cases were of city and 24,451 of rural in district’s tally. As per CS, city cases were 81,487, rural 20,703 and other districts 596. There are 3,762 less cases from city in PHD data. After addition of 596 cases of other districts with 20,703 of rural, tally of rural will be 20,107, as per CS. This number is 4,344 less compared with PHD. On Saturday, 2,731 deaths were registered with PHD but the toll was 3,403 as per CS. It means 672 less deaths in PHD data. Strangely, CS, NMC and PHD take data Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal. Also, CS did not reconcile data of total tests despite increase in positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cs-reports-same-number-of-cases-deaths-of-other-dists-for-3-months/articleshow/78987960.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 2, 2020||Kochi||Malayali Diaspora: Home & Away||Jeddah: Saudi Arabia-based Islamic Cultural Forum (ICF) would provide much-needed financial assistance to madrassa (religious school) teachers in Kerala, ICF’s head Sayyid Habeebal Bukhari has revealed. Due to Covid-19 madrassas are not functioning across Kerala. Teachers working at madrassas have not been getting their salaries during the past few months. The ICF aims to provide Rs 25 lakh as interim relief. The association would also provide financial help to families of stranded Saudi expatriates in Kerala. The applicants screened by Kerala Muslim Jamaat, the parent body of ICF, from 14 districts of Kerala would get the benefit. The distribution of funds is to be completed by November 30, ICF office-bearers said in Jeddah. 30% job cuts likely in UAE Dubai: Nearly 20% of businesses operating in the UAE have put a freeze on salaries, while 30% have plans to cut their workforce numbers, according to the annual survey conducted by the consultancy company Mercer. Also, according to the survey, 17% of companies delayed handing out 2020 salary hikes following the Covid-19 pandemic, most likely by six months or so. These are the stark numbers generated on what UAE businesses are doing to cope with the pandemic fallout. Some of the bigger organizations have already gone through the process of headcount reductions, while salaries were cut by 30-50%. The 30% of organizations planning job cuts expect an average 10% reduction in their workforce. The biggest impact will be felt in retail, and if December/January sales do not pan out as retailers expect, this is where the pink slips are most likely to emerge from. Among those industries seeing gains in headcounts, there is logistics, specifically for express and last-mile services and set off by e-commerce demand. “Even though we expect uncertainty to span 2021, the Total Remuneration Survey results promise a more optimistic new year as companies are increasingly reporting positive hiring sentiments compared to those indicated at the onset of the pandemic,” said Carolina Vorster, Workforce Products Leader at Mercer. (C O T Azeez is a journalist based in Jeddah)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-diaspora-home-away/articleshow/78989189.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Lucknow||3 cops suspended for using debit card of accused||Lucknow: An SHO of Sahel police station in Auraiya district has been suspended along with a sub-inspector and a constable for withdrawing cash from the debit card of an accused, who was picked up in connection with a theft case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-cops-suspended-for-using-debit-card-of-accused/articleshow/78989650.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Salem||Ambulance hits and kills pedestrian, man inside it dies of cardiac arrest in Salem||KRISHNAGIRI: A 50-year-old man was killed after an ambulance knocked him down while crossing the road near Hosur here on Saturday night. On seeing the accident, a 51-year-old man, who was returning home from a private hospital in Bengaluru after recovering from Covid-19 in the ambulance, suffered cardiac arrest and died in Salem government hospital. The Soolagiri police identified the deceased as K Kumaresan, 51, of Elampillai in Salem district, and S Muniappan, 50, of Murukkanapalli village in Krishnagiri district. According to an investigation officer, Kumaresan was admitted to a private hospital in Bengaluru 10 days ago after he tested positive for the virus. “After he turned negative, he was discharged from the hospital on Sunday evening. He hired a private ambulance to return home.” When the ambulance reached Chinnar area on Bengaluru-Chennai National Highway, Muniappan suddenly crossed the road by walk. “The ambulance driver tried his best to avoid hitting him, but lost control over the vehicle in the process and knocked him down, killing him on the spot.” Meanwhile, Kumaresan, who was in the ambulance, suffered cardiac arrest. The ambulance driver rushed him to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital in Salem, where he died without responding to treatment. The Soolagiri police have registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/ambulance-hits-kills-pedestrian-man-inside-it-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/articleshow/78989188.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: October slows down virus, positivity rate drops to 6%||VISAKHAPATNAM: While Andhra Pradesh may have touched the eight lakh Covid-19 case mark on October 23, the latest one lakh cases were reported in a span of 22 days, making it the longest period to add any one-lakh cases after the state’s first one-lakh infections. The state crossed the eight million testing milestone on October 31. As compared to 124 days for conducting the first one million tests, the state carried out the latest one million tests in a mere 13 days. This has been the lowest number of days taken to complete any one million tests in the state since the beginning of the outbreak. The case positivity rate for the last one million tests stood at 4% compared to its peak in August of 16-17%. The overall case positivity rate in October stood at 5.8%. Of the 8.25 lakh cases detected as of Sunday, the state recorded 1.3 lakh cases in October, reflecting an increase of only 16% in caseload in the last one month. This has been the lowest-ever case growth rate for any one-month period. In September, cases surged by 45%, while in August, the state recorded a 300% growth in cases, a near-900% spike in July and a 300% increase in June. Parameters such as case doubling rate, hospitalisations, positivity rate and fatality rate significantly improved even with increased testing in October. Even the recovery rate, the key metric used to measure improvements, crossed the 96% mark. Andhra Pradesh is the only state to achieve such a recovery rate after May. Daily new infections dropped to two digits in Kurnool, the disease epicentre in the initial days of the outbreak. The situation in East Godavari, the current epicentre, has also improved slightly. As the number of active cases dropped below 24,000, nearly 80% hospital beds remained vacant at the nearly 200 designated Covid-19 hospitals. However, the health department is anticipating a second wave in the coming weeks with the reopening of educational institutions from November 2 and gradual resumption of other commercial activities. Dr K Rambabu, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said aggressive testing, extensive contact tracing, early detection of cases and augmented hospital infrastructure helped the state in Covid-19 management. “Conditions have significantly improved in the recent months. However, the next few months are also going to be critical in the fight against the pandemic,” said Dr Rambabu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/october-slows-down-virus-positivity-rate-drops-to-6/articleshow/78986763.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 2, 2020||India||Pak’s Gilgit-Baltistan move bid to hide illegal occupation: MEA||NEW DELHI: Pakistani PM Imran Khan further ratcheted up tension with India on Sunday as he announced “provisional provincial status” for Gilgit-Baltistan in an apparent move to annex the militarily occupied territory, through which passes China’s controversial China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), as Pakistan’s fifth province.  The announcement drew another scathing response from India with the foreign ministry asking Pakistan to immediately vacate all Indian territories under its illegal occupation instead of making efforts to change their status. The government said such attempts by Pakistan, intended to camouflage its illegal occupation of Indian territories, could not hide the grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom for over seven decades to the people residing in these Pakistan-occupied territories. The government reiterated that the UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, including the area of “so-called Gilgit-Baltistan”, are an integral part of India by virtue of the legal, complete and irrevocable accession of Jammu & Kashmir to the Union of India in 1947. "The government of Pakistan has no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, adding that India firmly rejected Pakistan’s attempt to bring material changes to a part of Indian territory under its illegal and forcible occupation. Khan’s announcement, at a rally in Gilgit-Baltistan, comes at a time his government is faced with protests by major opposition parties who have united to corner him on a range of issues, including a failing economy. These protests have seen members of Nawaz Sharif’s party PML-N even targeting the Pakistan Army for its support to Khan’s government. India believes Islamabad has been falsely claiming that the people of militarily occupied Gilgit-Baltistan want to integrate with Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/paks-gilgit-baltistan-move-bid-to-hide-illegal-occupation-mea/articleshow/78989883.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Lady Goschen Hospital records 800 deliveries in October||MANGALURU: The Government Lady Goschen Hospital, which was witnessing an average of 400-450 deliveries a month, created a record of its own in October. While the 167-year-old government hospital crossed 800 deliveries in October, its Covid Maternity Block was successful in admitting and providing treatment to an average of four to five pregnant women who had Covid-19, every day. Hospital medical superintendent Dr Durgaprasad M R told TOI that it is for the first time that the hospital has crossed a significant milestone in its service. “Our hospital is working in coordination with KMC Hospital. At present, we have 32 gynaecologists working in four units of the hospital. Our hospital is a referral and tertiary centre, for patients from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga, Hassan, Kodagu as well as Kasaragod and Kannur districts of Kerala. We have all the modern facilities required to handle any complicated situation. We never refer cases to other centres, since we have all the equipment here. People too have trust in the services provided at the hospital,” Dr Durgaprasad said. The spread of Covid-19 is also a reason for the sudden increase in the number of deliveries in the government hospital, he said. “Earlier, our maternity section was functioning in the Covid block of Wenlock Hospital. We opened an exclusive Covid Maternity Block on September 13. We have reserved 23 beds exclusively for pregnant women who test positive for Covid-19 in our Covid Maternity Block. We have been receiving an average of 4-5 cases of pregnant women with Covid every day. Recently, the number has come down, but we still get one or two Covid cases every day. We never mix up the treatment of pregnant women who have Covid-19 with others. We have separate delivery rooms and operation theatres for pregnant women who have Covid-19,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lady-goschen-hospital-records-800-deliveries-in-october/articleshow/78986773.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh schools open today, education minister assures safety||VIJAYAWADA: As schools across the state reopen their doors for face-to-face classes from Monday, education minister Adimulapu Suresh inspected Zilla Parishad High School at Nidamanuru in Krishna district and enquired about the precautions taken by officials. “The safety of students is top priority for us. Teachers and school headmasters should strictly follow physical distancing and necessary precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” the minister said. “We have directed the officials to follow standard operation procedures (SOP) strictly. Each and every student will be given three masks for free. No student or staff will be permitted without masks. Handwash and sanitizers will be made available at schools. Toilets will be maintained properly. Parents can send their children to schools with out any fear,” the minister said. Suresh added, “We have decided to open schools in a phased manner. Residential schools will start functioning from November 23. Similarly, primary schools will be reopened on December 14. We will analyse the situation and take necessary action.” “Jagananna Vidya Devena kits have already been distributed to the students and students can even attend online classes. Nadu-Nedu works in some areas are getting delayed on account of labour shortage and Covid-19 fears. We are trying to complete the works by this month-end,” the minister said.“Our motive is to provide quality education without any burden on parents and this will be a reality very soon,” Suresh assured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-schools-open-today-education-minister-assures-safety/articleshow/78986783.cms||Venu Lanka
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Outfits demand flag for state||Coimbatore: The Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) hoisted a flag that they designed for the state at the party office at PN Pudur here on Sunday to mark the Tamil Nadu Day celebrations. Meanwhile, members of the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) cut a cake that featured the image of their version of the flag for the state and demanded the government to announce holiday on November 1. Tamil Nadu was created on November 1, 1956, by bifurcating the three other southern states from the Madras Presidency. NTK functionaries hoisted the flag bearing the insignia of Chera, Chola and Pandya dynasties at the party’s news office at PN Pudur. A police officer noticed the flag and removed it. He also informed the Saibaba Colony police, who registered a case against NTK state co-ordinators Vijayaragavan and Abdul Wahab and Coimbatore north district treasurer Chinnathambi and secretary Gavaskar. They were booked for unlawful assembly and wrongful restraint. The TPDK observed the day at the Periyar Study Centre at Gandhipuram. Its general secretary K Ramakrishnan cut a cake that featured the red map of Tamil Nadu as the flag. “The Karnataka government has its own state flag. Likewise, Tamil Nadu also should have one. We also request the state government to declare holiday on November 1,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/outfits-demand-flag-for-state/articleshow/78989192.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Party cadre being threatened: BJP||Hyderabad: BJP state unit has complained to the DGP of Telangana M Mahender Reddy, saying that BJP activists are being threatened and arrested, and sought an enquiry. In a letter, the party said that allegations made by the TRS working president KT Rama Rao about BJP trying to create violence in the city are baseless and provocative. “All the allegations maade are highly provocative and biased,” BJP general secretary G Premender Reddy said in the letter. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/party-cadre-being-threatened-bjp/articleshow/78989193.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Erode||EPS made majestic Tamil Nadu submissive to Centre: MK Stalin||Kickstarting a virtual election campaign on Sunday, DMK president M K Stalin termed the 2021 assembly election a war against misrule and corruption. Addressing the party men in Erode district from Chennai in the virtual election meeting named ‘Tamizhagam Meetpom’, he called on them to dethrone the AIADMK, which has been in power in the state for the past 10 years. “Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is least bothered about the welfare of the public and keen only on retaining his power. He has made a majestic state like Tamil Nadu (TN), submissive to the Centre. It’s time to erase this blot and retrieve TN,” Stalin said. Listing out 10 issues like Tuticorin police firing, Sathankulam lock up deaths, alleged mismanagement of Covid-19 and lack of industrial investment, he said there were enough reasons to end the AIADMK rule. “Can they give us one genuine reason for their rule to continue?” he asked. Pointing out that the state government has been projecting a rosy development picture by providing false statistics, the DMK chief said, “The fact is TN is in a bad shape. The state is placed 14 among the 18 states in ease of doing business under the business reforms action plan that was released recently. If TN is in 14th place, who will launch industries here?” He said the EPS government was also silent on ‘anti-people’ moves like the new education policy, farm acts and imposition of Hindi that were brought by the Centre. “In 2018, I had vowed from Erode to bring back the DMK rule and gift it to Thalaivar Kalaignar. Unfortunately, he is not with us. Once again, I am taking a vow from Erode to unseat the AIADMK.” Stalin said there was lack of leadership in the AIADMK. “It doesn’t have a party president or general secretary. There has been a leadership tussle for the past four years and the ministers are not in the control of the CM or deputy CM. The party is divided in all aspects. It is held together by a thin line, which would break anytime. They neither know how to run the party nor the government.” He said EPS and OPS will vacate ST George Fort in May next year after the elections. “We are duty bound to retrieve Tamil Nadu from them.” The DMK chief also hit out at prime minister Narendra Modi for lauding EPS for controlling Covid-19 spread. “Modi praised TN government for Covid management. More than 11,000 people have died, and seven lakh people were infected in TN. Modi is lauding EPS because the former himself has failed in Covid management.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/stalin-eps-made-majestic-tn-submissive-to-centre/articleshow/78989190.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Health fitness certificate order unpalatable, exempt us: Food business operators||TNNLudhiana: A day after health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu directed all the dhaba operators and food handlers to get health fitness certificate from registered medical practitioners by December 2020, the small businessmen are unhappy.The businessmen, who own dhabas and other small food trades, say they should be exempted from the formalities as the present situation makes doing business difficult.Ranjit Singh, who owns a dhaba near Transport Nagar, says, “We cannot comply with the norms at this time, as we already are facing problems, like huge drop in business and rise in expenditure due to the pandemic. We request the government and the health minister to reconsider the decision and allow us to operate like this till March 2021 after which we will try our best to comply with all the norms.”Gurpreet Singh, the owner of a food stall on Chandigarh Road, says, “The health minister has made mandatory the registration of all food business operators with the food safety department by December 2020. Also, all dhaba operators and food handlers must get health fitness certificates. But the procedure to complete these formalities is so complex and time consuming that it is not possible to abide by these in a month. Small food business operators in Punjab are already fulfilling many formalities and now more conditions have been imposed on us. The decision should be rolled back as it will only lead to hike in cost of doing business and wastage of time.”Neelam Rani, owner of a tiffin service in the city, says, “The formalities are complex for small business owners like me as we have to visit departments to get ourselves registered. Instead, the government should have introduced self-certification system wherein we can fill online form and submit details to get certificate of fitness. The department can visit our premises and conduct inspection if required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-fitness-certificate-order-unpalatable-exempt-us-food-business-operators/articleshow/78986796.cms||Mohit Behl
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP doing injustice to people of Telangana: Harish Rao||HYDERABAD: On the last day of the election campaign for the Dubbak by-poll, state finance minister T Harish Rao lashed out at the BJP. In an open letter, Harish posed 18 questions to state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay. At a media conference, Rao said that the BJP had done injustice to Telangana. Harish added that the BJP candidate for Dubbak by poll Raghunandan Rao’s parents are receiving the pension. They have even received benefits under Rythu Bandhu scheme by the state government. The minister said: “ Raghunandan now should tell who is taking care of people in Dubbak and his parents.” BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao replied, saying that he is not rich like KCR and others in TRS to build big houses for his parents in the city. “ Harish Rao is indulging in personal attacks, but I never did,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-doing-injustice-to-people-of-t-harish/articleshow/78989195.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Lucknow||5,791 UP villages get golden health card in a single day||LUCKNOW: In a major feat, UP government distributed golden cards under Ayushman Bharat scheme in 5,791 out of the 6,709 targeted villages in one day on Sunday. The record was achieved after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath flagged off a special drive to provide golden cards under Ayushman health insurance scheme in the identified villages which did not have a single card. This way, 67 UP districts have been saturated for distribution of golden cards, leaving eight districts where the drive would continue. Yogi flagged off the drive by distributing golden cards to five beneficiaries. Yogi said Ayushman Bharat scheme aims at providing medical care to all and added that his government would expand the ambit of the scheme to benefit more and more people. Those who could not be covered under Ayushman Bharat will be covered under Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Yojana launched by the state government, the CM said. He asked officials to ensure distribution of golden card, required to avail the scheme, to all the eligible persons. He said the role of Ayushman Mitra has been very important and their responsibilities should be fixed to ensure no single eligible person remains deprived of the golden card. Under the scheme, a beneficiary can get health treatment worth up to Rs 5 lakh in listed government hospitals/medical colleges and hospitals in the corporate sector. The CM directed the health department to spread awareness about the scheme as much as possible. The special drive comes days after CM, during a review meeting found that there were 6,709 villages which had not a single beneficiary of the Ayushman scheme. On Sunday, the health department organised camps in the targeted villages to distribute golden cards in the first phase. In UP, 98 lakh beneficiaries have been given golden cards under Ayushman scheme. Of them about 5 lakh people have availed the benefits of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/golden-feat-5791-up-villages-get-health-cards-in-a-day/articleshow/78989669.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Stubble burning: Figures rage on despite efforts of admn||Ludhiana: The efforts of the administration and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) in checking stubble burning don’t seem to bear fruits as the number of the incidents in Ludhiana district in the ongoing harvesting season is more than three times than three years ago. It is also reflecting on the air quality index, which is a measure of quality of air, in Ludhiana.As per the details of PPCB for active fire events (kharif season) based on satellite data, from September 21 to October 31, the number for the district was 1,316. Last year, the number in the corresponding period was 776 and in 2018 it was 384.The daily data of PPCB for October 31 also suggested that the number of fire incidents of the kharif season this year was much higher than previous years. This October 31, the number was a whopping 264, while it was 87 in 2019 and 44 in 2018.The AQI data for the past eight days showed that the quality of air in Ludhiana suffered due to various reasons, stubble burning being the main.As per the AQI bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), it has remained between lowest 161 (moderate category) and maximum 280 (poor category) since October 25. It fell in the poor category thrice: on October 25 (280), October 28 (224) and October 29 (226). The possible health impact of this AQI is breathing discomfort on prolonged exposure.AQI remained moderate on October 26 (164), October 27 (191), October 30 (186) and October 31 (161), with possible health impact of breathing discomfort to people with asthma and lungs and heart diseases.The PPCB authorities confirmed that stubble burning incidents till now have been higher and have affected AQI. “Despite creating awareness, people are burning stubble. Though there are other factors, which contribute to poor AQI, stubble burning remains the main reason,” said a senior PPCB officer at Ludhiana.The residents are, meanwhile, upset with the bad air quality. “Stubble burning is a bad practice and farmers are not happy doing it. The government doesn’t only need to create awareness among farmers, but help them in transportation of stubble as many don’t have resources for it,” said Gurpreet Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/stubble-burning-figures-rage-on-despite-efforts-of-admn/articleshow/78986790.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 2, 2020||Agra||3 infants die within 48 hours at state-owned children's home in Agra; mgmt blames it on sudden weather change, premature births||Agra: Three infants, under six months of age, died at the state government-owned children’s home and pre-adoption centre in Agra’s Siroli village in a span of 48 hours since October 24. An official communication accessed by TOI shows that while four-month-old Sunita died on the way to SN Medical College on October 24, three-month-old Prabha and two-month-old Awani, too, died within hours of being admitted to the hospital on October 25. However, the centre’s superintendent blamed the sudden weather change in the city and the premature births of the babies for the deaths. Notably, the additional district sessions judge had conducted an inspection at the centre, which had 13 children all below five years, over a month ago and sent a letter to the district probation officer (DPO) citing lack of proper care or nutrition for them. In the letter dated September 19 issued to DPO, a copy of which is available with TOI, additional district sessions judge Sarvjeet Kumar Singh had written, “By looking at children, it does not seem that they are getting an adequate amount of milk/nutritious powder. (The) children look extremely week.” “The centre in-charge was not able to give any satisfactory answer when asked about the lactogen powder and food purchase register. Children are not provided milk and nutritious food as per the norms, which is objectionable,” the letter reads. The judge, who is also the head of the committee for inspection of shelter homes in the district, had directed the DPO to “act as per the rules so that any adverse situation does not develop at the centre”. Vikas Kumar, superintendent of the state government-owned children’s home in village Siroli of Agra district, said, “The three kids were born premature. Their health deteriorated following a sudden change in weather conditions. Proper care and nutrition are being provided to the children lodged at the centre.” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “I was told by the centre management that two children were lodged there in a criticalcondition. They were thrown away by their parents. Another child was having health complications and died during treatment. I have asked chief development officer J Reebha to conduct an inspection at the centre. We will ascertain if the death of the children is due to nutritional deficiency or certain medical conditions. I have also ordered medical check-up of all the children lodged at the centre.” Child rights activist Naresh Paras said, “Why were the children rushed to hospital at the last moment? The state government should take cognizance of the matter and order a magisterial probe.” At present, 44 children below 10 years of age are lodged at the state government’s shelter facility in Agra for children who have no known guardians to look after them. There are six women contractual workers on duty at the centre to take care of kids in three shifts. In each shift, there are only 2 workers who look after 44 kids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-infants-die-within-48-hours-at-state-owned-childrens-home-in-agra-mgmt-blames-it-on-sudden-weather-change-premature-births/articleshow/78985939.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Gold, cash seized from official in Salem||Salem: Officials from directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) raided a senior official in Salem city on Sunday evening and seized Rs 3.20 lakh unaccounted money and 34 sovereigns of gold jewellery from his house. Dr V A Anand was serving as the DIG of registration department in Salem zone. He was transferred to Cuddalore zone a week ago. He was relieved from his duties on Saturday (October 31). His office staff gave him a send-off party on the same night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-cash-seized-from-official-in-salem/articleshow/78989197.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||AP sees 2.6k new Covid cases||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,618 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,25,966, while the toll increased to 6,706 with 16 more persons succumbing to the disease. Altogether, 3,509 Covid-19 patients were declared cured. There are currently 23,668 active cases with 7,95,592 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 96%. The recovery rate was over 98% in Vizianagaram, Kurnool and Nellore districts. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-sees-2-6k-new-covid-cases/articleshow/78989200.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Child labourers go back to work as special schools lie defunct||Coimbatore: About two years ago, 13-year-old Asha (name changed), a resident of Bargur in Anthiyur taluk of Erode district, was working as a farmhand at one of the sugarcane plantations in a nearby locality for a daily wage of Rs 200. Her family was in desperate need of an additional hand to boost their income. It had taken a lot of time for members of Sudar, a non-governmental organization (NGO) running a special school for rescued child labourers under National Child Labour Project (NCLP) in the district to convince her parents to send her there for a monthly stipend of Rs 400.They managed to get her parents’ nod and the girl was put in the special school.But this month, the girl has gone back to work in a sugarcane plantation again because the school was shut during the lockdown and she lost her noon meal and the stipend.Asha's is not a lone case. Across the state, this is the plight of rescued children. In Trichy where 467 children were rescued in 2019-20 alone, many have not received their stipend. A project director of NCLP said all banks have been computerised and even a spelling mistake in their names will not allow the system to deliver the stipend money into their account. "Parents from rural areas tend to give wrong spellings which differ from Aadhar card which is used for opening bank accounts,’’ he said. According to child rights activists, more than 50% of the rescued child labourers who were studying in NCLP’s special schools in the state have been forced to go back to work.A Aloysius, director of Social Awareness and Voluntary Education (SAVE), an NGO that runs NCLP schools in Tirupur, said, “close to 300 students were studying in the special schools last year. Out of this, more than 75% are children of migrant workers. We don’t know where they have gone.” SC Natraj, director of Sudar, said, that during the pandemic, the government should have concentrated towards the project and the children. "Instead, they just ignored the project and forgot about the children.” A source from NCLP said they have received no communication other than asking them to reopen the schools based on directions of respective state government. “We have not monitored or tracked the students. We don’t know what they are doing or where they are. We don’t know what to do with the children who had completed two years in June. After two years, the students would be enrolled in a nearby government school and their name would be automatically removed from the project portal. We doubt that the students could cope up after such a long gap.” He further said that the central government has not allotted funds for the project for the past one year and as a result, teachers and other staff were not paid from April 2019 in several districts including Coimbatore. “Importantly, students have not received their stipend since April 2019. While the Centre makes it clear that the stipend amount would be disbursed only if their attendance are marked in PENCIL portal, they seem to ignore the practical and technical issues in the portal. “The project is already facing resource and fund crises and the government’s ignorance is further weakening the project. Recovering from the situation would be difficult,” said R Vidyasagar, former child protection specialist of UNICEF.(With inputs from Senthil Kumaran, R Gokul and Sukshma)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/child-labourers-go-back-to-work-as-special-schools-lie-defunct/articleshow/78989199.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 2, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: A day after Sultan Moosavi’s death, son Javed passes away||VIJAYAWADA: A day after his death, Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) vice-president Sultan Moosavi’s 25-year-old son Javed passed away due to Covid-19 related complications on Sunday morning. Four members of the Moosavi family have died within a week, with Moosavi’s mother and wife passing away a week ago, Sultan Moosavi on Saturday and then his son Javed. The family fell sick with Covid-19 after one of the family members attended a family function. The deaths have created considerable alarm in the city. The district collector and health wing authorities have appealed to the public to remain cautious. VMC and the health wing have decided to implement social distancing measures in shopping malls and markets with a special focus on rythu bazaars. Doctors are appealing to people in high-risk groups to avoid venturing out. “The potential threat of Covid-19 remains alive till a vaccine is released in the market. The death of four members of a family shows how alarming the situation is,” said Dr Mohana, a city-based physician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/a-day-after-sultans-death-son-javed-passes-away/articleshow/78986802.cms||Venu Lanka
November 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: ‘Committed to ensuring primacy for Kannada’||MANGALURU: The state government is fully committed to implementing Kannada in administration and education in Karnataka. This is in line with Mahatma Gandhi’s dream that every regional language in India should be given primacy in a land known for its linguistic and cultural diversity, noted Kota Shrinivas Poojari, minister for religious endowment, fisheries. Gandhiji was also a votary for education being imparted in the local language, he said. Espousing this stand at the Dakshina Kannada district level Kannada Rajyotsava day fete here on Sunday, Poojari, also district minister said Gandhiji was also particular that education be imparted in the mother tongue of the child. The local administration too should be handled completely in the local language – Kannada in this case, Poojari said. Kannada literature has a history of more than 2000 years. The Halmidi inscription from 450 BC gives a clear indicator of this rich history, he said. The first Kannada works Vaddaradhane, Kavirajamarga and contribution of poets such as Pampa, Ponna, Ranna, Janna, Laxmeesha, Kumaravyasa, vachana and dasa litterateurs such as Sarvajna, Ratnakaravarni, Nandalike and other poets have raised the level of Kannada to an exalted level, he said. The minister said the state rolled out a relief package amounting to Rs 2,272 crore in three tranches, mainly targeted at ameliorating the condition of unorganised sections of society including traders, daily wage earners and those dependent on their family professions such as barbers, washer men, taxi and auto rickshaw drivers. He lauded services of front-line corona warriors in handling Covid19 epidemic. Poojari said free treatment is being given to people in eight medical colleges and 73 private hospitals through Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka scheme. RTPCR tests for Covid19 are being carried out in nine laboratories in the district. The district administration honoured Shaivi B, Geetha H and Shwetha, students from government Kannada medium schools who secured highest marks in SSLC examination by presenting them a laptop each. The dignitaries that include MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Mayor Divakar and others conferred the district Kannada Rajyotsava awards on 38 individuals and organisations for their achievements in their respective fields on this occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/committed-to-ensuring-primacy-for-kannada/articleshow/78986797.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bareilly||One death penalty, 44 convictions by courts in Bareilly div this year||Bareilly: A collective effort of the monitoring committee of District Judge, SSP and District Magistrate (DM) has given pace to the judicial process in the pending Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) cases across the Bareilly division. Accused have been convicted by POCSO courts in 44 cases in 2020 despite the fact that the court activities were suspended for months because of the Pandemic. The major judgement was delivered by a POCSO court in Bareilly where capital punishment was awarded to two persons accused of gang-raping a minor girl and later inserting a stick in her private parts. So far, life imprisonment has been awarded in six cases while in 37 cases, accused have been imprisoned for a term between seven and 15 years with hefty cash fines. Over 370 cases have been chargesheeted by police in the POCSO courts in the past three years. The most recent judgement was delivered by a POCSO court in Bareilly district where an accused was awarded rigorous imprisonment for 12 years along with a fine of Rs 55,000 for abducting the minor daughter of his landlord and raping her. In a similar case, a 14-year-old girl was abducted and raped by a youth and he was handed down rigorous imprisonment of 15 years along with a cash fine of Rs 67,000 in Budaun. District Government Council Suneet Kumar Pathak said, “Five judgements came after 'Mission Shakti' was launched in Bareilly and in all cases the accused were pronounced guilty. The judicial process was affected due to Pandemic but we are now ensuring that arguments are completed in all the cases where the statements have been recorded in the court. We are expecting a few more judgements to be pronounced before the end of the year.” On Sunday, the DIG of Bareilly range told TOI, “Apart from the regular meetings of the monitoring committee, I am personally monitoring the status of cases where police have filed chargesheet in the court. We are coordinating with the government councils to ensure that witnesses are produced before the court, their security to ensure they don't turn hostile and proper support to the family members of the victims. We will continue to follow the same practice to ensure justice in the cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/one-death-penalty-44-convictions-by-courts-in-bareilly-div-this-year/articleshow/78985942.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded becomes first in country to have Train Collision Avoidance System||Aurangabad: The Indian Railways has introduced indigenously developed Train Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) on a 21km rail section covering Umri and Sivungaon stations from Nanded district in Marathwada. Chief public relations officer of Ch Rakesh said it is for the first time on Indian Railways that South Central Railway (SCR) has successfully commissioned the TCAS. “As part of the advanced system, train accidents occurring due to disobedience of train speed restrictions and neglecting signal pass dangers are prevented by automatic application of brakes in case driver fails to do so. Trials have been successfully conducted between Umri and Sivungaon stations with TCAS Diesel loco and it has been ensured that the system is functioning correctly,” he said. The TCAS project has been sanctioned for a distance 1,200km between Manmad – Nanded – Secunderabad – Dhone – Guntakal and Bidar – Parli – Parbhani sections, benefiting considerable rail network in Marathwada. TCAS is an indigenously designed Automatic Train Protection (ATP) System and has been developed by Indian Railways in association with Indian manufacturers. Continuous train control, prevention of head-on and rear end collision and safeguard against side-infringement are some of the other salient features of TCAS which consists of station unit, relay wiring and power supply arrangements, tower and associated cabling and divisional test room located at divisional headquarters among components. SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya said that safety in the train operations is first and foremost priority for Indian Railways and the zone would be always at the fore front in executing the works to enhance safety records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-becomes-first-in-country-to-have-train-collision-avoidance-system/articleshow/78985945.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 2, 2020||Vadodara||MSU’s temporary teachers staring at Diwali gloom||Vadodara: The festive season of Diwali is less than a fortnight away. But temporary teachers, who are backbone of most of the teaching work at M S University, are facing gloom. Many temporary teachers across all faculties of the university did not receive their appointment letters on time due to uncertainty that surrounded teaching work in the Covid-19 times. As online teaching of second and third year students started, some of them received appointment letters but the rest kept waiting. Now, even as the online teaching of the first year students has started, the temporary teachers complain that they have not received their salaries for months together. In some faculties like arts, the temporary teachers, who have been engaged in the teaching work for years, did not receive their appointment letters in July even as they continued teaching second and third year students. “The situation is still uncertain. We have received appointment letters with effect from September which means that we will have to forego salaries of the first two months. But the university is yet to pay salary of September and October as well,” said a teacher. Baroda University Teachers’ Association (BUTA) said it had made representations regarding the same before MSU authorities. “The teaching workload is being reduced in the name of online teaching. We have demanded that everybody should be given appointment as per earlier workload,” said BUTA president Dr K V R Murthy. Murthy even claimed that deans have received verbal directives from the university authorities not to prepare salary statements of temporary staffers. “The process is that once deans prepare the salary statements, the university pays the salaries. This process itself has been blocked,” he said. MSU’s officiating registrar Dr K M Chudasama, however, refuted the allegations. “There is no question of not paying salary to any temporary teacher. Last year, there were 527 temporary teachers who were on payroll. Since the admission process itself got delayed, the appointment process got delayed. But, so far, we have appointed 480 temporary teachers’ phase-wise. All of them are getting their salaries on time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msus-temporary-teachers-staring-at-diwali-gloom/articleshow/78986114.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Malayali Diaspora: Home & Away Empire Strikes Back: From MBA to MBE, a British Malayali’s success story||London: For the thousands of Malayali students who go to the United Kingdom every year to do a higher education course, Jacob Thundil’s story is an inspiration. Most often, the youngsters have to go back to India when their student visa expires as it is near to impossible to turn it into a work permit. To achieve that, a student has to find a high-paying job with an employer who believes they are absolutely essential for the job. After coming to London in 1997, Jacob was also in a similar position. He completed his MBA from London Metropolitan University and was on the verge of expiry of his student visa. Instead of waiting for the return date, Jacob wrote his own future. He faxed a letter to over 25 big UK companies. The content of the letter was this: “If you are not prepared for the European Union, talk to me. I will help.” It was the beginning of the European Union, a new phase for business in the UK, and Jacob had done his dissertation on it. He got calls from three companies -- British Telecom (BT), Fiat and Visio. He started his career by joining BT as an intern for their graduate programme. Today, 22 years later, Jacob has a successful business, Cocofina, based in London that sells to 3,000 outlets in the UK. Last week, the 46-year-old was awarded the Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) for his services to international trade and exports. A meteoric rise for a man whose life was at crossroads in his teenage. Jacob said his career really started at 17. His father died when he was doing mechanical engineering at TKM College in Kollam. “I tried to turn that moment into positive rather than negative,” Jacob recalled. “I took over my dad’s cashew byproduct business while continuing my studies. My father had started the business after his retirement. So it was still at an infant stage and had kept limited customers as he didn’t want stress. “I continued studies and business together.” Four year later, he handed over the company to his mother and flew to London to do an MBA. From being an intern at BT, Jacob climbed the career ladder with jobs at Lloyds, HSBC, Bank of Scotland, Accenture and Standard Chartered Bank. It was during a business trip to Rio de Janeiro in 2004 when Jacob got the idea for Cocofina. Seeing that coconut water is given to customers, he thought to himself — why couldn’t this be sold in the UK! “I always wanted to do something on my own,” Jacob said. “And I was always a big fan of coconut water. But the problem was, no one really liked coconut water in the UK,” Jacob recalled. At a taste festival at London’s Regent’s Park, 50% of the participants said they hated Jacob’s product. So he went back and slightly changed the taste. Until then, he used to export the water from India. After the review, he blended three different types of coconut water to create a milder drink. Fortunately, it was also the start of a health wave when the trend for organic food was growing. Jacob and Cocofina also appeared in Dragon’s Den (British version of Shark Tank) in 2016 and was offered £75,000 investment by the Dragons. The British government’s honour came as a surprise for the businessman. Having been exporting to 28 countries, Jacob is a source of information for new businesses and the UK government’s department of international trade. “British government’s goal is to increase exports. So they contact me often to inspire other small businesses to export and to consult on trade policies. We are also their export champions. But when they recommended my name for the MBE, it was very unexpected,” Jacob added. To the Malayali diaspora who strive to make it big abroad, Jacob has one mantra: “Always try.” “Trying is very important. No one can blame you for trying. You don’t have to look desperate, but you can try hard,” he added. Jacob has 19-year-old son who studies in Newcastle. His father John Mathew hailed from Kollam; his mother Sophy now lives in Kottayam while his twin sisters Maya and Jaya live in Kochi. (Kiran Tom Sajan, who hails from Kochi, is a journalist based in London)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/malayali-diaspora-home-away-empire-strikes-back-from-mba-to-mbe-a-british-malayalis-success-story/articleshow/78989204.cms||Kiran Tom Sajan
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris records 45 new Covid cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris added 45 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, pushing its tally to 6,661, even as 11 patients recovered and were discharged. The district’s recovery rate stands at 95.2%, with 6,346 patients getting discharged so far. There are 275 active cases under treatment at various health facilities in the district. While eight people are being treated at the ESI Hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, 30 cases are in home quarantine and being monitored. The remaining patients are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, besides four Covid care centres. Of the new cases, 5 people contracted the virus after travelling to other districts, while the rest are primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases. Most of the new cases were reported from rural areas. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-records-45-new-covid-cases/articleshow/78989207.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Goa||Pilerne comunidade clears grant of 16 plots for housing||Saligao: The Pilerne comunidade cleared the grant of 16 comunidade plots on lease for the construction of residential houses in survey numbers 210/1 and 31/1. The decision was taken at the annual general body meeting of the comunidade held on Sunday, after a gap of nearly seven months. Estafano D’Mello, the comunidade’s attorney, placed before the general body 16 files pertaining to the grant of plots on lease for housing. After delving into the matter, the gaunkars gave their approval to all the files for the grant of plots, and directed the attorney to put forward the files for approval from the government. The managing committee of the comunidade also granted the allotment of 150sqm of land, as per the 20-point programme, to Mohini Bandodkar from Marra-Pilerne as the applicant was homeless. However, rejecting a proposal for grant of a plot to Sunita Mayker for residential purpose, the general body stated that the applicant already had a plot in her name in the Tivim comunidade A proposal for renting out a shop in the comunidade’s premises to Lena D’Souza from Sattari was also rejected, as the gaunkars said there was no clarity with regards to whether the applicant wanted to actually set up a shop or to conduct some real estate business. The Pilerne comunidade’s president, Rumaldo D’Souza, while announcing that the net income for 2019-2020 was Rs 95,25,591, said that dividend to the gaunkars would be distributed in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pilerne-comunidade-clears-grant-of-16-plots-for-housing/articleshow/78989214.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Recovery rate crosses 95% in Aurangabad rural||Aurangabad: The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients in rural areas of Aurangabad district has reached up to 95.34% — one of the highest in the state. A total of 13,995 patients have successfully been cured of the contagion whereas the caseload of active cases has declined to only 375. The rural areas have also witnessed 308 Covid-related deaths so far. As part of rigorous testing drive, the rural areas of Aurangabad district (barring city limits) have witnessed testing of as many as 93,857 citizens by Sunday. Chief executive officer of Aurangabad zilla parishad Mangesh Gondavale on Sunday said that the concerted efforts in the battle against Covid-19 have resulted in certain check on the spread of the virus. “The gradually developing public awareness about Covid-19 as well as effective medical treatment has led to improved recovery rate among patients and brought down fresh cases. We had 1,700 plus active cases a few weeks back, but the number has reduced to 375 by now,” Gondavale said. Citing official directives from the state government, Gondavale said that citizens should not lower their guard against Covid-19 during upcoming festival season, failing which the “second wave” of the pandemic was imminent. “The upcoming festival season of Diwali coincides with the winter season which is expected to make the novel coronavirus more active. Citizens should follow three basic rules — wearing of mask, frequent sanitisation and social distancing — to keep the viral disease at bay in the near future till vaccine arrives,” Gondavale said. In all, Aurangabad district, including municipal limits and rural areas, has witnessed total 36,609 recovered patients by Saturday. The district witnessed 98 fresh cases, taking total number of confirmed cases of the pandemic to 38,141, including 1,071 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/recovery-rate-crosses-95-in-aurangabad-rural/articleshow/78985949.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Housekeeping among target groups for early Covid vaccination||Aurangabad: The housekeeping staffers associated with the state-run and private hospitals have been considered as one of the target groups for early Covid-19 vaccination. The district administration, which has started the compilation of data of frontline health workers who will be first to get administered with Covid vaccine as and when it arrives in the market, has also been seeking details of workforce involved in cleaning and maintenance of hospitals. Aurangabad zilla parishad CEO Mangesh Gondavale on Sunday said that housekeeping staffers are integral part of the healthcare offered to Covid-19 patients and would be safeguarded among other frontline health workers. “The total number of health workers in the district is likely to be around 15,000. They will be first to get the dose of Covid-19 vaccine. As per official directives, the data of housekeeping staff is being compiled along with doctors and paramedical staffers,” he said. Gondavale said that the contractual nature of work of housekeeping staff could pose difficulties in preparing accurate database of housekeeping staffers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/housekeeping-among-target-groups-for-early-covid-vaccination/articleshow/78985960.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Protest over student murder turns violent||Ballabgarh: Around 250 protesters seeking “justice” for BCom student Nikita Tomar, who was shot dead by an alleged stalker in Faridabad last week, blocked Mathura Road, set husk on fire and pelted a police team with stones on Sunday morning. At least 10 cops were injured in the stone-pelting as they tried to stop the agitators from disrupting traffic. The protesters were taking part in a mahapanchayat held by Sarv Samaj on a Dussehra ground in Faridabad and headed towards the road as they felt that the mere meeting would not ensure “exemplary punishment” for the accused. On October 26 afternoon, Nikita was shot in the head by Tauseef, the cousin of Congress MLA Aftab Ahmed, after she snubbed his marriage proposal. The mahapanchayat that was organised on the ground had members from both Congress and BJP. Around 900 people participated in the event, including Nikita’s brother Naveen, his two maternal uncles and grandfather. At the panchayat, a memorandum was shared by the organisers who demanded that the case be investigated by the CBI and dubbed the daylight murder an instance of “love jihad”. Halfway into the event, around 250 youths walked out of the venue and marched towards to the Mathura Road. The few cops who were deployed at the gates of the Dussehra grounds could do little to stop the agitators. Rajesh Bhati, one of the oganisers, claimed the protesters who resorted to violence were all “outsiders”. No sooner had the agitators invaded the road, they set bundles of husk on fire and started damaging vehicles that were passing by. Two roadside eateries were also vandalised. When a police team intervened, the protesters hurled stones at them. The police later confirmed that 10 cops were injured. Sharda Rathore, a BJP member who was present at the protest site, accused the police of failing to control the crowd. “The police action was insufficient. Had they wanted, they could have easily prevented the protesters from leaving the panchayat venue itself,” Rathore added. Later in the day, an FIR was registered at Faridabad City police station and 30 people were detained. Nikita’s family said they had nothing to do with the violence,terming the protesters “anti-social elements”. “We had gone to attend the panchayat only as guests. We had nothing to do with the organisation or the events that took place after it,” said Hakim Tomar, the BCom student’s maternal uncle. The case has, however, triggered a political blame game. While Congress functionaries blamed BJP government for alleged inaction in the case, BJP took a shot at Opposition party as the accused is the cousin of Congress legislator from Nuh. “People from within BJP are holding protests. Why can’t they take action despite being in the government? It is a failure of Haryana government,” said Neeraj Sharma, Congress MLA from NIT-Faridabad. Rathore said the case was above politics. “I’m a woman and a daughter first. I demand better safety and security for women across the state,” the BJP functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protest-over-student-murder-turns-violent/articleshow/78989205.cms||Shubhra Pant
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||First monthly fall in Punjab Covid cases since start of pandemic||CHANDIGARH: Punjab is witnessing encouraging signs with the first monthly fall in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases since the beginning of the pandemic in March. After a consistent deluge for months, there has been a steady fall in fresh cases and deaths since mid-September. As many as 18,507 cases were reported in October while 58,378 had surfaced in September. The period recorded over 68% fall in number of cases and over 60% fall in deaths. The growth rate during the period varied between 1% and 0.3% in October against the national average of 1% to 0.8%, which in September had touched 6%. From October 3 to 10, 5,998 cases were reported while the number of new cases fell to 3,837 in the subsequent week. Following a similar trajectory, the count dipped further to 3,486 during October 17-24 and to 3,018 in the last week of the last month. Urbanised populated districts continued to share the bulk of cases, with Jalandhar contributing 424 in the last week, followed by 354 in Mohali, 325 in Ludhiana, 199 in Amritsar and 195 in Patiala. The steady decline in the number of cases has also led to a drop in R-value, which refers to the reproduction number at which Covid-19 or any other infection spreads. The rate in Punjab has come down from 0.92 recorded between September 6 and 25 to 0.70+/-0.01. High Fatality Rate The state’s fatality rate continues to be highest in the country. With 4,203 people losing their lives to the virus of the 133,658 infected, the case fatality rate stands at 3.1% against the national average of 1.5%. Maharashtra has the second highest fatality rate of 2.6%, followed by Gujarat 2.2% and Delhi 1.7%. The Punjab health authorities are hopeful of the fatality rate coming down as there has been a slide in the number of patients getting critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-monthly-fall-in-punjab-covid-cases-since-start-of-pandemic/articleshow/78989206.cms||Vinod Kumar
November 2, 2020||Pune||Now, defence land can be used for public projects||PUNE: Defence land can now be speedily acquired to develop projects like roads and public infrastructure against a commitment to build infrastructure of an equal value for the defence organization from whom the land is sought. The defence ministry’s (MoD) new policy for extending defence land to public projects has made this possible. Earlier, a project proponent, like the National Highways Authority of India, Metro Rail, municipal corporations, etc, would be required to either pay the market price of land or allocate land of an equal value to the defence organization elsewhere in order to secure defence land. However, in cases where the project proponent has no money or has no equal value land to spare, the proposal for acquisition of land would remain in limbo. Now, with the commitment to build equal value infrastructure in exchange for land, the projects can be expedited. Defence secretary Ajay Kumar posted a tweet on his official Twitter handle stating, “NHAI, metros, state government, etc can offer equal value infrastructure in lieu of defence land required by them. Armed forces to benefit as their infrastructure needs get met with new policy approved by the ministry. Development of projects speeds up with this win win policy.” Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retd) told TOI, “This policy would certainly benefit mainly local units as they can immediately complete their much needed infrastructure projects. Earlier, getting money from the ministry would be tedious and time-consuming. Often these units would not get the benefit.” For instance, in Pune the long-pending project of widening the highway stretch between central hatchery and the Harris bridge could get a push. The project has been stuck as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) neither has the funds to make the payment nor land of an equal value to give to the defence estates office (DEO) of Pune region. “If the PMC wants to go ahead with the project, they can explore this new option as well. We are yet to receive a formal proposal from them,” said a senior DEO official. He said the policy would prove decisive in other ongoing projects in the city. “NHAI’s road widening work at Chandani chowk along Katraj-Dehu Road bypass and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s ring road project in Manjri and Kolawadi, where it requires about seven hectares of defence land, can be processed quickly,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/now-defence-land-can-be-used-for-public-projects/articleshow/78988044.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP will fight anti-people TRS: Sanjay||HYDERABAD: BJP Telangana president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday said the party will continue to fight against anti-people rule of TRS in the state and appealed to party activists not to resort to extreme steps. Sanjay along with Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Sunday visited party activist Srinivas, who made a self-immolation bid in front of BJP office in Hyderabad. Sanjay rushed to Hyderabad after the incident. After meeting the party worker at Osmania Hospital, the BJP chief said the activist suffered major burn injuries. Meanwhile, in a major blow to the saffron party, some important leaders resigned from BJP and joined TRS on Sunday. Party state spokesperson Ravula Sridhar Reddy announced his resignation to the party in Hyderabad. “I have left a good job to serve BJP and have been doing service since years. Many leaders from Jubilee Hills will also join TRS,” he said at a press conference. He alleged that the Union government was doing injustice to Telangana and no good would happen to the state with BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-will-fight-anti-people-trs-sanjay/articleshow/78989208.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: ‘New generation must specialise to be future ready’||Mangaluru: Leaders of the Konkani community, K Vaman Kamath and T V Mohandas Pai, had a simple message for the next generation from the 25 lakh strong community globally, which is to go in for specialisation and upgrade their skills to be future ready. The occasion was the 11th annual Vishwa Konkani Student Scholarship award ceremony held virtually on Sunday, under the aegis of World Konkani Centre and Vishwa Konkani Students Scholarship Fund. Kamath, former chief of the New Development Bank of BRICS countries, said the future belongs to those who upgrade their skills. Noting there is nothing to be afraid of in doing so, Kamath said while it is true that 15 million traditional jobs will be lost each year, 75 million will be created in new domains. “The challenge is to be ready for these emerging jobs,” Kamath said. T V Mohandas Pai, chief mentor, WKC, in his keynote address, concurred with the observation of Kamath about how it is important to create content. This is important given that out of the global 7.6 billion population, 5.6 billion have mobile phones, 4.5 billion are on social media and 4 billion have access to data, he said. Penetration of the internet globally has given rich and poor alike equal access to knowledge, which hitherto was the privilege of the affluent, he said. “This access to the same knowledge, while empowering the human race, has also heightened competition. Youths must learn coding or any other skillsets that will make them stand apart from the crowd,” he said. Empowered youths and individuals must also imbibe the culture of networking, he added. Exhorting youth to be part of the global community, Pai said in doing so, one should not forget their ‘janma bhoomi’. “Your karma bhoomi can be anywhere,” he said, adding it is the endeavour of the World Konkani Centre to ensure that at least 5,000 Konkani speaking students do their masters and be placed in strategic industries globally. It is this network of empowered Konkani youths that will ensure that the community prospers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/new-generation-must-specialise-to-be-future-ready/articleshow/78986810.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 2, 2020||Pune||Trio injure vendor in a bid to snatch gold chain||Pune: Three men on a motorcycle fired a couple of rounds at a small eatery vendor near Velhe around 8.30am on Sunday morning, injuring the victim. Both the bullets hit the victim, Vilas Nathu Borge (24) of Wanjali village, in the chest. He was shifted to a hospital at Dhankawadi on Pune-Satara highway for treatment, police said. Prima facie investigation revealed the trio tried to snatch Borge’s gold chain, but the latter grabbed one of them. One of the suspects then opened fire in a bid to set themselves free and fled. The assailants tried to fire the third round, but the firearm misfired, the police said. Additional superintendent of Pune rural police Vijay Patil, inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of the local crime branch and their teams rushed to the spot. Police later found the motorcycle deserted in a nearby village. Borge runs a small eatery on Nasrapur-Velhe Road, which serves vada paav, tea, misal paav and cigarettes. Police said the trio reached the eatery and purchased a few cigarettes and left. They returned in a few minutes and opened fire, police said. Ghanwat said, “While buying the cigarettes, the trio saw Borge was wearing the gold chain. They returned in a few minutes to snatch it. Borge managed to grab a suspect’s hand, while another opened fire to get rid of his grip on them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-injure-vendor-in-a-bid-to-snatch-gold-chain/articleshow/78988057.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL bottles worth Rs 41L seized, two arrested||Rajkot: Surendranagar local crime branch (LCB) seized a large cache of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) bottles worth Rs 40.92 lakh in two different operations on Saturday night. Two bootleggers were arrested in one of the operations. Surendranagar LCB seized a truck carrying IMFL supply at Pansina village on Rajkot-Ahmedabad highway. Also seized on the same night was a cement concrete miller in which IMFL bottles had been stored near Dhrangadhra on Ahmedabad-Kutch highway. “A total of 6,408 IMFL bottles worth Rs 26.46 lakh were seized from the truck that the bootleggers had abandoned in Pansina village. There were two unidentified bootleggers who had abandoned the truck and had fled from the spot after spotting us,” said Deepak Dhol, inspector with Surendranagar LCB. “The liquor bottles were hidden beneath the heaps of dry coconuts in the truck. The accused were transporting the liquor supply to Rajkot,” said Dhol. In Dhrangadhra, Dherulal Rabari (40) and Latturam Rabari (35) were arrested with 3,706 IMFL bottles worth Rs 14.46 lakh that they had stored in a cement concrete miller. “During their interrogation, the accused said that one Arwind from Abu Road in Rajasthan had uploaded the liquor supply onto the miller and that they were supposed to transport the supply to Kutch,” added Dhol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-bottles-worth-rs-41l-seized-two-arrested/articleshow/78986837.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Agra||48 new Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 7,281||Agra: At least 48 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 7,281. These included two staffers of the SN Medical College. Also, a 17-year-old man passed away at a private hospital in Mathura. The Sadar Bhatti locality resident was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome and other medical conditions. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 146 deaths of Covid-19 patients have been reported in Agra district. The current fatality rate is 2.01%. Meanwhile, 26 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 7,281 cases reported in the district, 6,763 [92.8%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district increased from 351 on Saturday to 372 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/48-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-7281/articleshow/78985989.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Rare 20mn-yr-old fossil of palm leaves found in Ladakh||Manali: Noted geologist Ritesh Arya has discovered a 20 million-year-old, four-foot-long fossil of palm leaves from the fragile rocks of Ladakh — a finding that reinforces the theory that the towering peaks of Himalayas have emerged from the Tethys ocean. The reason behind believing the Tethys ocean theory, Arya said, was because the present-day Himalayas were not formed 20 millon years ago. Arya has discovered the fossil with two large leaves on a fragile rock surface. He said the fossil woukd have to be protected as it represented the near-coastal environment of Ladakh millions of years ago. He said this plant was not found anywhere in the Himalayas. “The fossil has been found from the Tethyan sediments of Ladakh, when I was searching for specimens for a geological museum and laboratory that I have established a few days ago at a school in Ladakh. Tethys was once separating India from Tibet in geological history till 20 million years ago. The presence of fossils of palm from the sediments of Indus molasse in Ladakh clearly shows that Ladakh Himalayas were once below the sea. Probably the area till sediments from where the fossils were found were below the sea. Palm fossils represent near-coastal environment,” he said. Arya added the large size of the actual specimens of fossil showed that conditions at the time of deposition would have been hot and humid, similar to equatorial climatic conditions. “These types of floras are found nowhere in modern-day Himalayas. Fossils of palm leaves have been found in Kasauli, Himachal, by HB Medlicott in 1864. I had discovered similar palm fossils during my PhD thesis. Both Ladakh and Kasauli had near-coastal environment millions of years ago,” he added. Ritesh Arya, who hails from Himachal, is a noted hydrogeologist who is also a Guinness Book of World Record holder for drilling the highest artesian borehole in the world at Leh. He had established country’s first geological laboratory-cum-museum in a school at Choglamsar village of Ladakh. Some other evidence of near-coastal facies of Kasauli formation have been established by Arya on the basis of fossils of garcinia, gluta, combretum, syzygium etc that were discovered by him in 1994. The fossil of palm from Ladakh is comparatively very large in size.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rare-20mn-yr-old-fossil-of-palm-leaves-found-in-ladakh/articleshow/78989215.cms||Suresh Sharma
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmers protest against overhead power lines||Coimbatore: Farmers continued their protest on Sunday for the fifth consecutive day opposing the state government’s move to set up high voltage overhead transmission towers in agricultural land in Tirupur district. As a measure of protest, several farmers sat with their livestock at Reddipalayam in Uttukuli block in the district. Perundurai MLA Thoppu N D Venkatachalam met the farmers and assured them that he would to discuss their grievances with higher-ups. The state government is setting up high voltage overhead lines from Virudhunagar district to Kavuthampalayam village in Tirupur district and transmission lines of 765 KV would be laid through three taluks – Uthukuli, Kangeyam and Dharapuram – in the district for about 60 km, according to the farmers. R Kumar, district secretary of Tamil Nadu farmers’ association, said hundreds of farmers had been affected because of the move. "We have been demanding that the state government choose an alternate place to install the transmission towers... farmers have filed two separate cases at Madras high court, where the next hearing is on November 27," Kumar said. Demanding that the district administration halt all work on the project till the next hearing, farmers have been staging protests at multiple location in the district, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-protest-against-overhead-power-lines/articleshow/78989216.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Rajkot||11 held for gambling on cock fighting||Rajkot: As many as 11 persons were detained for allegedly gambling on cock fighting organized on the bed of old Lalpari River near Morbi Road in Rajkot on Sunday. “The accused had organized a fight between two cocks and were placing bets on it. When we received a tip-off on them, we raided the spot and caught them,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot city crime branch. Apart from gambling, the accused were also booked for cruelty against animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/11-held-for-gambling-on-cock-fighting/articleshow/78986818.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Pune||US agencies seek more details from Pune police in Cosmos heist case||PUNE: The United States government agencies have sought additional details related to multiple withdrawals done by fraudsters in a US city during the August 2018 Rs94 crore Cosmos Bank online heist. The fraudsters in question had used cloned cards at ATMs, mostly in the US city of Philadelphia, on August 11 and 13, 2018. A total of 12,000 unauthorized withdrawals, worth Rs78 crore, were done using the Visa platform in 21 countries, including the US, while another 2,849 withdrawals worth Rs2.5 crore were done at ATMs in various places across India using the RuPay platform. Another Rs13.5 crore was transferred online to a bank in Hong Kong. The Pune police have managed to recover Rs5.5 crore from the bank in Hong Kong and are pursuing the return of the remaining amount. Earlier, the Pune city police had approached the US agencies through the Union external affairs and home ministries for help in tracing the culprits in their jurisdiction. “There are multiple agencies looking into the case in the US. We will send them details of all the unauthorized transactions that happened in their jurisdiction,” deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Bhagyashri Navatake said. “A Letter Rogatory (LR) has already been issued in this regard. We will send them more details, including the court orders and other necessary documents,” Navatake added. A senior police officer told TOI, “A majority of the withdrawals using fabricated cards took place in and around Philadelphia. We have the timings of cash withdrawals from ATMs there, as well as some technical clues, which we will share with the US agencies. The main motive is to retrieve the lost money,” the officer said. “The US government agencies have promised us their full cooperation,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/us-agencies-seek-more-details-from-pune-police-in-cosmos-heist-case/articleshow/78988051.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||NCR farm fires, local factors behind poor Delhi air: Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Asserting that the Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi is impacted by local factors as well as stubble burning in the NCR region and not because of the farm fires in Punjab, the state on Sunday claimed that it is performing better on the AQI than both Haryana and Delhi. Track the pollution level in your cityAn official spokesperson said in recent times, the burning of paddy residues in the fields of northern states, especially Punjab, has been blamed for the high pollution levels in Delhi, especially in the months of October through December. However, a comparison of the data of the six ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) in different parts of Punjab and as many CAAQMS set up in Haryana’s cities near Delhi shows that during the months of August-September since 2018, the average AQI level of Punjab remained 50 to 87, while the same for Delhi was 63 to 118. Also, in the Haryana stations near Delhi, both in 2019 and 2020, the average AQI level ranged from 67 to 115. The spokesperson said this proves that Delhi’s average AQI was about 26-36% higher than that of Punjab and in Haryana, it was 32-34 % higher before the onset of paddy harvesting season in October. He further said with the start of harvesting and stubble burning season in the month of October (2018-2020), the average AQI level in the cities of Punjab ranges from 116 to 153 and at the locations in Haryana close to Delhi, it is between from 203 to 245 and that of Delhi is between 234 and 269. The increase in the AQI level of the Punjab cities was recorded 76%, whereas the increase in Haryana cities and Delhi stations was 107% and 134%, respectively. Also, the average AQI level of Haryana was 80-90% higher than Punjab during the same period, whereas Delhi’s was more than 100% higher than that of Punjab. The spokesperson maintained that the higher percentage of increase in AQI level in Haryana cities and Delhi stations shows that the AQI of Haryana and Delhi is impacted by local sources as well as stubble burning in the NCR region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ncr-farm-fires-local-factors-behind-poor-delhi-air-punjab/articleshow/78989213.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana’s contribution more than Centre’s: KTR||HYDERABAD: In an attack mode against BJP ahead of the Dubbak bypoll, state MAUD minsiter KTR took to Twitter to question the Centre on financial assistance extended to the state. In a series of tweets, the minister said that since the formation of Telangana in 2014, the state has contributed Rs 2,72,926 crore for people’s welfare, whereas only Rs 1,40,329 has come from Centre. Stating that the residents of Telangana should be apprised with the facts, KTR said that the Union government should not indulge in “chest thumping” on how much has been bestowed upon the state. “As the time when fiscal prudence was balanced on debt-GSDP ratio, Telangana, with 22.8 was in the top-five states with low debt-GSDP ratio,” he said. “The growth per capita income of India between 2014-2020 was at 54.9%, while Telangana grew at whopping 83.9%.” The minister said that growth is inclusive both in agriculture and industry and service sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ts-contribution-more-than-centres-ktr/articleshow/78989220.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Aurangabad||2 held for duping industrialist of Rs 56 lakh||Aurangabad: The cybercrime branch of the city police has arrested two suspects from Jharkhand for duping a city-based industrialist of Rs 56.62 lakh on the pretext of offering him an LPG cylinder dealership in Waluj-Pandharpur area. The suspects have been identified as Kalunesh Mohammed Shaikh (36) and Mohammed Avsaan Raza (28) both hailing from Sahebganj in Jharkhand. The suspects were produced before the court on Sunday following which they have been remanded in six-day police custody. The suspects are agents who help farmers in Jharkhand in selling off their produce in market committees. The complainant has been identified as Changdev Tandale (49). The cybercrime branch police are investigating the source from where the suspects had got details about the complainant who had applied for getting LPG dealership in December 2019, but his bid was rejected. The suspects contacted Tandale on May 5 and offered to help him get the dealership. Falling prey to the trap, Tandale assumed them to be actual representatives of the state-owned petroleum company and transferred Rs 56.62 lakh into the bank accounts shared by the suspects. A case of cheating and forgery was registered on September 19 with the cyber police station against the suspects. Cybercrime inspector Geeta Bagwade said, “There are several members in this gang, each one having an expertise and is responsible for executing a particular task. The racket has web developers, tele-callers, then there are those who arrange cell phones and sim cards obtained using forged documents. In addition to this, the racket has members that exclusively work on arranging bank accounts for getting the cheating amount transferred along with those who transfer the cheating amount to multiple accounts before withdrawal.” After carrying out each cheating operation, the members of this gang discard the sim cards and mobile phones, making it difficult for the police to trace them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-held-for-duping-industrialist-of-rs-56-lakh/articleshow/78985982.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Medico duped of Rs 50,000||Aurangabad: A 26-year-old medical officer serving with the Government Cancer Hospital in the city has turned out to be the latest victim of a tele-phishing attack and ended up losing Rs 50, 000. An offence has been registered with the City Chowk police station on Saturday. The cheating incident took place on June 11, 2020. Police said the unidentified suspect has been booked on the charges of cheating and has also been slapped with various sections of the Information and Technology Act. The suspect contacted the medico and claimed to be a representatives of a private online wallet company and asked him to fill an online KYC for continuing to avail the services. Fearing that the wallet service may get blocked, the medico agreed to fill in the online form, following which the suspect shared a web link with him. Within no time of filling in the details including the bank account number of the Delhi-based branch, the amount from his bank started getting debited. Before the medico could understand, an amount of Rs 50, 000 was already deducted. He then gathered details about the transaction and lodged a written complaint with the cyber police. On verifying the complaint, the matter was referred to the City Chowk police station. Sambhaji Pawar, the inspector in City Chowk, said none of the banks or online wallet companies ask the customers to share their bank account, debit or credit card details over phone or through online KYC. “Prevention is better than cure in such cybercrime-related cases,” said Pawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/medico-duped-of-rs-50000/articleshow/78985971.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana adds 1,670 new Covid cases, region 2,200; 26 more succumb||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Coronavirus continued to play havoc in Haryana, with 1,670 cases surfacing on Sunday, most of them in the NCR districts, while Punjab recorded maximum deaths in the region that includes Himachal Pradesh. A total of 2,200 new cases and 26 fatalities were reported by the three states. Of the new cases in Haryana, maximum 529 came from Gurgaon—its highest for a day—while six patients died across the state. The latest figures take the death toll to 1,795 and the state’s case tally to 168,880, out of which 12,634 are active cases. The recovery rate remained stable at 91.43% and total 1,221 persons discharged during the day pushed the number of cured patients to 154,451. Besides two deaths each in Gurgaon and Faridabad, one death each was reported from Panchkula and Bhiwani districts. The latest fatality rate is 1.06%. Faridabad followed Gurgaon with 296 new cases, while Hisar saw another wave of spike with 192 fresh cases. Punjab on Sunday detected 325 new cases and 12 patients died, taking the state’s overall count of cases to 133,975, while 4,214 have succumbed to the virus so far. Currently, there are 4,195 active cases. In the last 24 hours, two persons each died in Jalandhar, Patiala, Hoshiarpur and Tarn Taran, and one each in Fazilka, Moga, Sangrur and Ludhiana. Of the latest cases, Ludhiana recorded 68, Jalandhar 61 and Mohali 32. Total 368 patients discharged after recovery in the state took the number of cured persons to 125,566. Meanwhile, eight Covid deaths and 205 new positive cases were reported on Sunday in Himachal Pradesh, while 102 positive patients were declared cured. Fresh cases were reported from Shimla (57), Kullu (28), Solan (25), Una (22), Kangra (18), Bilaspur and Hamirpur (14 each), Mandi (12), Lahaul-Spiti (8), Sirmour (5) and Chamba (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-adds-1670-cases-region-2-2k-26-more-succumb/articleshow/78989210.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Pune||Work-from-home culture spurs demand for larger houses in Pune||PUNE: The new normal of working from home and students taking online classes have compelled families staying in rented homes to look for bigger spaces. “I have to take work calls in the morning when my elder son also has online classes. My husband also has video conference at the same time twice a week. We live in a 1BHK flat and sometimes it’s not possible for every person to have his or her own space. Since this is the way things are going to be in the foreseeable future, we are thinking of moving into a 2 BHK house,” said Shushila Das, a BPO employee, from NIBM Road. Irfan Khan, a management consultant living in Vimannagar, wants to shift into a 3BHK flat with his family of six. “My parents have come to stay with me, and they too require space of their own. Both my children have classes at the same time. We have been living in a 2BHK flat, but we need more space. A 3BHK apartment will meet our requirement,” he said. Navneet Tupe, a software engineer from Katraj, said, “My sister and I are working, and sometimes our shift timings are similar. Our parents are retired, but they too need their own space. We have shifted into a 2BHK house a little further away. The rent is more, but we need the extra space.” Joint families are having it tough, too. “We lived in a joint household with my father’s three younger brothers and their families, where we shared a kitchen and common spaces and each family had their own room. The initial days of lockdown when we started working from home were difficult, which led to friction. To avoid unpleasantness, my parents and I decided to move into a rented 1BHK close by. Now, my mother can take her online classes and I can code without causing disturbance or getting disturbed by anyone,” said Rajesh Tyagi, resident of Magarpatta. Property dealer Manmiet Virddi said that many of his clients want to shift from flats to row houses, bungalows or villas. “Renters are also looking to shift from single buildings to townships and housing societies because of the problems they faced during the lockdown. They want to be able to use the amenities available in a housing complex.” He added that renters, who earlier preferred central locations, were now willing to explore options on the city outskirts, such as Undri, Pisoli, Maan and Ravet, where rent is cheaper. Real estate agent Daniel Jawale said, “Those living in containment zones want to shift to safe zones where they can go for walks, have essential stores nearby and avail delivery services. My clients, who were living in Bhavani Peth, Bibvewadi, Sahakarnagar, Katraj-Kondhwa road and certain areas of Magarpatta, are shifting to Vimannagar, Kalyaninagar, NIBM Road, Fatimanagar and Wanowrie.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/work-from-home-culture-spurs-demand-for-larger-houses/articleshow/78989217.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Canal water supply for city still at planning stage since 2012||Ludhiana: Even as the industrial city was leading in making plans for providing canal-based water supply to the residents, it has been found lacking in the execution of the project to a great extent. The situation is such that other cities where this project was planned after Ludhiana have already started work on the same. But the municipal corporation officials are still struggling to find out suitable land for establishing a water treatment plant as part of the project. Last week, chief minister Amarinder Singh first laid down the foundation stone for canal-based water supply in Jalandhar and then in Patiala. Even for Amritsar, land had been finalised and they were at the stage of issuing tenders. But here the officials could not finalise a piece of land comprising 50 acres. Under this project, the city is supposed to get water supply from Sidhwan canal round the clock that will replace the city’s dependency on groundwater. When in 2014, the project report was kept in front of all councillors and officials, two sites were proposed for setting up water treatment plants — one was at Punjab Agricultural University and the other one was at Lohara — but gradually both sites were rejected. So, officials identified land at three locations at Rampur, Boani and Bilaspur villages. The officials had sought the villagers’ intervention for land acquisition, but it had not been able to bring any positive results so far. When asked about the project, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said, “When officials could not finalise land where water treatment plant is to be established, then project cannot move ahead. When land will be finalised, only then we will be able to start work.” Requesting anonymity, one of the officials claimed that they were pushing hard to convince the villagers in finalising the land for water treatment plant near Sirhind canal, but as of now it has not been finalised. He said they would initiate the process as soon as land would be finalized. The deputy commissioner, Varinder Sharma, said the committee was looking at all possible options and when things would get finalised, they would disclose it. Project cost rising, groundwater depleting The canal-based water supply was planned to reduce dependence on groundwater, which is the main source of water supply to residents here. The civic body officials are taking so long to reach a conclusion that groundwater level is depleting at a fast pace, while the project cost for this project has already increased from Rs 2,500 crore to Rs 3,200 crores in almost six years. Project to take place in two phases The water supply project will take place in two phases. The first phase will cost Rs 1,032.10 crore, under which water supply will reach from Sirhind canal to the treatment plants and after one year the second phase costing Rs 2,189.15 crore will be executed, under which water will be supplied from water treatment plants to the city after the water supply lines will be laid. But the major issue in this project is to replace 70% of the water supply lines in the city and for that city will be dug up and residents will fume over the same. The officials claimed it will take almost seven years to complete this project. Planning going on since 2012 The planning of this project was started in 2012 when experts from IIT Roorkee were called to check the feasibility of canal water for drinking purpose. The experts had given a go ahead after which the officials had approached the World Bank. However, even at that time many visits were conducted by the WB consultants. The Congress government took up the project and former local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu formally announced Rs 2,500 crores for this project during his visit to city in September 2017.  City depends on tubewells for water As per civic body offficials, they are taking out groundwater from 1,000 tubewells for providing water to the city residents, whereas this much water is not being recharged back into the ground. The water is available at 120 feet down the ground, which is not potable, and at some places the potable water is available at 600 feet. Around 10 years back it was at 350 feet down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/canal-water-supply-for-city-still-at-planning-stage-since-2012/articleshow/78988068.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Pune||KCB faces severe financial crunch as revenues dip||Pune: The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) is facing a severe financial crisis with its regular revenue sources like the vehicle entry tax (VET), service charges paid by the two ordnance factories, and the state grants for aided schools dipping over a period of time.Pramod Kumar Singh, the chief executive officer, said he was unable to figure out from where the board will source money for paying salaries to the employees if things continue to remain the same.The board has been getting barely 50% of the Rs16 crore VET from the collection agency, while the two ordnance factories collectively have service charges outstanding of Rs 45 crore so far, he said.The KCB’s annual expenditure is Rs72 crore and it was barely making both ends meet till the slump in VET collection and pending dues started growing.“It has become a very tight situation for us now. If we don’t receive service charges from the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), we will not be able to disburse salaries and pension in December,” Singh told TOI on Friday.The board’s monthly expenditure is Rs6 crore. “But we are only getting Rs50 lakh as VET for the last three months. Whatever savings we had in the form of fixed deposits were exhausted this month,” he said.Singh had raised the issue of service charges in the last video conference meeting between representatives of Directorate General of Defence Estates and OFB last month.The OFB has agreed to pay the amount, but we are yet to receive it till date. We made the last correspondence with the OFB HQ on October 29. We expect to get the dues soon,” he added.A senior official of the OFB told TOI over the phone from Kolkata, “We have agreed to pay the service charges to all the cantonment boards in mediation meeting held last month. We have completed the requisite process and we will soon disburse the amount to respective cantonments across the country.”The board managed to recover pending electricity bills worth Rs 2.4 crore and Rs 1.7 crore sanitisation charges from the Ammunition Factory Khadki (AFK) recently, said Singh.The board generates Rs2.5 crore from property tax and rent annually, but this time the board couldn’t recover it due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Moreover, the board is supposed to receive education grant worth Rs 5.5 crore from the state education department.“We recently held a meeting with the education department officials and urged them to pay the arrears. The board has been paying salaries to teachers. We need to get all these recoveries in time only then we will be able to sort out salary, pension and other expenses, such as electricity bills, among others,” said Singh.Graphic : Income sources: The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) receives Rs 40 crore annually as services charges from the ammunition factory Khadki and High Explosives Factory.It receives Rs 2 crore from the army authorities as conservancy charges.It receives Rs 16 crore as vehicle entry tax (VET)It gets Rs 2.5 crore from property tax collection and rentThe board did not receive any grant from the ministry of defence in the last year financial budgetExpenditure:The monthly expenses of the KCB is Rs6croreThe salary of 450 permanent employees is Rs2.5 crorePension for 600 retired personnel is about Rs1.5 croreIt has to pay salaries to about 600 contractual labourers amounting to Rs 1.5 croreElectricity bills and other charges go upto Rs 50 lakhKCB CEO Pramod Kumar Singh claimed that he has reduced contractual staffers to reduce expenditureIt has saved lakhs of rupees that used to be spent on purchasing saplings, trees from private agencies by developing in-house nursery||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcb-faces-severe-financial-crunch-as-revenues-dip/articleshow/78989222.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Armed suspects make futile attempt to rob jeweller in Nanded, manhunt launched||Aurangabad: Three unidentified armed suspects made a futile attempt to rob a jeweller in Mudkhed of Nanded on Saturday night, leaving him seriously injured. A manhunt has been launched by Nanded police to nab the suspects. Jeweller Vipin Pavitwar, who lodged a police complaint, said that after carrying out everyday business, he downed the shutters of his shop in Subhash Market. Before leaving the shop, he put all the valuables from the shop in a handbag and started for home when three armed men waylaid him and tried snatching the bag. In an attempt to terrorise the jeweller to cave in and hand over the bag containing valuables, one of the suspects threatened to fire a round from an illegal firearm that he was carrying. At the same time, another man attacked the jeweller with a sharp-edged weapon. The attack left Pavitwar’s head and arms with serious injuries. Pavitwar strongly resisted the robbery bid and raised an alarm which eventually attracted attention of the commuters as well as other shopkeepers. As other jewellers and traders from the area rushed to Pavitwar’s rescue, the suspects fled the scene on a motorbike. Following the incident, the traders from in and around the area downed their shutters and gathered at the crime scene, demanding immediate action against the suspects. A case has been registered against unidentified suspects with Mudkhed police station and the process of collecting CCTV footages as well as eye-witnesses’ account was underway even on Sunday, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/armed-suspects-make-futile-attempt-to-rob-jeweller-in-nanded-manhunt-launched/articleshow/78986007.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR handed over Telangana to kin: Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Sunday said the victory of the party in Dubbak by-elections will restore social justice in Telangana as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao favoured only one class of society while ignoring the rest. Addressing party leaders on Zoom and Facebook apps before culmination of campaigning for Dubbak by-elections, Uttam said Congress always ensured social justice and all sections of society got equal opportunities for growth and prosperity. “KCR has handed over the administration and resources of Telangana to his son, daughter, son-in-law, nephew and other relatives,” he alleged. He also said the voters of Dubbak still remember Srinivas Reddy’s father and former minister Ch Muthyam Reddy, who brought development to the constituency. “TRS did not develop Dubbak in the last seven years of its rule. He said despite representing Dubbak Assembly segment for four terms, former MLA, the late Ramalinga Reddy, could not develop the constituency.” The TPCC chief said the Congress candidate Srinivas Reddy was educated and efficient. He also alleged that BJP candidate Raghnandan Rao could not be trusted as he could re-join TRS if he wins the by-elections. Stating that Raghunandan Rao was a relative of KCR and Harish Rao, he said the BJP candidate would make a ‘Ghar Wapasi’ if he wins the elections. The TPCC chief accused the ruling TRS of luring voters with liquor and money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-handed-over-t-to-kin-uttam/articleshow/78989231.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Close monitoring ensures better use of Kannada in banks in Karnataka||MANGALURU: Move by State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) to monitor use of Kannada in bank branches in Karnataka is having a salutary effect. There has been a gradual up-tick in use of Kannada in branches and reduction in customer complaints on the language issue — at least in this part of the state, DK district included. This has become possible due to diligent follow up of the issue at the district consultative committee (DCC) on banking. Praveen M P, lead district manager (LDM), Canara Bank told TOI that Dakshina Kannada has 645 bank branches, the highest in Karnataka after Bengaluru. Controlling offices of various banks are aware of the instructions that SLBC has given to respective banks on use of Kannada. With DCC separately reviewing the issue as part of the district level review committee (DLRC), the compliance has vastly improved compared to the past, he said. Citing a personal example, Praveen said, “When I joined the bank in Sullia, the issue that I faced as a Kannadiga was with Tulu. Customers were happy to hear Tulu Barpujji (I don’t know Tulu) and switched over to Kannada.” Coming to present, Praveen cited the example of a Bank of Baroda branch manager in rural Machina who speaks Kannada passably well. He hails from Varanasi and his effort to learn the language is a good augury, he said. Notwithstanding these instances of feel good factor, even statutory review forums such as the KDP meetings too monitor this issue and suitable instructions are given to banks, Praveen said. With banking recruitment being a pan-India process, it is a reality that most of those selected for the officer level are from outside Karnataka. The clerical and sub-staff are locally recruited and their presence in branches helps with the language issue, he said. R Selvamani, CEO, DK zilla panchayat, convener of DCC-DLRC told TOI that Kannada Development Authority too regularly monitors this issue apart from SLBC. Onus of learning the local language is on bank employees. Banks too are taking the lead in this direction. “Banks, LDM’s office act on specific complaints where language has become an issue with customer interaction and in roll out of several government schemes,” Selvamani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/close-monitoring-ensures-better-use-of-kannada-in-banks-in-ktaka/articleshow/78986834.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist registers 248 fresh cases, no death||Coimbatore: The district on Sunday recorded 248 fresh cases of Covid-19. With this, the total number of cases reported in the district has gone up to 43,504. The number of active cases in the district is 1,728. According to a health official, most of the cases are reported from the city limit and are identified through fever clinics conducted by the corporation. The cases are scattered across the city limit, the official added. As many as 573 people are discharged from both government and private hospitals in the district. The district has reported no death on Sunday. A doctor from Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) said, “In October, the hospital started receiving patients with Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C), a complication that is associated with Covid-19. It is found in children who are cured from Covid-19. In the last one month, six children with MIS-C were admitted to the hospital.”  While five children are cured and discharged from the hospital, and one patient is undergoing treatment, the doctor added. Besides these six children, one child died within a few hours after admitting her in the hospital earlier this week. The doctor said that they suspect it to be because of MIS-C. Meanwhile, the city corporation slapped fines on two textile shops at Town Hall in the city after they failed to follow the Covid-19 guidelines. While a penalty of Rs 2 lakh was slapped against Ganapathy Silks, Rs 1 lakh was slapped as penalty against Saravana Stores. The shops had failed to control the crowd inside their building, to ensure social distancing among their customers and to implement public announcement systems to create awareness among the public, according to a corporation source. The source said that the corporation officials had slapped a penalty of Rs 500 against the conductor of a private bus for not wearing a face mask while at work and Rs 500 against an auto driver for driving with passengers without wearing a face mask. They had also closed a footwear shop at Town Hall for allowing customers in large numbers in his shop, the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-registers-248-fresh-cases-no-death/articleshow/78989228.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Five held for assault and vandalism of eight cars||PUNE: The Pimpri police on Saturday night arrested five men for assaulting a man with sharp weapons and damaging eight cars at Nehrunagar in Pimpri around 9.30pm on Friday. The suspects have been identified as Ashish Jagdhane (31), Irfan Shaikh (30), Nitesh Manjule (28), Akshay Turkane (28), Javed Auto (29). The police have launched a search for the absconding suspects involved in the vandalism. The Pimpri police have registered an offence against 100 men for attempt to murder and rioting. The arrested suspects and their accomplices had damaged windscreens of eight cars in Nehrunagar. They also assaulted Nilesh Jadhav (35) with the sharp weapons. An officer from the Pimpri police, following the case, said a gang of over 10 men then struck at Ajmera in Pimpri after that and damaged two buses belonging to suspect Ashish Jagdhane. Ashish’s father, Bansi Jagdhane (61), in turn lodged an FIR with the Pimpri police alleging that the gang of 10 threatened to kill him and also snatched his gold chain. “We have registered an offence of dacoity and rioting against the gang of ten,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-held-for-assault-and-vandalism-of-eight-cars/articleshow/78989229.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad woman held for duping men on the pretext of marriage||AURANGABAD: The city police arrested a 27-year-old woman on Saturday on the charges of duping different men under the pretext of marriage. A preliminary probe has revealed that she joined the racket involved in such activities after her family started facing serious financial problems during the lockdown period. The accused, identified as Vijaya Amrute, is a resident of Mukundwadi area. She is a married woman and has a son. She and her husband lost their respective jobs during the lockdown. Inspector Sudhakar Bavkar said the preliminary probe has revealed that the woman has duped three men in the last three months and within days of each marriage, she disappeared along with valuables. The woman first got married to Yogesh Shirsath of Sinnar in Nashik district. She stayed with him for about a fortnight and then fled. This was followed by her second marriage with Sandeep Darade of Karjat in Raigad, with whom shes tayed for a few days. Then she married a third man who hails from western Maharashtra. This racket came to the fore only after Shirsath tried looking for his wife and found out that she has already married another man, and duped him too. He lodged a complaint with the city police. The officer said the woman is associated with a racketeer couple that would look for men searching for a suitable bride. Once the prospect groom and his parents agree to the marriage, the couple would charge around Rs 2 to Rs 5 lakh for solemnizing the marriage and the amount would include their commission as well as wedding ceremony related expenses. And within a few days of the marriage, the woman would flee with all the ornaments she could get.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-held-for-duping-men-on-the-pretext-of-marriage/articleshow/78985998.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Pune||Massive blaze to affect garbage processing work in Pune||PUNE: The garbage processing work undertaken by the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) will be partially affected over the next few days following a major fire at its new 200 metric tonne capacity plant at Dalvinagar in Ambegaon Pathar on Sunday afternoon. The blaze extensively damaged the expensive equipment but no injuries were reported at the site. Set up at a cost of Rs4 crore, the plant had started functioning about a month ago. It processes mixed garbage generated from Sinhagad road, Ambegaon, Dattanagar, Katraj and surrounding areas. Madhav Jagtap, senior officer with PMC’s solid waste management department, did not rule out the possibility of some local residents setting off the blaze. “Some local residents have been opposing the plant. Some unidentified persons even pelted stones at the plant a few days ago,” he said. Jagtap added, “PMC will take legal action in the matter. We have already filed a police complaint. We will also examine if there was any political agenda or involvement of political leaders in causing the fire. We will take necessary action. Our staff is assessing the extent of damage. Details of losses will be known after the assessment is completed.” Another PMC officer said, “The fire will hamper garbage collection from neighbouring areas in the next few days. The PMC will work hard to restore the facility soon.” Deputy commissioner of police (zone-II) Sagar Patil said, “We have received a complaint from PMC officials stating that the fire may be an act of sabotage. As of now, we are registering an offence mentioning unidentified persons as having set ablaze the garbage plant, causing serious loss to the PMC. We will also examine the previous incidents in which the plant was targeted.” A dense smoke billowed out of the garbage plant after the fire started around 2.20pm. Civic and police officials pointed out that the smoke did not affect people as the plant is located at a fairly secluded spot, nearly 1.5km from the bypass towards Jambhulwadi lake and passes through a patch of forest.. “There are a few residential buildings at a spot. Local residents have complained to the PMC about the foul stench and other issues posed by the plant,” a police officer said. Some small industrial units are located in the vicinity, but most of them remain closed on Sunday. Some residential building construction activity is on near the plant. The city fire brigade deployed firefighting tenders and water tankers to control the blaze. It took almost three hours to put off the flames.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/massive-blaze-to-affect-garbage-processing-work/articleshow/78988073.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn taps solar energy, saves Rs 3.63 crore on electricity bills||Coimbatore: Solar power plants have helped the city corporation save Rs 3.63 crore on electricity bills in the past one year and nine months. The civic body had earlier installed 1 megawatt (MW) solar power plants at Ukkadam and Kavundampalayam at a cost of Rs 5.5 crore each and another 3.6MW plant at Ukkadam at a cost of Rs 17 crore under the smart city mission. The 1MW plants have 3,168 panels each, while the 3.6MW plant has 11,600 panels. The capacity of each solar panel is 320watts. The 1MW plant at Ukkadam was commissioned in February 2019 and the 3.6MW plant in May this year. According to a city corporation source, the plants are producing about 25,000 units of power a day. “The power generation varies from season to season. They together produce about 6422.39 megawatt-hour.” The power is transferred to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) substations and used to offset the electricity bills of high-tension connections to the water treatment plant and pumping station at Velliankadu, water pumping station at Pillur and sewage treatment plants at Ukkadam and Ondipudur that together account for bills to the tune of Rs 1.20 crore a month, says the source. The power generated at the 1MW plants and 50% of power from the 3.6MW plant is used to offset the electricity bill of the water treatment plant and pumping station at Velliankadu. At least 30% of the power generated at the 3.6MW plant is used to offset the bill of Pillur water pumping station and 10% each to offset the bill of the sewage treatment plants at Ukkadam and Ondipudur. While the 1MW plants at Ukkadam and Kavundampalayam have helped the city corporation save Rs 1.59 crore and Rs 1.30 crore, respectively, on the electricity bills, the3.6MW plant at Ukkadam has helped save Rs 73 lakh, says the source. “With the help of these plants, we could bring down the electricity bills by 50%.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-taps-solar-energy-saves-rs-3-63-crore-on-electricity-bills/articleshow/78989233.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana likely face shortage of gunny bags||Ludhiana: Amid the ongoing paddy procurement season, Ludhiana district is likely to face acute shortage of gunny bags for paddy in the coming days if the movement of freight trains does not resume. As per information available from government sources, the district requires a total of 97,000 gunny-bales to accommodate all paddy crop, of which 70% of gunny bales were to be provided by millers while 30% gunny bales, approximately 28,500 bales (1 bale= 500 gunny bags), have to be arranged by the state food agencies. The data shows that the food agencies have 22,820 bales while 5,618 more bales are required to procure the crop smoothly. According to the district food supply controller (DFSC), Ludhiana west, Sukhwinder Singh Gill, “We are somehow managing with the available amount of gunny bales, but if the freight trains won’t function soon they could face a huge shortage of gunny bags.” Gill also said that they need at least 125 containers of gunny bales to fulfil the requirement. Meanwhile, space shortage in godowns due to non-running of trains is also another danger which can be faced by the district if the trains do not resume. According to officials of the state government, who did not want to be quoted, said that besides shortage of gunny bags, the district is also likely to face a shortage of space in godowns to keep the rice after milling of paddy sans movement of trains to supply the wheat and rice to other states. As per the information, there used to be two to five special trains daily which used to carry rice and wheat to supply in other states and leaving the space in godowns for new stock of rice and wheat. When asked to comment on this issue, DFSC Gill said that ever since halting of trains they had only been able to send only two trains of rice and wheat when trains had functioned for a single day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-likely-face-shortage-of-gunny-bags/articleshow/78988079.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Couple transforms ill-maintained park into a beautiful spot||Ludhiana: A park in Dugri, Phase-II, which had been abandoned and ill-maintained for years, has now not only become the most attractive spot of the locality, but is also making people aware of traffic rules. The Bhavyadev, an NGO run by Manpreet Juneja and his wife Manmeet Juneja, has transformed the old park into a hi-tech park, which has rainwater harvesting system, automatic sensors lights, music system, fountain and more importantly graffiti related to road safety signs. The Juneja couple had lost both their children Bhavneet Juneja, 24, and Sanya Juneja, 20, in a road mishap near zone-D office of the municipal corporation in Sarabha Nagar. Besides, Bhavneet and Sanya, their two friends Devesh, 23, and Kashish Arora, 21, had also died when their car, in which all four were travelling, fell into Sidhwan Canal on March 8, 2019. Manpreet Juneja said, “This park in our locality was ill-maintained. People used to throw garbage here. A few months ago I, along with my wife Manmeet, had gone to Lucknow, where we saw a beautiful park. My wife said why we could not have such a park in Ludhiana. Then, I decided to transform the park in our locality. We were just making plans when lockdown was imposed. After lockdown was removed, we started working over the renovation of the park and gradually transformed it.” “There is a garden, flowers, trees, pavement for walking, a fountain and sitting arrangement too. Besides, we have automatic sensor lights, which turn on and off as per the availability of sunlight. We also have a rainwater harvesting system in the park. The rainwater is used to water plants and also for running fountains. We do not let even a single drop of rainwater get waste,” added Manpreet. He further said, “Since we are associated with the awareness of traffic rules, in this park also we have made graffiti related to traffic signs and rules. Along with traffic slogans, there are traffic signs on the walls. We also teach youngsters, who visit the park, about the traffic signs and importance of being careful while driving on the road.” After the death of their children, the Juneja couple has dedicated their lives towards social work and spreading awareness on traffic rules. The NGO has organised several road safety seminars in different states over the past one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/couple-transforms-ill-maintained-park-into-a-beautiful-spot/articleshow/78988076.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Bhinge, Patil in race for MLC posts from Marathwada||Aurangabad: Amid building suspense over 12 names for the posts of MLC from the quota of Maharashtra governor, names of Yashpal Bhinge and Rajni Patil as probable candidates from NCP and Congress respectively have been making rounds from Marathwada. Nominating Bhinge, who had unsuccessfully contested the last Lok Sabha election from Nanded as Vanchit Bahujan Aghadhi (VBA) candidate by emerging as the second runner up by bagging over 1.6 lakh votes, could be an attempt by NCP to strengthen the party in Nanded which is the stronghold of Congress. A college teacher by profession, Bhinge belongs to Dhangar community and could help NCP in attracting the OBC vote bank from Marathwada. NCP spokesperson Ankush Kakde said that the name of Bhinge is being considered among different probable candidates by the party. “The top brass of the party is empowered to finalise the names,” he said. A senior NCP leader, however, said that Bhinge has a close contest from Uttam Jankar, an OBC leader from Solapur district. “Jankar had ditched BJP and contested last Assembly election only to lose by around 6,000 votes. He has considerable following among OBC community and it could benefit him in getting MLC post,” he said preferring anonymity. While the quota of 12 posts of MLCs are equally divided between three alliance partners of MVA government in Maharashtra, former Rajya Sabha member Rajni Patil from Marathwada is one of the frontrunners among four choices from the Congress camp. Patil, who earlier also served as Lok Sabha MP from Beed on BJP ticket, is currently serving as Jammu and Kashmir in-charge of Congress party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bhinge-patil-in-race-for-mlc-posts-from-marathwada/articleshow/78986013.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 2, 2020||Pune||One killed in highway accident near Chakan||Pune: A 30-year-old man was killed and two others sustained fractures to their legs when a speeding truck knocked down three motorcycles and a car in Kurali village on the Pune-Nashik highway. The accident happened on Friday night when the vehicles had halted at a traffic signal. The truck driver did not stop even after knocking down the vehicles. The Chakan police have identified the deceased as Umesh Mahajan. Injured motorcyclists Girish Chaudhari and Rakesh Gadekar are undergoing treatment in a hospital. Chaudhari said a truck dashed all the vehicles waiting at the signal. “Two others and I fell off our motorcycles and were injured badly. I noticed that the car too was damaged but the driver escaped unhurt,” he said. “The locals took the three of us to a hospital,” Chaudhari added. Sub-inspector Sachin Suryavanshi said, “Mahajan was killed on the spot. The other two sustained fractures on their right legs.” Suryavanshi said the police have launched a search for the truck driver. “We have the registration number of the vehicle. We will arrest him soon,” Suryavanshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-killed-in-highway-accident-near-chakan/articleshow/78988077.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Pune||British Library donates 18,000 books to Pune university||PUNE: Nearly 18,000 books from the British Library that went digital last year have been donated to the Jaykar Library in Savitribai Phule Pune University. As many as 14,000 books have already been given and students will now be able to read these books ranging from social science, languages, religion, technology, and other topics and genres. Registrar Prafulla Pawar said, “The Jaykar Library is a good resource for students. It has lakhs of books, and the 18,000 books from British Library will add more value.” It was established as The British Council Library in 1960 to extend the best of education, arts and culture from Britian in Pune. Readers can now access books from anywhere and any time for an unlimited period. The British Library introduced Puneites to English literature and was stationed on Fergusson College Road till 2017 before shifting to another place in Shivajinagar. Antonius Raghubansie, director of learning services, British Council India, said the collection spanning genres such as management, non-fiction and fiction will cater to the students’ academic and leisure reading. “We are delighted that nearly 18,000 titles from our library will now be housed on the SPPU campus, allowing us to continue being a part of their undergraduate and graduate learners’ experience,” he added. Their digital library is bringing the best of UK education, arts and culture to a much larger audience, online. “We have invested in increasing and strengthening our digital offer so that our customers can access a vast range of educational and entertainment resources,” Raghubansie added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/british-library-donates-18k-books-to-pune-varsity/articleshow/78989230.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 2, 2020||Pune||Man held on charge of minor’s molestation in Pune||PUNE: The Dehu Road police on Sunday arrested a 37-year-old man for outraging the modesty of his neighbour’s nine-year-old daughter. The incident happened inside the suspect’s house on October 29. The girl’s mother lodged an FIR on Sunday. An officer from the Dehu Road police said that the girl was playing outside her house on October 29. Around 5.30pm, the suspect forced the girl inside his house and disrobed her. “When the girl asked him what he was doing, the man slapped her. He threatened her about revealing anything to anyone and allowed her to go,” the officer said. The girl on Saturday night told her mother about it, the police said. The man has been arrested under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-charge-of-minors-molestation/articleshow/78989232.cms||---
November 2, 2020||India||Gene-editing could be way forward for improved crop, absence of regulatory regime holding back commercial use||NEW DELHI: India’s use of technology for crop improvement might be finally catching up after years of neglect with Indian scientists making progress in using gene-editing to develop Vitamin A-rich banana and improved varieties of rice, millets, pulses and tomato even as absence of a regulatory policy prevents their release for commercial use. Though the department of biotechnology (DBT) has prepared detailed guidelines on how to use gene-editing to improve crop varieties, the regulatory body Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee (GEAC) is yet to distinguish it from genetically modified (GM) technology and is still considering the matter solely from transgenic angle despite clarifications from top scientific academies and research institutions. There is a fresh spotlight on gene-editing with Emmanuelle Charpentier and Jennifer Doudna winning the Nobel for developing a method (CRISPR-Cas9) for genome editing. This process may be less problematic for opponents of GM despite discussions on the technology’s potential to impact human heredity. The Indian research is, however, on crops. Unlike GM (transgenic) technology which introduces foreign DNA (like insertion from a different species), gene-editing modifies existing genes in a precise manner by making specific targeted changes in the genome of an organism. But since there is a possibility of gene-editing also inserting new genetic material of different species, regulators are wary of taking a final decision on guidelines. “Many people are confused that gene-editing is like genetic engineering (transgenic system). But here we have to distinguish which is a normal breeding-like approach within the genera,” said R S Paroda, eminent agriculture scientist and former director general of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). “Gene-editing should not be treated as transgenic and it should not come under the same regulatory system which has been regulating GM crops,” he said. The programmable gene-editing system allows scientists to make changes in the genome of an organism to come out with nutrient rich, high yielding, disease resistant, herbicide tolerant and abiotic stress tolerant varieties of crops which can substantially reduce input costs of farmers. Among the various methods of gene-editing, the CRISPR-Cas9 system, developed by Charpentier and Doudna, is considered the most favoured for being precise and a sharp tool for geneediting. Since utilising genetic variation to develop new crop varieties through conventional breeding needs years of effort comprising cross pollination, rigorous selection of progeny for individuals with desired traits, scientists in US, Japan, Australia, China and Brazil are preferring CRISPR-Cas9 which can create desired variations more precisely and without affecting other characters of a variety. “This enables new varieties to be produced quicker and enables breeders to significantly cut down on time, labour and cost,” said Paroda. In India, the DBT’s National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute, Mohali is using CRISPR-Cas9 to carry out a change in bananas. Besides the ICAR institutes are also involved in application of this technology for enhancing stress tolerance and nutritional quality in a number of crops. The Hyderabad-based International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) has signed an agreement with US-based Corteva AgriScience, which holds license for MIT and Harvard CRISPR technologies, to get access to CRISPR related resources for crop improvement. “The CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing technique has opened enormous opportunities for creating at will desired variations in crop plants, animals, fish and microorganisms. Scaling this disruptive innovation would not only help in meeting sustainable development goals (SDGs) but would ensure global food, nutrition and environmental security,” said Paroda. Since new crop varieties do not contain foreign genetic material, many countries like the USA, Japan and Australia have exempted such edited variants from regulations. Watch Indian scientists make progress in gene-editing tech after years of neglect||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gene-edited-crops-are-here-but-lack-of-norms-hinders-harvest/articleshow/78989975.cms||Vishwa Mohan
November 2, 2020||Pune||Duo flee with laptop bag fallen on road||Pune: A two-wheeler borne duo stole a laptop worth Rs55,000 which fell off a scooter when it hit a pothole on a road in Talawade on Saturday around 8am. Suleman Kazi (31) of Pashan, who works as a service engineer with a private company, has lodged an FIR with the Dehu Road police. “My laptop was password protected. The thieves cannot operate it. But I have lost all my data that I had stored in the last five years,” Kazi told TOI. He said he was headed towards a company in Talawade. “My scooter hit a pothole on the road at Talawade Chowk and my laptop bag fell on the road. I went to the left side of the road and stopped so as to not disrupt traffic,” Kazi said. “Before I could park my two-wheeler and start walking, two men on a white scooter stopped near the bag. One of them picked up the bag and the duo sped away,” Kazi said. “I began chasing them. A few two-wheeler drivers joined me too but the duo escaped,” Kazi said. “There was Rs4,500 in the bag. My PAN and Aadhaar cards along with my driving license was there as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-flee-with-laptop-bag-fallen-on-road/articleshow/78988080.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 2, 2020||Vadodara||Cops intensify patrolling before Diwali||Vadodara: The city police has started patrolling the old city areas in wake of the ensuing Diwali festivities. The areas are witnessing heavy rush and have some establishments that have large amounts of cash or valuables. Officials of the city police station patrolled the area on foot and met jewellers, ‘angadiya’ operators and other businessmen in the area. The policemen made announcements using public address systems to alert people regarding crimes like robberies, theft and cheating. The policemen also asked the shopkeepers and people to ensure that the guidelines regarding Covid-19 are followed. The old city markets witness heavy rush and are congested ahead of festivities. The areas covered in the drive included M G Road, Kansara Pole, Laheripura, Mangal Bazaar, Kala Mandir lane and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-intensify-patrolling-before-diwali/articleshow/78986180.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Surat||Civil engineer found dead in basement parking in Surat||SURAT: A 55-year-old civil engineer was found dead in the basement parking of an under-construction luxurious residential apartment on Vesu Canal Road on Saturday. Family members and colleagues of the deceased, Anil Vasoya, alleged that he fell into the parking space during a raid by the Goods and Service Tax (GST) department team at the project Cellestial Dream. His body was discovered at around 4pm by his colleagues. His brother Ramesh, who lodged a complaint with Khatodara police, said that Vasoya might have fallen sometime around 11am when the raid was being conducted. It is suspected that he was on first floor of the two-storey basement. “I got to know that my brother had attended the last call at 11am and around the same time, GST team had raided the project. His colleagues were also discussing that he might have fallen during the same time,” Ramesh told TOI. Ramesh said there was no lighting in the basement and it was possible that his brother hit the parapet and suffered serious head injuries. Preliminary postmortem revealed multiple injuries on his body and a forensic autopsy is also bein done to ascertain the exact cause. Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) team will also examine the spot where the incident happened. Vasoya family is from Upleta in Rajkot district and he survived by two children and wife. Ramesh, an engineer in Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (DGVCL), also alleged that his brother did not get immediate treatment that could have saved his life. “Since he was not answering the calls, colleagues initially thought that GST officials may have detained him for questioning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/civil-engg-found-dead-in-basement-parking/articleshow/78986323.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Nashik||Woman cheated of Rs 3.47 lakh||Nashik: A 29-year-old woman of Samarth Nagar, Mhasrool, was cheated of Rs 3.47 lakh by an unidentified fraudster who called her on the pretext of being an executive from a placement company and taking details of her bank only to cheat her of Rs 3.47 lakh. The woman registered a complaint of cheating with the cybercrime police station on Saturday. The complainant told police that she received a phone call from an unknown person on October 30. The caller introduced himself as a representative of a renowned job placement company. After giving the complainant some description of the job, the fraudster tricked her into making an online submission of her debit card details after which he withdrew cash of Rs 3.47 lakh from her bank account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-cheated-of-rs-3-47-lakh/articleshow/78986018.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka State Open University gets income tax exemption||MYSURU: In a big relief to the city-based Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), the state government has brought the institute under Section 12A of Income Tax Act, 1961 as a result of which the varsity’s revenue generated through fee and other sources will not be taxed. Governor Vajubhai Vala signed the amendment to KSOU Act, 1992, on October 19 and it is now notified through a gazette publication. University vice-chancellor S Vidyashankar and registrar Lingaraj Gandhi confirmed that the varsity has been exempted from paying income tax. “Immediately after I joined the university as the VC, I started working on this issue. There was little confusion earlier. But they have been resolved and the varsity has been notified as a non-profit organisation under Section 12A of Income Tax Act,” said Vidyashankar. “We prepared a report on the university finance and submitted it to the state government seeking exemption from the income tax. Based on our report, now the amendments have been made to the KSOU Act. It will help the university in numerous ways,” explained Gandhi. “KSOU is a self-financing institute. We need to pay all our expenses from our own resources. The university was set up through an act of legislature and governed by statutes. All these were mentioned in the report we submitted to the state government,” he said. According to the gazette notification, the university shall utilise its income, movable and immovable property only for the furtherance of its objects. It shall not invest or deposit any income accumulated or set apart for application to charitable purposes in India in any form. The university has also been asked to not distribute its income or property to any person by way of profit, dividend and interest or in any other manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ksou-gets-income-tax-exemption/articleshow/78986857.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Expats provide financial help to madrassa teachers||JEDDAH: Saudi Arabia-based Islamic Cultural Forum (ICF) would provide much-needed financial assistance to madrassa (religious school) teachers in Kerala, ICF’s head Sayyid Habeebal Bukhari has revealed. Due to Covid-19 madrassas are not functioning across Kerala. Teachers working at madrassas have not been getting their salaries during the past few months. The ICF aims to provide Rs 25 lakh as interim relief. The association would also provide financial help to families of stranded Saudi expatriates in Kerala. The applicants screened by Kerala Muslim Jamaat, the parent body of ICF, from 14 districts of Kerala would get the benefit. The distribution of funds is to be completed by November 30, ICF office-bearers said in Jeddah. 30% job cuts likely in UAE Dubai: Nearly 20% of businesses operating in the UAE have put a freeze on salaries, while 30% have plans to cut their workforce numbers, according to the annual survey conducted by the consultancy company Mercer. Also, according to the survey, 17% of companies delayed handing out 2020 salary hikes following the Covid-19 pandemic, most likely by six months or so. These are the stark numbers generated on what UAE businesses are doing to cope with the pandemic fallout. Some of the bigger organizations have already gone through the process of headcount reductions, while salaries were cut by 30-50%. The 30% of organizations planning job cuts expect an average 10% reduction in their workforce. The biggest impact will be felt in retail, and if December/January sales do not pan out as retailers expect, this is where the pink slips are most likely to emerge from. Among those industries seeing gains in headcounts, there is logistics, specifically for express and last-mile services and set off by e-commerce demand. “Even though we expect uncertainty to span 2021, the Total Remuneration Survey results promise a more optimistic new year as companies are increasingly reporting positive hiring sentiments compared to those indicated at the onset of the pandemic,” said Carolina Vorster, Workforce Products Leader at Mercer. (C O T Azeez is a journalist based in Jeddah)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/expats-provide-financial-help-to-madrassa-teachers/articleshow/78989238.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ludhiana||‘SAD breaking ties with BJP will not affect us’||The BJP leaders find themselves caught amid a turmoil after the passing of the farm laws and farmers’ protests. The BJP state vice-president, Parveen Bansal, who is from the city, claims that the party is strong enough to come out of this situation. At the moment the party is creating a stronghold at the grassroots level and is likely to fight assembly elections without help of any alliance in Punjab. Here are a few excerpts from conversation between him and TOI correspondent Nidhi Bhardwaj. Do you feel BJP leaders failed in making the farmers understand three farm laws approved by the Union government? It is not that we failed in reaching out to the farmers in making them understand these farm laws, rather all these protests are taking place because the Congress government has created confusion in the minds of farmers. These farm laws are for the benefit of farmers because for the past so many years the farmers, who are the backbone of our economy, have been unable to come out of poverty. These ordinances will give financial stability and security to these farmers and they will get a stage where they can sell their crop anywhere in India. How the BJP will be able to come out of this situation when its alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal has also come to an end?We are trying to convince the farmers and their organisation heads through various means. Recently, a meeting also took place in Delhi over this issue and our Punjab team also attended that meeting, so in the coming days we will be able to come out with more ideas to reach out to the farmers. As far as Akali Dal is concerned, they have certain political bindings as they have a vote bank in rural Punjab and when farmers came out on roads they were forced to take this step and break ties with the BJP. But it will not create any difference to us and we are hopeful of performing better. Don’t you think BJP leaders in Punjab will have to pay for these farm laws approved by the central government?When decisions are taken for larger interests, certain difficulties are certain. Our leaders in Punjab are facing issues in reaching out to farmers as at certain locations farmers protested against BJP leaders and our state president was also attacked. We are fighting for the welfare of the farmer community and we are ready to face any kind of hardships. These protests and hurdles in our path are being created by the Congress government because they want to continue with these protests. As long as people’s mind will remain diverted to farmers issues they will not ask chief minister Amarinder Singh about employment, power prices, pension and most important development. The Congress is trying to use this situation for its benefits in the 2022 elections. Do you feel that BJP can contest the assembly elections on all seats, especially in Ludhiana, where in 2017, it had lost all three seats? Political scenario in Punjab keeps on changing with every day, so it is very early to say anything at the moment. As far as last results are concerned, the situation was quite different and we lost due to certain factors. This time, we will fight on all seats and we are certain people will give us a chance to serve them. At the moment we are concentrating on building a strong base among voters, so we are strengthening our organisational structure. We are boosting the morale of our booth-level workers and side by side we are trying to convince the farmers that the BJP government is thinking about their welfare. What are the future plans of the party for Ludhiana or the entire state in the coming days?First of all, we are concentrating on fighting this situation and when farmer protests will end the situation will become normal. As far as Ludhiana is concerned, the city has lost almost three years since the Congress government took over. In the name of development not even a simple patch work has been done properly. No major projects came for the city except for the smart city projects, which are being funded by the central government. The Congress leaders have failed miserably in providing facilities to the public and it is actually unfortunate for this city. Our concentration would be more on development works for the city and then growth of industry will be in focus. In the past a favourable environment was not created for the growth and development of industry and Ludhiana being hub of industry, needs special attention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-breaking-ties-with-bjp-will-not-affect-us/articleshow/78988110.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||SWOT analysis: TRS confident; BJP, Congress hope to change narrative||HYDERABAD: Going by pre-poll surveys and ground reports, the TRS is in a comfortable position as a lead contender in Dubbak with Solipeta Sujata, the widow of former MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy, contesting on the party ticket. TRS had secured a majority of 62,500 votes in the 2018 assembly polls. U Sudhakar Reddy does a SWOT analysis of parties in fray TRS Strengths TRS’ biggest strengths are the welfare programmes. Around 78,000 farmers in the constituency benefit from Rythu Bandhu, free power and Rythu Bheema schemes. Asara pensions, Kalyana Lakshmi, Shadi Mubarak, KCR Kits and pensions for around 20,000 beedi workers created a dedicated vote bank for the party. Ramalinga Reddy’s untimely death has also created sympathy for the party. Finance minister Harish Rao is leading the TRS poll strategy and campaign. Weakness Growing unemployment among youth. TRS candidate Sujata is neither a political strategist nor an orator. Allegations of one family rule and ties with AIMIM provide enough ammunition for the opposition. Not many development works were taken up during Ramalinga Reddy’s term and it may affect the party’s chances. Opportunity Lack of proper leadership in the main opposition, Congress, has come in as a blessing for TRS. Recently, several second-rung leaders of Congress jumped on to TRS bandwagon. Being in power, TRS have an advantage as police conducted searches and stopped the election funding money supply chain of BJP. Congress Strengths Congress’ biggest strength is the image of former minister and four-time MLA Cheruku Mutyam Reddy. His son Srinivas Reddy tried to cash in on his father’s name. Telangana Congress in-charge ManickamTagore attempted to revitalise the party. Around 140 incharges were appointed for 140 villages in Dubbak. Senior leaders, including PCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy, are camping in the constituency. Weakness Problems in both state and central leadership has been hampering Congress in the past few elections after the formation of Telangana. Srinivas Reddy has crossed over from TRS to Congress recently. TRS has Harish Rao as a good orator, Congress candidate is no match. Opportunity After a long time, Congress leadership has come together and worked for Dubbak bypolls. Candidates of opposition parties are better than TRS candidate Solipeta Sujata at individual level Bharatiya Janata Party Strengths With BJP being in power at the Centre, it has better logistics and financial resources than Congress. Raghunandan Rao knows the ins and out of the constituency as he had contested earlier too. BJP, which has support among young voters, is banking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image. BJP State president Bandi Sanjay is leading the campaign and giving a tough fight. Weakness BJP though started well couldn’t maintain the momentum. There are not many urban voters in the constituency except Dubbak town. Criminal cases booked against BJP candidate and searches on him turned the tide against him. Several second-rung leaders switched sides recently. Several non-local BJP leaders are camping in the constituency which didn’t go down well with locals. Opportunity BJP has an opportunity to give a tough fight to TRS. Pre-poll surveys and ground reports say it would not be surprise if BJP ends up as a runner up pushing Congress to the third position. Dubbak will be a testing ground for preparation of future elections, including GHMC polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/swot-analysis-trs-confident-bjp-cong-hope-to-change-narrative/articleshow/78989236.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 2, 2020||Kolhapur||1 death, 46 Covid cases in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 46 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection on Sunday, taking the total number of Covid cases to 48,189. The death toll has now risen to 1,643. The number of active cases came down to 982 after 32 patients were discharged from various Covid facilities. As many as 45,564 patients have recovered from the contagion. The district has a death rate of 3.40%, which is higher than the state average. Meanwhile, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has fined 500 people for not wearing masks in public places. Around Rs 61,000 has been collected from the violators. Sangli reports 99 cases Sangli reported 99 fresh Covid cases and five patients succumbed to the infection on Sunday. The district has a total of 45,184 Covid patients, of whom 41,930 have recovered from the contagion and 1,644 patients have succumbed to Covid. The number of active cases in Sangli district has come down to 1,610 after 176 patients were discharged. 40 cases in Solapur city Solapur city reported 40 Covid cases and one death on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 9,612. Of which 535 patients have succumbed to infection and 456 are active cases. Solapur rural recorded 134 cases and 5 deaths on Sunday.The rural parts have 31,155 cases and 922 Covid deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1-death-46-covid-cases-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78986024.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Pune||Keeping the magic of theatre alive on Instagram Live||PUNE: The Bombay Theatre Company, formed in the beginning of the year by theatre actor-producer Raveesh Jaiswal and co-founded by his wife, Prachi Sharma, saw its fair share of ups and downs in its very first few months due to the coronavirus pandemic. Not wanting to lose touch with the audience and with theatre, the company came up with the idea of taking performances online on Instagram. “We were preparing for our first live show in April when we had to stop our preparations abruptly because of the pandemic. Sometime later, we decided to experiment with Instagram Live and did a short play of about ten minutes. We found that performing online was quite akin to enacting on stage. That gave us the idea of the youth theatre project we are currently doing now,” Jaiswal said. Titled ‘The Theatre Project 2020’, Jaiswal and his theatre company reached out to young theatre enthusiasts through social media to send in original scripts in English and audition reels. Four of the ten plays have already been broadcast, with the rest to be wrapped up by December.Staged every Sunday since October 11, the first couple of plays attracted more than a hundred viewers. Jaiswal and his team managed to whittle the final selection down to 10 scripts and 20 actors from 180 actors and 70 scripts. Further script analysis paired the actors to the playwrights, with none of them meeting each other physically. Broadcasting a play online does come with its set of technical challenges, including connectivity issues. But Jaiswal said those were similar to the challenges faced during on-stage theatre, with improvisation being a key tool to overcome any shortcomings. “We do a few checks before the play starts. The show starts at 7pm, and we tell the performers to log in for a technical rehearsal 45 minutes early. Then they go live for the main event at 6:50pm and engage with the audience for ten minutes to introduce themselves and the play,” Jaiswal said. The challenges of maintaining a cool head and a presence of mind in times of technical hitches came into play during the staging of the second play, Discharged, written by Vrushal Nedungadi. “We prepared for three weeks before the final staging of the play on October 18 on our Instagram page. On the day of the play, the internet connection of my co-actor Pruthvi Shivappa was unstable and he got disconnected. We had to then restart the play once again after he was able to join,” said Nabarun Deb, one of the actors of the play.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/keeping-the-magic-of-theatre-alive-on-instagram-live/articleshow/78988106.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 2, 2020||Pune||Army recruitment racket busted, three men arrested||Pune: The city police, assisted by the Military Intelligence, busted a recruitment racket following the arrest of three men — including a clerk from the Army Institute of Physical Training (AIPT) — ahead of the Common Entrance Exam (CEE) for jawans on Sunday. A preliminary police investigation revealed that the arrested trio had demanded Rs1.5 lakh each from 17 job aspirants on the pretext of helping them secure jobs. They had kept the original academic documents of these aspirants on the condition that they would be returned once they paid the money on clearing the CEE and getting a job. “We have recovered these documents from the arrested persons,” deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh told TOI. Singh said, “We have arrested Vensingh Lalsingh Rawat and Ravindra Gajendrasingh Rathod, both natives of Ajmer in Rajasthan, and Havildar Jaidev Singh Parihar, an army clerk at AIPT. Rawat and Rathod are agents.” The candidates, from different parts of Maharashtra, who cleared their physical examination held in Beed, were to appear for the CEE written paper scheduled for Sunday at the AIPT. A police officer said, “Parihar approached some of these aspirants at the entrance of the canteen and told them that he knew two persons who conducted private coaching classes to train aspiring army jawans. Parihar then took 17 of these aspirants to Rawat and Rathod.” The officer said, “Rawat and Rathod took the candidates to an apartment building and gave them question sets, claiming that these would match Sunday’s question paper. None of the questions matched the CEE paper.” Sources in the army said, “Parihar passed on Rawat’s contact number to candidates while distributing hall tickets, saying that the latter would help them clearing the exam. Our personnel monitered Rawat and apprehended him with the help of the city crime when he came with candidates outside the AIPT at midnight on Saturday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-recruitment-racket-busted-three-men-arrested/articleshow/78988082.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Rajkot||Lion cubs found dead in well||Rajkot: Two lion cubs were found dead in an open well of a farm in Bhandariya round of Liliya Range of Shetrunji division on Sunday.“The cubs were one year old. Their carcasses have been taken to Krakach Rescue Centre for postmortem to ascertain the exact cause of their deaths,” said a forest officer. The dead cubs were found in the farm belonging to Virji Kachadiya who informed the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lion-cubs-found-dead-in-well/articleshow/78986938.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Farmers outfits settle for one time FRP payment||Kolhapur: Various farmers outfits from the region have settled for receiving one time fair and remunerative price (FRP) for sugar cane and the mill operators have also agreed for the same. The FRP for sugar cane this season will remain between Rs 2,700 and Rs 2,850 per tonne with sugar recovery rate of 9% and above. For sugar cane with recovery rate of above 10%, an additional sum of Rs 285 per tonne has to be paid by the factories. The recovery room rate of sugar cane in Kolhapur district has always remained above 11% — higher than other districts of the state. Kolhapur district guardian minister Satej Patil, who had convened the meeting between the farmers outfits and sugar mill operators, said, “The farmers outfits and mill operators have agreed upon paying the farmers on the basis of the FRP fixed for this season. Now, I hope there are no violent agitations by the farmers and cane crushing will place without any obstruction.” Patil said that many farmers have suffered damage to their crops due to heavy rainfall. He said that he has asked the agriculture department to survey the farms and facilitate the farmers to get the existing crops harvested so that crushing can be carried out at the earliest. Jalandar Patil, leader of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghtana, said, “We welcome the decision of the mill operators to pay the farmers as per the FRP rates. However, the payment should be done in one go and not in instalments as it happened last year. Factories failing to pay the farmers as per FRP for the last season will not be allowed to start crushing. Also, there is increase in the harvesting charges for the sugar cane cutters and the factories should pay for the same and should not deduct the amount from the amount to be paid to the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/farmers-outfits-settle-for-one-time-frp-payment/articleshow/78986069.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Minister assures compensation to grape farmers||Kolhapur: Sangli’s district guardian minister Jayant Patil on Sunday said that the state government will soon find a way to compensate the grape farmers who have incurred losses due to heavy rainfall that wreaked havoc last month. The officials concerned are carrying out the survey of farms that had borne fruits and got damaged due to the rain. However, they are not surveying the grape farms as the orchards were not in flowering stage and no fruits were borne. According to authorities, such damages cannot be surveyed and therefore cannot be compensated. During the meeting with the minister and district authorities, the farmers suggested that such grape farms must be surveyed for estimating losses. They also suggested that if the flowers do not bloom and no fruit bearing takes place the farmer should be compensated accordingly. For fruit crops, the compensation amount is fixed at Rs 25,000 per hectare. Patil said that he has consulted with senior state officials of the agriculture department to find a way. “Since the grape farms in both Sangli and Solapur districts have been damaged, the decision for surveying or compensation cannot be taken for one district. I will table the issue before the government and ensure such types of speculative losses to the grape farms can be compensated.” MLAs of Tasgaon, Atpadi, Miraj and Jat tehsils have joined hands in support of the grape farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/minister-assures-compensation-to-grape-farmers/articleshow/78986041.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Goa||‘School complexes need reintroduction’||PANAJI: The concept of super school complexes implemented in Goa in the early 2000s needs to be revived as it is in sync with the provisions of the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, chairman of the task force for NEP implementation in Goa, Subhash Shirodkar said. Under the super school complex, schools offering education at different levels in the neighbourhood are clubbed into one unit to share resources. The teachers in the higher classes helped mentor those in teaching at the lower levels. “Goa’s first super school complex, as per my information, was established in Shiroda higher secondary school. Following that, super school complexes were set up in many places across the state. We will have to revisit this concept so that there is a good blending of schools from nursery to the higher secondary school level,” Shirodkar told TOI. He said that the task force’s singular focus will be to improve the delivery of education and not to dictate terms to schools. “Our only aim will be to improve the delivery of education and to raise our students to international standards. We will have to introduce them to different sectors. For instance, very few from Goa may have gone into the field of astronomy. There are many sectors like these where Goans have not yet been able to make a mark in significant numbers,” Shirodkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-need-to-revive-concept-of-super-school-complex/articleshow/78989250.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bareilly||Four people arrested for assaulting officials during inspection||Pilibhit: Four people, including a woman, were arrested on Sunday afternoon from Neuria town under Neuria police station, for assaulting a two-member official team during a spot inspection of state property, whose possession had been illegally taken over by some locals to construct shops. The punitive action was enforced following orders of Pilibhit Sadar SDM Avinash Chandra Maurya.The written complaint in the matter was jointly filed at Neuria police station by Gajendra Kumar, a Lekhpal of Pilibhit Sadar tehsil, and Daya Sagar, the head clerk of Neuria town area committee.The complainants stated that following administrative orders, they had visited a spot in Neuria town to verify a complaint regarding illegal construction of some shops on a part of a government road.As they began their demarcation work, the illegal possessors, identified as Mohammad Qamar, Mohammad Iqbal, his wife Nikhat and Shoeb, suddenly assaulted them with long sticks and sharp weapons, while abusing them, they said.They were rescued by locals, but the assailants continued to threaten them with dire consequences if they continued their investigations in the future, the victims reported.Neuria SHO Jagat Singh said the accused were booked under sections 353 (assault or use of criminal force on public servant), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-people-arrested-for-assaulting-officials-during-inspection/articleshow/78983783.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Pune||Cops uncover online IPL betting fraud||Pune: The Pune rural police on Saturday busted an online betting racket in Shirur, about 80km from here, with the arrest of one person. The suspect was found accepting bets on Saturday’s Indian Premier League (IPL) T-20 cricket match between SunRisers Hyderabad and Royal Challengers Bangalore, played in Dubai. His accomplice fled from the spot. The local crime branch team led by inspector Padmakar Ghanwat seized cash and two cellphones, collectively worth Rs32,000, from the suspect, Aditya Thakur (25) of Shirur. The officer said the police got a tip-off that two men were accepting bets on the IPL match in Shirur. “We laid a trap and took Thakur into custody,” Ghanwat said. He said the suspects were accepting bets through cellphone. “The probe revealed that Thakur and his accomplice were in contact with a bookie from Ahmednagar. We have registered an offence against Thakur, his aide and the bookie,” Ghanwat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-uncover-online-ipl-betting-fraud/articleshow/78988111.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Educational institutions to remain closed till November 16 in Rajathan||JAIPUR: The state government has decided to keep schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions closed till November 16, as per the Unlock-6 guidelines issued by the state home department on Sunday. Though the guidelines have been issued for November 1-30, the state government will take a decision in respect of opening schools and coaching institutions in a graded manner. The decision shall be taken in consultation with the respective school/institution management, based on the assessment of the situation and subject to some conditions. Online/distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged, according to these conditions. Guests at marriages should not exceed 100The other conditions include allowing students, who prefer online classes instead of physically attending schools, to do the same; letting students attend schools/institutions only with the written consent of parents; not enforcing attendance and doing so with parental consent. Also, the state government will issue SOPs regarding the health and safety precautions for reopening schools and institutions. All of them will be expected to mandatorily follow these SOPs. The guidelines, issued by principal secretary (home), Abhay Kumar said, “The lockdown shall remain in force in the containment zones till November 30.” Swimming pools, cinema halls/theatres/multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will remain closed till November 30. Also, social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/cultural/religious functions and other large congregations will also not be permitted till November 30. For marriage-related gatherings, the organiser has to ensure that the maximum number of guests do not exceed more than 100. The maximum number of persons at funerals/last rites shall not be more than 20. The district collector and district magistrate can grant special permission for functions having a larger number of people subject to certain conditions, including the seating plan. Such applicants will have to follow these rules: In closed spaces, only a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons; in open spaces, keeping in view the size of the ground/ space a special function can be granted permission with a ceiling of 250 persons. Each person will have to maintain a distance of six feet. “There shall be strict control to ensure that there is no movement of people in or out of containment zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining the supply of essential goods and services. In the containment zones, there shall be intensive contact tracing, house-to-house surveillance and other clinical interventions as required,” it said. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 will be issued by the district authority concerned. District collectors and magistrates shall not impose any local lockdown (district/sub-division/city/village level), outside the containment zones, without prior permission of the government of India. No relaxations of any kind shall be permitted in the containment zones. Corona warriors to take out rallyAhead of Diwali, a 15-km rally by corona warriors will be taken out in the city on Monday. It will be from Ramniwas Bagh Circle to Jawahar Circle and back. The health department is apprehensive that Covid-19 cases might spread rapidly post-Diwali if people do not take proper precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/educational-institutions-to-remain-closed-till-november-16-in-rajathan/articleshow/78989242.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hubballi||Man booked for posting Pakistan flag on social media in Betageri district of Karnataka||HUBBALLI: The Betageri police have registered a case against a 33-year-old man for allegedly posting a Pakistani flag on social media on Saturday. The accused is a car driver, and recently during a festival of his community, he allegedly posted a Pakistani flag as the status of his social media account. A resident of Kammarsal in the city, lodged a complaint against the youth. In the complaint, the complainant alleged that the youth tried to create unrest in society, and tried to spread enmity on the basis of class and religion. The Betageri police are investigating the case. They refused to speak on the case, but said that they have registered a case against the youth under IPC section 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-booked-for-posting-pak-flag-on-social-media/articleshow/78986934.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bareilly||4 FIRs for forgery against 5 Pilibhit paddy brokers||Pilibhit: Four FIRs were lodged against five paddy brokers on Saturday evening on charges of forgery while selling paddy at the government procurement centre in the agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) campus of Pilibhit city, following written complaints filed by four paddy procurement officials.APMC officials caught the accused while they were trying to sell paddy by impersonating farmers, without possessing relevant documents.The complaints were filed by Ramveer Sharma and Ramveer Singh, officers in-charge of the UP agro center, marketing inspector Avnish Yadav and assistant officer of APMC Prakash Chandra Dwivedi, against Shishu Pal Singh of village Muzaffarnagar under Puranpur tehsil, Sunil Singh and Ved Prakash of village Madhotanda under Kalinagar tehsil, Ram Bharose Lal of village Banjaria and Ram Pal of Dhakia Kesarpur, both under Pilibhit tehsil.The SHO of Sungarhi police station, Atar Singh, said the five accused were booked under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/4-firs-for-forgery-against-5-pilibhit-paddy-brokers/articleshow/78983794.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Fruit bats flock to Wellington Lake area||Udhagamandalam: The Wellington Lake area at Coonoor in the Nilgiris has been seeing a colony of fruit bats in the past few days. Pointing out that bats could adapt only to hot weather in the plains and not seen at high altitude areas generally, a few wildlife activists said it was strange to see them migrating to the hills. Local residents, meanwhile, said they were sighting the fruit bats at this time for the third consecutive year. Srinivas R Reddy, senior forest officer, says, “Bats are not unusual to the Nilgiris. They could be seen in Sim’s Park area, though not as colonies. People generally don’t notice them when they hang down on trees.” Shriranjani L Iyer, a Coimbatore-based researcher in bats and their behaviour, says bats are known to fly far. “If a colony of bat is seen in the morning hours at a particular area, it must be for food.” She said the seasonal movement of the bats could be either for food or because of human or natural disturbances in their primary habitat. She said it could not be termed migration. “The bats would have found some fruits or leaves that they could feed on in that area. They come and feed in the morning hours and then take rest the entire day. There is no reason to panic. They will not harm humans. But they should be treated as any other wild animal.” Fruit bats generally eat over-ripened fruits and leaves of certain trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fruit-bats-flock-to-wellington-lake-area/articleshow/78989246.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kolhapur||2 mills start CCCs for cane cutters||Kolhapur: Of the over 50 sugar mills, only two have started Covid care centres (CCC) for the sugar cane cutters for the upcoming harvesting season. After NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s appeal of starting CCCs, the district authorities issued an order asking the mills to open the CCCs for the general public and for the sugar cane cutters. As per the orders, the cutters have to be compulsorily quarantined and tested before they start work. The two factories which started the centres are in Kolhapur district and Sangli district. A senior Kolhapur district official requesting anonymity said the tehsildars have been asked to reach to the mills in their jurisdiction and ask them to set up beds with oxygen for the cutters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-mills-start-cccs-for-cane-cutters/articleshow/78986076.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Man kills wife, drives with body on scooter for 10km||RAJKOT: Bizarre scenes were witnessed in a village near temple town Palitana when a 34-year-old man ferried the body of his wife on a scooter, after allegedly killing her, on the road in broad daylight, on Sunday. The accused, Amit Hemnani, was caught by some passers-by in Rohishala and handed over to the police. Investigation revealed that Hemnani had allegedly strangulated his wife Naina (30) over a domestic quarrel at their house in Sindhi Camp Colony. NM Chaudhary, inspector with Palitana town police station, said that Hemnani drove the scooter with the body for nearly 10 km from his house in Sindhi Colony in the town to Rohishala village. “Amit placed her body between the steering and the footrest of his scooter and took off from his house. Naina’s feet were dragging on the ground. Seeing this, some shocked passers-by shouted at Hemnani but he tried to speed away. The people chased him on their vehicles and caught hold of him,” said Chaudhary. “During interrogation, the accused said that he was going to dispose of they body in the forest area on the outskirts of Rohishala village of Palitana taluka,” said Chaudhary. Both Amit and Naina, who is from Veraval, were married last year. Hemnani was working with a local LPG distribution agency in the town. “He will be formally arrested after the mandatory Covid-19 test. We will be recording the statements of the family members of both Amit and Naina to know the reasons behind the crime,” added Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-drives-with-wifes-body-on-scooter-for-10-km/articleshow/78986950.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bareilly||20 days after burial, body of 22-year-old youth exhumed for autopsy in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: The body of a 22-year-old youth was exhumed for autopsy following the order of district magistrate Pulkit Khare in Amkhera village under Jahanabad police station on Sunday more than 20 days after it was buried. The father of the deceased had expressed suspicion over the death of his son, alleging that he was murdered. The exhumation was carried out in the presence of Amaria tehsildar Janardan Prasad, Pilibhit Sadar circle officer Uttam Singh and SHO Harish Vardhan Singh. According to Shaqil Ahamad of Amkhera village, his son Munassar was taken to Delhi by a villager, Mujeeb-ur-Rahman, for a job in a factory on September 2. “Munassar stayed with Rahman for four days in Delhi. However, early on September 7, Rahman informed me over the phone that Munassar had suffered a stroke. And, by afternoon, Rahman brought the body of my son home by a car. Rahman told me that my son had died of a stroke,” said Ahamad. “I, however, noticed that my son’s body had turned bluish and his feet were stiff and twisted. As I lost my senses seeing my son’s body, Rahman convinced my family members to bury the body,” said Ahmad. “However, from information collected through my reliable sources, it appears that Rahman murdered my son for unknown reason,” alleged Ahmad. The DM said that he had designated the Amaria tehsildar as magistrate to supervise the exhumation and the autopsy would be conducted by a panel of three government medical officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/20-days-after-burial-body-of-22-year-old-youth-exhumed-for-autopsy-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78983804.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman dies in elephant attack||Udhagamandalam: A wild elephant trampled a 58-year-old woman to death at Kokkal village in Gudalur forest range on Sunday. The victim, K Kamalachi, had stepped out of her house around 6am when a lone elephant attacked her. She suffered severe injuries on her chest. Villagers rushed her to the Gudalur government hospital, but she succumbed to the injuries. Forest department officials chased the elephant away. Rs 50,000 was handed over to the family as initial compensation. A few days ago, an elephant herd damaged a house in Puliampara in Gudalur range. A lone elephant has been causing traffic hindrance at Kattery on the Coonoor-Mettupalayam Road for the last two days. Forest officials are monitoring the elephant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-dies-in-elephant-attack/articleshow/78989251.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government bans firecrackers after assessing Covid risk||JAIPUR: The state government has banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers in view of its adverse impact on the Covid-19 patients and those suffering from heart and respiratory diseases. The decision was taken at the corona review meeting held at CM's residence on Sunday. The official statement released by CM's office says that poisonous smoke emitted by crackers is a health hazard for people suffering from various diseases. “People should stay away from bursting firecrackers this Diwali. The ban is applicable to all kinds of events and marriages,” said the statement. The CM gave directions to revoke temporary licences issued for the sale of crackers. The decision has come with Diwali around the corner and makeshift shops have started selling firecrackers in every district and towns in large numbers. Earlier, in October, Gehlot had appealed to the people to not burst firecrackers. Jaisalmer was the first district in the state to ban crackers on October 24 for similar reasons. The Covid situation in the state has shown a slight downward trend but over 1,500 new cases are still being reported daily. ‘Act against vehicles plying without fitness’On Sunday, the state saw 1,754 new cases and 10 deaths. Total positive cases in the state stand at 1,98,747 with 1,917 deaths. Recently, the department of medicine at Sawai Man Singh Hospital wrote a letter to the principal of SMS Medical College highlighting the impact of crackers during Diwali on Covid positives and other patients. The letter gave an alert that firecrackers can have a very serious impact on those suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, asthma and recommended a complete ban on the use of crackers. Gehlot has also directed officials to take strong action against vehicles which are plying without fitness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-bans-firecrackersafter-assessing-covid-risk/articleshow/78989259.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Gujjars begin protest, Bainsla refuses to meet minister Ashok Chandna||JAIPUR: Colonel Kirori Singh Bainsla-led Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti began their agitation for reservation by sitting in protest on the Delhi-Mumbai railway track at Pilupura (Bayana) in Bharatpur on Sunday. Bainsla also refused to meet minister Ashok Chandna who had gone to Hindaun city (Karauli) to meet the Gujjar leader. He later returned to Jaipur. Both roadway and railway services in various parts of the state have been affected due to the agitation. “Bainslaji had asked me to come (to Hindaun). I told him it will take three hours for me to reach Hindaun from Jaipur. When I reached Hindaun, I was told that he is unwell. He said that he won’t be able to meet me today. I called Vijay Bainslaji and asked him, since I had come, if I should come to the railway track protest site and meet him. He asked me to meet tomorrow (Monday),” Chandna told TOI. “I told him there is an assembly session tomorrow and a whip has been issued for the passage of bills. He (Vijay Bainsla) said he will get back to me in 5-10 minutes. We waited for another hour, but he didn’t call back. Then, we proceeded towards the railway track (Bayana). But, they (the protesters) had already blocked the roads by then. So, instead of going further, we decided to return to Jaipur in order to prevent any untoward situation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gujjars-begin-protest-bainsla-refuses-to-meet-min-chandna/articleshow/78989252.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Madurai||Sathankulam custody deaths akin to caste killings, says HC||Madurai: Observing that the Sathankulam custodial deaths case can be equated to caste killing cases, Madurai principal sessions court denied bail to an accused cop saying the police, like the petitioner, wanted to assert the power of supremacy. The court was hearing the petition filed by suspended police constable S Chelladurai, who was arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district. “The reason being that in the caste killing cases, it is the assertion of communal supremacy. In this case on hand, it is about power supremacy and in both the cases, one individual wants to have complete control over the other, which is not permissible in a civilized society,” observed judge G Ilangovan. He said the Supreme Court's recent observation that the general principle is “bail is a rule and jail is only an exception” cannot be applied to caste killing cases. The court can simply reject the bail application on the ground that if he is released on bail and allowed to roam freely in the society, there is every likelihood of him using the power, once enjoyed during his service, to subvert the trial proceedings. Simply because the petitioner is a lower rung police officer, he cannot be released on bail on this ground. When it comes to assertion of supremacy power, it knows no rungs and this court is of the view that the petitioner has to face the trial in custody and deserves no consideration for bail, the judge said. During the course of hearing, the petitioner submitted through his counsel that he was not on duty at the time of occurrence as alleged by the prosecution. He was relieved from duty by evening itself and he had reported for duty only the next morning. He has not involved himself in any occurrence as alleged by the prosecution and sought bail. Objecting to the grant of bail, the special public prosecutor for CBI cases submitted that the petitioner caught hold of the deceased at the time of occurrence. The petitioner along with other accused brutally tortured and caused death of the deceased duo. He submitted that the postmortem report also states that Jeyaraj and Beniks would have died due to complications from blunt injuries sustained by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sathankulam-custody-deaths-akin-to-caste-killings-says-hc/articleshow/78989262.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 2, 2020||Goa||PFG activist attacked at public meet||Panaji: Progressive Front of Goa (PFG) activist advocate Hrudaynath Shirodkar was attacked while attending a public event at Kapshe in Shiroda on Saturday, PFG’s Mahesh Mahambrey said. He said that police personnel, despite being present on the scene, did not take any action and remained silent spectators. Condemning the attack, PFG said the incident shows how law and order has deteriorated in Goa . “Hrudaynath had gone to Kapshe to participate in a public event. He is a PFG office bearer and a social activist,” said Mahambrey. He said that attackers descended suddenly at the event and began assaulting the participants and specifically cornered Shirodkar and beat him up.“We demand action within the next 24 hours against the attackers,” said Mahambrey. No FIR was registered at the Ponda police station till late evening||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pfg-activist-attacked-at-public-meet/articleshow/78989310.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Niranjan Arya appointed chief secretary, supersedes 10 senior officers||JAIPUR: In a late night development on Saturday, 1989 batch IAS officer Niranjan Kumar Arya was appointed chief secretary of the state. The announcement was made public at 2am after former CS Rajeeva Swarup was not granted a three-month extension by the central government. He retired on October 31. Arya superseded 10 senior officers in the state. His appointment didn’t come as a surprise for officers and political watchers as he had always held plum posts in the Gehlot government. He had served as a secretary to Gehlot during his previous term as CM. His wife Sangeeta Arya had contested the state assembly polls from Sojat seat in 2018 and was appointed member of the Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC). Prior to the new assignment, he handled the finance department which comes under Gehlot. During the lockdown, it was a litmus test for his department to run the show while maintaining a balance between the growing expenditure and reduced revenue. Born in 1962, he hails from Pali. He did his graduation in commerce and has a master's degree in economics. He started his administrative career as an SDM in Bikaner North in 1989. He assumed charge on Sunday. Arya didn’t respond to repeated calls from TOI. Though Swarup's extension file was moved by Gehlot almost two months ago, the Union government had continued to deny the state despite repeated follow-ups in the matter and has come as an embarrassment for CM. Since Swarup’s appointment in July, it was clear that the state would seek an extension to his tenure. “Generally, an extension to bureaucrats is extended by the central government if a state requests the same. In the case of Swarup, CM Gehot had used all possible channels to get an extension,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/niranjan-arya-appointed-cssupersedes-10-senior-officers/articleshow/78989267.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi records this winter’s lowest temperature at 11.4°C||NEW DELHI: The season’s lowest minimum temperature was recorded at 11.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday, five notches below normal for this time of the season. Last year, too, Delhi had recorded a low of 11.4 degrees in the same month, but it was in the third week on November 20. Officials of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said minimal cloud cover over the region was leading to extreme temperatures, high during daytime and switching to low at night. The minimum temperature is forecast to remain around 11 degrees Celsius for the next two days, rising slightly to 12 degrees on November 4. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said that lack of cloud cover was influencing the temperature directly with Delhi also not receiving any rain since September 8. “Cloud cover tends to trap radiation, leading to warmer nights. But since there is no cloud cover, night temperature is dropping quickly. We are also recording conditions at night where winds are calm, again leading to a drop in temperature, which is below normal. We expect this trend to continue. An increase in snowfall activity in the hills could lead to a further drop in temperature,” added Srivastava. Before Sunday, the lowest minimum temperature recorded this season was on October 28 when it was 12.5 degrees Celsius. This October was also Delhi’s coldest in the past 58 years, if mean minimum temperature was analysed, IMD data showed. The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962 when it was 16.9 degrees. Normally, it is 19.1 degrees Celsius for Delhi in October. While Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station for weather, recorded a minimum of 11.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday, Lodhi Road recorded a minimum of 11.6 degrees Celsius. Palam had a minimum of 13.8 degrees. In comparison, Gurgaon recorded a minimum of 19.9 degrees Celsius. Met officials said similar conditions were expected to continue this week, with the minimum expected to hover around 11 degrees Celsius for the next two days. “Shallow mist and fog is also expected during the morning. Temperatures should remain in a similar range for the next few days,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-to-fall-to-11-degrees-for-next-2-days/articleshow/78988187.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Dyeing units letting out effluents in Cauvery, says environmentalist||Namakkal: Illegal dyeing units in Pallipalayam, which is on the border of Erode district, and Kumarapalayam, a textile town on the bank of the Cauvery, are letting out untreated effluents into the river, polluting it. R Ganesan, an environmentalist from Kumarapalayam, said the dyeing unit owners had laid underground pipelines to take the effluents to the Cauvery that passes through Namakkal and Erode districts. “More than 20,000 families in these two towns are affected because of this. They have no other option but to use the polluted water for drinking purposes,” he said. According to Ganesan, more than 3,000 small textile dyeing units are functioning illegally in Kumarapalayam and Pallipalayam areas. “All of them are discharging untreated effluents into the Cauvery.” Pointing out that both the areas lacked effluent treatment plants, he said “Every day, they are letting out a large quantity of untreated effluents into the river. By polluting the river, they are also putting the health of local residents at risk.” The residents said the dyeing units had contaminated the bore water as well and they were completely dependent on municipal water supply for daily requirements. When contacted, M Selvakumar, Namakkal district environmental engineer, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, said they used to inspect the areas at regular intervals and take appropriate action against the polluters. “We will monitor the present situation and take necessary action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dyeing-units-letting-out-effluents-in-cauvery-says-environmentalist/articleshow/78989261.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Agra||MCI rejects Agra med college's proposal to add 22 more MBBS course seats||Agra: Medical Council of India (MCI) has rejected a proposal by SN Medical College (SNMC) to increase 22 seats in MBBS course. Admissions will continue to be on the previously approved 128 seats at the state government-owned medical college.Earlier, an MCI inspection team had found that SNMC had not fullfilled the required academic parameters to increase the seats of MBBS course. The SNMC administration has been directed to fulfill the norms and apply for seat increase next year. Five years ago, the MCI had approved 22 temporary seats for MBBS course at SNMC. Last year, the allotment of 22 temporary seats were cancelled following non-fulfilment of standard norms and lack of proper infrastructure. Dr Sanjay Kala, SNMC principal, said, “We are working to sort out the issues raised by the MCI. Soon, doctors will be appointed to fill the vacant faculty positions. Plan for developing a central library is also being worked out." The MCI had pointed out the lack of faculty and proper library besides other drawbacks for rejecting the proposal by the medical college to increase number of MBBS course seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mci-rejects-agra-med-colleges-proposal-to-add-22-more-mbbs-course-seats/articleshow/78986097.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Rajkot||45-year-old man stabbed to death in Morbi village||Rajkot: A man was stabbed to death by three unidentified assailants in Jamudia village of Morbi taluka on Saturday night.Police said the accused, who had come on a bike, had allegedly stabbed Varsing Vahonia (45) to death. “The accused had actually come to attack a labourer identified as Sunil Bhadia. The accused accosted Bhadia, brandishing a knife. Bhadia thought that the accused were robbers and that they had come to rob him. He wriggled himself out of their grip and started running, crying for help,” said an official from Morbi taluka police station. “Hearing the cries, Vahonia, who used to work in a barber’s shop, rushed to Bhadia’s rescue. While Bhadia escaped, Vahonia was caught by the accused. One of the accused dealt a stabbing wound in Vahonia’s chest. Vahonia was rushed to Morbi Civil Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival,” the official said.The police have started investigation on two points — whether Bhadia had an enmity with anyone or whether the accused were robbers. “We are checking the footage of the CCTVs installed in the factories along Lakhdhirpur Road to find out whether any bike-borne assailants had passed by,” added the official. Vahonia was from Kali village of Jhalod taluka in Dahod district. He is survived by his wife and four children — two sons and two daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/45-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death-in-morbi-village/articleshow/78986967.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Vadodara||Voters to seal fate of ‘outsider’, turncoat||Vadodara: The byelection for the Karjan assembly seat will be held at 246 polling stations. The district election machinery has made elaborate arrangement of 311 polling stations including 65 supplementary stations for the by-election that will be held on Tuesday. In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has issued special directives to ensure that infection does not spread. On Sunday, district collector and district election officer Shalini Agrawal visited Karjan to oversee preparations at the dispatch and receiving centre and polling stations. Accordingly, all officers and staff at the receiving and dispatching centre will be screened while every voter coming to the polling stations will be provided one disposable polythene hand glove which will be worn in the right hand before pressing the button of the voting machine. Around 5,000 pairs of rubbers gloves have been provided for the polling personnel while the polling stations will be sanitized on Monday. A similar number of face shields have been provided to all the staff who will be on duty at the stations while 1,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits have also been allotted. Body temperature of each voter will be checked through a thermal gun, their hands sanitized, their oxygen saturation levels checked through pulse oximeters before they enter polling booths. The officers and staffers on duty have been provided special training in batches so that standard operating procedures in view of the pandemic are followed inside the polling booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/voters-to-seal-fate-of-outsider-turncoat/articleshow/78986198.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Here’s Amdavadis’ gut feeling!||AHMEDABAD: Your ‘gut feeling’ comes from a vast community of bacteria, fungi and even viruses and archaea that inhabit it called microbiome. In fact, we are not alone in our bodies. Various organs have distinct microbial inhabitants. But the richer and more diverse the gut microbiome community, the lower your risk of disease and allergies. A study for the first time of 80 Amdavadi stool samples among four other cities consisting of 375 samples were studied between 2018 and 2020 in India. The study found that Amdavadi gut was dominated by microbes belonging to four phyla, which were Bacteroidetes (71.5%), Firmicutes (18.7%), Proteobacteria (3.8%) and Actinobacteria (0.6%). Among these phyla of bacteria a particular bacteria community — Prevotella — dominated the Amdavadi gut —a particular bacterial species associated with inflammatory diseases, which has been commonly observed in communities that consume plant-rich diet such as in Papua New Guineans, native Africans, rural Malawians, and Baka pygmies. The researchers noted a cluster of bacterial species comprising of Dorea, Blautia, Roseburia, Ruminococcus, Bacteroides, Paraprevotella, Faecalibacterium, and Collinsella which were known players in fermentation of dietary fibre and even broke short chain fatty acids and known to boost immune system through the induction of regulatory T-cells in the gut. The study found that the prevalence of these bacterias had a lot to do with what the volunteers ate. The diet largely included rice, wheat, sorghum and millet and fibre-rich components which were fruits, vegetables, whole grains and sprouts. Two important studies — one done by a team of experts from Bio-Sciences Division of Tata Consultancy Services Research and the other by Tata Chemicals Innovation Centre in Pune and Veeda Clinical Research in Ahmedabad and Genotypic Technology and Bangalore — are quite significant. The study published in Plos One journal has defined how microbiomes help in the study of metagenomics. “A deviant gut microbiome has been implicated in several diseases and physiological disorders like enteric infections, obesity, Crohn’s disease, Type II diabetes and even colorectal cancer,” states the study by researchers Sharmila Mande, A K Dubey, Disha Tandon, Mohammed Haque, Saravanan R, Shafiq Shaikh and Sriram P. It adds: “Interestingly, even nutritional and neurological disorders such as malnutrition, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia are indicated to have a strong microbial basis.” A second study compared gut bacteria for five Indian cities of Pune (Maharashtra), Kasaragod (Kerala), Ballabhgarh (Haryana) Bhopal (MP) and Ahmedabad (Gujarat). The study instituted by Manipal School of Life Sciences was published in Elsevier’s Science Direct journal in July this year. The study found Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes to dominate the samples from Pune, Ballabhgarh, Kasarkod and Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heres-amdavadis-gut-feeling/articleshow/78989305.cms||Paul John
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: DMK MPs fly to Delhi to visit Parliament canteen, says BJP||TIRUPUR: BJP questioned the functioning of DMK MPs, alleging that all that they have done since winning the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was to visit Parliament and protest the central schemes. “They have been flying to Delhi on public money only to visit the canteen in Parliament. All that they do in Parliament is to raise slogans against welfare schemes brought by the Centre,’’ BJP state vice-president K Annamalai said. Talking to reporters at Avinashi in Tirupur district after inaugurating the party office, he said there is growing support for BJP in TN. “People of the state have accepted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s schemes. People want an alternative rule,’’ he said. He said it was only due to false propaganda of DMK that their candidates won in last Lok Sabha elections. “They have not sat for the sessions in Lok Sabha even for a single day. Whenever the session was underway they would walk out and stand beside the Gandhi statue on the Parliament premises and oppose Central schemes,’’ he alleged. Later at a public meeting to woo youngsters to the party in Avinashi, Annamalai said the allegation of woman harassment levelled against ABVP president Dr Subbiah Shanmugam cannot be equated with remarks made VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan ‘denigrating’ women. “The issue in the case of Dr Subbiah Shanmugam was between two individuals, which was resolved amicably,’’ he said.  But in the case of Thirumavalavan he had denigrated all the women, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-mps-fly-to-delhi-to-visit-parliament-canteen-bjp/articleshow/78989271.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Term of local body councils expires on November 11||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state election commission has declared that it will complete the elections to local bodies before December 31. As per the proceedings issued by SEC chairman V Bhaskaran, the commission has decided to hold elections to municipal corporations, municipalities and panchayats at all levels in a manner to complete the entire election process to all constituencies at the earliest, before December 31. Bhaskaran said that the detailed election schedule will be published at the time of announcement of elections. The term of all local bodies except Mattannur expires on November 11 and general elections ought to have been held before November 11 so that the new members could be in office on November 12. However, in an all-party meeting convened by SEC in September, majority of political parties requested the commission to postpone the elections considering the Covid-19 situation in the state. Bhaskaran said in the proceedings that the commission has taken all preparation for the timely completion of elections before the expiry of five-year tenures of the present councils and committees. However, the commission decided to defer the appointment of dates for nominations to a date after November 11 due to extraordinary circumstances that exist in the state due to Covid-19. The additional list of voters who applied for inclusion in electoral rolls on Saturday will be published on November 10. SEC will hold a meeting with the state police chief on November 2 to finalize the conduct of elections. SEC will check on the availability of police force and expenses required in mobilization and this will also determine the schedule of elections. A meeting with district collectors and chief secretary is likely to be held on November 4 or 5. The cabinet is likely to approve the formation of administrative committees in local bodies on November 4. In district panchayats and civic bodies, district collector, secretary of civic body and engineering officials of LSGD concerned shall constitute the administrative committee. In panchayats, secretary, LSGD engineering official and officials of agriculture department will form the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/term-of-local-body-councils-expires-on-november-11/articleshow/78986991.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Surat||VNSGU teachers to press for regular jobs||Surat: In a one-day token protest on Monday, 14 teachers of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) will sit on dharna from morning at the entrance of the university demanding regularization of their appointment. Even after three years of their recruitment, these teachers are yet to get regularized and their probation period has been extended three times owing to alleged political infighting. After the university authorities failed to give them a satisfactory reply on their demands, the teachers resorted to the protest. The teachers were recruited in 2017 and as per norms, after one year of probation the process to regularize them as employees should have started. As per university rules, after two years of recruitment an employee automatically becomes a regular employee if there are no complaints against him or her. In the case of these 14 teachers, the university ordered an inquiry following complaints of irregularity. “The recruitment was done after completing all processes. But we were victimized due to political infighting between those in power at time of recruitment and those who were in following years,” said an aggrieved teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-teachers-to-press-for-regular-jobs/articleshow/78986367.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu’s Covid recovery rate crosses 95%, 21,000 are fighting infection||CHENNAI: With 3,644 more Covid-19 patients getting discharged on Sunday, Tamil Nadu’s recovery rate has crossed 95%. As many as 6,94,880 infected people have recovered from the disease so far in the state. New cases reported daily has been hovering around the 2,500-mark for some time. Infection growth rate dropped to 0.4% last week. On Sunday, 2,504 people tested positive and the state’s Covid tally was 7,27,026. Thirty more people succumbed to the disease on Sunday taking the Covid death toll to 11,152. Covid-19 case fatality rate remained 1.5% this week. Case fatality rate was lower in Andhra Pradesh (0.8%) and Karnataka (1.4%), though the number of cases are higher in the states. The number of active cases in Tamil Nadu, however, has dropped by 31% this week with 20,994 people fighting the infection at hospitals and homes. Almost 45% of the active infections are in Chennai and its three neighbouring districts — Chengalpet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. On Sunday, Chennai logged 686 new cases and 11 deaths. The city has 7,005 active cases. Western Tamil Nadu is the second worst-affected region in the state with Coimbatore (248 new cases) and Salem (110) still reporting a high number of cases. On a positive note, the region saw only one Covid-19 death on Sunday. Of the 18 districts in west and south Tamil Nadu, 16 districts reported nil deaths on Sunday. South TN had done well in terms of new cases as districts such as Madurai and Kanyakumari recorded 43 cases each on Sunday. Spread was on the decline in other districts like Trichy (34 cases), Vellore (62) and Thanjavur (52). Data released on Sunday said as many as 73,012 samples were tested at 203 labs in the past 24 hours. Molecular lab in Karpagam Hospital, Coimbatore, was added to the list of approved labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-covid-recovery-rate-crosses-95-21k-are-fighting-infection/articleshow/78989270.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Prop tax settlement scheme nets GHMC increased revenue amid pandemic||HYDERABAD: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has chalked out ways to generate instant revenue. Under the one-time amnesty scheme which offers discount on property tax arrears, GHMC was able to generate Rs 248 crore within two months (August 1 to October 31). A total of 1,10,442 property tax arrears were cleared under the scheme. To further fill its coffers, the civic body extended the deadline to November 15. Despite Covid-19, the civic body collected around Rs 198.04 crore more property tax this year (till October). In 2019-20, Rs 938.70 crore property tax was collected (till October) and this year (2020-21), the property tax collected stands at Rs 1,136.74 crore (till October 31), which was collected from 9,23,988 property owners. According to civic officials, the one-time amnesty scheme was extended as they noticed business is bouncing back. “As business is bouncing back, we are expecting that more property owners will come forward and pay the arrears,” said a GHMC official. Under the scheme, property owners, who have property tax dues with interest, need to pay only 10% of their accumulated interest along with principal up to the 2019-2020 financial year. As per GHMC records, 5.64 lakh property owners have to pay Rs 2,495.62 crore property tax arrears (including interest). In a release, GHMC stated that this is the last time that one-time scheme is being extended. Commercial and residential property owners welcomed the move. “It is a good time to extend the scheme as business is back on track. Discount on tax arrears can be treated as a perk to businessmen and property owners from government after lockdown,” said Faraan Rokadia, managing director of Luxury Ridez, Jubilee Hills. It’s not only GHMC, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has also chalked out plans to increase its revenue. On the request of HMWS&SB, the Municipal Administration & Urban Development (MA&UD) department has extended One-Time Settlement (OTS) from November 1 up to November 15, to collect water dues from consumers. The water board had earned Rs 241.02 crore in the OTS launched between August 1 to October 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prop-tax-settlement-scheme-nets-ghmc-increased-revenue-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78989300.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Delhi||In a hot spot: Poor network plays havoc with call of duty||NEW DELHI: Bodhisattva Ray, a resident of Dilshad Garden in east Delhi, right on the Ghaziabad border, has a problem that the current work from home regime has only exacerbated. The poor network connectivity inside his house forces him to make frequent visits to the balcony, and even then, the voice breaks and call drops are frequent. “My phone has crystal clear audio in my office in central Delhi. The connectivity is perfectly fine on the ground floor, in the garden facing our building,” he said. “But how often can I keep going down? It works to an extent on my balcony, but the neighbours are in a direr situation.” Rita Sharma, who lives near the Delhi-Noida border, said she was forced sometimes to dangerously lean on her balcony to use her phone. “In August, my phone slipped out of my hand. I still haven’t been able to get it repaired and means a loss of Rs 5,000. My daily agony, of course, continues with my old device,” despaired Sharma. While call drops and poor network access were realities of life in Delhi-NCR, the reduction in mobility and a bigger reliance on digital communication in these pandemic days have only exposed the urgent need to overhaul the city’s telecom infrastructure. Rituraj Yadav, an MNC employee who lives near Madhu Vihar, Dwarka, claimed to have relied on WhatsApp phone calls for almost two years. “When I have a conversation with someone important, I can’t risk using my regular mobile network,” he said. “The frequent call drops can prove very costly.” Yadav speculated that with home Wi-fi networks burdened by online classes for kids and multiple services being accessed by homebound family members, the problem of mobile communication was only likely to worsen. The Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) agrees with Yadav. It says there is an urgent need to align the Telecom Infrastructure Policy with Right of Way Rules, 2016, for expanding telecom infrastructure across Delhi. COAI has determined that the frequent call drops and poor network access are due to factors such as hurdles in erecting mobile towers in residential areas, restrictions imposed by state governments and municipalities on wireless sites, limited and costly spectrum and issues of right of way for laying fibre optic cables. The association said the problems have been worsened by illegal signal boosters or repeaters, which caused high interference in areas covered by around 8,000 cell towers. Lt-general SP Kochhar (retd), DG, COAI, said that in India, the telecom service providers held inadequate 25 MHz of unpaired spectrum. “Though the government has tried to make enough spectrum available to providers, the cost of spectrum in India is among the highest in the world. The reserve price for various bands have been very high in the past auctions, resulting in large amounts of spectrum remaining unsold,” he said. Kochhar said that on September 1, Delhi had over 28,000 mobile towers but more were needed. “We need to erect 18,000 more towers by 2024. Despite getting all permissions and depositing the requisite fees, over 186 telecom towers across the city have been sealed by the municipalities. Permissions for installation of 3,887 towers are also pending with the five urban government bodies,” he revealed. Internet access is in no better condition. In the Ookla speed test global index, India's mobile data speed ranks 128th in the world. Pallav Jain, an entrepreneur living near Munirka, needs heavy internet usage for his work of creating websites and digital modules. “While I mostly work with wi-fi, I hardly utilised 5GB of my 20GB data pack because of the poor accessibility,” he said glumly. “I finally changed my operator and ported my number. It seems that operators are able to offer better services only in some areas, which is not acceptable in a capital city.” Delhi has an estimated 16,680km of optical fibre criss-crossing the city. Telecom operators reported hindrances to expanses, pointing out, among other problems, the varying rules and procedures for cable laying and the non-uniform charges that range from Rs1.5-2.5 lakh/km under the municipal corporations to Rs 26-30 lakh in the New Delhi Municipal Council areas, as also the way leave charges introduced by the corporations. The use of signal boosters by exasperated consumers has only degraded network access for entire localities. Kochar said over 30% of all cell tower sites (8,000 towers) in Delhi-NCR were affected by high interference from illegal boosters and repeaters across all bands. “This is causing 7-to-10 times increase in call drops and blocked calls,” claimed Kochar. “Although present across Delhi-NCR, the density of boosters is very high in Laxmi Nagar, Geeta Colony, Sarita Vihar, Vasant Kunj, Vasant Vihar, Saket, Chandni Chowk, Adarsh Nagar and Punjabi Bagh. In some areas like Laxmi Nagar, PG hostels even advertise availability of network booster” a facility offered to lodgers.” Last week, TOI reported how the Union telecom ministry’s Wireless Monitoring Organisation removed around 20 signal boosters in Sant Nagar and East of Kailash. WMO has removed around 400 mobile signal boosters in Delhi in this year, an official said. Another official had described the practice of using boosters akin to illegal pumps sucking water from the main water supply line, leading to shortage for all others. Kochar added, “The telecom companies that invested billions of dollars on spectrum and this is being hit. The government and other authorities must act in the interest of the customer and the industry.” An attempt has been made to boost infrastructure with cell towers on wheels (CoW), but these are facing the resistance of residents who fear exposure to radiation. “There are 400 CoWs installed across Delhi to boost network connectivity. The installation of CoW is costly, but we do it to resolve the connectivity problem,” said a telecom company representative. With mobile telephony an integral part of life and now moving towards 5G technology, what can be done to improve Delhi’s situation? COAI argues for an easier right of way policy to help telecom companies expand infrastructure. “Currently, there are multiple layers of approvals and complex requirements for sites and fibre laying,” Kochar said. “Development of government online portals can facilitate online filing of applications and dispute settlement in a time-bound manner and ease the sector’s pain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-a-hot-spot-poor-network-plays-havoc-with-call-of-duty/articleshow/78988269.cms||Paras Singh
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Two minor boys held for sexually assaulting minors||COIMBATORE: The rural police have arrested two boys, aged 14 and 15, from a village on the city outskirts, for sexually assaulting two minor girls. The 14-year-old boy was a class IX student and the other was a class IX dropout. “The eldest boy was working as a labourer and was addicted to ganja. He used to watch porn videos with his friend on mobile phones. After some equipment from the village’s open gym were stolen, locals questioned the duo and came to know that they had sold them for money. Subsequently, cops questioned the duo at the Vadavalli police station,” a police officer said. The youngest boy told police that the 15-year-old boy used to take his neighbour, a 10-year-old girl, to a house and sexually assault her. “A police team went to the minor girl’s house and met her. She revealed that the boys had sexually assaulted her and her neighbour, a nine-year-old girl, several times,” the officer added. The mother of 10-year-old girl lodged a complaint with the Vadavalli police, who forwarded it to the all women police station (AWPS) at Perur. A case was registered against the minor boys under sections 3 (a) (penetrative sexual assault) read with 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 5(m) (aggravated penetrative sexual assault on a child below twelve years) read with 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The boys were produced before the juvenile justice board and were sent to the observation home for juveniles at Lakshmi Mills junction on Sunday. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-minor-boys-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minors/articleshow/78989306.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Rajkot||Another aide of Jamnagar gangster booked under GujCTOC||Rajkot: An advocate, who used to give legal advice to the extortionist and land mafia, Jayesh Ranpariya (Patel), was detained on Sunday after being booked under the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GujCTOC) Act . Police said the accused, Vasant Manseta (55), used to handle legal affairs of Ranpariya. “Ranpariya, who is believed to be hiding in Dubai, would take advice from Manseta regarding land deals, filing objection applications in court on land deal advertisements published in newspapers, filing civil suits in court pertaining to land deals and filing court complaints,” said S S Ninama, inspector with Jamnagar special operation group. Along with Ranpariya, Manseta was, too, earlier booked in land grabbing scams. “At present, Manseta is under detention. He will be formally arrested once he undergoes Covid-19 test,” added Ninama. So far, 14 people have been booked in the Ranpariya case, of whom 11 have been arrested. Those arrested included Jaspal Jadeja and his younger brother Yashpal, Atul Bhanderi, a sitting BJP councillor of Jamnagar Municipal Corporation; Nilesh Toliya, a prominent builder; Vashram Miyatra, former head constable of local crime branch (LCB); Pravin Chovatiya, owner of a local newspaper, Mukesh Abangi, builder Jigar alias Jimmy Aalatiya and their associates Anil Parmar and Praful Popat. Ranpariya faces several criminal cases, mostly land grabbing and extortion. He is suspected to have fled to Dubai before his name figured in advocate Kirit Joshi murder case. Joshi was fighting several cases against Ranpariya. He was stabbed to death on April 28, 2018, allegedly on the orders of Ranpariya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/another-aide-of-jamnagar-gangster-booked-under-gujctoc/articleshow/78986997.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chennai||Sholinganallur 1st zone with below 100 cases||Chennai: On Sunday morning, as Greater Chennai Corporation released the latest zone-wise Covid-19 data, it marked a significant milestone. Probably for the first time in more than five months, a zone in the city limits had less than 100 active cases. Sholinganallur zone, covering the city’s southern areas and suburbs, now has only 94 active cases. The zone had around 194 active cases a week ago. At the northern extreme, Tiruvottiyur and Manali are also catching up, with only 113 active cases. Alandur is the third zone with less than 200 cases, currently the count there is 192. Last week, Alandur had 399 cases, Tiruvottiyur 195 and Manali 129. According to GCC figures, less than 1% of streets in the city have Covid-19 cases now. The total number of such streets is down to 302. As has been the trend, around half of them are in the central region of the city, with Teynampet alone having around 40 such streets. GCC officials say Sholinganallur has a very young and sparse population, which reflect on its Covid-19 case count and case fatality rate. The zone has had only around 5,400 Covid-19 infections so far, while in comparison, Anna Nagar and Kodambakkam have had more than 20,000 cases. As per official data, Sholingnanallur is spread over 42.23sqkm with a population of 1.72 lakh. One of the nine wards in this zone has a population of only 5035. In comparison, Royapuram zone, which covers a similar area, has four times the population at 6.34 lakh as per official figures. Civic officials are, however, say they will not let their guard down and anticipate a second wave after Diwali. Dr S Subramanian, an infectious diseases expert, said chances of a significant second wave happening in the city were not high. “We have opened up the economy almost fully and despite that, infection numbers continue to decline. Earlier, after a lockdown was eased, the numbers would go up but that’s not the case now. In my opinion, the seroprevalence figures of Chennai are under-estimating the number of infections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sholinganallur-1st-zone-with-below-100-cases/articleshow/78989303.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Madurai||Call to set up institute of Siddha in Madurai||Madurai: The Madurai District Tiny and Smallscale Industries Association (Maditssia) has urged the state government to establish All India Institute of Siddha in Madurai. President of Maditssia B Muruganantham has said that it was Tamil Nadu, which had patronised and developed the ancient system of siddha medication. One of the world’s oldest siddha medicine councils was started in Madurai. It is also the seat of Tamil Sangams. There are many shrines for Siddhars in the temples in Madurai region. The Western Ghats is a rich source of many herbs, which are needed for siddha medication. Due to this, there are more than 25 siddha medicine manufacturing companies in Madurai. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking that the All India Siddha Research Institute be established in Chennai. But, Chennai already has many siddha institutes, such as the National Institute of Siddha, and Central Council for Research in Siddha. Madurai was selected for establishing the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and work has started at the site. Likewise, Madurai has all the facilities for establishing a siddha research institute. It would help enhance the production of the medicinal herbs and also market, them, including export and import through the Tuticorin port. It would also help create more employment opportunities. It would help develop medical tourism and expand the exposure of siddha doctors, nurses and students of the traditional medicine system, he said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/call-to-set-up-institute-of-siddha-in-madurai/articleshow/78989309.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Experts assess seaplane operation’s future scenario||GANDHINAGAR: Urban planners in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and civil aviation experts are now seriously examining the scenarios where seaplane landing and take-off may be affected by tall buildings planned along the Sabarmati Riverfront in its future operations. This has raised a question of whether the planned buildings may have to lose some floors to give way for the seaplane passage. There are a total of 42 tall buildings planned along both sides of the riverfront, four of these will be of 101 meters height. The average width of the river is 263 metres. Aspects like minimum obstruction clearance (MOC), wind tunnel test campaign, and a detailed study of seasonal wind patterns has to be analysed in conjunction with planned building heights on both sides of the riverfront. “Whether to reduce building heights or not will depend on the commercial success of the seaplane operations. If the project becomes viable and the frequency of flights increases in the coming months, we may have to consider instating a study before tweaking our volumetric guidelines for the upcoming buildings,” says a senior Sabarmati Riverfront Development Corporation Limited (SRFDCL). The SRFDCL official adds, “During any amphibious flight take-off process there is a strong coupling of hydrodynamic, aerodynamic forces together with the motion of the amphibious aircraft during the water take-off process.” Some preliminary studies were carried out before giving a go-ahead for seaplane operations. But sources claim that wind pattern studies in the presence of tall buildings on the riverfront have to be conducted if seaplane operations were to operate on full potential. “Another location for seaplane operations is the new upcoming barrage coming up near Hansol. But that possibility will be considered only if experts suggest seaplane operations may be affected because of planned building heights along the riverfront,” added the SRFDCL official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/experts-assess-seaplane-operations-future-scenario/articleshow/78989311.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Writer Paul Zacharia bags Ezhuthachan award||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Writer Paul Zacharia bagged this year’s Ezhuthachan award for his comprehensive contribution to literature. Minister for culture A K Balan said the award will be presented at Durbar Hall in Secretariat and the date would soon be finalized. The jury led by Vysakhan also included K Sachithanandan, M Thomas Mathew, K G Paulose and secretary for culture Rani George. “Zacharia laid the foundation in neo-sensibility through a combination of humour and anguish. He was also able to constantly invoke thoughts in Malayalis through his articles, lectures in which he shared his independent views on issues impacting social life,” the jury said. Zacharia was born on June 5, 1945, in Kottayam. He is the winner of Kerala Sahitya Academy Award, Kendra sahitya Academy Award, VKN Award, Odakuzhal Award and Muttathu Varkey Award. His works have been translated into other Indian languages, English, German and French. ‘Salam America’, ‘Oridathu’, ‘Arkariyam’, ‘Praise the Lord’, ‘Oru African Yatra’ are some of his major works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/writer-paul-zacharia-bags-ezhuthachan-award/articleshow/78987011.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: GCC to hand over 52 education institutes made Covid care centres||CHENNAI: The city corporation is set to hand over 52 educational institutions and hostels that were converted into a Covid care centres back to the managements so the institutions can reopen from November 16 as announced. The centres had a capacity of 11,076 beds. As on November 1, only 373 patients were in nine such Covid care centres (CCCs), said Meghanath Reddy, deputy commissioner, works department, Greater Chennai Corporation. “Most of these patients will be shifted to CCCs in Tamil Nadu housing board complexes at KP Park or at Athipet. We were prepared for this in July itself when we had about 5,000 cases,” he said. Of the 52 centres, 19 centres had no patients and will be returned right away. The other 33 colleges had patients at some point and the facilities will be sanitised, returned in a few days. “Even after handing over these institutions, the civic body will have around 8,000 beds available in KP Park, Athipet and Nandanam trade centre,” said a senior official. The civic body has come up with a standard operating procedure to sanitize and vacate these centres. Most of the beds and equipment will be shifted to Shenoy Nagar JJ stadium. “Officials in the respective zones will be in charge of clearing out the facilities. Various departments have been assigned tasks concerning them for this. It will be done systematically, as per rules,” said Reddy. As per corporation data, in June, the number of beds occupied in CCCs were around 5,000. This reduced to around 4,000 mid-July and 3,000 in August. From housing around 1,000 Covid patients in September, the facilities had patients in mere hundreds in October. As on October 31, there were 7,191 active cases in the city, of which 2,577 are in home quarantine. Of the 4,614 patients in various institutions, only 373 were in the nine Covid care centres. As many as 2,122 were in government hospitals, 1,265 in private hospitals, 287 in government Covid health centres and 567 in private Covid health centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gcc-to-hand-over-52-edu-institutes-made-covid-care-centres/articleshow/78989313.cms||Komal Gautham
November 2, 2020||Rajkot||Two arrested with firearms, cartridges||Rajkot: Two persons were arrested with three country made pistols, 19 cartridges and two magazines from Bhimasar Chowkadi in Maliya-Miyana on Sunday.Police said the accused - Chetan Pancholi and Deepak Sharma - both in their 30s, were arrested on the basis of a tip-off about them having come to Bhimasar Chowkadi to sell off the firearms and ammunition. “We recovered two country made pistols each worth Rs 10,000 and another country made pistol worth Rs 5,000, and 19 cartridges worth Rs 1,900 and two magazines, all worth Rs 27,100, from the accused,” said V B Jadeja, inspector with Morbi local crime branch. The accused told the cops during their interrogation that they had brought the firearms and cartridges from Madhya Pradesh with the intention to sell them. While Pancholi is from Kawant of Chhota Udepur district, Sharma is from Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-arrested-with-firearms-cartridges/articleshow/78987060.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest dept takes to WhatsApp to solve man-elephant conflict||Coimbatore: After the Indian Railways, the forest department has launched WhatsApp groups to curb man-elephant conflicts.The department has set up seven groups named ‘Thadam - Community Information Network’ for seven forest ranges in the Coimbatore division, which have farmers and villagers residing on the forest fringes, revenue department staff, anti-poaching watchers (APWs), anti-depredation watchers (ADWs) and forest officials as members.Farmers and villagers who notice wild elephants can post voice messages in the WhatsApp group and anti-poaching watchers will rush to the spot to chase away the elephants.When wild animals, including elephants, from Madukkarai, Boluvampatti, Coimbatore, Periyanaickenpalayam, Karamadai, Mettupalayam and Sirumugai forest ranges venture into human habitations, the department used to receive the information very late, sources said. “We have added the mobile numbers of forest range officers, foresters, guards, APWs, ADWs, people and farmers residing on forest fringes, police personnel, revenue department staff and doctors in the respective area of each range. The list of APWs and ADWs, who are working, is posted in the groups every day. Farmer and villager can send a voice message to the personnel on duty if they spot elephants. They will rush to the spot to chase the animal away and post a photo and voice message in the same group,” said district forest officer D Venkatesh.“Alerts received from villagers and farmers would help us drive away wild elephant to the reserve forest. The exchange of information is helping to prevent man-animal conflict,” assistant conservator of forests M Senthilkumar said.“Recently, when a woman fell sick at night, a member of the WhatsApp group posted a message seeking help to take her to a hospital. A forest department team on night duty rushed to the area in a department’s vehicle and rushed her to a hospital. We plan to appreciate them at a function soon,” Venkatesh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-dept-takes-to-whatsapp-to-solve-man-elephant-conflict/articleshow/78989317.cms||A Subburaj
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarati-origin campaigners present on both sides of fence||AHMEDABAD: The picture of Hemantkumar Bhatt, a businessman from New Jersey, holding ‘Trump Great for India’ during the Howdy Modi event was splashed across several media. Founder of South Asian Republican Coalition (SARC), Bhatt is confident of Trump’s win. “Campaigning this year is difficult – but we are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that we reach out to the maximum of community members and talk about why Donald Trump should be back. See how he is helping India against China,” says Bhatt. Digvijay ‘Danny’ Gaekwad, president of an IT firm based in Florida, has launched a campaign ‘Trump Hai to Safe Hai’ online. He has organized and participated in several virtual events to convince the voters that Trump is the best candidate to take America forward. “I have made 10 commercials to dispel myths about him,” says Gaekwad who has also been active in raising funds. Across the camp line, Amit Jani is the director of National Asian American Pacific Islander (NAAPI) at (Joe) Biden for the President campaign. His team in an email response said: “South Asians are not only represented in the campaign in senior staff roles, but are also now represented at the highest levels for the first time in American history (in form of Sen. Kamala Harris as running mate) … Our community is well represented in key battleground states where South Asians can make a crucial difference, including in states such as Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin, North Carolina, Texas, and many others.” Pradip ‘Peter’ Kothari, the president of a New York-based travel firm, is campaigning for Democrats.  “Earlier, Gujarati community was not seen very active politically as part of the larger diaspora. But in the past few decades, we have seen several community leaders foraying into politics,” said Ankur Vaidya, the chairman of Federation of Indian Associations (FIA)-TriState (New York, New Jersey & Connecticut).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarati-origin-campaigners-present-on-both-sides-of-fence/articleshow/78989324.cms||Parth Shastri
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||34-year-old Telangana cop dies in accidental misfire||HYDERABAD: A 34-year-old Telangana Special Protection Force (SPF) constable, posted at Bank of Maharashtra’s currency chest branch at Secunderabad, died when a bullet accidentally got discharged from his service weapon, a self loading rifle (SLR), on Sunday morning. The deceased, Madhu, 34, was a 2010 batch constable from Bothalapalem in Suryapet. Madhu, along with his wife and two children, lived in Amberpet. Madhu was part of an SPF security team at the currency chest branch of Bank of Maharashtra on SD Road, Secunderabad, Mahankali inspector K Srinivasulu said. According to police, Madhu reported for duty on Saturday night at the bank. After his night duty shift, Madhu took rest. At 7am, Madhu relieved his colleague and assumed guard’s duty. “Shortly after relieving his colleague, Madhu called his wife. As she was busy, his children answered the phone and Madhu spoke to them for about a minute saying he would come home by 9am. Shortly after he disconnected the call, Madhu’s three colleagues, who were in the nearby rest area, heard a gunshot. They rushed to the guard point and found Madhu lying dead in a pool of blood,” the inspector said. During preliminary investigation, family members told police that Madhu had no financial or personal problems. “SPF head constable PK Pandey, who was security in-charge, lodged a complaint stating that Madhu died in accidental discharge from his SLR. Colleagues and family members did not raise any suspicion. We have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/34-yr-old-cop-dies-in-accidental-misfire/articleshow/78989321.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Madurai||Textile sales sluggish as shoppers are still reluctant to venture out||Madurai: Textile shops which usually do bulk of their business during the festive season have seen a dip in sales, even after relaxation of lockdown as people have not yet fully ventured out or taken to shopping in a big way. Textile merchants say that the sales this year would be 30% lesser than what it was last year.Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association secretary, Ashraf Tayub, said that even though sales had improved post the lockdown relaxations, it was less compared to the previous years. He said that it was the children’s clothes that were moving fast, while the sale of saris, which usually peaks during this season was not up to the mark. “One reason for the low sari sales is the availability of saris in the online market, where there are thousands of designs are on display. We often do not have that many designs,’’ said K Thirupathi, a salesman at a major textile showroom. Job losses and salary cuts are also impacting the festive shopping this year, say the traders. Saravanan, owner of Patanjali Silks, a leading textile store, said that pure silk which they got weaved for their shop used to sell like hotcakes ahead of Deepavali, but this year the demand for silks was low. So they had asked their weavers to make minimum number of products to ensure that they did not go unsold. He said that it is more of the salaried class and people from villages who have been coming to the shops in Madurai. The higher income group who usually go for clothes priced in the high range category have not actually started shopping, he said.S Shanthi, a housewife in KK Nagar, said that this year her family members had purchased their saris from well-known online brands much in advance, so that they could get them replaced or exchange it if they did not like it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/textile-sales-sluggish-as-shoppers-are-still-reluctant-to-venture-out/articleshow/78989327.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Goa||Govt receives names of judges for Lokayukta||Panaji: The state government has received the names of retired judges of the Supreme Court and high court to be appointed as the Lokayukta for the state. The post was lying vacant after Lokayukta P K Misra’s term ended on September 17, 2020. Speaking to TOI, advocate general Devidas Pangam said the high court has directed the government to appoint the new Lokayukta by December. A senior government officer said that the state government will send letters to retired judges seeking their consents to be appointed as the Lokayukta. The officer said that once the consent is obtained, a three-member committee will finalise the name. Chief minister and leader of opposition are the members of the committee. “Once the name is finalised in consultation with the chief justice of the Bombay high court, the new Lokayukta will be appointed,” the officer said. The state government had approached the Supreme Court seeking names of retired judges for appointment as the Lokayukta. As per The Goa Lokayukta Act, the Lokayukta has to be either a retired judge of the Supreme Court or a retired chief justice of the high court. There are around 75 cases pending before the office of Lokayukta. Misra, a former retired chief justice of Patna high court had taken the oath of office on April 28, 2016. The Goa cabinet dragged its feet for almost three years before the appointment was done. A senior government officer said that the state government will send letters to retired judges seeking their consents to be appointed as the Lokayukta. The officer said that once the consent is obtained, a committee will finalise the name||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-receives-names-of-judges-for-lokayukta/articleshow/78989337.cms||Murari Shetye
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||151 get distinction in LLB final||Ahmedabad: In Covid times, students studying law have posted stupendous results. For the first time in five years, 151 students have got distinction in the final result of LLB. What’s more, 33 students have got first class. The exams were conducted both offline and online. However, many students appeared for the online exam where the paper was objective type with students required to select one of the four options. The online exam seems to have agreed better with the students who have posted a stupendous performance. “In the past five years, not a single student has scored a distinction. One assumes that the OMR paper with objective questions has augured well for the students,” said a top faculty. In all, 800 students had appeared for the final LLB exams. Generally, the final exam papers are descriptive and the students are not able to score highly in the exams. The dean of the law faculty, Rushikesh Mehta, said that the Bar Council of India has prohibited online exams from the next year. “This year was an exception as the world reeled under the Covid pandemic. Once the situation normalizes, the university will revert to offline exam,” said Mehta. Sources in the law faculty said that many detractors have raised a question mark over the result expressing concern that the students may have indulged in malpractice considering that the Gujarat University had no robust system in place to check copying during the online exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/151-get-distinction-in-llb-final/articleshow/78989323.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kochi||Writer and critic M Leelavathy gets KPS Menon award||PALAKKAD: Malayalam writer, literary critic and educationist Dr M Leelavathy has won the prestigious KPS Menon Memorial Award. The award, instituted by Chettur Shankaran Nair Memorial Cultural Trust, carries a cash prize of Rs 50,000 and citation. The trust chairman P T Narendra Menon and secretary E P Chithresh Nair said that the award to Leelavathy is for her contributions to the literary and cultural field. The award will be presented by Dr K N Madhusudhan, vice-chancellor of Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), at her house. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/writer-and-criticm-leelavathy-gets-kps-menon-award/articleshow/78987029.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman, daughter may have died of pesticide poisoning, say police||Coimbatore: The deaths of two women a mother-daughter duo at Nallampalayam here on Saturday has shed light on the misuse of aluminium phosphide, a highly toxic pesticide. According to police, M Anuradha, 49 and her mother S Premakumari, 70, had died after inhaling phosphine released by aluminium phosphide tablets, which were placed to kill bed bugs. “Anuradha’s husband S Murali, a businessman, had placed the tablets in all rooms of the house at Ramasamy Nagar extension three days ago. On Saturday morning, Murali found his father-in-law N Shanmugam, who was sleeping alone in a room, struggling to breath and took him to a private hospital with the help of his son M Sabarish, an engineering student. After reaching the hospital, Sabarish called his mother, but she did not respond to the calls. Sabarish rushed home to find Anuradha unconscious. Premakumari was alright. Though he took his mother to a private hospital, she was declared as brought dead. When Sabarish informed her about the death, Premakumari died of cardiac arrest. We suspect she was also affected by the toxic gas,” a police officer said. The two bodies were sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. Police sent the tablets as well as the viscera of the victims to the forensic science laboratory at Race Course on Sunday. Aluminium phosphide tablets are used as a rodenticide, insecticide and fumigant for storing cereal, said T Sasikala, associate professor and head of the department of chemistry, Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science. “It is widely used as an indoor fumigant to protect stored grain. It is known as rice tablet in Iran. The Iranian Forensic Medicine Organisation stopped its use in 2007 following accidental deaths,” she told TOI. When exposed to moisture, aluminium phosphide tablets release phosphine, a toxic gas, Sasikala said. “Overexposure to phosphine gas results in gastrointestinal signs and symptoms including nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, chest tightness and muscle pain. Phosphine has an odour of garlic or decaying fish, but is odourless when pure. The gas damages proteins and enzymes carrying oxygen. It can kill human beings in a few hours.” The gas could be fatal to those who have breathing problems, forensic science experts said. The bodies were embalmed and were kept at the CMCH mortuary, Thudiyalur police inspector Balamurali Sundaram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-daughter-may-have-died-of-pesticide-poisoning-say-police/articleshow/78989326.cms||A Subburaj
November 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Tharoor accepts #kaitharichallange to revive sector in Balaramapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: MP Shashi Tharoor has reciprocated to the #kaitharichallange hashtag campaign by purchasing a set of Balaramapuram handloom ‘mundu’ and ‘neriyathu’ from the artisans who are struggling hard to make a living as the Covid-19 pandemic has brought the already-ailing traditional sector to complete shambles. The hashtag campaign was launched by Kovalam MLA M Vincent as a desperate attempt to invigorate the market for handloom products. “The traditional artisans are bordering on penury and starvation as the demand for their products has crumbled like never before. The traditional artisans who used to earn less than Rs 300 a day are jobless since the outbreak of Covid-19. Though shops are open, demand for clothes has hit the rock bottom,” says Vincent, who is the MLA of the tiny hamlets where the iconic Balaramapuram handloom clothes are produced. As part of the campaign, Vincent sold a set of handloom clothes worth Rs 3,200 to former chief minister Oommen Chandy and his wife Mariamma Oommen when he visited them at Chandy’s house to wish him on his 77th birthday on Saturday. Tharoor who shared on social media the picture of a new-born draped in handloom shawl said he accepted the #kaitharichallange by Vincent as he bought the handloom clothes and gifted them to the baby of one of his personal staff members. Around 15,000 handloom artisans work in the sector at Balaramapuram that won the Geographical Indication (GI) tag a decade ago. “Talks are on for tapping more online business options in tie up with seasoned entrepreneurs across markets. But for that we need the support and guidance from people interested in keeping this traditional skill alive. But before dreaming of such big things, we need immediate intervention to spur the demand. Unless something is done to ensure succour and sustenance to the artisans in distress, it could lead to the extinction of this sector,” said Kuzhivila Surendran, a traditional weaver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tharoor-accepts-kaitharichallange-to-revive-sector-in-balaramapuram/articleshow/78987051.cms||B S Anilkumar
November 2, 2020||Mysuru||Woman dies after husband slits her throat in Holenarasipur||HASSAN: A man allegedly murdered his wife by slitting her throat by using a knife near KB Koppal village of Holenarasipur taluk on Saturday evening. The deceased’s parents have accused their son-in-lw of torturing their daughter for dowry. Shalini,28, is the deceased. Her husband Puneeth,30, is the accused, who is from Kaduvinakote village of the same taluk. He is a KSRTC driver. The couple have a son who is aged one-and-a-half years. “My daughter got married 3 years back. After a year of marriage, Puneeth started torturing her. His parents too joined him in the torture, and started demanding dowry from her. I learned about this from my daughter. At the beginning, the issue was settled through dispute resolution carried out by a group of elders from both villages. However, my daughter continued to get tortured, and we had even lodged complaints in this regard at the Holenarsipur Rural police station on 3 occasions. A fortnight back, I had promised to give my daughter money after harvesting my maize crop,” said the deceased’s father Krishnegowda. “At 6.30 pm on Saturday, the accused took his wife out to have snacks on a two-wheeler. After eating snacks with the victim, he picked up a quarrel with her near KB Koppal on Hally Mysuru road, after which he took out a knife and slit her throat. Passers by on the road tried to stop him, but were unable to do so. He was beaten and sustained minor injuries. He is in hospital, and is undergoing treatment under police custody. A case is registered under IPC Section 302 (punishment for murder) and IPC Section 304B (for dowry death),” said the police sub-inspector handling the case. “The accused is in our custody. The proceedings will be conducted as per law,” said additional superintendent of police B N Nandini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-dies-after-husband-slits-her-throat-in-holenarasipur/articleshow/78986714.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cancellation sought: Controversy erupts over Gujarat University paper leak||AHMEDABAD: The July examination conducted by the Gujarat University (GU) has run into a controversy with an allegation that 80% of the questions of statistics paper asked in the examination had already been sent to students on their emails. The GU sources said that there had been a demand for the cancellation of the Master of Science examination of the statistics department and re-conducting the same. “The students have alleged that the head of the department had sent the questions before the examination, as a result of which the marks obtained by the students were much higher,” said a GU official. The officials said that examination was initially scheduled to be held on July 13 but was then rescheduled for July 28. But the head of the department had allegedly sent mails to 27 students giving out 80% of the questions with answers of the 20 questions. “Each student had to give answers for 35 questions only. The issue was brought to the notice of the authorities when several students had got identical marks. It is also alleged that the students were also informed of the marks they had got,” added the official. The issue was raised with the authorities by the other students of the same department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cancellation-sought-controversy-erupts-over-gujarat-university-paper-leak/articleshow/78989330.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 2,275cr effluent sea pipeline project begins||Gandhinagar: Hopes for rejuvenation of the polluted Sabarmati, Mahi, Vishwamitri and Bhadar rivers of Gujarat have been revived as the state government — after several years of dilly-dallying – has finally initiated the Rs 2,275 crore deep sea effluent disposal pipeline project. A V Shah, member secretary, GPCB said, “The project will resolve river and groundwater pollution to a large extent. It will help in reviving local river ecology once the project starts functioning. We are strictly following NGT, GOI and the state government guidelines for the project.” The state government’s Gujarat Water Infrastructure Limited (GWIL) has initiated the tendering process for the project and a high-level multi department committee chaired by chief secretary Anil Mukim has begun monitoring it. Actual work is expected to start around January 2021, and is expected to be completed in the next 36 months. Mukim, who recently chaired the review meeting for the project, said, “The state government is committed to pro-actively address the river water quality issues.’’ Under the project, treated effluent from 11 common effluent treatment plants (CETP) of Ahmedabad, one from Kheda, one from Vadodara and one from Jetpur will be collected and discharged into deep sea. The project will be implemented under the public private partnership (PPP) mode with the state government funding 70% to 80% of the capital cost. While the government will contribute around Rs 1,659 crore, various local industries associations will contribute Rs 615 crore. The government has already started receiving contributions from various industries associations. The project will be managed by the industry & mines department, Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) and GWIL. Pipelines will be laid over 170km on land and 38.5km in the sea from Ahmedabad to Khambhat along with pumping stations. Similar networks for Vadodara and Jetpur will also be developed under the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-2275cr-effluent-sea-pipeline-project-begins/articleshow/78988295.cms||Kapil Dave
November 2, 2020||Madurai||Drive-in restaurant in Madurai gets good response from locals||Madurai: The drive-in restaurant started recently by Tamil Nadu tourism development corporation (TTDC) at Hotel Tamil Nadu on Alagarkovil Road in Madurai is receiving good response from the citizens. The drive-in restaurant was inaugurating on October 22 by then district collector T G Vinay. While some people were hesitant to visit the restaurant due to the fear of Covid-19, officials from TTDC had come out with the idea to encourage them to come out of their houses.M Guneswaran, senior manager of TTDC and Hotel Tamil Nadu said that the reception from people has been encouraging. At least 20 cars are coming in on an average per day and each family is spending about an hour. “The facility is opened only in the evening and on weekends since it is the time when families want to spend some time away from their homes. Menu has been carefully chosen to fulfil the need of Madurai locals,” he said.V Vijaya, a parent from Thirupalai said that she has seen drive-in concepts only in movies. This is the most appropriate time for such facility in Madurai as many of the people do not want to go into congested hotels in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The ambience and lighting are very attractive and children get to spend some good time playing using the equipment available, she said.Officials said that they are planning to reach more people in coming days. They have plans to conduct events to make the evening even merrier. However, they are yet to confirm the kind of events and timings, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/drive-in-restaurant-in-madurai-gets-good-response-from-locals/articleshow/78989332.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai inches closer to getting its police museum||CHENNAI: The conversion of the old police commissioner’s office into a museum is proceeding apace. At least 40 tonnes of debris and additional structures have been removed and most of the human-made partitions have been demolished and removed. Police officers said the additional construction material on the walls has not damaged the antique values of the building and that the wooden stairs would remain intact, but Sriraman of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Chennai circle, said, “We were not invited to examine antique structures of the century-old commissioner’s office.” Police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal had recently told reporters that the conversion of the ‘White House’ at Rs 4 crore into a museum, with additional commissioner (headquarters) A Amalraj in charge of supervising the renovation, would be completed in around four weeks. Amalraj had already helped create the state’s first police museum in Coimbatore when he was commissioner of police in that city. The museum, the director general of police (DGP) has said, would tell the history of the Tamil Nadu Police. Every part of the 178-year-old building, where commissioners such as F V Arul, Shenoy, Senthamarai, Shripaal and Walter Devaram have served, tells the story of the Chennai Police. Sebastian George was the last commissioner to function from the building. Later, he moved to the new police commissioner’s office in Vepery. Before being converted into the office of the Commissioner of Police, the property was a farmhouse surrounded by farmland. The building was constructed in 1842 by Arunagiri Mudaliar who kept the farmhouse as his guest house. In 1856, then Commissioner J C Bolderson converted it into the police commissioner’s office. When Kalimuthu was commissioner of police, there was a proposal by the state government to demolish the building and raise a six-storey building in its place. But in the face of severe opposition, the proposal had to be abandoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-inches-closer-to-getting-its-police-museum/articleshow/78989329.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad to review status of colleges||HYDERABAD: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad is all set to conduct online review meetings with all the affiliated colleges from Monday. The review meeting is being conducted to understand the preparedness of all the colleges on commencement of classes for the fresh batch, admissions for which are currently underway. Classes for first year students, studying in colleges affiliated to JNTUH are set to commence from December 1, 2020. Ahead of the meeting, the university has asked all colleges to submit details, such as number of second to fourth year students attending online classes, percentage of syllabus completed, etc. Meanwhile, the university is also set to conduct MTech and MCA mid-semester exams online from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntuh-to-review-status-of-colleges/articleshow/78989334.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chennai||Five TN cops get nat’l accolades for busting fundamentalists||Chennai: Five police officers from the state were among 39 officers awarded by the Centre for their investigative skills, that led to arrest of religious fundamentalists in Tamil Nadu as well as other states. The selected 39 were from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Gujarat and Delhi. Awardees from TN were additional commissioner N Kannan, superintendent of police of the ‘Q’ branch J Mahesh, superintendent of police S Aravind, deputy superintendent of police of special intelligence unit in Coimbatore P Pandarinathan and inspector of the special division M Damodaran. On June 19, TN announced cash rewards for the five. A team led by Kannan had zeroed in on the murderers of special sub-inspector Y Wilson on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border on January 8, by tracking their movements to Maharastra and Karnataka. It led them to Khaja Moideen of Cuddalore, who floated ‘Al-Hind Trust’ to spread ISIS network across India engaged Thoufique and Shameem involved in the SSI’s murder. All those involved were actively training ISIS recruits in Tirunelveli, Madurai, Bengaluru, Pune and other parts of the country. The ministry of home affairs, in the announcement, said names of the awardees will be published in the Gazette of India soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/five-tn-cops-get-natl-accolades-for-busting-fundamentalists/articleshow/78989338.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Madurai||Shut or shrunk, not many playgrounds for Madurai kids||Madurai: Children in Madurai are severely hamstrung by the lack of space to play outdoor games as most playgrounds have either shrunk in size due to construction of buildings or prohibit their entry, forcing them to choose mobile and video games instead. If the Tamil Sangam building was constructed on the land used by locals for playing, Medical College ground has shrunk due to the construction of hospital buildings. Children are not allowed in to Vandiyur Park or the Vidudhi ground next to Gandhi Memorial museum either. Making matters worse, the Race Course stadium has also restricted the entry of outsiders after it was reopened recently. N Senthil Pandian, 13, from Karumbalai, a slum near KK Nagar, said, “The only place we had to play cricket was Race Course ground, but now only members are allowed there. Since we have nowhere to go, we play mobile games and carrom in our houses.” S Vicky, organiser of Police Boys Club in Karumbalai, said that of late they could not go out to play. “Every year the city police are sponsoring Rs 20,000 worth cricket kit with all required equipment, but where is the space to put them use to use,” he said. He added that to find a ground to play cricket, they travel a few kilometres to privately-owned lands such as Amma Thidal on Ring Road. But, it is too risky for the children to travel on Ring Road, which is prone to accidents.  Officials should identity places for children to play wherever possible and encourage sports activities, he urged. Vacant land in Iyer Bungalow area, Ring Road, Madakulam, Palgalai Nagar and even Vandiyur Mariamman Teppakulam are now being used by locals to play cricket and football in the absence of proper ground, locals said. K Narayanaswamy, a cricket coach from the city, lamented that there is no cricket ground to play professional cricket also. He said that some of the colleges offer their ground for tournaments, but there is no seating or toilet facility though they collect fees. C Anandaraj, an activist from the city, said there are plenty of unused spaces available on Race Course ground, which can be cleaned and given to children. Cricket coaching is offered by a private player inside the ground for members, but not all can afford it. It is high time the district administration and Madurai Corporation came forward and opened up available spaces for kids, he said. A higher official from the corporation said that compared to Chennai, Madurai has places to play. “We will check the availability of space within the corporation area and make it available for children. Meanwhile, locals can also approach corporation officials with suitable places for playing for the corporation to consider,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shut-or-shrunk-not-many-playgrounds-for-madurai-kids/articleshow/78989341.cms||V Devanathan
November 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Info panel chief raps KU over RTI Act||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a major embarrassment to the University of Kerala, the state information commission has asked it to organize a training session on RTI Act to officials, beginning with the university registrar, so that they have a better understanding of the purpose and objective of the Right to Information Act. The order was issued by the chief information commissioner Vinson M Paul on an appeal submitted by Dr Immanuel Thomas, former head of the university’s psychology department. The appellant had submitted before the commission that the university, in reply to an RTI application by him, had given him a set of documents of 77 pages, that were in no way connected to the information he sought from the university. Thomas had earlier hit headlines when the university syndicate passed a bizarre order as per which the former HoD should not set foot on the Kariavattom campus, as he was allegedly the source of inspiration for students to protest against the university. Thomas had sought reasons for which he was barred from entering the campus. After more than 70 days from the date of the application, he was sent a bundle of papers. The appellate authority, who is the registrar of the university, also forwarded the same set of replies in response to his appeal. “…The state public information officer (SPIO) is not an authority to function as a sheer post office. He has to ensure that the reply furnished contains all information as sought by the information seeker unless they are covered under section 8 or 9 of the …The commission wonders if ever the appellate authority has gone through the RTI Act. At this moment the commission advises the 2nd respondent to study the RTI Act in detail so that such lapses do not recur. The commission finds that the SPIO and the first appellate authority have not acted in accordance with the provisions of the RTI Act. It is seen that even employees under the above authorities act in an indifferent and casual manner defeating the purpose and objectives of the RTI Act. Hence the commission under section 8 or 9 of the RTI Act, directs the vice-chancellor of Kerala University to take immediate steps to organise suitable training programme for the University staff, particularly the SPIO and the first appellate authority. The director, Institute of Management in Government, can be requested for organising a capsule training programme for the staff,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/info-panel-chief-raps-ku-over-rti-act/articleshow/78987085.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Firecracker sales nosedive, Ahmedabad's Vaanch reels||AHMEDABAD: Vaanch village in Daskroi taluka of Ahmedabad is considered to the Shivakashi of Gujarat, with around 30 families along with migrant workers producing firecrackers for Diwali festival. But this time, the firecrackers business has lost its sparkle with the slowdown in the Covid-19 pandemic. With the pandemic persisting, demand for firecrackers has taken a major hit. Fireworks retailers say people have become more health conscious and the restrictions imposed by government on not holding processions and religious events have dented the demand. Stained in mud and gunpowder, around 20 workers including women work from 7am to 5pm in the crackers manufacturing units in Vaanch village located on the outskirts of Ahmedabad city. The number of workers reduced this time as many who had gone to their native places during lockdown have not returned and also orders for crackers have declined. “Our business mainly depends upon migrants and tribal people. During lockdown, most migrant casual labourers went to their native place, and tribals have taken up jobs in construction work. So, we do not even have a proper workforce,” said Nadeeem Baghban who runs a crackers manufacturing unit in Vaanch village. He said that there is a decline of around 70% in the business this time because neither marriages nor festivals were held properly “The buying sentiment is weak with no Navratri and Dussehra and banning of processions for weddings. Inventories are half of what it was last year; people don’t stock up on firecrackers fearing no sales,” said Anjan Kotak, owner, Jalaram Crackers agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/firecracker-sales-nosedive-vaanch-reels/articleshow/78988324.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Another day of 5,500+ fresh cases, Satyendar Jain warns people of ‘Covid fatigue’||NEW DELHI: After a dip on Saturday, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases again went up on Sunday, with the capital recording its fourth-highest single-day spike till date at 5,664. The day also saw the total positive cases going up from 3.8 lakh to 3.9 lakh and 51 deaths due to the novel coronavirus infection. Sunday was not only the fifth day in a row when more than 5,000 new cases were recorded but the positivity rate also jumped to 12.6%, with 5,664 out of the 44,623 tests turning positive. The positivity rate on Saturday was 11.4% and, on Friday, when Delhi reported its highest single-day spike of 5,891 cases, it was 9.8% out of the 59,641 tests. From Tuesday to Friday, the figure of the highest single-day spike has been breached every day in Delhi. Health minister Satyendar Jain ascribed the spike to aggressive contact tracing and testing. Till a vaccine is found, people will have to follow precautions and be careful about “Covid fatigue” that seems to have set in, he added. “The reason more than 5,000 cases are coming is because 15 days ago, our strategy was strengthened and more aggressive contact tracing is being done. Compared with six-to-seven contacts, now more than 15 contacts are being traced for each case to uproot Covid-19,” Jain said. In many cases, he added, the entire family of a patient is testing positive. “The numbers are not going up in cases of random testing,” he pointed out. The minister also said 40% of the hospital beds had been occupied, but about 1,200 out of the 2,900 ICU beds were available. “It’s been eight-nine months and many people have developed a fatigue and feel they don’t need to follow norms, but they should,” Jain said, expressing hope that a vaccine would be ready in two-three months. The total number of positive cases in Delhi till date is 3,92,370, out of which 3,51,635 patients have recovered with a recovery rate of 89.6%. The total number of deaths is 6,562 and the fatality rate is 1.67%. The number of active Covid-19 cases at the moment is 34,173, out of which 20,732 are in home isolation. Out of the total 15,775 hospital beds, 9,314 are vacant. At the dedicated Covid centres, 6,522 of the 7,887 beds are vacant, except for 386 beds occupied by quarantined travellers, and 190 of the 527 beds in Covid health centres are unoccupied. The number of containment zones has gone up to 3,359 from 3,274 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/another-day-of-5500-fresh-cases-jain-warns-people-of-covid-fatigue/articleshow/78988390.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Conman siphons off Rs 75,000 from elderly woman’s bank account||CHENNAI: Police have launched a hunt for a conman who siphoned off Rs 75,000 from the bank account of an elderly woman. The suspect claimed to be a bank manager over phone and got account details from the sexagenarian. Thangam, a 69-year-old resident of Gopalapuram, received a phone call around noon on Saturday from a man who identified himself as the manager of a nationalized bank in which she has an account, police said. The woman shared details of her account number readily when the suspect asked for it and also shared an OTP (one time password) she received while still on call with him. Within a few minutes, the woman received messages saying Rs 75,000 was debited from her bank account in three transactions. The woman called up the bank and realised she was conned. She, along with her family members, approached the Royapettah police with a complaint. The complaint was later forwarded to the cybercrime wing of the city police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/conman-siphons-off-rs-75000-from-elderly-womans-bank-account/articleshow/78989348.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana health officials anticipating second wave of Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Anticipating the second wave of coronavirus, the state health authorities have sounded an alert and are gearing up to tackle the pandemic. Medical experts are expecting a surge in Covid-19 cases as people would be off guard during the festive season and the onset of winter may aggravate the situation. While officials are closely monitoring the pandemic in other parts of the world and more particularly in states like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala. The world may experience the second wave up to the month of December. “While the virus activity is expected to increase during winter, the situation in Telangana, however, is not likely to be as bad as other parts of the country. We are nearly two-and-a-half months behind America and other countries and therefore, by the time the second wave hits us, we might have crossed the winter. Also, since winters are not as severe in Telangana as in the northern part of the country, it might work in our favour, but we need to be careful till the end of December,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director, public health, Telangana State. The official added that people should take all possible precautions, including masks and social distancing. Another theory of the winter being less intense than usual this year in Telangana is due to the rise in groundwater levels. This in turn will keep the mercury from falling low this year, predicted state health authorities. The health department is banking upon this theory and is hoping that the dreaded virus would come under control. Despite these expectations, officials are ready to deal with the situation if the state is hit by the second wave. “We are already assessing the required bed strength, healthcare staff, oxygen and ICU availability to meet the requirement in case of a sudden surge due to the recent festivals like Bathukamma and Dussehra, where a lot of people might have socialised,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-health-officials-anticipating-second-wave-of-covid-19/articleshow/78989340.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB looks to revamp open drain system||SECUNDERABAD: Officials of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) are verifying the blueprints of the existing decades-old open nala system to examine the feasibility of revamping the system. The recent rains that had led to the flooding of nearly 50 residential colonies have forced the officials to strengthen the entire open nala system. In fact, the officials also cited that over 80% of the nalas have been encroached upon. “The time has come to strengthen the nala system in the Cantonment. In fact, the inundation of the colonies due to overflowing of nalas has forced us to chalk out fresh plans,” SCB chief executive officer, B Ajith Reddy, told TOI. Banala Srinivas Reddy, secretary, Cantonment Citizens’ Civic Amenities Development Society, said valuable items worth lakhs of rupees were damaged after several residential colonies were waterlogged for more than four days due to the apathy of the SCB officials. Encroachments over the nalas are also a major hurdle to the free flow of sewage.” “The only solution to the problem is widening of open nalas and building the retaining walls. Officials must take up these two major works on a war footing in order to prevent such disasters in future,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-looks-to-revamp-open-drain-system/articleshow/78988317.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Madurai||Gold stolen from bank: Appraiser gets bail||Madurai: Madras high court has granted bail to a man accused of stealing 2,346gm of gold jewellery pledged by customers of a bank in Ramanathapuram district. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Manikandan who was arrested by Ramanathapuram district crime branch on September 9. The prosecution said the petitioner was working as a jewellery appraiser on contract at the Manjur branch of Canara Bank. On August 21, when a depositor withdrew the jewellery that he pledged at the bank, it was found that one item was missing. When the bank authorities verified the jewellery, it was found that gold articles weighing 2,346.09g were stolen by the petitioner from gold loan accounts. The petitioner submitted through his counsel that a false case had been registered against him. Since he was a jewellery appraiser, he could not have been involved in the misappropriation without the help of bank officials. It was only to escape from the case that other officials gave a complaint against him. The government lawyer submitted that based on the petitioner’s confession, police had recovered 1784.4g of jewellery but the remaining 522.5g of jewellery was yet to be recovered. He also submitted that the assistant manager of the bank failed to verify the pledged jewellery in the locker and was suspended from service. Since the investigation is continuing, he strongly objected to granting bail to the petitioner. Taking cognizance of the petitioner’s submission that he is ready to deposit a substantial amount for jewellery items which are yet to be recovered, Justice G K Ilanthiraiyan granted bail to him on condition that he deposit Rs 10 lakh before the Ramanathapuram judicial magistrate II court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gold-stolen-from-bank-appraiser-gets-bail/articleshow/78989349.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bareilly||Traffic awareness month launched in Bareilly||Bareilly: As part of a pan UP initiative, a month-long traffic awareness drive was launched in the city on Sunday. It is aimed at sensitizing locals and road-users of the need to follow traffic rules and regulations. A bike rally of police personnel and volunteers was taken out from the Police Lines to mark the beginning of the campaign. Auto-rickshaws with placards on traffic rules hoisted on them were part of the rally that passed through prominent city thorofares. SP traffic, Bareilly, Sanjeev Kumar Bajpai said, “The traffic awareness month will see traffic awareness rallies in the city. As a part of the awareness drive, hoardings displaying traffic rules will be put up at various public places. Volunteers and NGOs will be roped in to make the traffic awareness month successful.” Violaters will be penalized, he warned. Covid-19 guidelines will be followed throughout the campaign, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/traffic-awareness-month-launched-in-bareilly/articleshow/78985530.cms||Maria Khan
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Audio exposes cop-sand transporters’ nexus||HYDERABAD: A dispute among illegal sand transporters has exposed their nexus with police and bribery involved in transportation and mining. A purported phone call record of Parigi sub-inspector Venkateswaralu with a sand transporter has revealed that a policeman was demanding bribe for not booking cases and releasing vehicles used for transporting sand. Vikarabad superintendent of police (SP) M Narayana said an internal probe has found wrongdoing on the part of Parigi police and a report has been submitted to higher officials for action against the erring official. “Soon after the issue came to my notice, we conducted an inquiry and found the sub-inspector is involved in it. Action will be initiated against the official and also the illegal sand transporters,” the SP added. The probe revealed sub-inspector Venkateswarlu had been collecting alleged bribes from transporters. Vikarabad inspector Lakshmi Reddy told TOI, “There is no course of River Musi in our jurisdiction. They are transporting sand from Kodangal and Bommaraspet to Parigi. A majority of it is filter sand.” Due to the recent flooding, sand has become scarce in the state due to which prices shot up. Vikarabad additional collector S Motilal said, “Due to floods, we are facing scarcity. We have a source only at Doultabad. Procuring sand for even 2-BHK housing scheme has become difficult. In recent days, there is no mining in major sources. We will verify it.” “In government and private land parcels, sand is separated from mud by filtering with water and this is called filter sand. This could be a possibility. We have given instructions to all tahsildars to take action and stop illegal mining,” the officer said. SI Venkateswarlu, who is in the line of fire for allegedly demanding Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 per truck, said: “I have booked cases against sand transporters who pass through this area. I don’t know about the audio record. I will verify it. I can’t comment on it as the department is probing it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/audio-exposes-cop-sand-transporters-nexus/articleshow/78988313.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 25 lakh property owners apply for Layout Regularisation Scheme||HYDERABAD: Though there was overwhelming response to regularisation of plots in unauthorized layouts with over 25 lakh applications across the state, many plot owners in the surrounding municipalities and municipal corporations, where illegal layouts have mushroomed, did not come forward to regularise their properties under Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS). The LRS scheme was announced by the municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department on September 1 and ended on October 31. The state also stopped registrations of plots in unauthorised layouts and buildings without permission from civic bodies. As the government stalled all registrations, there was huge response to the scheme from day one. Going by LRS applications figures released by the MA&UD department on Sunday, 25.59 lakh applications were received from across the state. Of them, 10.83 lakh applications were from over 12,000 gram panchayats and 10.60 lakh from 141 municipalities. Four lakh plot owners applied to regularise their plots in illegal layouts in municipal corporations. While the highest number of applications have been received from plot owners in GHMC jurisdiction with 1.06 lakhs, another 1.01 lakh applications have come from Greater Hyderabad Warangal Municipal Corporation. Interestingly, the surrounding areas of the city that fall in Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), which have hundreds of illegal layouts, did not apply to regularise their plots in unapproved layouts. For instance, Nizampet municipal corporation, touted as the civic body with maximum number of illegal layouts and buildings in the state, has received only 4,175 applications. Similarly, Boduppal corporation got 17, 915 applications, while Jawaharnagar municipal corporation in Medchal-Malkajgiri received the lowest applications, with just 368 property owners evincing interest to regularize their plots. Among the city’s surrounding civic bodies, Badangpet municipal corporation received 46,894 applications. With regards to municipalities in Rangareddy districts, the upmarket Manikonda municipality got only 2,500 applications and Narsingi received 3,800 applications. Among the old municipal corporations and district headquarters, Khammam has received over 50,000 applications and Karimnagar half of that. Some civic bodies like Mulugu and Warangal had zero applications. Sources said the state government had got nearly Rs 100 crore towards initial registration fee and might get between Rs 10,000-15,000 crore towards penal fee. “Processing of all applications will begin in the next few days and completed in the next three months,” a senior MA&UD department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25l-property-owners-apply-for-lrs/articleshow/78988312.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala’s first mechanized foot overbridge launched in Kozhikode||KOZHIKODE: State’s first mechanised foot overbridge (MFOB) in a public open space was inaugurated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan through video conferencing on Sunday. The mechanised foot overbridge which comprises escalators and lifts has been built across Rajaji Road in the city connecting Mofussil bus stand and V K Krishna Menon Indoor Stadium. The facility has been built at a cost of Rs 11.3 crore under the central government-sponsored Amrut scheme. Apart from escalators on both sides, the foot overbridge has lifts on either sides for disabled and elderly people. The facility is expected to ease traffic congestion on one of the busiest stretches in the city. The escalator has a capacity to have traffic of 11,700 people per hour. There is also a 1,140 sqft commercial space around the MFOB. The MFOB work was carried out by ULCCS under the supervision of Kochi Metro Rail Corporation Limited. Inaugurating the facility, the chief minister said Kozhikode corporation was able to implement several landmark projects, including the flat complex for residents of Kalluthan Kadavu colony and Rs 250-crore waste-to-energy plant at Njeliyan Parambu, in a time-bound manner. Corporation mayor Thottathil Raveendran presided over the meeting. MP M K Raghavan, MLA A Pradeepkumar are among others who attended the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/states-first-mechanized-foot-overbridge-launched-in-koz/articleshow/78987127.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bareilly||Three-member panel to probe sexual harassment complaint against PWD engr||Bareilly: Days after a complaint of sexual harassment was lodged by a computer operator against an executive engineer in the Public Works Department (PWD), Kheri district magistrate (DM) Shailendra Singh formed a three-member committee to probe the matter.The woman in her complaint alleged that her senior used to force her to work after office hours and often sexually harassed her inside her cabin. A three-member panel including Sadar circle officer, Sadar Kotwali SHO and a gazetted woman officer will probe the matter and submit a report to the district magistrate.The complaint was lodged by a 27-year-old woman who alleged that the officer threatened her that she would lose her job if she didn’t compromise. She also alleged that she has been sexually harassed and now, she has gone into depression.Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull said, “According to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (prevention, prohibition and redressal) Act, 2013, inquiry has been set up on the instructions of the DM and a three-member committee has been formed. The committee will be led by a gazetted woman officer and she will be supported by the police. Since the allegations are grave, we have asked the executive engineer to stay in the district until the committee submits its report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-member-panel-to-probe-sexual-harassment-complaint-against-pwd-engr/articleshow/78984815.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||1,400 Covid cases, five deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 1,416 new cases of Covid-19 and five deaths, raising the total cases in the state to 2,40,048. While the death toll rose to 1,341, so far, 2,20,466 patients in the state have recovered from the coronavirus infection. Continuing an upward climb, the number of active cases in the state have now increased to 18,241 as compared to 17,916 five days ago. Five districts have seen a jump of 5% to 20% cases over the last one week, including GHMC, Jagtial, Medak, Nirmal and Vikarabad. On Saturday, 40,081 samples were tested for the novel coronavirus. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1400-covid-cases-five-deaths-in-t/articleshow/78989350.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Goa||Swayampurna Goem mission commences||Panaji: When volunteers from St Xavier’s College, Mapusa, visited the Tivim panchayat on Sunday, to brief them about the plans to implement the Swayampurna Goem mission, panch members soon started planning their first implementation drive since the lockdown. “Since we are still living in the pandemic, we have to figure out a way to disburse information about various schemes through a no-contact system,” Tivim sarpanch Sharmila Gadekar said. “We will call for a meeting with all panch members on how to disburse the information through WhatsApp or execute this initiative through other means so that there is awareness about it in the village,” Gadekar said. In the coming weeks, the nodal officers will coordinate with panchayats to identify people who can become beneficiaries for each department’s schemes. “The BLOs and deputy collector have briefed us about the initiative on Sunday. The nodal officers will be visiting us to explain various schemes department-wise. I have instructed the panch members to disseminate the information by going from house to house,” Chimbel sarpanch Chandrakant Kunkolkar said. St Andre sarpanch Maria Ruth Cardozo said the initiative will be helpful for the village. “The youth are in dire need of an economic boost. We will explain to them the various initiatives,” Old Goa sarpanch Janita Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swayampurna-goem-mission-commences/articleshow/78989361.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Four arrested for shooting calf dead at Pudur in Vikarabad district||HYDERABAD: Vikarabad district police arrested four persons for killing a calf at Pudur in Vikarabad district on October 24. The accused told the police that they accidentally shot the calf dead in the dark thinking that it was a deer. Police arrested Mohammed Azheruddin (42), a businessman from Santosh Nagar, Sk Mahboob (55), R Ramachander (42) and Mohammed Rafi (33), all farmers from Thirumalapur in Vikarabad. The main accused, Imran (62), a real estate businessman from Dabeerpura who owns a farm house in Pudur, is absconding. “Following a plaint by K Raghu, a Pudur resident, the carcass of the animal was sent for a postmortem. The report confirmed that the calf died of bullet injury,” Parigi DSP G Srinivas said. During the interrogation, the accused confessed that on October 23, Imran invited his friend Azheruddin over for hunting. The duo, along with the other accused, went hunting in the evening with Azheruddin’s licensed .30 calibre rifle. Imran spotted an animal near the road and allegedly mistook the calf for a deer in the dark. “As per Imran’s directions, Azheruddin opened fire, killing the animal. When they went closer, the accused realised that it was a calf, after which they panicked and fled from the spot,” the DSP said. Later, Azheruddin buried the rifle along with the ammunition in the bushes at Imran’s farmhouse. “We have seized the weapon and ammunition. A case was registered and a manhunt has been launched to nab Imran,” the DSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-arrested-for-shooting-calf-dead/articleshow/78988337.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Residents want strong retaining walls for Hasmathpet nala||SECUNDERABAD: Residents of the Cantonment on Sunday blame the engineering wing of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) for the recent floods. They say that the poor quality material used and the unscientific methods adopted to build the retaining walls of the open nalas are the reasons behind the severe hardships they endured as sewage breached the nalas and gushed into their colonies and homes. More than 1,500 families of the Progressive colony, Vamshi Krishna colony, Royal Enclave, SBI colony, Green View Enclave and Aravelly Enclave had to spend about a week without electricity as their lanes and houses were waterlogged. They are yet to recover from the situation. “The flooding of our colony was due to the negligence of SCB and civic officials. The infrastructure here was built about four decades ago. Due to the heavy downpour on October 13 and 14, the retaining walls of Hasmathpet nala collapsed,” said a resident of the Royal Enclave. “The sewage entered into the colonies. As we don’t have alternative roads, we were not able to come out of our apartments. There was no power as the power panels were soaked in water,” said G Krishna, a resident of Progressive Colony. About 20 houses in Aravelly Enclave, near Royal Enclave, are still inundated. Ramesh Reddy, vice-president of the Royal Enclave Housing Colonies, said: “Sewage from Hasmathpet nala first entered the Royal Enclave and inundated 10 other colonies.” Reddy said that SCB should raise the height of the retaining walls to prevent floods in future. “Though the SCB officials responded and cleared the debris, still a lot has to be done,” Reddy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-want-strong-retaining-walls-for-hasmathpet-nala/articleshow/78988329.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 2, 2020||Madurai||Man agrees to marry girl he impregnated, gets HC bail||Madurai: Madras high court has granted bail to a man in a case in which he impregnated a minor girl, on condition that he should marry the survivor after she attains majority. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Arunkumar who was arrested by the All Woman Police on September 2 and booked under sections of Pocso Act. The prosecution case was that the petitioner was in love with the girl, who was his relative, and thereafter had a sexual relationship and impregnated her. The petitioner submitted through his counsel that he is willing to marry the victim when she attains majority. He further submitted that he has been in jail for more than 50 days and hence sought bail. Taking into account the facts and circumstances, Justice G K Ilanthiraiyan granted bail to the petitioner on condition that he marries the victim girl once she attains majority. The judge directed the parents of the petitioner and the victim to file a joint affidavit with their consent for the marriage before the special court for exclusive trial of cases under Pocso Act at Tuticorin. The petitioner should register the marriage on or before October 30, 2021 and produce the registration certificate before the concerned police station. If the petitioner fails to do so, the judge directed police to secure him and proceed in accordance with law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-agrees-to-marry-girl-he-impregnated-gets-hc-bail/articleshow/78989351.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Flights to carry 1,500kg extra fuel to meet monsoon skies||CHENNAI: With the northeast monsoon known to bring in heavy rain and strong wind, pilots have started to carry more fuel to fly down to Chennai airport to manage diversions when the weather is bad. Airlines have started to allow pilots to carry fuel for diversion to a faraway airport and also carry additional fuel to hold for 10 to 20 minutes over the city. This means around 1,500kg of extra aviation turbine fuel. Airports far off from a weather system are usually selected as alternative airports for a destination during the northeast monsoon, a pilot said. “For Chennai, airports in Kochi, Mangaluru or Trichy will be selected as alternatives instead of Bengaluru or Tirupati, which may have the same weather pattern as Chennai.” He said airports on the western coast are usually considered for diversion, especially for international flights, when Chennai sees heavy rain. Hyderabad is also listed as an alternative airport for Chennai sometimes by foreign airlines. “Fuel needed for flying a diverted route is added to the total fuel for a route. Pilots will keep monitoring weather at the destination airport. If the weather may not clear for landing, the pilot is usually allowed to carry extra fuel for hovering,” said an airline official. Bengaluru being at a 20-minute flying distance is an advantage. “Though aircraft usually carry enough fuel for a long diversion, many a times weather in Bengaluru is clear enough to make a landing when it’s rough and turbulent in Chennai,” said another pilot. Fewer flights given the Covid-19 situation is also an advantage. “There is no air traffic congestion in Chennai and Bengaluru now. During pre-Covid days, 10 to 20 flights would either be approaching or hovering over Chennai and Bengaluru airports, waiting to land. This used to make diversions complicated.” Though the number of flights has increased in Chennai, the airport receives only 85 to 90 arrivals a day, while it saw 15 to 20 flights an hour in the pre-Covid-19 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/flights-to-carry-1500kg-extra-fuel-to-meet-monsoon-skies/articleshow/78989358.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Vadodara||Bookies become smart, graduate to ID, passwords||Vadodara: Gone are the days when bookies accepting bets on cricket matches had books, computers and multiple phones to accept bets. A smartphone and data packs are now doing the trick for the bookies. Since October 27, the Prevention of Crime Branch (PCB) of the city police has arrested four bookies. Quite surprisingly, they were sitting along with a smartphone and doing their business. But for the tip- off, nobody would have realised that the accused had been involved in betting. The only seizures in the recent raids have been smart phones, some slips and small amounts of cash. PCB police inspector R C Kanamiya said that the bookies offer an ID and a password to a person who wants to place bets. “A limit till which a person can bet is introduced on the ID and the person can simply use this ID and password on a link to start betting,” he said. Bigger bookies give such IDs to smaller punters working under them. The bookies and those betting just need to settle the score periodically. On Sunday itself, the PCB declared that it had held two bookies. Virbhadrasinh Rathod was held from Nizampura area of the city with a phone worth Rs 50,000 and cash amounting to Rs 500. Similarly, Lokesh Mali was caught from the Wadi area of the city with a phone worth Rs 10,000 and cash amounting to Rs 500. Some paper slips were recovered from both.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bookies-become-smart-graduate-to-id-passwords/articleshow/78986265.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Crackdown on vendors to decongest Delhi's Sadar Bazar||NEW DELHI: A massive drive was undertaken at Sadar Bazar on Sunday to decongest the area of illegal hawkers, vehicles and encroachment on pavements. The action was taken after repeated complaints of traffic jams in the area. From midnight, police started making announcements that no hawkers would be allowed on the pavements and social distancing would have to be maintained in the market, otherwise strict action would be taken. The market association had raised the need for intensive action during a meeting with senior officials of Delhi government, Delhi Police and north corporations two weeks ago. They said that customers would stop coming to the market if things were not streamlined and social distancing was not maintained. Rakesh Yadav, president of Federation of Sadar Bazar Traders’ Association, said, “In the past few days, a heavy rush was witnessed in the market. Haphazard parking of vehicles and encroachment on footpaths caused traffic snarls. Hawkers from far flung areas have been coming here and occupying the pavements since morning. As a result, buyers are not coming due to fear of catching the viral infection.” “As a major part of our yearly sales takes place before Diwali, we urged DCP (North), ADM (Central), ACP (Traffic) and the north corporation section officer to take intensive action. We expect such drives to be carried out regularly,” said Yadav. The SDM office has asked civil defence volunteers to monitor traffic movement and ensure that people wear masks and maintain social distancing. A senior Delhi government official said, “We sent 150 volunteers to assist the local SHO to ease the traffic. Six command posts with 10 volunteers each were made to help the market association and government staff in implementing social distancing norms, making public announcements, planning nukkad natak and removing unauthorised vendors.” “In all, 700 challans were issued for violation of Covid norms in the past one week. The volunteers will also aid the corporation in the decongestion drive. But we need the cooperation of visitors as well as traders for better management,” added the official. Shopkeepers have been asked by police and the corporation not to park their vehicles on the roadside. The traders’ association assured that vehicles would only be parked at four lots, including Idgah, Qutub Road, Shera Road and Old Delhi railway station. The market has around 40,000 shops and over two lakh people visit it daily during the festive season. “We have offered traffic police cranes for towing away vehicles parked illegally on the roads,” said a member of the traders’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crackdown-on-vendors-to-decongest-sadar-bazar/articleshow/78988396.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Former partner attacks man, stabs him with sword||AHMEDABAD: A monetary dispute between two financiers turned violent, when one of them, Gaurav Chauhan, stabbed the other, Ashok Goswami with a sword on Sunday late afternoon. The incident happened at Thakkarnagar in Bapunagar. Police found a cartridge at the spot. They said Chauhan first tried to gun down Goswami, but the firearm malfunctioned. Chauhan and his three associates then attacked Goswami with a sword. DCP Zone-5, Achal Tyagi said they have picked up one accused, Sharad Karankaale. “He said Chauhan had called him there. We are hunting for the remaining accused,” Tyagi said. Police are in the process of registering an FIR at Bapunagar police station under sections of attempt to murder and arms act as the cartridge found from the spot proves the assailants had come with a firearm, Tyagi said. Additional commissioner of police, Sector -2, Gautam Parmar said they have sent the cartridge for forensic examination. “We have identified two accused and also have the CCTV footage of the incident which will help us in identifying the third one. One of the two identified is Gaurav Chauhan of Hathijan,” he added. Tyagi said Goswami and Chauhan both live in Hathijan area on the outskirts of the city. “They ran a finance business in partnership till some time ago. But after a monetary dispute, they separated. Earlier, Chauhan had lodged an FIR of attempt to murder against Goswami at Khokhra police station which had increased their enmity,” he added. Tyagi said on Sunday, at about 4.50pm, Goswami had come to Thakkarnagar at Siddhi Vinayak Car Accessories Shop with his car. “Chauhan came there with his three associates in a car armed with a firearm and a sword. They first tried to fire at Goswami but the firearm failed and the cartridge fell on the road. One of the four accused then threw a sword a Goswami injuring him on his back. Goswami then took the sword and ran after the assailants but Chauhan and his associates fled in the car. Goswami has been taken to Civll Hospital,” Tyagi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/former-partner-attacks-man-stabs-him-with-sword/articleshow/78988354.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Illegal cab services operate with impunity||HYDERABAD: With an increase in the number of cabs using own-plate (white number plate) vehicles for commercial purposes, taxi drivers in the city who have commercial or yellow number plates allege negligence by the transport authorities in conducting special drives to identify and seize the vehicles that are illegally operating as cabs. The registered cab drivers in the city say that despite the increase in these illegal cab services during the festive season and several complaints to the authorities, no action is being taken to curb these activities. “There is a significant increase in these illegal cab services since the beginning of the festive season. We request the authorities to conduct special drives in areas where these cabs are parked to hire passengers and seize these vehicles. Seizing these vehicles will not only help registered cab drivers but it will also increase state revenue,” said P Narayana, an Uber driver. Registered cab drivers also said cabs plying illegally are not only affecting the business of registered taxi drivers but are also flouting norms and risking the life of passengers. The life of the passengers who hire these vehicles is at risk because these drivers avoid official procedures to avoid paying additional road tax and permit charges at check posts. “The insurance premium for a private vehicle is nearly half of that of commercial transport vehicles. This means that in case of an accident, the passengers travelling in the vehicles will not get any claim from insurance firms,” said Shaik Salauddin, chairman, Telangana Four Wheeler Drivers Association. However, when contacted, C Ramesh, joint transport commissioner said, “We have conducted drives and seized about 30 vehicles in last one-and-half month. Our teams are continuing the drives in areas that are brought to our notice and seize the vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/illegal-cab-services-operate-with-impunity/articleshow/78988342.cms||Moulika.KV
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Election campaigning ends for 8 assembly seats in state||Gandhinagar: Campaigning for the November 3 by-elections to eight assembly seats in Gujarat ended on Sunday evening, with both the BJP and Congress claiming to make a clean sweep.By-polls to Abdasa, Limbdi, Morbi, Dhari, Gadhada, Karjan, Dang and Kaprada were necessitated after sitting MLAs quit as legislators. Five of them, subsequently, joined the BJP.For the BJP, chief minister Vijay Rupani, state party president C R Paatil, union ministers Smriti Irani, Mansukh Mandaviya and Purshottam Rupala campaigned.Paatil addressed rallies in four seats, while Irani campaigned for Morbi assembly seat candidate Brijesh Merja, who had quit Congress to join the BJP.For the Congress, GPCC president Amit Chavda and state working president Hardik Patel toured all eight seats extensively, while Paresh Dhanani, Arjun Modhwadiya, Siddharth Patel, Tushar Chaudhry and Manish Doshi led the campaign.AICC Gujarat in-charge Rajeev Satav addressed rallies in four assembly constituencies.The BJP has fielded Pradyumnsinh Jadeja from Abdasa, Kiritsinh Rana from Limbdi, Brijesh Merja from Morbi, J V Kakadiya from Dhari, Atmaram Parmar from Gadhada, Akshay Patel from Karjan, Vijay Patel from Dang and Jitubhai Chaudhary from Kaprada.The candidates fielded by the Congress include Shantilal Sendhani (Abdasa), Chetan Khachar (Limbdi), Jayantilal Patel (Morbi), Suresh Kotadiya (Dhari), Mohan Solanki (Gadhada), Kiritsinh Jadeja (Karjan), Suryakant Gavit (Dang) and Babubhai Patel (Kaprada).A total of 81 candidates are in the fray for the eight seats, including 51 independents, with Limbdi leading with 14 candidates and Kaprada, a Scheduled Tribe-reserved seat, at the other end with just four.Twelve candidates each are in the fray from Morbi and Gadhada, 11 from Dhari, 10 in Abdasa, and nine each in Karjan and Dang. The Bharatiya Tribal Party has fielded two candidates on Dang, an ST-reserved seat, and Karjan.Counting of votes will be held November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/election-campaigning-ends-for-8-assembly-seats-in-state/articleshow/78988386.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Colleague kidnaps rly attendant||Ahmedabad: A youth, 18, from the Nikol area of city who works as an attendant in the railways, was abducted on Friday afternoon by another attendant, Manish Gupta, 30, and his associate from Sarangpur. He was taken to an unknown place where seven others kept him confined and beat him seeking Rs 50,000 ransom from his family. When the accused persons suspected that the man’s family had approached police, they beat him till he went unconscious and dumped him near a garbage pile besides platform number-12 of Ahmedabad railway station. The victim Ashish Kshatriya, along with other staff and family members approached railway police and filed a complaint of kidnapping and criminal conspiracy against nine persons on Saturday. In his FIR, Kshatriya stated that his Gupta, and one of his associates forcibly made him sit on a bike, blindfolded him, took him to an unknown place and asked for ransom. They also injured his friend Rana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/colleague-kidnaps-rly-attendant/articleshow/78988376.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Bullet train to cut Mumbai-Hyderabad travel time by 9.5 hours||HYDERABAD: The Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad bullet train project, for which the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) has recently floated tenders for preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR), is estimated to cut down the travel time between both the states by at least 9.5 hours once the project hits the tracks. With the average speed of a bullet train being 320km per hour, the 711km distance between Hyderabad and Mumbai can be travelled in less than three-and-a-half hours, which now takes around 13 hours in the existing trains that run at an average speed of 80km per hour to 120km per hour. “The existing tracks will not be able to withstand the speed of these bullet trains. So, they will have to lay new tracks. For this purpose, the railway board has already written to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and provided all the required details of seven high-speed rail corridors for running bullet trains,” said a senior SCR official. “The blueprint for the high-speed rail corridor between Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad will be prepared once the tender is finalized,” he added. After the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail corridor, which is expected to be opened in 2028, the Centre is now planning to launch seven more such corridors, one of which is going to be Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad. According to NHSRCL, the first pre-bid meeting for the Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad bullet train corridor will be held on November 5. In this meeting, the concerned authorities will draw a plan for survey, identification of overhead, overground, underground utilities and identification of power sourcing options for substations along the proposed Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad high speed rail corridor. “The bullet train project will benefit the country and give a boost to the skill development sector. The government has asked for DPRs of all the seven new corridors. Capital costs can be decided only after taking into consideration things like terrains and route length,” said Achal Khare, managing director, NHSRCL. As per the NHSRCL notification, tenders for the Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad corridor will open on November 18, after which the successful bidder will be finalised and the tender awarded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bullet-train-to-cut-mum-hyd-travel-time-by-9-5-hours/articleshow/78989354.cms||Moulika.KV
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||99 bottles of foreign liquor seized in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Prohibition and excise sleuths arrested a person from Mumbai for smuggling non duty paid foreign liquor into the city in a private travels bus. Excise sleuths seized 99 liquor bottles worth Rs 6 lakh from the accused. During the checking of private travel buses at Madigi Crossroads on NH-65 in Sangareddy district on Saturday night, the excise team found eight cartons of luggage in Go Travels Mumbai-Hyderabad bus (NL 01 B 1793), containing 99 non duty paid foreign liquor bottles of various brands worth Rs 6 lakh. The excise team arrested a passenger, Shrawan Purohit, who booked the cargo, citing it as computer stationery. “Purohit, along with the absconding accused, Rahul Phadte of Mumbai, was illegally smuggling liquor from Mumbai to Hyderabad,” said KAB Sastry, Deputy Commissioner of Prohibition & Excise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/99-bottles-of-foreign-liquor-seized/articleshow/78988370.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat ranks second in e-transactions on govt portals||AHMEDABAD: Gujaratis seem to have fully utilized online access to government services during the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The state, earlier ranked third in e-transactions for state and civic body services after Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, has climbed to the second spot overtaking Andhra Pradesh in 2020. Gujarat as on Wednesday has recorded 67.3 crore hits on e-governance websites, which is second best after Kerala’s 93.5 crore hits and better than Andhra Pradesh which had 65.7 crore hits. According to government officials, this year Gujarat’s official websites and e-governance portals recorded the highest hits in five years. The e-transactions made on the e-governance websites of all states in the country are recorded by the Union ministry of electronics and information technology. In 2016 between January 1 and October 27, the state e-governance sites had 49.7 crore hits which increased by 35% in five years and despite several public utilities services like electricity bills, railway reservations, etc remaining closed, Gujarat registered an increase in online access of services. State government officials said there were 19 crore hits related to education services on e-governance websites in 2019, but this year there were 26 crore hits. Of the hits on state government education portals, 9.9 crore viewed HSC results and 9.1 crore viewed SSC results in 2019. In 2020, 14.5 crore viewed HSC results and 11.5 crore viewed SSC results. Online hits on the public distribution system portal were not as high as expected. The number of hits in 2020 increased by a mere 3 crore, compared to 2019, though an all-time high was anticipated. The PDS system generated 9.6 crore PDS eFPS bill receipts and 1.8 crore PDS SMS alerts. State government officials said the number of hits for utilities and bills on electricity related portals had halved in 2020 in comparison to the period between January 1 and October 27 in 2019. They attributed the drop in hits to the fact that there was no distribution of electricity bills between April and June this year. In 2019, between January 1 and October 27 there were 10.9 crore e-transactions related to electricity services which dropped to just 6 crores in 2020 during the same period. Officials said that across the country e-courts , agriculture , income tax (IT) , passport, and road transport departments had reported the highest transactions. Hareet Shukla, secretary science and technology was not available for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-no-2-in-e-transactions-on-govt-portals/articleshow/78988415.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 2, 2020||Madurai||Door-to-door drive on to vaccinate students||Madurai: The school immunisation outreach programme has been able to immunise 94,674 school-going children in the district since October 12. The programme was launched as immunisation was usually carried out at camps in schools but now are shut due to the pandemic. District health officials said that efforts have been underway over the last few months to ensure no child in the district misses out on vaccination as per immunisation schedule. “Through the outreach programme, we provided immunisation as per schedule for children studying classes I, V and X through door-to-door coverage since schools are closed. Despite only starting around 20 days back, we have managed to cover around 95,000 children. If schools reopen, it will speed up the coverage. We are ensuring no child is missed out,” said Dr K V Arjun Kumar, deputy director of health services, Madurai. According to data from the health department, in Madurai, 33,003 children in the age group of 5-6 years have been administered DPT second booster, while 33,916 children in the age group of 10 years and 27,755 children in the age group of 16 years have been given TT single dose vaccine. Out of 94,674 children who have been covered, 57,352 children were from rural areas. Apart from the outreach programme for school kids, data from the health department also showed that for the period between April to September 2020, the district has reported almost 100% or more coverage in administration as per the immunisation schedule, including oral polio vaccine, BCG vaccine, hepatitis B vaccine etc., for children from birth to 2 years of age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/door-to-door-drive-on-to-vaccinate-students/articleshow/78989356.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stricter charges for throwing garbage in Kharicut canal||Ahmedabad: As the National Green Tribunal on September 1 directed the authorities to curb pollution in the Kharicut canal, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) will now book people under stricter charges for throwing garbage or other effluent in the canal.The AMC had put up billboards at various places on the canal stating that the actions will be taken under IPC Sections 269 for showing negligence which could spread infectious diseases and under Section 188 for disobeying notification of a public servant.These are the same sections which were charged against the people for spreading Covid-19 infection and for not maintaining social distance. The AMC will be using the sections for the first time against people who are found involved in throwing garbage in the canal.A senior AMC officer said that the decision has been taken after NGT put the civic body to the task for its failure to keep the canal clean.“Our team will start patrolling alongside the canal round the clock and book those found polluting the canal,” said an officer.On the other hand, residents living alongside the canal in the Nikol and Odhav areas of the eastern Ahmedabad do not have faith on AMC. “Earlier, AMC had put nets and grills over the bridges. It not even has an effective boundary wall. Besides, industrial units are discharging hazardous wastes into the canal,” said Vishnu Desai, a resident of Nikol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stricter-charges-for-throwing-garbage-in-kharicut-canal/articleshow/78988410.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: October & September saw 54.8% of all Covid cases till date, 66% of total tests||NEW DELHI: In October, Delhi recorded 1,06,991 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in a month since the first case in the city in March. Delhi government ascribes the spike to aggressive contact tracing and record number of tests carried out last month — 16 lakh — nearly 52,000 a day. Delhi reported its first case on March 2 when a 45-year-old man with a history of travel to Italy tested positive. Since then, the cases had hit a peak in June before plateauing. But just when it seemed that the worst was over, cases started increasing by the end of August and the number of tests carried out in September trebled, leading to three instances of the highest single-day spike. October saw four such instances, with October 30 witnessing 5,891 cases — the highest single-day spike till date. The total number of new cases reported in the past two months is 2,11,958 — 54.8% of the total cases. More than 30 lakh tests, including rapid antigen and RT-PCR ones, were carried out in these two months, which is 66.2% of all tests in Delhi. While September saw 917 deaths, the number went up to 1,150 in October, the third highest for one month since June and July, which saw 2,269 and 1,221 Covid deaths, respectively. With the number of cases and the positivity rate increasing, Delhi government has started arranging for more Covid beds even as more than 15,000 beds are vacant now. An expert committee under Dr V K Paul, formed by the Centre in October, has expressed apprehensions that the festival-related gatherings, along with the winter season combined with the rising pollution, could lead to a spurt in Covid-19 cases. Delhi government has ascribed the spike to aggressive contact tracing and testing. After cases started increasing in August, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that Covid-19 tests in Delhi would be doubled to 40,000 a day. In September, it increased to 50,000, and, in October, to 52,000. Compared with more than 30 lakh tests in September and October, the count was much lower in earlier months. More than 5.5 lakh tests were conducted in August, 5 lakh in July and 3.2 lakh in June. The total count between March and May was 2.1 lakh. While the number of new cases recorded in October is the highest, the overall positivity rate of 6.6% was lower than September’s 7%. Both figures are lower than the overall rate in June — 20.6%, with the rate even going beyond 30% during the peak. The cumulative positivity rate in Delhi is 8.3%. It has, however, gone back to double digits in the last two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/oct-sept-saw-54-8-of-all-covid-cases-till-date-66-of-total-tests/articleshow/78988448.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana, AP to ink pact on bus services today||HYDERABAD: After several rounds of talks on resumption of inter-state bus services, the road transport corporations of Telangana and AP have decided to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Monday on resuming the bus services. The inter-state bus services between the two states were suspended since lockdown on March 22. TSRTC managing director, Sunil Sharma, APSRTC managing director Krishna Babu and executive directors of both the corporations will sign the MoU in the presence of Telangana transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar. Though the TSRTC resumed inter-district services in May following relaxations, it hasn’t commenced inter-state services following a dispute between the two corporations on equal number of operations. APSRTC used to operate buses in 2.5 lakh route km in Telangana while TSRTC used to run buses in 1.5 lakh route km in AP. This prompted TSRTC to bring down APSRTC route km in Telangana as it dents the corporation revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-ap-to-ink-pact-on-bus-services-today/articleshow/78988377.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Admission for medical and dental seats begin||HYDERABAD: Admissions for medical and dental seats in Telangana commenced on Sunday following a notification issued by the Kaloji Narayana University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS). In all, 50,392 candidates had appeared for national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) from Telangana of which 49.15 percent qualified. This year, total 1,740 seats are available in government medical colleges and 3,300 in private and minority medical colleges. Apart from this, 1,140 seats are available in government and private dental colleges. As per the notification, NEET qualified candidates can apply online for medical and dental seats in Telangana till 5 pm on November 8. “Date of release of the provisional final merit list of candidates, exercising of web options, commencement of classes and closure of admissions as per NMC/DCI guidelines will be notified later,” read the notification. Registration and verification fee for general category candidates is Rs 3,500 and for scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and backward classes (SC/ST/BC) is Rs 2,900. In view of Covid-19 and lockdown, the process of application and certificate verification has been changed by the university, wherein candidates have to scan and upload the certificates for verification. The cut-off score for the medical and dental course out of 720 is 147 for general category (including those from economically weaker sections), 113 for SC/ST/BC and 129 for persons with disabilities. For the second consecutive year, 10 percent of the total seats will be reserved for the EWS category candidates. “The number of seats available under EWS category will be notified after permission is received for those seats in specified government medical/dental colleges from the Medical Council of India (now National Medical Commission)/Dental Council of India/government of India before counselling,” read the notification. Admissions will not be held under the sports quota for the academic year 2020-21 as the Telangana government has granted permission for it for other professional courses except MBBS/BDS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/admission-for-medical-and-dental-seats-begin/articleshow/78989357.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ghogha-Hazira ferry to sail on November 8||GANDHINAGAR: A year after the Ghogha-Dahej Ro-Ro ferry services ran into choppy waters, the central government has revived this ambitious sea transport project, albeit on a different route.On November 8, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the Ghogha-Hazira service to the nation virtually. Mansukh Mandaviya, Union minister for state for shipping (independent charge) said on Sunday, “The the travelling distance between Saurashtra and Surat will be reduced from 370km to 50km through this sea route. Apart from being a faster mode of transport, the ferry service will also be a big tourist attraction.” This is the second attempt at operationalizing the Ro-Pax ferry service in Gujarat after the Ghogha-Dahej service had to be discontinued for several technical reasons, mainly unprecedented silting in the navigation channel at Dahej port due to heavy influx of Narmada water. The service which began in 2017 was discontinued in September last year. Later, Deendayal Port Trust (DPT), Kandla, was tasked with re-starting the service to Hazira and select a company to build the infrastructure. Adani Group’s Adani Hazira Ports Pvt Ltd (AHPPL) quoted the lowest - Re 1 - in the bids invited by DPT, and built the infrastructure. The minister added the time taken by road to travel between Hazira near Surat and Ghogha in Bhavnagar is about 10 hours, which will now be reduced to just four hours. Mandaviya further said,“Ro-Pax sea passage will also lead to reduction in road accidents and loss of lives. This will be the gateway to South Gujarat and Saurashtra.” Dahej was a tough location, admits minister The minister acknowledged there were huge difficulties in running the Ro-Pax service between Ghogha-Dahej due to technical issues. “Due to heavy floods and change of Narmada River’s course, Dahej is facing severe silting. It is becoming increasingly difficult to operate big vessels at Dahej. Until a technical solution is available, we have decided to operate larger vessels between Ghogha and Hazira while passengers will be able to use smaller boats to travel from Hazira to Dahej.” Seaplane and Ro-Pax service will be started in other parts of the country The central government is looking to tap economic development opportunities along the 7,500km long coast of India. “We have around 1,000 islands where seaplane, Ro-Ro and Ro-Pax services can boost tourism and generate jobs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-to-dedicate-ghogha-hazira-ro-pax-service-on-nov-8/articleshow/78988444.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Green shoots: Half of functional SEZs in Gujarat see exports growth||AHMEDABAD: Even as the overall exports from the Special Economic Zones (SEZs) across the state continue to stay low, half of the total 20 operational SEZs have seen a turnaround with their exports growing in September and October. The cumulative exports of all the functional SEZs in Gujarat declined by 18% at Rs 11,348 crore in September 2020 as compared to Rs 13,851 crore in the same month last year, said sources citing the export data. “However, apart from Kandla Special Economic Zone (KASEZ), 10 other SEZs have shown strong signs of recovery in September and October. This is a good indicator as these SEZs have registered growth in both imports and exports,” said people in the know. In September, the exports from Surat SEZ, Dahej SEZ, Zydus SEZ and KASEZ increased by 89%, 56%, 37% and 16%, respectively. The other SEZs that witnessed noticeable growth in exports include Jubilant SEZ (105% export growth), Sterling SEZs (81%) and TCS SEZ (50%). Continuing to maintain exports growth, the Sterling SEZ, Surat SEZ and Zydus SEZ have seen their exports rise 205%, 124% and 9% respectively during the period from October 1 to 21. “Increase in the demand of diamond jewellery from the US has pushed up exports from Surat SEZs. Apart from this, establishment of new units and expansion by the existing bigger players have further led to the rise in exports from the SEZ,” said a source privy to the information. Surge in chemicals and drug exports has helped Dahej and Zydus SEZs register growth in exports. “The production units in SEZs enjoy greater flexibility and they can promptly switch to products which are in demand. For example: many plastics units could switch to making personal protective equipment (PPE) to fulfil the growing demand of such products in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Hence, some of the SEZs managed to keep exporting even during the tough times,” added the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/green-shoots-half-of-functional-sezs-in-gujarat-see-exports-growth/articleshow/78988477.cms||Kalpesh Damor
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid safety enforcement takes a hit in bypoll-bound RR Nagar||BENGALURU:Twenty massive political rallies, where social distancing and mask rules were flouted with impunity, were held in bypoll-bound RR Nagar assembly constituency during the week ending October 30, yet the zone under which the segment falls has reported a meagre 690 Covid-19 safety violations during the period. Top political functionaries across party lines have held rallies, drawing massive crowds, in the constituency which goes to the polls on Tuesday. The zone had 5,260 active cases as on October 30 and reported 1,282 new Covid cases and 12 deaths over the preceding week. The positivity rate in the zone in the last 14 days has remained at 5.6%. Yet, the number of violations has been far fewer compared to other zones and this has not been lost on citizens. Jnanesh, a resident of RR Nagar, said that though rules are the same for all, BBMP marshals are not going after politicians and their followers. "Marshals target only the poor and powerless," he said. City police commissioner Kamal Pant, however, said his force has booked multiple cases in RR Nagar zone. R Vishal, BBMP’s zonal coordinator for Covid-19, RR Nagar zone, admitted enforcement has fallen in his jurisdiction. "After electioneering commenced, police became very busy with security and BBMP marshals in the area were also given various tasks," he said. "This was a setback in enforcement, but in order to prevent the spread, we are focusing on testing." Meanwhile, BBMP has booked a case against Sandalwood star Darshan under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, for flouting Covid-19 safety norms while campaigning for BJP candidate Munirathna in RR Nagar, Palike commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad confirmed on Sunday. Darshan campaigned for Munirathna on Friday and actress Amulya and producer Rockline Venkatesh were also part of the rally. Prasad said electoral officials have video and photographic evidence against Darshan and his associates. Officials say they did not maintain social distance. If the accused is found guilty, s/he can be imprisoned for up to one year, Prasad said. Of the cases booked in the past three days for flouting Covid-19 norms, eight were booked against BJP members, four against Congress, two against JD(S) and one against Darshan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-safety-enforcement-takes-a-hit-in-bypoll-bound-rr-nagar/articleshow/78987230.cms||Kiran Parashar
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat ATS gets three cash rewards; one of Rs 88 lakh||Ahmedabad: In addition to the Special Operations Award won by five police officials of Gujarat ATS including DIG Himanshu Shukla, Gujarat ATS has been given three cash awards. ATS officials said that on recommendation of Bhatia, the current in-charge director for NCB, Rakesh Asthana, has sanctioned a cash award of Rs 88 lakh for the 100kg heroin seizure worth Rs 500 crore made by ATS in March 2019. The seizure was made in a joint operation with Indian Coast Guard (ICG) 178 nautical miles west of Porbandar coast.“Inspector Bhavesh Roziya of ATS had got the intelligence input about the traffickers. Nine Irani nationals and one Pakistani was nabbed by Gujarat ATS,” said an ATS official. The second reward is of Rs 51, 000 cash for detecting a 16-year-old Kadi temple murder case in which four people were hacked to death in April 2004. Gujarat government at that time had announced a reward of Rs 51,000. “The information about the killer, Govind Nandram Vadav, 48, was generated by inspector C R Jadav of ATS and Vadav was arrested from Simthara Village in Madhya Pradesh. The major chunk of the cash reward, announced by MoS home Pradeepsinh Jadeja, will go to inspector Jadav,” claimed ATS sourcesThe third cash reward of Rs 3.75 lakh, ATS got, was for detecting the murder of Hindu Samaj Party leader Kamlesh Tiwari, which took place in October 2019. He was shot dead in Lucknow of Uttar Pradesh. “The total reward was of Rs 5 lakh of which Rs 1.25 lakh was given to Lucknow police for their role in the investigation. On the information gathered by wireless sub inspectors Manan Oja and Mrunal Shah of ATS, the agency had arrested Asfak Hussain and Moinuddin Farid of Surat from near Shamlaji,” added an ATS official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-ats-gets-three-cash-rewards-one-of-rs-88-lakh/articleshow/78988466.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
November 2, 2020||Madurai||Schools await SOPs from government on reopening||Madurai: After the state government announced on Saturday that schools can reopen for classes IX to XII from November 16, teachers and parents welcomed the move, at the same time remained cautious. Schools are hoping to get proper directives from the government on how the classes will be conducted and a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP). Although schools are prepared to implement Covid-19 safety measures and reopen, the possibility of rise in Covid-19 cases during the monsoon and winter have raised some concerns. “This is definitely a welcome move as schools cannot forever remain closed. For government school students, this is much-needed as it is the only way for them to focus on studies again. Almost half the academic year over, there cannot be any more delay,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school, adding distancing and other Covid-19 precautionary measures can be easily followed by students with practice. “It remains to be seen how the classes will be held, whether full strength is allowed daily or if it is going be on shift basis. It is tough to have one-size fits all protocol as infrastructure in schools are different. Ideally, schools should be given the freedom to hold classes in the way that best fits them,” said M Senthilnathan, president, Private Schools Correspondents’ Confederation. He added that reception from parents also remains to be seen as some may not be willing to send their child to school and hence blended learning may be advisable. “Children’s safety is of utmost importance, but now everyone has got used to following precautionary measures and going outside. I don’t see why schools alone must be closed. Students of classes IX to XII are old enough to understand and follow precautions strictly. But, there must be clear guidelines on how schools will take measures if even one student is infected with Covid-19,” said K Vimala, a parent of a Class X student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-await-sops-from-government-on-reopening/articleshow/78989360.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Week 9: Delhiites defeated dengue again, says Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: With Delhi government’s anti-dengue campaign ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ entering its ninth week on Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged Delhiites to join the fight. He said that Delhi has again defeated the vector-borne disease as cases have reduced further and there has been no dengue-related death this year. Kejriwal said that just like last year, dengue is under control in Delhi this year too. “Today is the ninth Sunday of the ongoing campaign against dengue. I changed the water accumulated at my house. The cases of dengue have reduced even more and no dengue-related death has taken place in Delhi this year. Delhi has again defeated dengue. #10Hafte10Baje10Minute Har Ravivaar, Dengue Par Vaar,” Kejriwal tweeted. Urging citizens to join the campaign, Kejriwal said that owing to the aggressive campaign by the AAP government this year, no dengue-related death has been reported in the national capital. “Delhi is strongly fighting & winning the battle against Dengue. This is the 2nd last Sunday of the campaign #10Hafte10Baje10Minute. Make it a habit to change or clean the accumulated water every week. I appeal to the Delhiites to make this campaign a clean swipe for dengue,” health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted. Last week, the anti-dengue campaign got support from celebrities such as Shankar Mahadevan, who encouraged citizens of Delhi to religiously follow the prevention guidelines, such as inspecting their residences for signs of stagnant water, draining accumulated water or adding a layer of oil or petrol to it to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/week-9-delhiites-defeated-dengue-again-says-kejriwal/articleshow/78988496.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Farm fire count down a tad, but share in PM2.5 touches season’s peak of 40%||NEW DELHI: At 40%, the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s air was at its highest for this season on Sunday, with 3,216 fires recorded in the northern plains on Saturday. Track the pollution level in your cityWhile the fire count data has reduced from 3,471 on Friday, the share of stubble burning has risen from Saturday’s 32% due to favourable meteorological conditions that are allowing long-range transport of pollutants to Delhi. The data from last year shows the highest single-day contribution of stubble burning was 44%. The capital’s air quality, meanwhile, remained very poor, with an air quality index (AQI) of 364 recorded in the evening, a slight decrease from Saturday’s 367. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), which has been analysing the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration over the past one month, states that despite an improvement in wind speed, strong north and north-westerly winds are bringing pollution from the northern plains. “Air quality has not progressed as expected due to high stubble-related intrusion and trapping of pollutants during night time owing to low wintertime boundary layer height,” the central forecasting agency said on Sunday. “However, it has not deteriorated further. The highly favourable conditions for fire-related intrusion in Delhi are expected to continue.” The 2019 data shows the peak of fire counts came on November 5, with over 5,000 such incidents recorded on the satellite imagery. In 2018, over 4,500 fires were recorded on November 8. While harvesting has begun earlier than normal this year, Delhi could yet see an increase in daily fire counts over the next two weeks, said experts. According to SAFAR, a better ventilation condition is forecast for the next two days. However, AQI is likely to improve only marginally — within very poor category — on Monday, which is now becoming dependent on farm fires. It is likely to marginally deteriorate on Tuesday, SAFAR said, adding that increased local surface winds with faster dispersion conditions are counteracting on two counts — increased fire-related emission and mass accumulation of pollutants at night. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department, said while local wind speed had increased, calm conditions at night and a low boundary layer were helping pollutants get trapped. “Wind direction is also north-westerly, which is bringing stubble burning into the picture in a major way,” said Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farm-fire-count-down-a-tad-but-share-in-pm2-5-touches-seasons-peak-of-40/articleshow/78988485.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 2, 2020||Madurai||Fresh cases remain in 200 range in central, south TN||Madurai/Trichy: The southern districts of the state reported 219 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths taking the tally to 1,24,299, which include 1,857 active cases. With this, the death toll has climbed to 2,010, as 1,20,432 patients have recovered so far. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 227 fresh cases taking the tally to 65,682, which include 1,832 active cases. The region also recorded five deaths pushing the toll to 868. Madurai and Kanyakumari reported 43 new cases each, the highest in the southern region. Madurai and Tuticorin, with 486 and 456 active cases, have the most number of active cases in the region, followed by Kanyakumari (323). All other districts have less than 200 active cases, which include Theni (54), Ramanathapuram (53), Dindigul (48) and Sivaganga (26). Dindigul (29), Tirunelveli (28) and Tuticorin (25) reported more than 20 Covid-19 cases while Virudhunagar (18), Theni (17) and Sivaganga recorded more than 10 new cases on Sunday. Tenkasi and Ramanathapuram reported three cases each. The two Covid-19 deaths were reported in Tenkasi. The Covid-19 death rate in the southern region has touched 1.61%. In the central districts, Thanjavur reported the highest number (52) of positive cases and a death. With this, the district tally has climbed to 15,392 on Sunday. Tiruvarur and Trichy recorded 51 and 34 fresh positive cases taking the tally to 9,680 and 12,543. Trichy also recorded a death. Karur reported 32 new positive cases and a Covid-19 death. The total count of the district is 4,170. In Nagapattinam, the number of fresh positive cases was 25 on Sunday taking district tally to 6,752. Ariyalur reported eight cases and Perambalur six cases taking the tally to 4,385 and 2,146.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fresh-cases-remain-in-200-range-in-central-south-tn/articleshow/78989367.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: ‘DBS will ensure reliable power supply for farmers’||VIJAYAWADA: Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL) managing director Rajat Sud on Sunday said that the proposed direct benefit scheme (DBS) for farmers will ensure adequate reliable quality of power supply to make agriculture sustainable, empower the farmers and improve the efficiency of the scheme. Sud said that under DBS, farmers will get the right to demand quality power supply from Discoms. He had earlier met energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli and discussed about the potential of energy efficiency and various schemes particularly in rural areas. According to an official statement here, Rajat said the direct cash transfer is seen as one of the most promising pathways to enhance the efficiency in power supply for agriculture. “In the past, several constraints hit rural areas with substantial economic costs in both farm and non-farm sectors. In this scenario, the best metering system, smart meters can address this kind of issues efficiently and effectively,” Sud said and added EESL distributed over 36 crore LED bulbs, reducing cost of bulbs by 10-fold and the installation of over 1.1 crore smart LED streetlights. It enabled an estimated energy savings of 6000 crore units per year, green-house gas emission reduction of over 4.5 crore tonnes of CO2 & monetary savings of around Rs 24,000 crore annually. AP is pioneer in LED street lighting and around 30 lakh LED street lights were installed out of 1.1 crore of the country’s total. Srikanth said the state government has laid three major factors in power sector — to establish 10,000 MW solar power plant within Anantapur, Kurnool, Kadapa and Prakasam, ensure free power for next three decades, and empower farmers through DBT scheme and strengthen rights of farmers in getting free power for agriculture purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dbs-will-ensure-reliable-power-supply-for-farmers/articleshow/78986695.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: 4-year-old kidnapped over biz deal, returned after dad approaches cops||VISAKHAPATNAM: In an unusual incident, a family went to the house of another in Gajuwaka and kidnapped a four-year-old on Saturday afternoon. The motive behind the act was to recover money allegedly owed by the boy’s father. However, the boy was released after his father approached police. The kidnappers sent the boy home in a taxi which they had hired for the kidnapping. According to reports, the boy’s father — Naresh Kumar Yadav — is an employee with SB Transport Company which owed Rs 40 lakh to Biswal Marine Corporation and negotiations were on to settle the amount. On Saturday afternoon, Pradeep Kumar Biswal — the company’s owner — along with his wife and son, went to Yadav’s house when he was not there. Pradeep offered chocolates to the Yadavs’ four-year-old, Mayank, and took him outside the house.When Yadav returned home, he looked for his son but could not find him.  Yadav approached police to lodge a complaint. Soon after, Biswal’s wife told him to deposit Rs 40 lakh into her husband’s account after which his son would be returned. Yadav informed police of this conversation but when the cops questioned her, she refused to reveal any details. Suspecting that he may land in trouble, Biswal sent the boy in the taxi back to Yadav’s house late on Saturday night. Gajuwaka police informed that Biswal had offered Rs 15 lakh to the driver to take the kidnapped boy to Kakinada. Cops have arrested three persons in connection with the case and are on the lookout for Pradeep Biswal who is absconding. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/4-year-old-kidnapped-over-biz-deal-returned-after-dad-approaches-cops/articleshow/78986779.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kochi||Malayali Diaspora: Home & Away Empire Strikes Back: From MBA to MBE, a British Malayali’s success story||London: For the thousands of Malayali students who go to the United Kingdom every year to do a higher education course, Jacob Thundil’s story is an inspiration. Most often, the youngsters have to go back to India when their student visa expires as it is near to impossible to turn it into a work permit. To achieve that, a student has to find a high-paying job with an employer who believes they are absolutely essential for the job. After coming to London in 1997, Jacob was also in a similar position. He completed his MBA from London Metropolitan University and was on the verge of expiry of his student visa. Instead of waiting for the return date, Jacob wrote his own future. He faxed a letter to over 25 big UK companies. The content of the letter was this: “If you are not prepared for the European Union, talk to me. I will help.” It was the beginning of the European Union, a new phase for business in the UK, and Jacob had done his dissertation on it. He got calls from three companies -- British Telecom (BT), Fiat and Visio. He started his career by joining BT as an intern for their graduate programme. Today, 22 years later, Jacob has a successful business, Cocofina, based in London that sells to 3,000 outlets in the UK. Last week, the 46-year-old was awarded the Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) for his services to international trade and exports. A meteoric rise for a man whose life was at crossroads in his teenage. Jacob said his career really started at 17. His father died when he was doing mechanical engineering at TKM College in Kollam. “I tried to turn that moment into positive rather than negative,” Jacob recalled. “I took over my dad’s cashew byproduct business while continuing my studies. My father had started the business after his retirement. So it was still at an infant stage and had kept limited customers as he didn’t want stress. “I continued studies and business together.” Four year later, he handed over the company to his mother and flew to London to do an MBA. From being an intern at BT, Jacob climbed the career ladder with jobs at Lloyds, HSBC, Bank of Scotland, Accenture and Standard Chartered Bank. It was during a business trip to Rio de Janeiro in 2004 when Jacob got the idea for Cocofina. Seeing that coconut water is given to customers, he thought to himself — why couldn’t this be sold in the UK! “I always wanted to do something on my own,” Jacob said. “And I was always a big fan of coconut water. But the problem was, no one really liked coconut water in the UK,” Jacob recalled. At a taste festival at London’s Regent’s Park, 50% of the participants said they hated Jacob’s product. So he went back and slightly changed the taste. Until then, he used to export the water from India. After the review, he blended three different types of coconut water to create a milder drink. Fortunately, it was also the start of a health wave when the trend for organic food was growing. Jacob and Cocofina also appeared in Dragon’s Den (British version of Shark Tank) in 2016 and was offered £75,000 investment by the Dragons. The British government’s honour came as a surprise for the businessman. Having been exporting to 28 countries, Jacob is a source of information for new businesses and the UK government’s department of international trade. “British government’s goal is to increase exports. So they contact me often to inspire other small businesses to export and to consult on trade policies. We are also their export champions. But when they recommended my name for the MBE, it was very unexpected,” Jacob added. To the Malayali diaspora who strive to make it big abroad, Jacob has one mantra: “Always try.” “Trying is very important. No one can blame you for trying. You don’t have to look desperate, but you can try hard,” he added. Jacob has 19-year-old son who studies in Newcastle. His father John Mathew hailed from Kollam; his mother Sophy now lives in Kottayam while his twin sisters Maya and Jaya live in Kochi. (Kiran Tom Sajan, who hails from Kochi, is a journalist based in London)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-diaspora-home-away-empire-strikes-back-from-mba-to-mbe-a-british-malayalis-success-story/articleshow/78988750.cms||Kiran Tom Sajan
November 2, 2020||Dehradun||Absence of Nepalese workers due to border closure hits traders in several U’khand districts||Nainital: After a lull of over seven months because of the Coronavirus-induced lockdown and thereafter the monsoons, the period for soft-stone mining is set to start in a few days in Pithoragarh district which lies alongside the border with Nepal. However, mining operator Sudhir Rathore is not very hopeful that he will be able to resume operations, as more than 120 of his workers are still stuck in Nepal. “I employ around 150 workers, most of whom are from Nepal. Some of them stayed back in Uttarakhand when the lockdown began but most returned to their homes in Nepal thinking they will be back before the mining season begins in November. However, till now, not a single one of them has been able to return,” Rathore told TOI. He isn’t alone. Tensions between India and Nepal — since Nepal unilaterally included three areas in its new map in the middle of the year — have now begun to hurt many businesses in Uttarakhand which depend heavily on workforce from across the border. These workers from Nepal are an important part of the economy in many border areas of the state and are employed in several sectors — ranging from construction to agriculture, tourism and mining. No reliable estimates are available on the number of migrant workers from Nepal currently employed in the border districts of Uttarakhand although the number is believed to be in thousands. Karan Bahadur, one of the Nepalese workers from Dailekh district of Karnali Pradesh in Nepal, told TOI that most workers are anxious to return to work. He added that he has made several attempts in the last few months to come to India but was turned away from the border. “I had gone back to my village in Nepal during the lockdown and since then, I have tried many times to come to India but the border authorities turned us away each time. Earlier, there were very few restrictions but now it is very difficult to move between the two countries,” the 27-year-old said, adding that he has been unemployed since he went back to Nepal. A hotelier from Nainital told TOI that Nepalese workers are “the backbone of the local economy in the lake town as they are reliable and many business-owners prefer employing them.” Sushil Sah, president of the traders’ union in Almora, added, “Most of our businesses depend on Nepalese workers. We have been petitioning the government to allow these workers to come back to Uttarakhand.” The traders also cite the measures taken by Himachal Pradesh in this regard. When the apple harvest season approached in August, the government of Himachal had made a request to the Centre following which Nepalese workers were allowed in the country. “We need a seminal solution. Since the relations between the two countries are not very pleasant at the moment, we need our state government to come up with a similar solution, too, to revive the state’s economy,” Rathore said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/absence-of-nepalese-workers-due-to-border-closure-hits-traders-in-several-ukhand-districts/articleshow/78986342.cms||Prashant Jha
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man murdered in Khanpur||Ahmedabad: A man from Shahpur was stabbed to death in Khanpur when he tried to rescue his brother from three men who were thrashing and trying to kill him late on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as Zaheeruddin Syed, 28, a resident of Karbala Masjid slums in Khanpur. He was trying to rescue his brother Samsuddin, 30, a tailor from the Khanpur area. Samsuddin also suffered severe injuries in the attack. According to an FIR filed by Samsuddin, he along with his three friends were standing near Khanpur Darwaza when the accused Ayyub Momin, 51, Firoz Shaikh, 26, and Mohammed Rizvan Shaikh, 23, rushed there and began asking Samsuddin and his friends on why they misbehaved with them. A few hours ago Samsuddin’s scooter had banged into Ayyub’s autorickshaw near eastern side of Sabarmati riverfront after which they indulged in heated arguments. Ayyub went from there at that time and later came again with his aides. This time, Ayyub and his aides were equipped with sticks, bats and knives with which they attacked Samsuddin and his friends. The accused fled from there and Zaheeruddin and Samsuddin were taken to the VS hospital in the Ellisbridge area. Zaheeruddin was declared brought dead and Samsuddin is admitted in the ICU. Inspector R J Chudasma of Shahpur police said all the three accused were nabbed by cops and booked for murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-murdered-in-khanpur/articleshow/78988537.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: No just academics, teachers fear multiple gaps in student learning||BENGALURU: One of the biggest challenges teachers and managements will face when schools reopen is the learning gap in children. The gap, educationists say, will not be in academics alone. It could extend to other skills including emotional, social, communication, cognitive and attitudinal ones as children have missed out on a school environment. From the discipline of getting ready for school to classroom etiquette, physical fitness and peer interaction, children will have to plenty to learn and unlearn. “School provides children with exposure and experience with peer groups and mentors,” said Jyothis Mathew, Treamis World School. “Lack of it can lead to motivational and psychological wellbeing challenges, gaps in social, cognitive and emotional intelligence skills and the very basic way of how they even express themselves.” Sarada Chandrasekharan, director, Whitefield Global School, said, “In a classroom atmosphere, 95% of issues amongst children never reach teachers, but are resolved by children themselves. But today, if a child is called names on a chat box, s/he does not know how to deal with it. These skills are learnt in a classroom atmosphere. We fear even attentive skills may have dropped because children now have the option of not listening by muting a teacher.” Manila Carvalho of Delhi Public School (East) said school atmosphere inculcates discipline such as waking up early, getting ready for school and attending assembly. “During this period there has been no adherence to a rigid system. They will have to start all over again.” She also pointed out how children have been missing out on the camaraderie that’s built during lunch breaks and games; the system of a student council where young children look up to seniors and find a role model; or management skills of adjusting to a neighbour. Sanaaz R Dous, counselling lead, Inventure Academy concurred: “As much as students love school and are waiting to get back, they have also entered a comfort zone at home due to limited social interactions. Some may have even forgotten what face-to-face interactions with peers are like. This is seen more in children who are introverts.” However, there some who have bloomed in online classes — those who are shy by nature or had unpleasant experiences in schools. “There is no robust scientific evidence to predict the long-term consequences of the current gap. However, it is an educated guess that the effect will depend on various factors: Child’s age, temperament, grade, family support, economic support, and social opportunities in the community,” said Thomas Kishore, additional professor of Clinical Psychology, Nimhans. The good news, educationists say is that children are resilient. They learn and unlearn quickly and would be the fastest to bounce back. “Academic learning can be covered through extra classes,” said Sulata Shenoy, director, Turning Point, a counselling centre. “Schools should focus on helping children bridge the gap in socio-emotional skills by introducing games, music, arts or other activities.”  Early childhood experts say children are losing out on valuable time. “Ages 3-6 years is a critical phase in socio-emotional development when developmental tasks, which psychologists call ‘theory of mind’, is built through interactions with others, developing perspectives and moral reasoning,” said Kavita Gupta Sabharwal, founder of Neev Academy. “This continues for many years. The ‘forgetting curve’ theory that emerged in the 1800s suggests a month of knowledge loss for every three months without school.” One area where children are expected to lag is in physical fitness. “Even in pre-Covid era, studies showed fitness levels dip during the summer vacation. Aerobic/anaerobic capacity, abdominal/lower body/upper body strength and flexibility drops during this period. So the impact this Covid break would have on fitness levels is imaginable,” said Saumil Majumdar, co-founder and CEO, Sportzvillage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-just-academics-teachers-fear-multiple-gaps-in-student-learning/articleshow/78987246.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: RTC bus stations to get world-class facelift||VISAKHAPATNAM: The APSRTC Maddilapalem bus station in the city and Narsipatnam in Visakhapatnam district are slated to be developed as integrated bus stations with world-class facilities in the state government’s plans. Situated along the national highway in an area of nearly six acres, the Maddilapalem station will be upgraded with better facilities at an estimated cost of Rs 25 crore. The bus station has gained prominence after the launch of inter-district services to main bus stations like Kakinada and Rajamundhry during the lockdown period. The Narsipatnam station would be revamped at an estimated cost of Rs 10 crore. The Andhra Pradesh Urban Infrastructure Asset Management Limited (APUIAML) has been tasked with preparing a detailed project report (DPR) and submit it to the state government by December this year or January 2021. “The government decided to upgrade seven bus stations including the Vizag’s Maddilapalem in the first phase and another 20 stations in later phases. At present, the government’s focus is on five RTC sites in in five districts and those will be converted into commercial complexes-cum-bus stations,” an RTC official to TOI. The bus stations will be revamped under public-private partnerships (PPP). The RTC had called for tenders two months back for the selection of architectural consultant. The seven stations include Autonagar in Vijayawada, Hanuman Junction in Krishna district, Tirupati, Narsipatnam in Visakhapatnam district, Kurnool, Narasaraopet in Guntur district. Each bus stand will be allocated between Rs 10 crore and Rs 25 crore. The stations will be equipped with facilities such as Wi-Fi, bio-toilets, ramps for senior citizens and the differently-abled, railings, digital display boards among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rtc-bus-stations-to-get-world-class-facelift/articleshow/78986795.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 2, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: CA makes right investment in poor kids||VADODARA: When Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently asked countrymen to light lamps for soldiers guarding the borders, some unexpected quarters had oil lamps lit outside their homes. These were the dwellings of construction labours and the lamps were lit by children staying there. It is not as if the children had heard the PM and decided to light the lamps. They were motivated by a chartered accountant (CA) who has been working with them for over four years. He has been looking into their needs of education, nutritious food and takes steps that make these children happy. “I started cycling around 4.5 years back and used to see these children outside their homes or at construction sites. Initially, I used to offer them some food and interact with them. I realised that they were very talented and smart,” said CA Gaurang Parikh (63) who daily reaches out to 120 to 130 children. Parikh decided to celebrate festivals with the children in a unique way. “For instance, they make mud Ganesha idols for the Ganpati festival and immerse them in an eco-friendly way. They make drawing on Independence Day or lamps for Diwali,” said Parikh. The CA has also been looking into the need of education for these children. “I give them books and ensure that they are introduced to alphabets. An NGO teaches them,” said Parikh. He has also tried to ensure that children go to the nearest government school for studies. The children wrote their names on papers and these were pasted on their homes like name plates so that children felt proud. Apart from this, tips on cleanliness, personal hygiene and other such aspects are also given to the children. Parikh says that many are now sponsoring material or even food for children. “Those who are aware of my work get in touch with me whenever they want to donate. A family recently gave different food items to the children for 13 days after the death of a relative,” Parikh said. The children have now made clay lamps and coloured them. “They will take these lamps to their homes during Diwali. We are also giving them Rangoli colours. They will make a Rangoli and light the lamp in it,” said Parikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ca-makes-right-investment-in-poor-kids/articleshow/78986282.cms||Sachin Sharma
November 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Tension in Chirala as followers of netas clash||CHIRALA: Tension prevailed in Prakasam district’s Chirala town following clashes between followers of MLA Karanam Balaram and former MLA Amanchi Krishnamohan. At least five people from both sides were injured in the incident that took place late on Saturday night. The injured were shifted to a government hospital in Chirala. Additional police personnel were rushed to the spot to disperse the mob. Police enforced prohibitory orders and asked both groups not to take out any rallies. The row started when Karanam Balaram’s followers took out a rally from Chirala town to Pandillapalli village to celebrate the legislator’s birthday. Sources said that local YSRC leader Anjireddy organised the event. Baralam had won the assembly election as a TDP nominee but joined the YSRC after the elections. Since Pandillapalli is the native place of former MLA and local YSRC leader Amanchi Krishnamohan, the situation turned tense as the followers of Krishnamohan tried to obstruct the rally organised by Balaram’s followers. Sensing trouble, SP Siddarth Kaushal rushed at least three DSPs and five inspectors to Pandillapalli along with additional forces. Balaram’s followers were agitated when followers of Krishnamohan raised slogans against Balaram and his son Venkatesh. They said that they would not allow anyone to dictate terms in Chirala as long as Krishnamohan continues to be the constituency in-charge. District minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy spoke to the SP and directed him to take stringent measures against both groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tension-in-chirala-as-followers-of-netas-clash/articleshow/78986725.cms||Samdani MN
November 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||N Chandrababu Naidu trying to thwart progress: Minister||VISAKHAPATNAM: Agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu on Sunday alleged that former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu had been indirectly spearheading movements to thwart development in Rayalaseema and north coastal Andhra Pradesh under the guise of Amaravati Parirakshana. Speaking to media here, Kannababu faulted the former CM for not wishing the people on state formation day. “The ongoing protests seeking Amaravati as the capital are being directed by Naidu only. CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy proposed the three capital for the inclusive development of all three regions,” said Kannababu. “Naidu has hampered the state’s interests for his personal interests and accepted the special financial package from the Centre. He even failed to submit revised estimates for Polavaram. Although the project was listed as a national project in the AP Bifurcation Act, the previous government took it over from the Centre and failed to complete it,” the minister said adding, “ Unlike the previous TDP rule, Jagan Mohan Reddy has promised to provide housing to 30 lakh poor families free of cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/naidu-trying-to-thwart-progress-min/articleshow/78986685.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi likely to ban sale of loose cigarettes, beedis||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is likely to ban the sale of loose cigarettes and beedis to discourage people from consuming tobacco products injurious to health. The government is following the Maharashtra government that banned this sale last September. Sub-section 2 of Section 7 of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003 requires that no person shall carry on with trade or commerce in cigarettes or any other tobacco product unless every such product, sold, supplied or distributed by him, bears thereon or on its label the specified health warning. The ban on loose products can be imposed under this central Act. A government official said that in the wake of the Maharashtra government’s decision, the authorities in Delhi have also initiated deliberations to ensure improvement in public health. Consumers of these loose tobacco products don’t get to see the images or read the health warnings mandatory on the packets. A large section of these consumers belongs to underprivileged people and the youths who buy these products as they do not feel the pinch of high taxes, said an official in the public health department. To reduce smoking, which has been linked to cancer and heart diseases, the Union health ministry made use of enhanced pictorial images and new sets of warnings on cigarette packets mandatory under Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Packaging and Labelling) Third Amendment Rules, 2020. The changes will be applicable from December 1. “The sale of loose cigarettes and beedis runs contrary to the government efforts to educate people about the health hazards of smoking,” said the official. Watch Delhi to follow Maharashtra, ban sale of loose cigarettes, beedis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-likely-to-ban-sale-of-loose-cigarettes-beedis/articleshow/78988518.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||November begins with lowest Covid deaths in 96 days||Nagpur: November started on a positive note on Covid-19 front for Vidarbha. New cases reduced to 873, while 1,223 patients recovered in a day on Sunday. Most significant was the decline in number of deaths due to Covid-19. Only 12 people died on Sunday. The region had recorded less than 12 deaths before this on July 28 – exactly 96 days ago.While seven of the 12 deaths reported on Sunday came from Nagpur district, only two of them were from Nagpur city. Other two were from Nagpur rural and three from other districts/states. Chandrapur 2, Gadchiroli 2 and Gondia 1 reported deaths on Sunday. Remarkably, all deaths came from districts in Nagpur revenue division. No district in Amravati division reported Covid-19 death on Sunday. The number of new cases in Amravati division was 185 out of the 873. TOI had reported on November 1 that Amravati division is performing well compared to Nagpur since October.Sunday’s 873 cases came from Nagpur 192, Chandrapur 165, Gadchiroli 137, Gondia 83, Yavatmal 57, Wardha 56, Bhandara 55, Buldhana 53, Amravati 47, Akola 20, and Washim eight. On the other hand, 1,223 recoveries came from Nagpur 535, Chandrapur 129, Gondia 95, Buldhana 93, Amravati 79, Gadchiroli 77, Wardha 76, Bhandara 70, Washim 25, Akola 24, and Yavatmal 20.Out of total 1.99 lakh cases till date, 1.82 lakh have recovered. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 91.14%.Chandrapur: Two Covid deaths were reported, while 165 new cases were detected taking the Covid-19 patient count to 15,937 on Sunday. The day also witnessed discharge of 129 patients, taking the number of recovered patients to 12,799. With two Covid deaths on Sunday, the district’s toll has gone up to 234, while there are 2,904 patients under treatment. The two deceased include a person each from Mohala village in Pomburna teshil and Chimur town.Gadchiroli: The district reported two Covid-19 deaths on Sunday. A 45-year-old woman from Kurkheda and a 77-year-old man from Armori died during treatment taking the toll to 59. Total 137 new Covid-19 cases were reported taking the district’s caseload to 5,954. On the other hand, 77 patients recovered taking the number of total recoveries to 4,993. Gadchiroli has 902 patients under treatment.Yavatmal: The district reported no Covid casualty on the third consecutive day on Sunday. However, 57 new Covid cases were detected in the day. Currently, 372 patients are under treatment. So far, 10,226 Covid patients were detected in the district of whom 9,087 have recovered. The district’s toll remained 349.Amravati: For the second successive day on Sunday, the district did not report a single Covid death even as recoveries continued to outscore the number of new patients. Sunday saw 47 new patients as against 79 recoveries. While the caseload reached 16,349, the recoveries touched 15,357 for a percentage of 93.73. This left 628 patients, including 356 in home isolation, under treatment.Gondia: The district reported 83 new cases taking the total tally to 9,845 on Sunday. Total 95 patients were discharged in the day. Now, 729 continue to be under treatment. A 45-year-old patient succumbed to Covid-19 in Gondia taking the toll to 127. As on Sunday, 8,989 patients out of the total 9,845 have recovered.Wardha: Like elsewhere in the region, the district saw more recoveries than new patients on Sunday as 56 persons tested positive for coronavirus infection while 76 were discharged. The district’s caseload reached 6,346, while the number of recoveries jumped to 5,854. The district’s Covid toll remained at 212 as no casualty was reported on Sunday. Today’s 56 new cases include 33 from Wardha, Deoli 11, Ashti eight, Hinganghat three and Samudrapur one.Bhandara: Sunday marked 55 new cases and 70 recoveries in the district. No Covid death was reported in the day. Now, there are 8,574 total cases, 7,472 of them recovered and 219 dead. As on date, 883 patients are under treatment in the district.Washim: The district reported eight new cases, lowest in Vidarbha, on Sunday. With 25 patients recovering in the day, Washim now has 5,711 total patients out of which 5,147 have recovered. Total 143 deaths have been reported till date and 421 patients are under treatment.Buldhana: The district received reports of more than 850 tests on Sunday and 53 of them tested positive. This took Buldhana’s Covid-19 tally to 9,477. On the other hand, 93 patients recovered in the day taking the total number of recovered patients to 8,850. No Covid death was reported on Sunday. Total 521 patients are under treatment.Akola: The district reported 20 new patients while 24 recovered on Sunday. Out of total 8,416 patients, 7,926 have recovered. The Covid toll remained 281 as no death was reported on Sunday. Now, 209 patients are under treatment, which is lowest in Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/november-begins-with-lowest-covid-deaths-in-96-days/articleshow/78988266.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 2, 2020||Surat||Guide on nCov patients’ wellbeing out||Surat: While the pandemic has brought the world almost down on its knees, the most worrisome factor emerging out of the pandemic situation is the mental trauma of patients than physical manifestations from affliction. To address psychological issues faced by patients testing positive especially for dreaded Coronavirus, the Gujarat AIDS Control Society (Ahmedabad) in collaboration with UNICEF and State Institute of Health and Family Welfare (Vadodara) organized a training session for all counsellors on how to deal with psycho-social issues in the times of Covid-19 with the help of experts from across the state. ‘Ensuring Safety and Well-being through Psychosocial Support during COVID-19 Pandemic: A manual for Healthcare workers’ is now being circulated among all healthcare workers in the state. Experts opine that the spread of psychological issues requiring counselling and treatment in Covid-19 pandemic is far bigger than the disease itself among different groups of people. UNICEF had approached experts working in the field of psychiatry and 12 sessions were held for the counsellors wherein experts detailed various psychological aspects faced by different sections of societies. Later, a comprehensive module was prepared from these sessions. One of the key roles played by this manual is imparting information that arrests stigma and discrimination in the community pertaining to psychological issues. It has already been put to practice in various capacities in government hospitals, health programmes across the state. More than 5,000 healthcare workers participated in the capacity building training programme conducted through 12 interactive sessions on various topics. “This manual reflects the experience and expertise of more than 15 eminent psychiatrists and medical teachers of the state, along with public health experts,” said Dr Parag Shah, professor and HoD of Psychiatry, SMIMER, Surat and editor of the manual. “The unprecedented pandemic has created fear, anxiety, stress, panic and uncertainty. Stigma associated with it has also led to social disharmony and rise in mental illnesses in the society. Addressing these psychosocial issues of Covid-19 patients, their high-risk contacts and community members especially most vulnerable high risk groups is very important. We wish to build the capacities of the counsellors and healthcare providers for ensuring safety, mental health and well-being of everyone in the community,” Dr Narayan Gaonkar, health specialist, UNICEF, Gujarat told TOI. “Since the quantum of the issue is large and anxiety related to Covid-19 is widespread across all strata of the society, hence all healthcare providers should be aware of the identification and timely referral of the mental health issues arising out of the Covid-19. They should refer to this module for the prevention of the psychological issues,” said Dr Rajesh Gopal, additional project director, Gujarat State Aids Control Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/guide-on-ncov-patients-wellbeing-out/articleshow/78986422.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||Indians have smaller hearts, need separate parameters for treatment: Study||Nagpur: A multicentric study initiated four years back by a Nagpur-based cardiologist has shown that the heart of Indians is smaller than the reference range for western population. Based on echocardiography parameters, the study is named as Indian Normative Data of Echo Analysed (INDEA study). It was published in the October volume of the International Journal of Cardiovascular Imaging, which is a peer reviewed high impact journal. The study is being appreciated worldwide. “In India, doctors have always been following western guidelines as normal reference values. But, Indian ethnicity is different and I always wanted to know what was normal among us. Indian hearts are smaller in size than the hearts of western population. Our study confirms it,” said Dr Sengupta, who is the corresponding author of this study. Apart from his Sengupta Hospital and Research Institute at Nagpur, reputed hospitals across the country were the sites for this study. These include Jupiter Hospital from Thane, Medanta Medicity in Gurugram, Fortis Hospital in New Delhi, CHL Hospitals in Indore, and Rabindranath Tagore International Institute Of Cardiac Sciences, Kolkata. Dr Sengupta said this study will become a reference for future studies and will be helpful in redefining parameters to be used for understanding common health problems like hypertension and diabetes, which affect the heart. “INDEA study gives reference values about both left and right side of the heart size and the function of various chambers of the heart. Our findings underscore the need to follow India-specific reference values, instead of those recommended by western studies, which are largely applicable to the western population,” he said. Cardiologist Dr Amar Amale said cardiac parameters of different ethnicity vary just like BMI, average weight and height. “The time has come to have our own Indian standards for better treatment. This study could be termed as an important step towards it. More such studies will give a new insight into many issues,” he said. A lot of new information regarding the demographics of Indians is being accepted these days. Last month, the National Institute of Nutrition changed the average weight and height of an average Indian. Average weight for Indian men has been increased to 65kg, while that of Indian women has been changed to 55kg. The new average height for Indian men is 5.8 feet (177cm), and that for women is 5.3 feet (162cm). SMALL HEART, BIG DEAL Average volume of Indian heart is 15% to 20% lesser than the standard sizes set by American Society of Echocardiography (ASE), European Association of Cardiovascular Imaging (EACVI) etc Study suggests need to follow India-specific reference values, instead of those recommended by ASE/EACVI, which are largely applicable to western populations 4-year INDEA study is the first, multi-centric study to provide normal echocardiographic references values for Indian adults Healthy volunteers from six centres — Nagpur, Thane, Gurugram, New Delhi, Indore, and Kolkata — were enrolled in this study Comprehensive transthoracic echocardiographic study was performed on all participants||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/indians-have-smaller-hearts-need-separate-parameters-for-treatment-study/articleshow/78988252.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||Cases continue from across city despite steep decline in numbers||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city has dropped five times in last 10 days of October as compared to September. Still, cases have continued from all parts of the city and are not limited to a few localities.The city registered 35,373 cases for a daily average of 1,179 in September. The cases started to decline from beginning of October.There were 4,343 cases for a daily average of 620 in the first week of October, followed by 3,078 (440 per day) in second week, and 2,257 (322 per day) in third week. There were 2,486 cases for a daily average of 249 in the last 10 days.A close look into Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) list of positive patients of last three days revealed there are cases are from all six legislative assembly segments. There are one or two cases from almost all localities. There is no cluster of cases from one locality.In South-West constituency, the cases are from Laxmi Nagar, Khamla, IT Park, Ramdaspeth, Deo Nagar, Ajni, Somalwada, Parvati Nagar, Jaitala, Ambazari, Chandramani Nagar, Chinchbhuvan, Besa, Trimurti Nagar, Pandey layout, Gopal Nagar, Dhantoli, Sonegaon, Gokulpeth etc.Similarly, cases in South Nagpur are from Nandanwan, Rajbaksha, Manewada, Sakkardara, Raghuji Nagar, Dighori, Ayodhya Nagar, Gurudeo Nagar, Om Nagar, Somwari Layout etc.When it comes to Central Nagpur, the cases are from Siraspeth, Wakilpeth, Itwari, Gandhibagh, Mominpura, Juni Mangalwari etc.In West Nagpur, cases are from Shivaji Nagar, Seminary Hills, Anant Nagar, Friends Colony, Police Line Takli, Sitabuldi, Jaffar Nagar, Manish Nagar, Ram Nagar, Gorewada, Civil Lines, Gandhi Nagar and Mohan Nagar.The same situation prevails in East Nagpur where cases are from Hiwri Nagar, Lakadganj, Wardhaman Nagar, Wathoda, Bhandewadi, Pardi, Garoba Maidan, Kalamna, Misal Layout, HB Town etc.Cases are from Jaripatka, Vaishali Nagar, Nara, Nari, Bezonbagh etc in North Nagpur.Till end of July, when the daily number was low, majority of cases were from only a few areas like Mominpura, Satranjipura, Naik-Talao Bangladesh, Gaddigodam etc.Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “There was community spread in the city in August and September. Cases were high and came from all over city. Cases cannot be zero. Though less in number, current cases are baseline cases, so will come from all over the city.”Dr Shinde added, “It also indicates that cluster of cases is still prevailing in the city. One or two cases cannot come from one locality. But these clusters are unidentified. Those with antibodies or having good immunity will not come for testing and remain undetected. Those having Covid-19 symptoms and others who need to visit hospitals for other treatments are getting tested, of which some coming positive. We need a robust system of tracing and testing if we have to identify all clusters.”Asked if these scattered cases may help trigger a second wave, Dr Shinde said such chances are very less.NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “It is true that cases are less but registered from various parts of the city. Exact reasons behind it are not known. But the mindset of people has changed and they are coming for tests if they need. We have made available testing at 53 centres, which are situated across the city. Also, we are holding special camps and facilitating mobile swab collection centres. Therefore, people having symptoms or doubts from any locality are easily getting tested. Till July end, testing of only quarantined people was done. Therefore, cases were limited to a few areas.”THE NUMBER GAMEPeriod-----------------Tests-----Cases----TPR-----Deaths----CFRAugust--------------95,970----22,948----23.91%--877-------3.82%(Daily average------3,096-------740------23.91%---28-------3.82%)September---------2,04,880----35,373-----17.26%--1,136---3.21%(Daily average----6,829--------1,179------17.26%---38------3.21%)Oct 1-7-------------31,919-----4,343--------13.60%--138-----3.17%(Daily Average----4,560------620----------13.60%--20-------3.17%)Oct 8-14-----------34,155-------3,078--------9%-------67------2.17%(Daily average----4,879--------440----------9%-------10------2.17%)Oct 15-21----------35,375------2,257-------6.38%----64------2.83%(Daily average—-5,054--------322---------6.38%----9-------2.83%)Oct 22-31---------40,584-------2,486-------6.13%---55-------2.21%(Daily average----4,058--------249---------6.13%----6--------2.21%)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cases-continue-from-across-city-despite-steep-decline-in-numbers/articleshow/78988189.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Government announces Rs 10 lakh ex-gratia to kin of murder victim||VISAKHAPATNAM: Leaders and activists of various organisations have urged the government to severely punish those responsible for the murder of 17-year-old Varalakshmi by her jilted lover at Gajuwaka in Vizag city. They expressed concerns that in the name of love, some youngsters are harassing girls, only to indulge in violence. The accused, Akhil Sai (Anil), jilted by Varalakshmi, had slit open her throat on the roadside near Sundarayya Nagar under Gajuwaka police station limits on Saturday night. Varalakshmi died on the spot and the accused was arrested by the police. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday announced an ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh to the family of Varalakshmi. The CM directed the chief secretary, DGP and the intelligence chief to take action against the accused and directed home minister Mekathoti Sucharita, Disha special officers Krutika Shukla and Deepika Patil to immediately visit the family of the victim. The CM said awareness should be created among all women and they should be encouraged to download the Disha app for their safety. Efforts should particularly be made to educate school and college girls on the importance of using the app. The chief minister directed officials to take stern action against perpetrators of atrocities against women and act swiftly when they get a distress call from any woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-announces-rs-10-lakh-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-murder-victim/articleshow/78986673.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Liquor shops are not issuing invoices, allege customers||VIJAYAWADA: The government may have recently reduced prices of mid and premium range liquor brands, but the benefit of price reduction is yet to reach all consumers. Some tipplers have raised allegations that staff at Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited (APBCL) wine shops are selling liquor at old prices, claiming that existing stocks will be sold at old prices and reduced prices are applicable only on new stocks. When contacted, the managing director of APBCL, Vasudeva Reddy said new prices are in force and applicable to all stocks. Reddy explained that price charts have been updated in the system and every bottle in an APBCL shop has to be scanned before sale. The new price will pop up in the system after the bottle is scanned, even if the MRP on the bottle is higher. An immediate enquiry will be carried out, Reddy said, and stringent action taken against erring staff. Customers also claimed that despite their asking, liquor shops have been refusing to give invoice. They alleged that staff at liquor shops are resorting to misappropriations as system-generated invoices will have updated prices. Resident of Gunadala L S Mahesh said he visited a walk-in liquor store at Moghalrajapuram to purchase a bottle of red wine which used to cost Rs 800. “I have asked at the liquor store why it is being sold at old prices, they said that the new prices are not applicable to old stocks. I purchased the same bottle at Gandhinagar for Rs 630,” he said. Other customers claimed to have faced similar problems. Stores that are selling liquor at revised prices are also adding an additional charge between Rs 20 to Rs 50 depending on the brand and size of the bottle and refusing to give invoices. Vasudeva Reddy clarified that all liquor stores are given printers and been directed to give invoices to consumers. Immediate correctional measures will be taken to ensure there is no overpricing in the state, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/liquor-shops-are-not-issuing-invoices-allege-customers/articleshow/78986758.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Revenge & jealousy prime acid attack motives in AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even though Andhra Pradesh has a cleaner record compared to other southern states when it comes to acid attacks, the state saw six acid attack incidents and four attempted attacks in 2019. A quest for revenge, jealousy and illicit affairs are said to be the prime drivers of acid attacks. On Saturday morning, 35-year-old T Eswar Rao splashed acid on his wife T Devi at Sivajipalem in Vizag during an altercation between the couple. Their daughter, who rushed in to save her mother, also sustained injuries. Sources say that Eswar suspected his wife of infidelity. Fortunately for the mother and daughter, the acid thrown at them was a mild toilet-cleaning liquid that caused minor burns. In 2017, a paediatrician working with a reputed Vizag-based hospital was the victim of an acid attack. Police questioned the victim’s friends and others but were neither able to identify the attacker nor able to understand the motive. Data from National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) show that there were six incidents of acid attack in the state in 2019 and seven in 2018. In 2015, AP had reported 14 such incidents. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu reported nine acid attack incidents in 2019, Kerala reported eight, Karnataka seven and Telangana three. According to a senior police officer, fear of romantic relationships breaking down and illicit affairs were found to be the most common reasons for acid attacks. Women were victims in most cases. Factional animosity, sexual or professional jealousies have also led acid attacks, the police officer said. Women’s organisations say that acid attack victims are awaiting justice and that there should be stricter punishments in such cases to deter such crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/revenge-jealousy-prime-acid-attack-motives-in-ap/articleshow/78986652.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Only 1% of samples in Srikakulam test positive||VISAKHAPATNAM: Only one per cent of samples collected between Saturday to Sunday morning in Srikakulam district tested positive, a Covid-19 bulletin released on Sunday said. The development comes as welcome news for the district administration, which had imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in September to handle the surge in cases. District authorities conducted tests on 9,343 samples in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said, of which only 95 samples returned positive. Srikakulam district has registered a total of 44,322 Covid-19 cases from April till date. At present, 936 active cases across the district are undergoing treatment at hospitals, Covid Care Centres or in home isolation. Positivity rate and mortality rate in the district started to decline from end-September, while the number of tests per day was ramped up, similar to the trajectory of other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/only-1-of-samples-in-srikakulam-test-positive/articleshow/78986733.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Congress releases video ‘proof’ of the BJP buying its MLAs||AHMEDABAD: A day before voting for the by-elections of eight assembly seats in Gujarat, the state Congress on Sunday released a couple of videos of an undated sting operation, where former Congress MLA from Limbdi, Somabhai Patel, is seen admitting that Congress MLAs, including himself, were paid sums of money to resign before the Rajya Sabha election in Gujarat earlier this year. By late evening, Patel, issued a signed statement claiming that the video featuring himself was fake. He also demanded an investigation into the matter. “The video released by the Congress is fake. It not only insults me but the entire Koli community. I will issue a notice to the Congress party over the video and seek legal recourse. The Congress has released my fake video for political gains,” Patel said in the statement.  The authenticity of the videos could not be independently verified by the TOI. In the video, Somabhai Patel names senior BJP leaders alleging that they were involved in winning over Congress MLAs with money and tickets. The BJP has refuted all claims, saying the Congress is attempting to defame the BJP. “Some were given tickets (of the assembly election), others were given money,” Patel is seen saying in the video. On being questioned about him being paid Rs 20 crore for quitting as Congress MLA, Patel is seen replying, “It is incorrect. Nobody got more than ten (crore)”. GPCC president Amit Chavda said the Congress had been alleging for long that BJP was using money power to get its MLAs to quit. “The ECI should also take note of this evidence,” said Amit Chavda. In a statement, state BJP president C R Paatil said on Sunday evening that Amit Chavda was spreading lies just before the election. “This is an attempt to defame the BJP and mislead the people. Instead, the Congress must introspect why it has been out of power in Gujarat for 25 years,” Paatil said. With the resignation of eight Congress MLAs, all three candidates fielded by the BJP won the RS election, while the Congress could send just one of its two nominees to the upper house of the Parliament. Election to four vacant seats of the Rajya Sabha was held in June this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-releases-video-proof-of-the-bjp-buying-its-mlas/articleshow/78988554.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Dehradun||Ahead of Maha Kumbh, radio-collaring rogue jumbos a challenge for forest dept||Dehradun: It has been a fortnight since the state forest department started radio-collaring ‘rogue’ elephants in view of the upcoming Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. However, only one elephant has been radio-collared so far since those involved are facing a difficult time in carrying on with the exercise as there is the threat of jumbos going violent during the process and thereafter, creating ruckus in areas inhabited by humans. The entire exercise has now been put on hold and it will resume only after Diwali when the ‘koomkies’, tamed elephants of the Corbett Tiger Reserve, are brought to the Haridwar forest division to facilitate the radio-collaring of rogue jumbos here. The decision to radio-collar rogue elephants was taken last year to prevent any threat of jumbo attack on the thousands of pilgrims expected to be present in the Haridwar area during the Maha Kumbh next year. The forest department aims to radio-collar ten identified rogue jumbos so that they can be prevented from venturing near 100 ghats spread from Haridwar to Rishikesh. According to a source involved in the radio-collaring exercise, “the attempt to radio-collar an elephant in Dassowala went wrong to some extent.” “The elephant collapsed after being darted and it had to be revived. In a few other cases, the jumbos became violent,” said the official. Notably, the entire exercise is being executed in a stretch of about 2 km-2.5 km. Also, radio-collaring of an elephant needs to be executed within an hour or two, making the entire assignment even more difficult for the department. Officials say that some of the jumbos get isolated from their herd during attempts to radio-collar them. Consequently, they strayed into human habitation, causing ruckus in the villages. “For conducting the exercise, we just get the morning slot of 6 am to 7 am when the jumbos return to Dassowala forest after crop raiding across Ganga and the stretch is just a few kilometres long. The darting has to be executed in this short time else the jumbos enter into dense forest, making it difficult to find the darted animal,” said one of the senior officials involved in the exercise. After getting darted, the jumbos get into what is termed as ‘lateral recumbency state.’ Sources said that it is essential to dart the elephant in such a way that it doesn’t get hurt as it lays on the ground after a bout of dizziness. According to officials on duty, the ‘abundance of forest canopy and proximity to Ganga’ is also delaying the entire exercise. The sources added that forest officials are also facing a difficult time in radio-collaring elephants near Anjani forest checkpost. “The area has four herds of elephants but it is barely one kilometre away from the river. Thus, there is a fear that if jumbos are darted, they may move towards the river and fall into the water. Such a condition may lead to drowning of jumbos and thereby, breathing issues in them,” added an official. Yet another factor slowing down the pace of the exercise is the fact that the forest department doesn’t have the licence to use the narcotic drug — Etorphine Hydrochloride — that is used for tranquilising the jumbos. Darting can only be executed by experts from Wildlife Institute of India (WII). In the absence of WII experts, the exercise comes to a standstill. Meanwhile, JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department, said, “We are executing the exercise of radio-collaring with all due diligence and utmost care, ensuring that neither elephants nor human beings are hurt. There has been no mishap so far as our teams have been on high alert.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ahead-of-maha-kumbh-radio-collaring-rogue-jumbos-a-challenge-for-forest-dept/articleshow/78986352.cms||Shivani Azad
November 2, 2020||Trichy||Heavy vehicles congest roads around new fish market in Trichy||Trichy: While Puthur locals heave a sigh of relief over Trichy city’s largest fish market relocating from their locality to Kasivilangi on the outskirts, it has spelled trouble for residents around the new market. Heavy vehicles coming to the new fish market are parked on the narrow roads that serve as entry point for several residential neighbourhoods much to the discomfiture of the residents and commuters on Kulumani Road.From October 9, Kasivilangi fish market, spread over 1.5 acres, has started functioning while the old fish market in Puthur was demolished to make way for a commercial complex. Almost a month on, the fish market at its new location has been causing a lot of trouble to the residents of Lingam Nagar, Panikkan street and Kulumani Road. While the designated parking area of the fish market is adequate to park trucks and two-wheelers, retail fish vendors have been selling seafood there, thus forcing the fish-laden trucks to be parked on the roads. With visitors to the market also parking their two-wheelers outside the market campus, people residing in the adjoining areas have been facing difficulties in accessing their neighbourhood smoothly. “Vehicles are getting piled up for about a kilometre before and after the market while trucks are attempting to use our narrow residential streets to park,” Lingai M Sivakumar, president, Lingam Nagar Residents Welfare Association, said. The lone bridge across Kudamurutti river for Kulumani Road residents to access the rest of the city has been facing traffic congestion now due to the unauthorised parking. To decongest the stretch that has been overpopulated with vehicles, residents have sought an alternative additional bridge across Kudamurutti to connect South Lingam Nagar with Woraiyur and bypass the market. Corporation sources said that retail fish vendors have increased in number after the shifting of the market, and put up fish stalls in the parking area. The civic body said that 16 additional shops are being built to free up the space available. “We are preparing an additional parking lot for about an acre behind the market with a separate approach road for the trucks. The move will resolve the traffic congestion,” an official source with Trichy corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/heavy-vehicles-congest-roads-around-new-fish-market-in-trichy/articleshow/78989383.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 2, 2020||Delhi||AAP alleges corruption in property tax collection||NEW DELHI: Alleging corruption in collection of property tax by the BJP-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Aam Aadmi Party functionary and in-charge of the corporations Durgesh Pathak said that despite the potential of collecting Rs 2,100 crore from 12 lakh properties every year, the civic body had shown Rs 700 crore in its records. Pathak said that while the corporation had been unable to pay salaries to its doctors, workers, nurses, teachers and other employees, it had also failed to collect tax from around 12 lakh property owners. “Over the past few years, north corporation has identified around 12 lakh people who are liable to pay property tax. These people have even been issued Unique Property Identification Code. If tax had been collected from these 12 lakh people and submitted in the treasury without any corruption, it would have amounted to Rs 2,100 crore every year,” Pathak said. He also claimed that property tax of only 4 lakh people had been shown in the treasury, which meant only around Rs 700 crore had been collected. The AAP functionary further alleged that north corporation had removed 8 lakh people from its records and shown only Rs 700 crore as tax collected from them. “The remaining Rs 1,400 crore were distributed amongst BJP members. I say this with full responsibility. This matter must be investigated or audited by CAG and other agencies,” he added. Responding to the allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “AAP has issued a baseless statement. This is a proof of the party’s immaturity. AAP is in power in Delhi government. If it feels that there is any kind of property tax or other scam in the corporations, it is free to recommend a CBI probe. Otherwise, they should stop churning out baseless allegations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-alleges-corruption-in-property-tax-collection/articleshow/78988623.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Why ignorance is no bliss in saving energy||NEW DELHI: Only one in four households across the country are currently aware of Bureau of Energy Efficiency’s (BEE) star ratings. While awareness about the efficiency of LED lights has resulted in almost 90% households adopting them, only 8% of the 90% households possessing a ceiling fan know about the ratings, a study has found. The study, carried out in nearly 15,000 households across 21 states was a part of “India Residential Energy Survey” by Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) in collaboration with Initiative for Sustainable Energy Policy (ISEP), also found airconditioners had benefited the most after LED lights through star ratings. “The adoption of energy-efficient ceiling fans remains dismal, which could be due to their relatively higher cost and limited availability in the market. Ceiling fans, which make up a major portion of residential electricity use, have been under the voluntary programme since 2009. This scheme has had a limited impact on nudging the market towards higher efficiency fans,” said the study released in October. CEEW’s analysis highlighted the role mandatory labelling had on consumer awareness. Airconditioners, one of the most energy-intensive household appliances, were increasingly being bought keeping in mind their energy ratings. “We found that over 75% users had star-labelled ACs, which reflects the positive impact of mandatory labelling on energy-intensive household appliances. However, one-sixth of AC users still didn’t know about the ratings,” said the study. Dhruvak Aggarwal, research analyst at CEEW, said, “Long-term energy efficiency is a two-way street. While it needs to be made the default option for consumers, they need to be aware that the endgame is to reduce gross consumption.” The report highlighted the need for a sustained and year-round awareness campaign for different products and stated that use of regional languages could be beneficial too. Delhi, incidentally, fared the best in terms of consumer awareness with 61% households being aware of a BEE star label, followed by 48% households in Maharashtra and 43% in Himachal Pradesh and Kerala. “Local institutions, such as gram panchayats in rural areas, residents’ welfare associations and municipal councils in urban areas, and grassroots organisations, can help in this regard. We noticed that only a few consumers displayed an optimum behaviour, such as use of fans along with ACs, periodic servicing, or running ACs at a temperature setting of 24 degrees Celsius or higher,’ said Aggarwal. Discoms in Delhi said the cooling load, particularly in summer, was the main reason for an increase in power demand. This could be managed if consumers were educated about making improvements while choosing appliances. “Almost 50% of Delhi’s power demand in summer is because of the cooling load, so customer behaviour and testimonials play an important role in changing habits. BSES has been promoting energy conservation aggressively and helping consumers bring-in energy efficiency,” said a BSES spokesperson, adding that they had recently re-launched an AC replacement scheme in partnership with leading manufacturers. Dr Sameer Maithel, director at Greentech Knowledge Solutions, who has worked on several energy-efficient building designs, said consumer awareness around BEE ratings was gradually increasing, especially in terms of airconditioners. However, consumers were still not aware of how to efficiently maintain and run airconditioners, which could impact the performance of the equipment over a period of time. “What needs to be kept in mind is how the five-star rated airconditioner is installed, how it is maintained and serviced and how it is run over its lifetime. Only then can a consumer get the best out of it,” said Maithel. Dwijadas Basak, Chief Commercial at Tata Power-DDL says their consumers too can avail similar assistance from them, especially when it comes to replacing air-conditioners and fans. “Five star fans have not become that popular and so that was a key focus area for us. In 2016, we started a drive where fans could be provided to consumers at a discounted rate of 30 percent. We also did advocacy with DERC and initiated the replacing of an old AC incentive scheme, with customers being offered a 51 percent discount. Based on the high demand, the commercial and industrial sector also requested us for assistance and there, the discount rate to replace an old AC with an energy efficient new AC was 48 percent,” said Basak. He added that a separate awareness campaign to cover jhuggi clusters, where non-efficient equipments was much more, has seen LED lamps installed. “The coverage percentage in terms of LED lamps in these clusters is now more than 90 percent,” said Basak. (The story is being published as part of CMS-BEEP Media Fellowship Program)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-ignorance-is-no-bliss-in-saving-energy/articleshow/78988584.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 2, 2020||Kochi||DHS order ‘in breach of medico legal code’||IDUKKI: In an apparent violation of the medico legal code, a duty doctor was allegedly ordered by the director of health service (DHS) – after being prodded by police – to conduct autopsy on a man who died in suspicious circumstances. The incident happened at Kattappana taluk hospital on October 28. Vandanmedu police produced the body of a 68-year-old man at the hospital for autopsy. The inquest report said the man was found dead inside his home and that the reason of death was not obvious. The duty doctor then referred an autopsy by the forensic surgeon. “As per inquest the cause of death is not obvious. Hence the body is referred to a forensic surgeon for autopsy examination,” the referral report said. It was counter signed by the hospital superintendent. According to sources, the DHS called the hospital superintendent and ordered the autopsy, which was then conducted by the duty doctor. The superintendent was asked to direct the duty doctor, an ENT surgeon, to conduct the postmortem. “Vandanmedu sub inspector, including the police team, first put pressure to conduct the postmortem. The superintendent was aware that it was a clear violation of medico legal code,” said officials. The medico legal code 2018 states that, “Cases of murder, suspicious deaths, complicated cases, cases where no obvious cause of death is revealed at inquest as per Colum No 8 of KPF 102 and all cases where inquest was held by a magistrate, as per Sec 176 of CrPC, should be done by the police surgeons’ medical officers working in institutions authorized to undertake medico-legal post-mortem examination will have the right to refer or redirect requisition for post-mortem examination in all such cases to the nearest police surgeon.” “The ENT surgeon conducted the autopsy as per the direction of the DHS. As per medico legal code, in suspected cases only police surgeons should conduct postmortem examinations. We got information that Idukki SP had called DHS to conduct the postmortem,” Idukki DMO Dr N Priya told TOI. “After the incident a health department team met the Idukki SP and informed him that duty doctors cannot conduct autopsy in suspicious cases and it is a violation of the medico legal code,” Priya said. “The DHS has no right to order postmortem in suspected cases. Police surgeons have to find the actual reason for death in suspected cases. We will submit a complaint to the health minister and health principal secretary against the DHS,” Kerala government medical officers association (KGMOA) Idukki district president Jobin G Joseph told TOI. “We did not seek a postmortem by the police surgeon as this was not a case of suspicious death. But the hospital delayed the postmortem by over 24 hours. It was then that we called the DHS to step in. The police did not seek to violate the medico legal code,” Idukki SP R Karuppuswami said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dhs-order-in-breach-of-medico-legal-code/articleshow/78987289.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru clinic to treat mask scars||BENGALURU:GVG Invivo, a private hospital in Bengaluru, on Sunday launched a ‘scar clinic’ to treat those who have recovered from Covid-19 for mask scars. The scars are primarily caused by patients wearing non-invasive ventilator (NIV) masks. Hospital authorities claimed it is the first such clinic in the country. Due to a steady surge in Covid-19 cases in the past few months, the hospital, which specialized in anti-ageing care, became a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. Now that the number of Covid-19 cases is falling, the hospital has decided to set up a clinic to treat masks scars as a part of its post-Covid recovery treatment. Dr Gunasekar Vuppalapati, chief plastic surgeon, CMD, GVG Invivo Hospital, said, “When we were treating Covid-19 patients, we observed that though they were cured of the disease, many patients were going home with pressure scars and were finding it hard to manage by themselves.” He said this was especially true of people with sensitive skin and Fitzpatrick skin type 3 to 6. “These patients had more problems than others as scars on their skin would lead to a condition called post inflammatory hyperpigmentation (PIH), where scars get more pigmented or darker than usual. Such cases need professional attention and must not be neglected as it affects how one looks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/clinic-to-treat-mask-scars/articleshow/78987257.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Pune||Gardens open, but cheer missing with kids away||Pune: Gardens and parks across Pune came alive on Sunday after months with people walking or jogging, but the happy commotion when children visit, and the chatter of senior citizens, were missing on the first day of the reopening. The Pune Municipal Corporation’s rule book strictly forbade children below 10 years of age, and senior citizens over 65 years of age, pregnant women and persons who were ill from stepping into the public parks. Yet, in some gardens like Sarasbaug, some children and their grandparents were seen strolling, along with the in-between age groups, with masks, sanitisers and social distancing. At Empress Botanical Garden off Pune-Solapur Road, an eerie post-Halloween vibe hung in the air with not a soul in sight on the premises. Though the main gate was open, the ticket counter was unmanned. It left visitors sitting at the entrance wondering if they could enter without paying. “We wanted to go for a walk in the garden, but were waiting for the ticket counter to open for so long that we lost interest. Now, we are heading home. We could only see stray dogs inside,” Yogesh Patil, a disappointed visitor who lives close by, said. Shivarkar Garden, off Vitthalrao Shivarkar Road, brought in a crowd, but many were informed about the rules, and were not allowed inside by the guards. “Many parents came along with their kids to let them play inside the garden, but we told them that kids are not allowed. We have had joggers coming in, but there have been only 10-12 people today,” the guard at the garden told TOI. But horse rides and a chaat cart was stationed outside the garden catering to those who were not allowed inside. “It's good now that I can come for evening walks with my daughter. I need a break from housework and she needs a break from online classes. Both of us would come here together every day for walking before the lockdown,” Smita Patra, who lives near Jambhulkar Chowk, said. Rani Laxmibai Garden in Camp between MG Road and East Street was buzzing with adults, while some parents were treating their children to the roundabout rides outside and some street food. “These smaller parks in the city are mainly for kids to come and play, but since they are not allowed inside, they are making the best of the outing with their parents by indulging in other fun activities,” Seema Raghav, a parent who was visiting the garden with her family, said. Sarasbaug was buzzing with young adults. Visitors were walking, jogging, clicking selfies, and enjoying themselves in the open air, some even blatantly ignoring social distancing rules or even covering their noses and mouths with masks. Street food carts were swamped with customers who wanted a portion of the famous bhel of the area. “This is the first outing we have had as a family since the lockdown in March. My parents are still paranoid about the pandemic, but since they think it is good to be out in the open air, I could convince them to come out,” Neha Joshi, a resident of Swargate, said. Other popular gardens like Sambhaji Park on Jangli Maharaj Road saw smattering of walkers, joggers and strollers. All the gardens had been spruced up by the civic body a few days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gardens-open-but-cheer-missing-with-kids-away/articleshow/78988654.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Pune||Rs 12 crore treatment plant to tackle Covid-19 trash under construction in Pune||PUNE: Work is on full swing to build an enhanced common biomedical waste treatment facility at Kailas crematorium within six months at an estimated cost of Rs 12 crore. The plant will be equipped with an incinerator designed to tackle Covid-19 waste. Once operational, it will be able to process 14,400kg of biomedical waste daily. The existing facility, also located on the same premises, can treat 4,000kg of biomedical waste daily. “In addition to handling the 14,400kg of incinerable waste daily, the upcoming plant will also process 6,400kg of plastic trash as well,” said Pradeep Mulay, founder-director of Passco Environmental Solutions, which runs the facility at Kailas Crematorium. The firm has sought the clearances required for the expansion. “The All-India Common Facility Association has appealed to the Central Pollution Control Board to find an alternative treatment for plastic-based personal protective equipment,” said Sunil Dandawate, vice-president of the CBWTF Association of India — a pan-India body of biomedical waste unit operators. “When we incinerate plastic PPE kits, they emit unburnt particulate matter in the form of black smoke,” Dandawate added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-12cr-treatment-plant-to-tackle-ncov-trash-under-construction/articleshow/78988625.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 2, 2020||Delhi||‘High levels of fluoride and nitrate in Delhi groundwater’||NEW DELHI: Researchers from University of Miami and Jamia Millia Islamia have found presence of high levels of fluoride and nitrate in Delhi’s groundwater. While fluoride levels are limited to north and northwest Delhi, where brick kilns are high in number and fluoride salts are used regularly, nitrate levels are present throughout the city due to surface runoff. A study conducted by the researchers revealed that except for the Yamuna floodplain and Najafgarh Lake, there was a decrease in groundwater levels across the city due to high built-up area in locations like Connaught Place and the presence of naturally present clayey soil that doesn’t support recharge. Groundwater data from 1996 to 2018 collected by Central Groundwater Board (CGWB) from 258 stations in Delhi was used for the study. CGWB measures the groundwater levels four times a year to monitor seasonal variations. Atiqur Rahman of Jamia’s geography department said fluoride contamination was mostly concentrated in northwest district, with exceeding levels observed for seven out of 10 years. “Fluoride contamination occurred due to high levels of salinity and brick kilns. However, nitrates in the groundwater were more widespread. Out of 824 observations for nitrate contamination, 251 were above the limit. Northwest, New Delhi and South districts had nitrates above the limit of 50 mg/L as a result of runoffs from landfills and seepage into groundwater,” he added. The main source of nitrates and fluorides in groundwater was directly related to the high levels of consumption of fertilisers, pesticides, herbicides, weedicides, etc. Fluoride is known to harm the skeletal structure and nervous system and cause other health ailments. Similarly, nitrates can cause cardiovascular and lung diseases. University of Miami’s Shouraseni Sen Roy said that lower infiltration rate of groundwater was associated with clayey soils in northern and northwestern parts of Delhi Metropolitan Region. “The limited areas of recharge, represented by the negative trends, were mostly concentrated in the east along Yamuna floodplain and in the southwest near Najafgarh Lake due to shallow bedrock and porous soils,” the report stated. “One of the main reasons for lesser groundwater recharge was due to increasing concretisation of the ground surface and decreasing impervious surfaces across Delhi,” Rahman said. The results of the study highlighted the critical need for planned management of resources by ensuring adequate recharge of the water table to combat the steep decline in groundwater and potential severe impacts from climate change. The findings would help achieve the 6th Sustainable Development Goal of United Nations by 2030 as well as the goals identified in Delhi Master Plan 2041, said the researchers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/high-levels-of-fluoride-and-nitrate-in-city-groundwater/articleshow/78988664.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
November 2, 2020||Trichy||Min Doraikkannu laid to rest with full state honours in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: The body of agriculture minister R Doraikkannu was laid to rest with full state honours at his coconut farm in Vanniyadi village, one km away from his home at Rajagiri near Papanasam, on Sunday. The 72-year-old leader had passed away on Saturday night at a private hospital in Chennai after a battle with Covid-related complications. His body was brought to his native place in an ambulance from Chennai around 1 pm. It was placed at a ground beside his house in Rajagiri for the public to pay homage. Hundreds of party cadres as well as general public paid their respects before the body was taken to the coconut farm. Doraikkannu's body was lowered into a dug-up pit according to Covid-19 protocol around 4.50 pm. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and ministers K A Sengottaiyan, S P Velumani, P Thangamani, C V Shanmugam, K P Anbazhagan, O S Manian, R Kamaraj, K T Rajendra Balaji, Vellamandi N Natarajan, S Valarmathi, AIADMK deputy coordinators K P Munusamy and R Vaithilingam, Theni MP P Ravindranath Kumar, district collector M Govinda Rao and various political leaders paid their homage to the late leader at his house. Earlier in the morning, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, health minister C Vijayabaskar and Sellur K Raju paid floral tributes to his portrait at the hospital in Chennai where he was treated after being admitted on October 13. The CM also extended his condolences to the family members of the late leader in a statement. Doraikkannu is survived by his wife D Banumathi, two sons and four daughters.Governor Banwarilal Purohit, DMK president M K Stalin, MDMK general secretary Vaiko, PMK leader Ramadoss, TMC president G K Vasan and various political leaders condoled his death. A large posse of police personnel headed by IG central zone H M Jayaram and Thanjavur SP Deshmukh Shekar Sanjay was pressed into service in and around Rajagiri and Vanniyadi for the funeral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/min-doraikkannu-laid-to-rest-with-full-state-honours-in-thanjavur/articleshow/78989387.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Trichy||DMK functionary dies after scuffle with AIADMK men||Trichy: A 53-year-old DMK functionary died of cardiac arrest on Saturday night hours after a faceoff with AIADMK functionaries over erecting flex banner for a temple function in Karur district. The deceased, Prabakaran, and his son, P Vigneswaran, were local DMK functionaries. The latter had erected a flex banner welcoming party leader and Aravakurichi DMK MLA V Senthil Balaji as part of Vinayagar temple festival. AIADMK supporters too had erected flex banner in support of transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar. Both the groups engaged in a scuffle around 6 pm on Saturday after the DMK banner was damaged by unknown people. While police sorted out the issue after discussions with both the groups, Prabakaran went home whereas Vigneswaran got himself admitted to the government hospital after suffering minor injuries in the scuffle. However, Prabakaran complained of chest pain by 7 30 pm following which he was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. His body was shifted to Karur government medical college hospital for postmortem. Senthil Balaji along with supporters blocked the road near the hospital on Sunday morning demanding that police file a murder case against the AIADMK men. Karur district SP P Pagalavan talked to the protesters and promised necessary steps following which they called off their protest. Based on a complaint from Vigneswaran, Karur town police filed a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-functionary-dies-after-scuffle-with-aiadmk-men/articleshow/78989391.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: New infections fall, so does volume of biomedical waste||PUNE: The effect of fewer new Covid cases and high recoveries has started to show on the volume of daily contagion-related biomedical waste, which has now dropped below 5,000kg in Pune municipal limits over the last three to four days, a first since July. “As against the daily generation of 5,000-6,000kg Covid-related biomedical waste from PMC limits till the beginning of October, the area is now generating about 3,800-4,000kg of biomedical trash per day. We expect this volume to drop further,” an official from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) told TOI. At one point, Covid-19 biomedical waste generation had touched 8,000-10,000kg per day, when food waste of patients was also being included in the category. Sunil Dandawate, who runs the common biomedical waste treatment facility at Kailas crematorium in Pune, said, “The decline in the Covid-19 biomedical waste is linked to the drop in active cases in the city. It recently began reducing by 200-300kg per day initially and has dropped by almost 1,000-2,000kg per day. In July, Covid-related biomedical waste crossed the non-Covid biomedical waste in terms of quantity due to the sheer number of patients. Since the last week, the quantities of both types of biomedical wastes have been inching closer, with Covid biomedical waste staying at 3,800-4,000kg per day and the other at 3,100-3,200kg per day.” Covid-19 biomedical waste generated in Pune is still being sent to Taloja for incineration as the sole plant in Pune is involved in incinerating non-Covid biomedical waste. Govind Kulkarni, a senior consultant physician and principal investigator for ICMR /SII-COVAX Covid-19 vaccine study at the Sahyadri Super Speciality Hospital, Ahmednagar Road, told TOI, “There has been about a 70% reduction in the number of Covid-19 patients here since last week, which has caused a reduction in biomedical waste related to their clothes, gowns, caps, PPE’s and masks, among others.” Urvi Shukla, chief intensivist at the Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre, said, “Those with mild Covid-19 infection are preferring home isolation than hospitalisation. Also, hospital staff have enough experience now to know if a patient needs hospitalisation or can manage treatment at home. These factors have caused a 40-45% reduction in use of protective kits at our hospital recently, causing a big drop in pandemic-related biomedical waste generation from our facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-infections-fall-so-does-volume-of-biomedical-waste/articleshow/78988621.cms||Neha Madaan
November 2, 2020||Meerut||Head constable in Moradabad booked for raping woman, attempting to rape her minor daughter||BIJNOR: A head constable in Moradabad, who was earlier posted in Bijnor, was booked on Sunday for raping a woman and attempting to rape her minor daughter. He had known them for over a decade, police said. Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh said that head constable Manoj Rastogi and the woman had met first when she had gone to lodge a complaint at Seohara police station regarding a tiff with her husband. The woman alleged that through the course of their interaction over the past decade, he raped her on many occasions. Later, the accused attempted to rape her minor daughter also, he said. Singh said, “The woman filed a complaint against Manoj Rastogi only some days ago. The accused tried to sort out the matter by arriving at a compromise, but the woman turned it down.” A case has been filed under sections 376 (rape), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The Bijnor SP has instructed policemen to take strict action in the matter and has written a letter to his counterpart in Moradabad district. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/head-constable-booked-for-raping-woman-attempting-to-rape-her-minor-daughter/articleshow/78986377.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 2, 2020||Pune||717 people test positive in PMR limits, 815 discharged||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region recorded fewer positive cases than recoveries on Sunday, with 717 people testing positive — in the same 24-hour window, 815 patients got discharged. Sunday’s tally pushed the total progressive caseload (overall positives) for the region to over 3.24 lakh, while a total of 3.05 lakh people have recovered from the infection. Twenty-seven people succumbed to the contagion on Sunday, pushing the region’s death toll to 7907. Of these, 17 fatalities were reported in PMC limits, while one person died in Pimpri Chinchwad. The rural areas and the municipal council limits recorded seven and two casualties, respectively. As has been the case since the pandemic started, Pune Municipal Corporation limits reported the highest number of cases at 377, while Pimpri Chinchwad had 144 new cases. The rest — rural areas, municipal council limits and cantonment jurisdictions — together reported 197 new cases. As for recoveries, PMC limits accounted for 240 discharges, while Pimpri Chinchwad (113), municipal councils (216) and cantonments (7) made up the rest. As of Sunday, there were 12,001 active cases — 5,586 patients being treated in hospitals and 6,415 people under home quarantine. PMC data showed that its limits had 1,514 patients being treated on beds with oxygen support and 579 patients in a critical condition, with 335 of them on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/717-people-test-positive-in-pmr-limits-815-discharged/articleshow/78988678.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Trichy||BDU extends last date for PG admissions to November 9||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) has extended the last date for admission to postgraduate programmes by nine days to fill vacant seats available across various departments. Interested candidates can send their applications online till November 9. Earlier, October 31 was fixed as the last date. There was some confusion in PG admissions as there was delay in the conduct of final year end semester exams for UG courses due to Covid-19. While online examinations were conducted by colleges, even before the results were declared, institutions including the BDU started provisionally admitting students for PG courses. As students wanted to ensure a seat and colleges too wanted to retain bright students, institution went ahead with admissions. While there was no decision taken on arrear papers, institutions started putting such candidates in the waiting list. As arrears papers were a hurdle for UG students to join postgraduate courses, Bharathidasan University decided to clear arrear papers by giving grace marks on October 27. Speaking to TOI, S Srinivasaragavan, BDU controller of examination, said that the arrear results of 14,000 odd students have been uploaded on the university website and students will be able to access it on Monday. Arrear papers were evaluated on the basis of the marks secured by them in internal assessments. However, students with poor internal marks were given a pass with grace marks. Since more students may opt for colleges after the results, the university has decided to extend the admission process till November 9, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-extends-last-date-for-pg-admissions-to-november-9/articleshow/78989392.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 2, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Recoveries surpass +ve cases in PMC, PCMC in October||PUNE: The number of recoveries have surpassed Covid-19 positive cases in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits in October. According to data provided by the district health office, there were 26,235 recoveries in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, while 14,590 recoveries were reported in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits in October, as against 16,043 positive cases in PMC limits and 9,659 cases in PCMC. The number of tests conducted have reduced in October. There were 1,09,524 tests in PMC limits, while there were 80,109 tests in the PCMC limits. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI that, with continuous effort, they have managed to lower the positivity rate of Covid-19 infection from 25% in September to just 8% by October-end. “We have not let our guard down. We are focused on the current situation and we’re working accordingly. The case fatality rate of the twin towns is at 1.7%, which is among the lowest in municipal corporations across the country,” he said, adding that ‘My family, my responsibility’ campaign has resulted in early detection. A Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official said that although the number of cases has dropped across the civic body limits, they are observing the current situation across the country and abroad, where steadily cases are surging and, in fact, some countries have imposed another lockdown. “Even though numbers have dropped, we have decided to continue operating at least one Covid Care Centre across all our 15 wards,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-surpass-ve-cases-in-pmc-pcmc-in-oct/articleshow/78988657.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 2, 2020||Meerut||Consignment of crackers catches fire, four kids injured||Meerut/Muzaffarnagar: Four children sustained burn injuries after crackers being dried up caught fire during a wedding ceremony in Muzaffarnagar district on Sunday. Meanwhile, a shipment of crackers being dried on the terrace of a house in Meerut’s Mawana area was seized in a raid by the local police.This comes days after two incidents of cracker explosion were reported in the zone. The incidents occurred in Meerut’s Sardhana area and in Saharanpur district where two people had died and over a dozen had sustained burn injuries.Atleast four children, aged between 10 and 12 years, sustained injuries in a huge cracker explosion which occurred during a wedding ceremony in Tavali village under Shahpur police station in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday.The children were rushed to a local hospital and police were also alerted. Shahpur station house officer Sanjeev Kumar said, “The injured are out of danger and they are being given proper treatment. An investigation is being conducted.”In Meerut, a huge consignment of crackers being dried up on the terrace of a local resident in Mawana area was seized after police raided the premises. Apart from crackers, raw material and equipment used in manufacturing of crackers were also recovered. Six people have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/consignment-of-crackers-catches-fire-four-kids-injured/articleshow/78986389.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Delhi||SDMC to incentivise RWAs, hotels that segregate waste||NEW DELHI: Resident Welfare Associations, schools, markets and offices that have taken steps like waste segregation and composting to keep their surrounding clean can now send their entries to South Delhi Municipal Corporation for this year’s cleanliness ranking. SDMC officials said that the initiative is a part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Under the ranking campaign, a survey is conducted to analyse the cleanliness standards and arrangements for solid waste management at hotels, offices, schools, markets and residential areas. “We have already started inviting entries from RWAs in 17 model wards in west Delhi through online forms. Based on the replies, we will send teams for a ground survey from next week. The set of questions in the form is slightly different this time. We have also made a WhatsApp group and circulated information on it from time to time,” said an SDMC official. After west Delhi, the rest of the three zones are also likely to start the campaign from next week. The official said that the survey team will have at least two members to evaluate arrangements made by RWAs, hotels, etc. in comparison to the parameters fixed as per Swachh Bharat Survekshan. “The basic criteria for evaluation is the placement of four bins (green, red, yellow and blue), waste segregation within the premises, waste processing facility, composting by more than 20 households in an area, public toilets within 1 km from colony, whether open drains are cleaned, basic cleanliness and if Covid-19 guidelines are being followed,” the official said. As per norms, the urban local bodies (ULB) are supposed to organise surveys before November 30 and announce results by mid-December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-to-incentivise-rwas-hotels-that-segregate-waste/articleshow/78988650.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 2, 2020||Meerut||Govt schemes in state-run schools to be assessed on Nov 4||Meerut: Uttar Pradesh government is set to conduct an inspection of the implementation of government schemes such as midday meal in state-run schools on November 4. An order to the effect was issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, school education, UP.He said, “An online meeting will be conducted with all the education department officials. All the officials should attend the meeting or face action.”The meeting will focus on distribution of books, uniforms, funds of midday meal, completion of target of Mission Prerna.An inspection of the number of students enrolled will be carried out and the extent to which targets of each scheme have been completed assessed, said Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/govt-schemes-in-state-run-schools-to-be-assessed-on-nov-4/articleshow/78986392.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 2, 2020||Goa||Court junks bail plea of murder accused||COLVA: The additional sessions court in Margao dismissed the bail application of Omkar Patil, one of the accused in the murder of Margao jeweller Swapnil Walke. On September 2, Walke was stabbed and shot at in a bid to commit robbery by three accused. The police had arrested the applicant along with Mustafa Shaikh and Evander Rodrigues as accused under Sections 302, 398, 201 read with 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 3 and 25 of the Arms Act. Advocate R Dessai arguing for the accused submitted that the murder case revolves around Shaikh. The only piece of evidence against the applicant is the recovery of the number plates, which is not sufficient to detain his client in the jail, Dessai told the court. Public prosecutor D Korgaonkar submitted that Patil is booked for broad daylight murder, criminal conspiracy and destroying evidence apart from offences under the Arms Act. “There is clear cut evidence to show that the applicant has conspired with the other accused to commit robbery and murder of the deceased,” stated Korgaonkar. Judge Cholu Gauns observed that the acquaintance of the applicant with other two accused stands proved on admission. The judge observed that audio-video recording of the bullet firing practice has been attached. The recordings contain transcript of the applicant and Mustafa during their firing practice at Ravanfond using the gun used by Shaikh in the murder. The judge also observed that there are circumstances establishing the presence of the accused at the crime scene at the time of the incident. The conduct of the applicant and other surrounding circumstances prima facie shows that the applicant Omkar Patil is a part of the criminal conspiracy in commission of the murder of the deceased, the judge noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-junks-bail-plea-of-murder-accused/articleshow/78989442.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana registers 5% growth in GST since pandemic||HYDERABAD: In what is seen as a revival of markets in Telangana, the state for the first time showed 5% growth in GST collection since the Covid-19 pandemic reared its head in March this year. The latest GST collection figures released by the Union finance ministry on Sunday show that the state has begun to heal from the Covid-19 induced slowdown and has collected Rs 3,383 crore in October this year, translating to a 5% growth from October 2019 which stood at Rs 3,230 crore. While Telangana has shown some progress ever since GST was introduced, negative growth cropped up first in March at 9% when compared to the collection in the same period last year. In March this year, Telangana collected Rs 3,556 crore and during the lockdown months of April and May, the state hardly had any income. The collections improved from June, even showing a growth rate of marginal 3% but quickly dropped to negative as Covid-19 cases jumped. The situation though improved slightly in September this year. “The economy of the state has always been strong and it is only matter of time before it improves. The state also took measures to see that there was market rotation,” state planning board vice chairman B Vinod Kumar said. “We hope that recovery in the state will be much faster in the coming month as activities pick up,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-registers-5-growth-in-gst-since-pandemic/articleshow/78989745.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Little room for physical classes at DU this year||NEW DELHI: Delhi University released a notice with procedures for internal assessment, viva voce, projects, apprenticeship, field work, etc, which are required before the conduct of semester theory exams in December. Since all these are to be conducted online, the notice to deans of departments and principals of colleges completely rules out any possibility of physical classes in DU this year. For internal assessment, the university has stated that instead of the three existing components of internal assessment such as class test, tutorial test and attendance, only one component defined as internal assignment may be carried out for the current semester for this examination, except in SOL, as a special measure due to the pandemic. “Internal assessment of the students should also be carried out using IT tools. Teachers should give assignments to students in prescribed format in email and Google classroom. Students will have to submit the solved assignment to the teacher via email in a defined time. After revaluation, the respective teacher will submit the result to the principal and head of the department,” the notice said. For examination of practical courses (undergraduate), the teachers have been asked to give assignment to students. These, the notice said, should be simple exercises which can be done online. “The viva voce and oral exams should be through Skype or online teaching platform prescribed by the teacher,” the notice further stated. The university has informed deans and principals that for internship and apprenticeship of all semesters the present situation should be considered. “Student should be allowed to take online internship activities including those that can be carried out digitally or otherwise from home. They can be engaged in internships in ongoing projects. The date for the start of the internship can be delayed and their period can be reduced,” said the notice. The university has clarified that all dissertations of UG and PG programmes are to be conducted on written assignments and that “in the present scenario appropriate measures have to be adopted to facilitate the UG and PG student pursuing projects and dissertations.” The notice said that instead of laboratory-based projects and experiments, substitutes should be looked into by teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/little-room-for-physical-classes-at-du-this-year/articleshow/78988706.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Meerut||Five months on, Chinese mobile firm gets 'clean chit' in IMEI 'cloning' case||MEERUT: After a five-month long investigation in the case where a single International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) was active on more than 13,500 phones, the local police has now given a "clean chit" to a Chinese mobile manufacturing company and has filed a final report in the case without pressing any charges, calling it a "technical glitch". The latest twist comes after senior police officials in Meerut had earlier called it a "threat to the national security" and launched a probe after registering an FIR under section 420 (cheating and dishonesty) of the IPC and section 66 of the Information Technology Act. Meerut SP (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh confirmed the development on Sunday, stating the final report was filed last month. However, the UP Police claimed it has shared probe details with Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) and Department of Telecom (DoT). In June this year, a case was registered after a UP Police sub-inspector, posted in Meerut, had complained that his mobile, which he received following repairs at authorised service station, reflected a duplicate IMEI number. Initial probe by cyber cell came up with a shocking revelation that the same IMEI number was active on over 13,500 phones in a time span of merely 30 minutes. Every mobile phone carries a unique identification — a 15-digit number called IMEI. And no two phones can have the same IMEI. The IMEI allows mobile service providers to identify devices on a network — it is what is tracked when a phone is lost or stolen. Cloning IMEI means a phone can become virtually untraceable, lost in the volumes of same IDs. Since 2017, IMEI tampering has been a punishable offence with a three-year jail term. The investigating officer in the case had initially complained that the company officials were not cooperating with the probe and a notice was also sent to the chief executive officer to join the probe in July. However, senior officials have now confirmed the final report was filed last month, and they found the case did not amount to any "criminal misconduct". "Probe outcome termed it as a technical glitch. Prosecution had advised us that this does not pertain to criminal proceedings under section 420 of IPC and 66 of IT Act. We have forwarded the complaint to TRAI and DoT," Suraj Rai, circle officer (Civil Lines) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/five-months-on-chinese-mobile-firmgets-clean-chit-in-imei-cloning-case/articleshow/78986399.cms||Piyush Rai
November 2, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra govt to permit coronavirus autopsies to understand true impact on organs||PUNE: After Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, the Maharashtra government is also considering go-aheads for pathological autopsies of deceased Covid-19 patients to better understand SARS-CoV-2’s disease-causing ability (pathology) and its impact on organs. During the procedures, experts will conduct close examinations of organs and examine the physiology behind inflammation and blood-clotting, which are characteristic Covid-19 complications. Currently, autopsies of deceased Covid patients are only conducted if the deaths involve a medico-legal factor. A pathological autopsy is different from the mandatory medico-legal autopsy — it is conducted for the sole purpose of medical research. The procedure also requires consent of a family member of the deceased. TP Lahane, director of the state government’s department of medical education and research (DMER) said, “We are keen on a limited study on the impact of Covid-19 on the human body through pathological autopsies. The procedures will be carried out at three state-run medical colleges that are attached to hospitals.” The research through pathological autopsies also needs approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which oversees all medical research in the country. “We will begin our work once we have sought ICMR’s approval,” Lahane said. The All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh) had carried out the first pathological autopsy of a Covid-19 patient on August 16. The Rajkot Civil hospital in Gujarat conducted its Covid autopsy on September 7. But securing consent from relatives will be tough, experts said. “It is not easy to get informed consent from distressed family who may have lost loved ones to the pandemic. They will require much counselling,” said Sanjay Patil, vice-president of the state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Studies have shown that Covid hits the immune system hard — leading to multi-organ involvement. “Lungs, heart, kidneys, gastrointestinal and hepatic systems and the brain are all affected in varying intensities,” said infectious disease expert Parikshit Prayag. Aerosol generation during Covid autopsies also presents a risk for doctors. Forensic experts said the procedures will need low aerosol-generating techniques, such as use of the conventional hammer-chisel method, instead of the electric saw to open a skull. Post-mortem examinations have been widely described as the gold-standard for understanding underlying pathophysiology of diseases. However, despite the rush of literature that focused on clinical impact and the make-up of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the number of autopsy studies have been comparatively few, and far between. The United States, for example, has conducted just over 300 Covid autopsies so far. Experts have now said regions experiencing confirmed dips or even sharp falls in patient numbers should turn focus on post-mortem investigations of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-to-permit-coronavirus-autopsies-to-understand-true-impact-on-organs/articleshow/78988694.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Former SCB VP set to join BJP||Secunderabad: Former vice-president of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), J Rama Krishna is likely to join BJP on November 8. Rama Krishna had resigned from TRS in September. Krishna convened a meeting of BJP party workers on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-scb-vp-set-to-join-bjp/articleshow/78989394.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Trichy||Fisheries univ rank list for UG admission out||Nagapattinam: UG admission rank list for 2020-21 has been released by Tamil Nadu Dr J Jayalalithaa Fisheries University in Nagapattinam on its official website. Admission to 386 seats in the ten UG degree programmes offered by the university through the constituent colleges for the academic year was undertaken through online. Vice-chancellor of the university G Sugumar has released the rank list on its web site www.tnjfu.ac.in. At present, Bachelor of Fisheries Science (BFSc) programme is offered in three colleges, four different Bachelor of Technology (BTech) programmes are offered at four colleges, BBA in Fisheries Business Management programme and four BVoc programmes are offered in four paraprofessional institutes, the vice-chancellor said. P Adithya Nagarajan from Chennai topped the rank list with 195.50 cut-off marks followed by Selvan B Rishi Kesavan from Tuticorin and S Gopikrishna from Theni who came in 2nd and 3rd place respectively. Counselling for the special category students will be conducted on November 7 at the fisheries university in Nagapattinam. For other candidates, online counselling will be conducted through the website from November 9 to 11. Vice-chancellor further indicated that PG admission 2020-21 will open for MFSc, MTech and PhD courses. Online applications and prospectus for postgraduate degree programmes are available at the university website (www.tnjfu.ac.in) from November 1. The last date for submission of online application is November 27. The aspirants are requested to visit the website for prospectus and online application. Further details can be obtained from email: pgadmission@tnjfu.ac.in or phone 04365-256430 or mobile 9442601908, he stated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fisheries-univ-rank-list-for-ug-admission-out/articleshow/78989398.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Trichy||Call to revive wall of happiness near MGM govt hosp in Trichy||Trichy: With Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns adversely impacting the earning potential of low-income group of families, the need for the wall of happiness to reuse gently used products, mostly clothes, has been at its peak. The wall near the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital that usually overflows with clothes now appears completely empty as Trichy Corporation had suspended the service of the wall since July citing Covid-19. Ahead of Diwali, there have been calls to reactivate the wall to benefit the underprivileged.The 25ft long wall on Allithurai road was set up in December 2017 opposite MGM with multiple racks to place gently used products like clothes, footwear and toys. People who have used clothes but in pleasant condition for reuse shall place their goods in the wall of happiness while those who cannot afford to buy them can take the products from the same. Although various establishments and services are now back running following standard operating procedures (SOPs), the wall is still inactive. “The gently used clothes placed in the shelves were of great use for us in the past. Many of the clothes placed were in desirable quality that we cannot afford to purchase,” said N Raja, a resident of Vannarapettai added. “The facility is kept shut temporarily to avoid crowding. We will take the opinion of our officials and act as per their suggestion in resuming the service of the wall,” an official with Trichy Corporation said. The wall of happiness situated near Srirangam temple is, however, continuing to cater to the needs of underprivileged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/call-to-revive-wall-of-happiness-near-mgm-govt-hosp-in-trichy/articleshow/78989397.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Conman who cheated Delhi businessman by selling mortgaged property held||NEW DELHI: A conman who duped a south Delhi businessman by allegedly selling him property in Greater Kailash that was mortgaged to financial institutions was arrested by Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police. The accused, Rahul Narang (46), ran a gym called Olympia in south Delhi and was also arrested for selling mortgaged cars last week. OP Mishra, joint commissioner (EOW), said a man named Harbhej Singh had filed a complaint of cheating in 2018 alleging that Narang had taken over Rs 2 crore from him on the pretext of selling his portions of the property. Narang told him that the property was free from encumbrances and there was no lien on it. “The total sale consideration was of Rs 10 crore out of which Singh paid the accused Rs 2.08 crore. Later, Singh came to know that financial institutions had lien over the property,” Mishra said. Based on Singh’s complaint, a case was registered under IPC sections of fraud, cheating and criminal conspiracy. Narang is currently on police remand. Earlier, Crime Branch had arrested Narang for allegedly duping people of crores of rupees on the pretext of selling luxury cars to them. The arrest was made while police were probing a case wherein a CR Park resident was duped of Rs 1.15 crore. The victim alleged that Narang had taken money from him in return for sale letters of six luxurious cars. However, he was handed over only one car. Narang neither returned his money nor handed over the remaining five vehicles. The conman was arrested, but was soon released on conditional bail. He then stopped attending court proceedings and eventually a non-bailable warrant was issued against him. He was soon arrested again. He allegedly cheated several others by mortgaging the same set of luxury cars to them and even banks. Last year, two cheating cases were registered against him. He was also booked under Negotiable Instruments Act. A graduate from Delhi University, Narang lived a lavish life from the siphoned off money. To attract customers to his gym, he offered them a free pick and drop in a Limousine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/conman-who-cheated-bizman-by-selling-mortgaged-property-held/articleshow/78988687.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kochi||Pettimudy landslide victims receive title deeds||IDUKKI: The government has done everything humanly possible to rehabilitate Pettimudy landslide victims, said power minister M M Mani. At a function in Kuttiyarvalley on Sunday, the minister inaugurated title deed distribution and the construction work of new houses. Each of the affected family received title deed of five cents of land to construct a house. Collector H Dineshan said the compensation for the immediate kin of landslide victims would be distributed by the end this month. Government had issued notification on October 27 to provide compensation, he said. Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan said, “ The government has directed the KDHP company to complete the construction work of the houses in three months. The district administration will monitor the progress of the work.” “The district administration will take steps to lay roads in Kuttiyarvalley to ensure good connectivity. KDHP officials have informed us that they would provide job and other assistance to victims,” the sub-collector added. Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose, Devikulam MLA S Rajendran, collector H Dineshan and Devikulam sub collector S Premkrishnan, Devikulam teshsildar Giji M Kunnappally and KDHP managing director K Mathew Abraham attended the function. The state cabinet had issued a special order to allot 50 cents of land at Kuttiyarvalley near Munnar for Pettimudy victims. Meanwhile, KDHP has allotted Rs.1 crore to construct homes for the victims. The landslide at Pettimudy on August 6 had claimed lives of 66.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/landslide-victims-receive-title-deeds/articleshow/78987302.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 1 crore seized from kin of BJP Dubbak candidate, say cops||HYDERABAD: On the last day of campaigning for the Dubbak assembly bypoll, Hyderabad police on Sunday said they had seized Rs 1 crore unaccounted cash from the brother-in-law of BJP contesting candidate M Raghunandan Rao in Begumpet. At a media conference, Task Force officials said two persons, S Srinivas Rao and his driver T Ravi Kumar, were in their custody. Srinivas is the brother-in-law of Raghunandan Rao, they said. Police sadi they have seized Rs 1 crore, an Innova and two mobiles from the arrested duo. While police alleged that the cash was meant to be distributed among voters ahead of the November 3 bypoll, the BJP denied it completely, saying it was the TRS gameplan to defame the party. Sunday’s seizure comes six days after cops said they seized Rs 18.67 lakh from another relative of Rao in Siddipet, leading to a bitter war of words between the ruling TRS party and the BJP. So far, police have seized about Rs 58 lakh of cash in connection with the Dubbak bypoll which will see a three-way battle between the TRS, Congress and BJP. Acting on a specific tip-off, police seized Srinivas Rao’s car near Begumpet flyover while he was transporting the money. “On enquiry, it has been revealed that the said amount was collected by Srinivas Rao from Begumpet in order to deliver it at Dubbak for distributing among the voters,” said Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar. Kumar also said that Rao confessed that the manager of a company, belonging to a former member of parliament, handed over the cash to him to transport from Hyderabad to Dubbak. Kumar said the information was found in the mobile phone of the accused and the seized cash and the accused were handed over to Begumpet police, who were questioning them. “The seized cash is going to be submitted in the local court,” he said. The BJP denied the cash seizure had anything to do with them. “We categorically deny the party or our candidate for Dubbak bypoll Raghunanadan Rao has anything to do with the cash seized. This has been a pattern to harass the party and our candidate in this poll so far in the guise of raids by the TRS regime,” K Krishna Sagar Rao, BJP spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-1-cr-seized-from-kin-of-bjp-dubbak-candidate-say-cops/articleshow/78989751.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Maoist leader Roopesh can access internet: Court||KOZHIKODE: The NIA court in Kochi has given sanction to Maoist leader Roopesh to access internet facilities to get the relevant inputs for fighting the cases against him. The court ordered that Roopesh “shall be permitted to use Internet facility for a duration of 45 minutes every week to access only the official websites of the Supreme Court and various high courts in India, India Code, Indian Kanoon and any useful search engine for accessing any of the said websites.” Roopesh is a law graduate and is fighting the cases in the lower courts on his own. He moved the court saying that access to the verdicts of the constitutional courts and various statutory provisions are indispensable for him in the legal fight. The Maoist leader said that the Kerala Prisons and Correctional Services (Management) Rule has provisions for foreign citizens who are in prison to have access to the internet. The prison authority informed the court that there are not enough legal books in the library which are helpful to defend a serious criminal case. The order said that “court had the opportunity to see the legal acumen of the petitioner on a number of occasions. He always comes prepared to address the court with suitable precedents and legal provisions. He is a law graduate. However, his submission is that the study materials available with him have been exhausted and they are no more helpful to him to defend the ensuing trial in various courts.” The court also sought the opinion of the systems administrator at the Ernakulam district court who said that limited access to the internet could be provided after installing necessary firewalls to check its misuse. The court asked the prison authorities to make arrangements to provide software-based law journals to the jail inmates and until it is done Roopesh is allowed to use the internet in a limited way. P A Shyna, Roopesh’swife, said the order is a great relief to fight the cases. “We used to collect court orders and relevant materials and send them to Roopesh, who is currently lodged at high security prison in Viyyur in Thrissur,” she said. Roopesh has 43 cases against him, out of which six have been discharged, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/maoist-leader-roopesh-can-access-internet-court/articleshow/78987359.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Bank manager hit by bullet during brawl, Delhi cop among two held||NEW DELHI: A bank manager was left severely injured after being shot at by a man and his friend, who later turned out to be a policeman, during a brawl late on Thursday. The shooter, Rajesh, and the policeman, Surender, have been arrested and the pistol used in the crime has been seized. The cop, who was posted at Jahangirpuri police station, has been suspended from service. The incident took place in southwest Delhi’s Baba Haridas Nagar on the intervening night of October 29 and 30. The victim, Lakshman Bhandari, lives with his family in Najafgarh. He was partying with three friends. He left for his house around midnight, but soon got a call from his friend seeking help in a brawl. When Bhandari returned to the place, he found his friends in a scuffle with two men. He intervened and stopped them from beating his friends. One of the men then whipped out a pistol and shot at Bhandari. The duo then assaulted the others at gunpoint. The accused fled the spot, while Bhandari was rushed to a hospital. Police later lodged an FIR for attempt to murder and assault against unknown people. When doctors operated upon Bhandari, they found a 9mm bullet lodged in his body. This bore is restricted for use only by police. After scanning CCTV footage, the accused policeman was identified. He was tracked down and questioned. He revealed the identity of his friend, Rajesh, who is an in-charge in a cluster bus service. During interrogation, the accused duo revealed that they were returning home from a party that night when they spotted a seemingly drunk man lying next to his bike. When they went to help, Bhandari’s friends also happened to pass by. When the duo sought help from Bhandari’s friends to lift the biker, they refused. An argument soon broke out between them. Surender claimed that Bhandari and his three friends overpowered him and Rajesh during the scuffle. Rajesh then took Surender’s pistol and fired in the air, but one bullet hit Bhandari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bank-manager-hit-by-bullet-during-brawl-cop-among-two-held/articleshow/78988732.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal bucks national school dropout trend during pandemic||KOLKATA: Bengal has bucked a nationwide rural trend of not enrolling in schools during the pandemic. Rural Bengal, instead, has reported a sharp decline in school dropouts. The Annual Survey of Education Report (ASER) 2020 Wave 1, released on Wednesday, indicated that in 2020, 1.5% children were not enrolled in schools in rural Bengal whereas this was 3.3% in 2018. Nationwide this has increased from 4% in 2018 to 5.5% in 2020. The ASER report also indicates that more school-goers in rural Bengal are opting for government schools than private schools. This phone-based ASER survey was done in September 2020 — the sixth month of national school closures — across 26 states and four Union territories. The surveyors had reached out to over 1,500 children in the five-16 year age group in rural Bengal homes. State education minister Partha Chatterjee also pointed out another survey finding — school textbooks made available to children – which Bengal tops among other states surveyed. Chatterjee termed it as a “milestone” given the digital disruption in reaching out to school-children during the pandemic. Chatterjee attributed this as a “success of chief minister Mamata Banerjee.” The report indicates that over the last couple of years, the school dropout rates have been arrested in rural Bengal across various age groups but it appears to be the highest in the 15-16 years age group where the drop has been 4.8%. Drops have also been noticed in the 6-10 years age group (1.1%) and 11-14 years age group (0.9%). The rural Bengal school enrolment is being buoyed by girls this year; the survey indicated. Across age groups in seven-16 years, girls have taken a lead in opting for school admissions. Digging deeper into the school enrolment data, the survey finds that in rural Bengal homes, children of those parents, who have no schooling, are much more likely to attend government schools — 15.1% in case of mothers and 15.1% in case of fathers — than those children whose parents have studied till Higher Secondary level. As schools try to battle the digital divide, the survey indicates that textbooks and worksheets remain the primary medium of instruction. The state has tried broadcast mediums like television and radio, of which the latter did not have much impact among the students surveyed. Television, however, had been watched by more students than online mediums. Among online mediums, pre-recorded videos appeared more effective than live online sessions. The parents of the respondents said that school’s inability to share study materials was the primary disruption. Around 20% of the parents said that the lack of internet and smart phones had affected them while 5.4% cited connectivity issues. Personal visits and WhatsApp, the respondents stated, helped them receive study materials during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-bucks-national-school-dropout-trend-during-pandemic/articleshow/78988738.cms||Saibal Sen
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||2 vehicles caught carrying PDS rice||Hyderabad: Kandukur police said they had intercepted two DCM vehicles illegally transporting 432 bags of PDS rice on Sunday. The vehicles were heading towards Kamareddy. A case was registered against the illegal transporters by cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-vehicles-caught-carrying-pds-rice/articleshow/78989404.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Elderly owner of Baba ka Dhaba duped in Delhi?||NEW DELHI: The south district police has started a probe into allegations by the elderly owner of Baba Ka Dhaba after receiving a complaint claiming misappropriation of funds. The owner claimed that many donations were made to the elderly couple running the eatery but the person managing the funds gave him only Rs 2 lakh. Kanta Prasad (80), who runs Baba Ka Dhaba, recently shot to fame after a video of him went viral on social media. The video was uploaded by a YouTuber on his Facebook page, YouTube channel and Twitter account. Titled “80 years old couple working hard to survive”, the clip went viral and a lot of celebrities came forward to financially help the couple. Read Also'Baba ka Dhaba' has become the latest food stall sensation, thanks to social mediaA few days ago, people shared clips on social media about how Kanta Prasad was generously serving big chunks of paneer and peas, despite his poor income and inability to hardly make a living out of his stall.Speaking to TOI, Prasad said “I was given a little over Rs 2 lakh but I have no information about the rest of the money. The donations were received in the many bank accounts of the accused and his wife.” Read AlsoDelhi: 'Baba ka Dhaba' fame couple get free cataract surgeryKanta Prasad and his wife, the elderly couple owning the 'Baba ka Dhaba' that made headlines after a video about their struggle making ends meet in the pandemic went viral, on Tuesday underwent cataract surgery.In his complaint, Prasad stated that he tried to contact the accused many times and requested him to disclose the financial records regarding the total donations received, but the man always asked for more time. “The assurances have now turned into false promises and the accused along with his associates have not arranged for any good services to protect my interests. This has led to a huge loss to me,” said Prasad. No case has been registered but investigations are under way. A few days ago, people shared clips on social media about how Kanta Prasad was generously serving big chunks of paneer and peas, despite his poor income and inability to hardly make a living out of his stall. However, the clips appreciating Prasad’s kindness and humbleness got viral on social media with the hashtag #babakadhaba on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/elderly-couple-running-dhaba-duped-police-launch-probe/articleshow/78988760.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Meerut||Children, elderly at risk as west UP gasps for fresh air||Meerut/Bareilly/Agra: With November marking the beginning of the Diwali month, Uttar Pradesh gasps for fresh air as most of its cities recording ‘very poor’ air quality, surpassing even the Air Quality Index (AQI) of 364 recorded in Delhi on Sunday. At 389, Baghpat recorded “very poor” AQI in the state on Sunday, followed by Greater Noida (388), Noida (384), Ghaziabad (384), Moradabad (384) and Meerut (364) — equalising Delhi. An AQI ranging 0 to 50 is considered “good” and “satisfactory” if it falls between 51 and 100. Similarly, from 101 to 200 it will be “moderate”, 201 to 300 is considered “poor”, 301 to 400 is taken as “very poor”, and above 400 it’s “severe”. The air quality, meanwhile, further deteriorated in Moradabad on Sunday with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recording an AQI of 384 or “very poor” on Sunday. Earlier this week, in the city had recorded an AQI of 351. Similarly, the air quality in Agra district deteriorated further with the AQI in Agra — which falls under the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) — recorded at 339 or “very poor” by the CPCB. The AQI on Saturday was, however, 332. The AQI takes into account five chief pollutants — particulate matter (PM) with a diameter less than 10 micrometres (PM10), PM2.5, ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and carbon monoxide (CO). Moradabad recorded PM 2.5 at 389 and PM 10 at 306 on Sunday, while the city of Taj recoded PM 2.5 at 416 milligrams per cubic meter, which is considered hazardous. According to the CPCB, very poor AQI results in respiratory illness if exposed prolonged. Suggesting people, especially children and elderly, to wear N95 masks, Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “They should avoid coming out of homes as it can have an impact on those already suffering from respiratory diseases.”Agra’s SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala, too, cautioned people to avoid public places, especially during daytime. “Prolonged exposure to PM 2.5 beyond the safe limit can severely affect the respiratory system as ultra-fine particulates can find their way deep into the lungs and also enter the bloodstream. Asthma and tuberculosis patients should avoid going to construction sites or dusty areas. Wearing a face mask could, however, significantly prevent respiratory complications caused by air pollution.” Experts, meanwhile, said the air quality might deteriorate further with Diwali approaching. (With inputs from Deepak Lavania and Maria Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/children-elderly-at-risk-as-west-up-gasps-for-fresh-air/articleshow/78986437.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KPCC chief’s sexist remarks draw flak||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran has landed in trouble once again after making sexist remarks against a woman. He had said in a function that the LDF government was using an adulteress to file cases against the Congress leaders. He was referring to the woman who had come out against the UDF leaders in the solar scam. He later apologized in the same venue for his remarks. While speaking at the inauguration of the ‘betrayal day’ organized by the UDF before the Secretariat to protest against the CPM-led government, the KPCC president said, “The LDF government, which is facing various corruption allegations, are now depending on an adulteress to divert attention and file cases against UDF leaders.” “This woman had cried that the entire state had raped her. We can understand if a woman gets sexually abused once. But if it gets repeated, then any woman with self esteem would either commit suicide or try to prevent such a thing from happening again. But this woman has been saying she was repeatedly abused,” the KPCC president had said. He went on to add that “I have reliable information from the police officers that the government is planning to utilize this woman again to file complaints against the UDF leaders.” However, Ramachandran tendered apologies for his remarks in the same function itself after he was informed that his words have triggered a controversy. The state women’s commission chairperson, M C Josephine, said that the commission would register a case against the KPCC president for his sexist remarks. The KPCC president had earlier courted controversy when he addressed health minister K K Shailaja as “Nipah princess” and “Covid Queen”. Though his remarks had invited widespread criticism, he was not ready to withdraw this statement. Shailaja came down heavily against the KPCC president and said that Ramachandran’s remarks about rape were highly condemnable. “It is dangerous that people hold anti-women sentiments in their mind,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kpcc-chiefs-sexist-remarks-draw-flak/articleshow/78987383.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Lawyers, litigants in Delhi still prefer safe distance from courts||NEW DELHI: Lawyers and litigants remain reluctant to appear physically in courts, opting instead for the safety of virtual hearings in Delhi. Latest figures obtained from Delhi High Court reveal that between March 25 and October 10, over 96.2% lawyers preferred to appear through virtual mode and even in the cases listed for physical hearing before the high court, a majority of the lawyers sought a hearing through video-conferencing. This is the second time since the partial re-opening of courts that the high court administration has collated figures on virtual and physical hearings for the high court and district courts. In the nearly seven month period from March till October end, more than 42,000 cases were taken up via video-conferencing, out of which 2,534 were disposed of virtually. From September 1, nearly 1,500 cases were listed for physical hearing, out of which 864 opted for virtual hearings. Another metric collected by the high court, shows that a total of 12,167 cases were filed through electronic online platforms, with more than 97% lawyers preferring VC hearings. Total cases listed from September 1. Figures for district courts reveal that till date, more than 6 lakh cases have been taken up through video-conferencing and around 1 lakh through physical mode by these courts and approximately 50,000 cases and 85,000 applications have been disposed of. Meanwhile, the Bar Council of Delhi has written to the Chief Justice of high court, urging him to allow a “hybrid” system of hearings, where the judges physically assemble in courtrooms and then let the lawyers decide if they wish to opt for virtual or physical hearings. The letter by BCD member Rajiv Khosla says, “The Hybrid mode will not give any excuse to anyone for non-appearance in their case, citing the difficulty of causing appearance in a particular mode. This will further empower the presiding officer to pass effective orders after hearing both the parties and the same will also reduce the pendency in future besides providing some monetary relief to the lawyers who are hard-pressed on account of the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lawyers-litigants-still-prefer-safe-distance-from-courts/articleshow/78988763.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Plaint filed for missing woman||Hyderabad: A husband lodged a complaint in Afzalgunj PS after his wife went missing on Thursday. The woman was taking care of their daughter in a hospital. On Thursday, the man noticed his wife was missing. On Friday, their daughter succumbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plaint-filed-for-missing-woman/articleshow/78989405.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Amaravati||Will weed out forces against AP, says YS Jagan Mohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Hitting out at forces trying to demean the popular government through management of systems, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday promised to weed out such unethical individuals/groups and safeguard the state. Soon after hoisting the tricolour at his camp office to mark AP Formation Day on Sunday, Jagan alleged that a few individuals were relentlessly working to derail the government. “These individuals have become sleepless because people of their community lost power in the state and they are trying to stall the welfare and development in the state,” he said while appealing to people to safeguard the state from such forces. Addressing district collectors and SPs via video-conference, the chief minister said people with vested interests were unable to digest the defeat of forces that worked only for the benefit of a section of people. He said that the neglect AP suffered in the last several decades left it underdeveloped. “It is astonishing to know that more than 1 crore acre of cultivable land is yet to get irrigation water even for one crop and more than 32 lakh people are homeless in the state,” Jagan said, adding that it was sad to recall that 33% of the state’s population was illiterate and 85% still below the poverty line (BPL). He said that more than 90 lakh women joined self-help groups to make their families self-sustainable and they continue to struggle. He said that these examples were testimony to the injustice done to the state in the last seven decades. The chief minister, however, said that he was happy to share that the YSRCP government could transform many systems for betterment in just 18 months after coming to power and taking administration closer to the people by setting up village/ward secretariats for every 2,000 population and one volunteer to extend services to each household. “All the public services are made available right in the village/ward secretariat. Our volunteers are constantly in touch with the people to find out their needs and address them,” said Jagan. He said that they have taken up revolutionary changes in education and health sectors by renovating schools and hospitals. Each village got its own 24x7 YSR village clinic which would act as referral centres for YSR Arogyasri. Jagan added that they have launched a slew of services through Rythu Bharosa Kendra (RBKs), transforming villages after modernisation of schools and hospitals. “Demons have disturbed yagnas of Gods. So, how could we expect the demons of today to sit idle. But we have faith in the public to overcome all hurdles created by forces working on caste lines,” Jagan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/will-weed-out-forces-against-ap-says-jagan/articleshow/78989754.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||Easy test, UK lockdown bring more flyers to Kol||Kolkata: At 4.07am on Sunday, flight AI 1150 from London touched down at Kolkata airport with 115 passengers on board, 40% of whom came without a Covid report and got themselves tested at the city airport’s testing facility before being declared Covid negative. That would usually have triggered a cause for a mini celebration. After all, it was only the second time since the introduction of the direct flight on September 16 that over 100 passengers had travelled from Heathrow and the first time since the introduction of Covid test facility at the city airport. With flight loads of 50-70 passengers, AI had last month reduced the frequency from twice-a-week to once-a-week. On October 18, just before Durga Puja, 125 passengers had flown in to the city from London. AI officials were not sure whether the increased load signalled a positive step to the direction of the flight’s stabilization. While international flights take three to six months to get stable loads, what led to the ambivalence was the announcement of a month-long lockdown by the Boris Johnson government following a spike in infections across their country and elsewhere in Europe, which is experiencing the second wave of Covid. The British government even hinted that the restrictions could be extended beyond December 1 if infection numbers do not fall significantly over the next 30 days. “Some among those on Sunday flight were originally scheduled to fly later but they advanced their travel plans in view of the lockdown. Even film crews that had travelled for shoots to the UK are scrambling to return to avoid getting held up there,” said a source in the airline. AI officials aren’t sure yet whether the flight will continue to operate during the lockdown in the UK. If it does, there should be no problem as all flyers have to undergo RT-PCR test for Covid 19, either before boarding the flight at Heathrow or on the arrival in Kolkata. Since the inception of the twice a week flight from September 16, which has been reduced to once a week since last week, Sunday was only the second time when the arriving passenger count crossed the 100 mark. On October 18, 125 passengers — all with Covid negative reports — flew to Kolkata. On October 22, 78 passengers had come to Kolkata, nine of whom were without Covid report. On October 25, the number of arriving passengers increased to 92 and of them, 14 were without the RTPCR Covid report. Prior to October 22, passengers on board the London-Kolkata flight had to get an RTPCR Covid negative report compulsorily before boarding the flight, which, several passengers had complained, was difficult to be obtained, thereby dropping the passenger count that had even prompted Air India authorities to reduce the number of flights to once a week — only on Sundays. Realising the problem, Chief minister Mamata Banerjee urged the Kolkata Airport to come up with a swab collection centre at the airport and relaxed the state SOP only for the London flight, while giving passengers option to board the flight without a Covid report and get themselves tested once they reach the Kolkata airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/easy-test-uk-lockdown-bring-more-flyers-to-kol/articleshow/78988815.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sobha’s outburst brings unusual camaraderie in BJP||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: BJP state vice-president Sobha Surendran’s open criticism against the party leadership has created a rare camaraderie among leaders belonging to rival camps in the party. Sobha, a prominent woman face in the state BJP, surprised all political enthusiasts when she openly criticised the party state leadership and called for an introspection by the leaders in the helm of affairs. Fulminating against the party’s high echelons, Sobha told television channels last week that she was sidelined. She said she was appointed as BJP state vice-president without seeking her consent. Her open criticism triggered several political theories, including rumours about the chances of her crossing over to the CPM camp. However, soon after the outburst, she went incommunicado and cutting across group affiliations the top BJP state leaders swear in unison that Sobha has neither communicated her grievance to any of them nor in party forums. “Her reclusive style of functioning prompts other leaders from not supporting her in open. None of the leaders who have so far reacted to her open complaints haven’t spoken to her for months,” a senior leader in the party said. Sobha’s public denouncement comes at a time when the warring factions having allegiance to V Muraleedharan and P K Krishnadas have almost put on the back burner their old grouse over leadership rejig. The muffled protests against K Surendran’s elevation to the party state president lost its steam in the aftermath of the CPM getting pushed to the wall and elections fast approaching. Sources in the party say that even those who still harbour grouse against Union minister V Muraleedharan for his alleged overbalance are not ready to support Sobha as none of them are quite sure about the reason behind the sudden outrage, especially at a time when the BJP is carrying out an all-round attack against the LDF government, which is mired in controversies. There were reports that Sobha, a former national executive member of BJP, may be considered for the post of Mahila Morcha national president. But the leadership has recently filled that post with another leader hailing from Tamil Nadu. Meanwhile, BJP national vice-president A P Abdullakkutty on Sunday said the grievances of Sobha would be addressed. While BJP state president K Surendran said he was not aware of any complaint Sobha claims to have sent to the central leadership, general secretary M T Ramesh said it was up to the state president to decide whether the complaints of Sobha should be discussed in the party forums or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sobhas-outburst-brings-unusual-camaraderie-in-bjp/articleshow/78987407.cms||B S Anilkumar
November 2, 2020||Meerut||Criminal expelled from Bijnor, found roaming in area, arrested||BIJNOR: A criminal booked under Goonda Act and debarred from entering Bijnor for six months in the wake of Panchayat polls was arrested roaming in the area on Sunday. Superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, “One Jaideep from Nainu Nangal village of Shiwala Kala police station area was expelled from the district last month for a period of six months. He was sent to Amroha. However, police got a tip-off that Jaideep was visiting family in Bijnor. They raided his house and arrested him on Sunday. He has been sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/criminal-expelled-from-bijnor-found-roaming-in-area-arrested/articleshow/78986461.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lake open to walkers for 3 hours in evening||KOLKATA: From Monday, you can stroll around Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar in the evening — from 3pm to 6pm. A four-hour window is already there for morning walkers at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. After a visit by urban development minister Firhad Hakim on Sunday, KMDA — the keepers of both the lungs of south and east Kolkata — decided to open the gates for three hours in the late afternoon as well. From 1 July, both Subhas Sarobar and Rabindra Sarobar were reopened for four hours from 5.30am every day. Last month, an hour was extended in the morning. Green activists on Sunday welcomed the move to open the premises in the late afternoon till early evening. Environmentalist S M Ghosh told TOI: “We are grateful to the minister for understanding the need to maintain good health to combat the pandemic. I appeal to fellow walkers and those who will come to the Lake to soak in its green ambience to wear masks and maintain physical distancing norms while strolling on the premises.” A KMDA official said, “We shall issue the notification about the extended hours by tomorrow morning.” Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar were closed on March 24 when the countrywide lockdown had been announced. Even as morning walkers have been maintaining protocol while walking around the two waterbodies, there have been complaints against some people playing football in the morning and not following norms. “Hope KMDA will ensure that people follow restrictions in the evening,” said Govind Phatepuria, a regular at Rabindra Sarobar. KMDA has taken up extensive clean-up drives of the two premises since Amphan ravaged the two places. Paved roads were cleared of debris, the banks of Rabindra Sarobar were repaired and cleared of broken branches and dry leaves. Rathin Das, a morning walker, said, “The air quality index (AQI) around Rabindra Sarobar improved during the lockdown due to fewer vehicles. The rain has cleansed the air further. I am really looking forward to my daily evening strolls now.” Ghosh added that the PM 2.5 reading at Lake usually hovers around 18 to 22 ug/m3 these days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lake-open-to-walkers-for-3-hours-in-evening/articleshow/78988840.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 2, 2020||India||BJP’s Scindia plays wrong hand, says vote for Congress||BHOPAL: In a faux pas that brought a smile to the face of BJP candidate from Dabra Ima- rti Devi, Jyotiraditya Scindia urged people to vote for ‘hand’ symbol and make it victorious. While addressing a rally in favour of Imarti in Dabra on Saturday, he said: “Teen tareekh ko hath pe panje wala button dabega aur Congress... (On the third, press the button for hand).” He checked himself mid-sentence, and appealed to people to vote for BJP. “Kamal pe phool wala button dabega aur hath pe panje ko bori-bistar bandhkar yaha sae ravana karenge (Lotus symbol button will be pressed and the hand sign will be packed off, lock stock and barrel),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjps-scindia-plays-wrong-hand-says-vote-for-congress/articleshow/78990017.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Ireland police contact kin of murder victim||MYSURU: The Ireland police, who are investigating the suspected murder of Seema Banu and her two kids in South Dublin, have contacted her parents in Bettadapura in Mysuru district. The investigating officer spoke to her father and two other relatives and collected details. The Indian embassy officials have also called the parents and assured them of all help. The officials said they are trying to get in touch with Seema’s husband Sameer. Meanwhile, the local police are probing the incident. Local media reports suggest that phone location data may play a crucial role in solving the case. They also reported that the post-mortem report of Seema is inconclusive although her children’s death have been classified as murder. Media reports stated that forensic experts visited the crime spot and police are trying to retrieve CCTV visuals. “The investigating officer spoke to the family — Seema’s father and two others. Parents gave them the information they sought. Officials of the Indian embassy are also in touch with the parents. They informed the family that they are trying to reach out to Seema’s husband Syed Sameer. They too have promised help,” said Masood, a family friend. The family also decided to appeal to the Mysuru MP Pratap Simha seeking his help to bring back the mortal remains. Meanwhile, Mysuru police continued to pursue the matter. “We are in touch with the family of deceased Seema Banu,” said SP C B Rishyanth. Seema, 37, and her two children — Asfira Riza, 11, and Faizan Syed, 6 — were found murdered at their home in Dublin, months after the family moved to Ireland.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ireland-police-contact-kin-of-murder-victim/articleshow/78986969.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 2, 2020||Dehradun||Unlock 6.0: Coaching institutes to reopen in graded manner, dist admin to take final call||Dehradun: The state government on late Saturday issued new guidelines for opening of coaching institutes, which have been closed since March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The coaching institutes — academic and professional — once reopened will have to strictly adhere to the norms of safety and social distancing issued by the ministry of home affairs, according to the latest guidelines issued by the state government. However, the state clearly stated that online and distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of coaching and shall be encouraged. Incidentally, owners of coaching institutes have been demanding reopening of institutes and even met chief secretary Om Prakash with regard to their demands. The new guidelines also stated that it has been observed that during the ongoing festival season, people are ignoring the cardinal safety requirements, such as wearing face masks and maintaining physical distancing and such behavior poses a serious threat to public health at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unlock-6-0-coaching-institutes-to-reopen-in-graded-manner-dist-admin-to-take-final-call/articleshow/78986495.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 2, 2020||Bareilly||Masked men strike at Flipkart godown, flee with Rs 8L||Bareilly: A group of five masked men allegedly forced their way into the delivery centre of retail e-commerce giant, Flipkart, in Rampur's Jwalanagar area under Civil Lines police station on Saturday night, held the staff and guard hostage and fled with around Rs 8 lakh kept in the cash box. A CCTV footage of the robbery has been making the rounds on social media. Shogun Gautam, superintendent of police, Rampur.said the five men came on two motorcycles to the godown. He added, "An FIR has been registered against them under IPC section 374 (unlawful compulsory labour), 392 (punishment for robbery) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). We are gathering more CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the people involved. Teams have been deployed to trace them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/masked-men-strike-at-flipkart-godown-flee-with-rs-8l/articleshow/78985030.cms||Maria Khan
November 2, 2020||Hubballi||Over 1,000 in Belagavi to get Covaxin in third phase of trials||BELGAVI: Jeevan Rekha hospital in Belagavi is preparing to launch the third phase of human trials of Covaxin, the indigenously developed potential Covid-19 vaccine. About 1,000 volunteers will receive two booster shots in this phase. In the second phase of trials in September and early October, 50 volunteers were given two doses of booster shots within a 14-day span. Four volunteers were administered the vaccine in the first phase that was completed on August 14. Candidates from the first two phases are currently under observation. Hospital authorities are regularly following up on their condition and sending their blood samples to the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). Hospital officials say these volunteers will be under observation for another "six to seven months". So far, none of them have complained of any adverse effects. The hospital said the volunteers, who all hail from in and around Belagavi city, are healthy. In the third phase, Bharat Biotech Pvt Ltd, the company that has developed the vaccine, will administer doses to 1,000 volunteers. Amith S Bhate, director, Jeevan Rekha said about 28,000 will participate in the trials across 25 centres in the country. "At Jeevan Rekha, we expect the vaccine to be tested on at least 1,000 people. We will launch trials in 15 days," Bhate said. Bhate said the hospital has requested the company to pick volunteers from Belagavi only, just as it had done for the previous two phases. He said logistics would be a nightmare if volunteers are chosen from other far-flung districts. "It is difficult for candidates to commute and follow-up tests would be difficult," he said. The efficacy of the vaccine would be known once the observation period ends for volunteers in the third phase, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/over-1000-in-belagavi-to-get-covaxin-in-third-phase-of-trials/articleshow/78986909.cms||Shreyas HS
November 2, 2020||Kochi||Conditions on killing wild boars restrictive: Officials||KOCHI: As the government ponders a solution to wild boar attacks and raids on farmlands, forest officials say that despite rules that allow for the killing of these crop-raiding animals the conditions mentioned make it almost impossible to implement them effectively. Even though the state government had issued in order, in March, permitting people with licensed guns to kill boars with the sanction of forest officials, only a small number has been killed so far despite hundreds of attacks being reported every month. Forest officials and farmers have welcomed the state’s plan to approach the Centre to declare boars as vermin and are seeking its speedy implementation. Earlier, only forest officials were authorized to kill wild boars that destroy crops and pose threat to human life. But the impracticality in predicting attacks and availing the service of a forest official in time drew public flak. With the proliferation in wild boar numbers, forest officials and farmers have termed the government’s March order impractical compared to what it replaced.  “The order prevents the killing of pregnant/lactating boars and those which are returning to the forest. It is impossible to ensure these conditions. People are not ready to seek our help due to these restrictions and most times they do the killing on their own illegally, using traps or firecrackers. And yet the threat from the burgeoning boar population remains. So declaring the animal a vermin and indulging in culling is inevitable. Otherwise the situation will go out of control,” said a forest official. T D Joy, a farmer and former ward member of Idukki’s Mankulam panchayat, said that many farmers in his panchayat have stopped farming due to wild boar attacks. “The panchayat is surrounded by forest and villagers have been complaining of large-scale destruction of crops and even attacks on people. Earlier they used to flee when farmers made noises or burst crackers but now thirty to forty boars in a group raid each farmland and they won’t retreat until everything is destroyed. The raids happen mostly at night and by the time an officer with a gun arrives, they would have long gone,” he said. Fr Jijo Kurien, a Capuchin priest, said existing rules don’t benefit farmers. “If a farmer kills a boar that has destroyed his crop they will be prosecuted. Forest department has the responsibility of not only protecting forest and wildlife but also people from the threat of wild animals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/conditions-on-killing-wild-boars-restrictive-officials/articleshow/78987443.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||‘In Covid season, shift focus to Diwali air pollution’||KOLKATA: Desperate times warrant radical measures. Environmentalists have appealed to the public to shun all kinds of fireworks, including low-decibel ones, this year as rising air pollution will defeat us in the fight against Covid-19. They said that air and noise pollution during Diwali would be equally detrimental for Covid patients. “A Covid-19 patient, whether at home or at hospital, will have to breathe the polluted air. Since the disease takes a huge toll on the patient’s respiratory system, the polluted air will wreak their lungs. It is time to completely give up fireworks,” said Pradeep Kakkar, an environment crusader and founder of People United for Better Living in Calcutta (PUBLIC) Environmentalists said that the total boycott of fireworks can only be achieved, if all stakeholders — such as enforcement agencies like police, regulatory bodies like West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) and citizens — take air pollution seriously. “Any firework, irrespective of whether it is high-decibel or low-decibel, will end up polluting the air. This year, the government must ensure that no Baazi Bazar comes up,” said Subhas Datta, another fighter against pollution. In fact, over the last few years, on Kali Puja/ Diwali night the city’s air quality has been irreversibly damaged with the PM2.5 count spiking beyond 1,000µg/m3 (microgram per cubic metre), which is 17 times poorer than the safe limit. The safe limit is 60µg/m3, according to our national air quality standard and 25µg/m3 according to the World Health Organization (WHO). PM2.5 — which is 1/30th the average width of a human hair — goes straight into the lungs and, from there, enters the bloodstream. Naba Datta, secretary of Sabuj Mancha, a platform for NGOs and individuals fighting against environmental degradation, said, “It is no longer a choice. It is about life and death. A moment of joy over lighting a firework will dearly cost everyone.” A senior WBPCB scientist admitted that the load of pollutants on Diwali night will take a long time to disperse as the festival has come late this year. The inversion of temperature will lower the vertical wind movement, trapping the pollutants at breathable height. “Such exposure is quite lethal for a healthy individual. Just imagine the plight of a person with an infected lung,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-cov-season-shift-focus-to-diwali-air-pollution/articleshow/78987435.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||Docs’ curb-cracker appeal to PCB||Kolkata: A section of doctors in Kolkata have appealed to the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) to take steps to prevent bursting of crackers that will lead to pollution and increase the risk of Covid. In a letter to WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra, West Bengal Doctors’ Forum has pointed out that gases and pollutants emitted by crackers can be toxic and affect the health of Covid patients, who are now in hospitals or quarantined at home. It has urged the board to issue a set of guidelines prohibiting crackers this Kali Puja and Diwali.“Metal particles generated by crackers can lead to cough, breathing distress, asthma and even death. It affects the heart and lungs of the elderly and the children the worst. More than 3.6 lakh have been affected by Covid in Bengal. Around 40,000 are still under treatment and are suffering from Covid-related complications,” the appeal read.It also urged the board to initiate strict measures against bursting of crackers. With winter round the corner, lung diseases are about to see a spurt, said the doctors. “A sudden and sharp spurt in pollution levels could be fatal. Particulate matter in the environment can help spread Covid. The virus can easily stick to the polluting particles and infiltrate the lungs. This could be dangerous, especially for those with co-morbidities and help transmission at a time when we are possibly looking at a plateauing of cases,” said pulmonologist Raja Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/docs-curb-cracker-appeal-to-pcb/articleshow/78987444.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||Cotton farmers drying cotton in dry spell to get better price||Nagpur: Courtyards and even roofs of homes at Jalka village in Yavatmal district are swathed with cotton. What looks scenic is rather a desperate move by farmers. They are hoping for the dry spell to continue so that the crop dries out and fetches a decent rate. Growers are drying cotton in the open hoping that it will bring down the moisture in it, and Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) will buy their produce. CCI is a government agency which buys the crop at minimum support price (MSP). Drying cotton stock in the open like this is not usual practice, say farmers. Excess drying could also lead to weight reduction, which again is a loss, say experts. Not only those in Jalka but farmers across the state are reported to be facing an unprecedented crisis due to extended rains. Farmers told TOI that districts like Yavatmal, Wardha and Akola also reported bollworm pest attack. Farmers have been growing Bt seeds, which are supposed to be genetically modified to be bollworm resistant. Extended rains have hampered the quality of cotton produce by increasing the moisture content by over 20%. Higher moisture fetches poor rates, and the markets are already bearish due to global factors. Private traders are offering Rs4,000 to 4,400 a quintal and the MSP is at Rs5,800. Under these circumstances, CCI is the only hope for farmers. However, CCI procurement will only start after cotton of fair average quality (FAQ) is available. This means it needs to have not more than 12% moisture, among other parameters. For this, a large quantity of cotton is being dried in the open. CCI chairman PK Agrawal told TOI that CCI has begun procurement in other states where cotton is of FAQ level. In Maharashtra, the agency is waiting for the quality to improve. “The moisture level needs to be within 12%. In Maharashtra, it is reported to be 20%. If the dry spell continues, it is hoped that moisture will reduce in a week, and CCI may start buying,” he said. Agrawal said given the situation, a higher dependence on CCI is expected this year. As against 100 lakh bales, 120 lakh bales may be purchased in 2020, he said. Normally, farmers let the cotton bolls dry on the plants. Even if dried in the open, the quantity is not much. This year, it has become a compulsion, say farmers. “Rather, the government must ensure that even private player cannot purchase below the MSP,” said Sahebrao Pawar, an activist of the Congress party in Yavatmal “It takes at least four to five days for the cotton to dry. I have already sold some of the produce to a private trader at Rs4,400 a quintal. Farmers are drying cotton in court yards, roofs and other spaces. Each lot that is harvested is first kept to dry. There was a similar situation 2-3 years ago, but it’s worse this time,” said Nitin Khadse of Jalka. “Moisture needs to be within limits. Open drying can often be of a little help because it’s not easy to get rid of moisture in the seeds so soon. If it dries too much, then the weight is reduced, which is again the farmers’ loss,” said Vijay Waghmare, director of Central Institute of Cotton Research (CICR), a government agency. Vijay Jawandhia, a farm activist, said issues over moisture content only come up when the demand is low. Otherwise traders don’t mind even if it is somewhat more than 12%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cotton-farmers-drying-cotton-in-dry-spell-to-get-better-price/articleshow/78988908.cms||Shishir Arya
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||‘Sameet’s arrest symbolizes daylight murder of freedom of expression’||Nagpur: The affable man-next-door, 32-year-old Sameet Thakkar may count Prime Minister Narendra Modi as one of his 62,000 followers on Twitter, but his criticism of the state government on social media has made him a villain in Maharashtra. With Sameet behind bars, the Thakkar family at Nagpur calls the police action ‘broad daylight murder of democracy’. The younger of two sons of a middle-class transporter’s family from Wathoda, Sameet has three FIRs (two in Mumbai, one in city) against him. The reigning Maha Aghadi government seems to have ensured Thakkar, an eyesore on social media, is behind bars for some time. Also, as Sameet languishes in police custody, his family is reeling in fear of mob attacks and public humiliation, if not an attack on their life and property. Apart from the tweets, Sameet had also filed a PIL in Bombay high court to transfer the Sushantsingh Rajput case to CBI, which also had not gone down well with the state government. In the past, a media publication group too had filed a defamation suit against Sameet for social media posts questioning their financial irregularities. “Several Shiv sainiks descended on our house and pelted stones. Police gave protection for a month but have withdrawn now. No FIR was filed on our complaint. We are living under a threat every day, every moment,” said Sameet’s elder brother Rishi. “The Shiv Sainiks are also threatening our business associates,” he said. Rishi, who described the present political scenario as a redux of the 1975 emergency, said incarceration of his younger brother Sameet is no less than a brazen broad daylight murder of democratic rights. “Sameet is facing systematic criminalization for tweets which are nothing more than just a politically aware citizens’ voice of dissent against the government,” said Rishi, who is struggling to assuage their elderly parents, who are in trauma. “Just plain expression of criticism is expected to be tolerated in any democratic society. Phrases ‘modern day Aurangzeb’, ‘baby penguin’ and raising questions on differential treatment to festivities of different communities were held as criminal offences. This is plain broad daylight murder of democratic rights,” said Rishi. “It’s clear police are working under political pressure,” said a hassled Rishi. Sameet, now in custody of Sitabuldi police, will be produced before the court on Monday after completion of his second remand. “He (Sameet) is facing torture in custody, which we do not want to elaborate on, as his life too may be under threat. All we can do is to pin hope on the hearing in the Supreme Court next week,” said Rishi, as his 59-year-old father Rakesh sits beside him, anxiety writ on his face. Sameet’s father Rakesh said he is now helplessly waiting for his innocent son to return. “Which father does not wait for his son in this kind of situation?” he said. “Sameet has no previous records, complaints or even any a quarrel in the neighbourhood,” he said. Rishi reasoned his brother was absent from police stations despite a court order as it was not possible to travel freely due to pandemic. “My brother was to be present at Sitabuldi police station on October 13 and at Mumbai police stations on October 16. We had approached the Supreme Court on October 15. It was not easy to travel so fast in public transports due to the pandemic but our petition was dismissed for non-compliance,” said Rishi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sameets-arrest-symbolizes-daylight-murder-of-freedom-of-expression/articleshow/78988944.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 2, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Operators flay government for not reviving public transport||KOCHI: Amid the crisis faced by the public transport sector due to the pandemic and spiralling fuel prices, the state government launched Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) for the city on Sunday. KMTA is an independent authority responsible for the regulation of the development, operation, maintenance, monitoring, supervision and provision of urban transport. Though the authority has been launched with fanfare, public transport operators criticized the state government for not focusing on reviving the economy to help give a new lease of life to the public transport sector. “The government has failed to restore bus services completely. The priority of the government should be to provide transport facilities to all sections of the society. Around 1,200 private buses used to operate through Kochi city during pre-Covid days. Now, hardly 300 buses ply on the roads,” said Kochi Metropolitan Transport Cooperative (KMTC) president T J Raju. KMTC is one of the transport societies of private buses formed in the city. It is pointed out that almost all public transport operators like taxis, online taxi services, autorickshaws, boat and train services have been hit by a slow-moving economy. As more people have started using private vehicles, the real challenge before the KMTA will be to bring them back to public transport. “Public transport sector cannot be viewed as a standalone project. People do not have money. Unless they have spending power, it will not be possible to revive the economy. The discussions should be on the economy and how to ensure cash flow without burdening people with taxes,” said a senior bureaucrat. Meanwhile, it is expected that the launch of KMTA will bring the focus on building an integrated, multi-model urban transport system. Launching KMTA through a video conference, transport minister A K Saseendran said that the challenge in urban transport is related to “transport planning, land usage and coordination of various modes of transport. By constituting KMTA, the government is trying to address these issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/operators-flay-govt-for-not-reviving-public-transport/articleshow/78986530.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand to sell local products under ‘Holy Himalayas’ brand name: CM||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday announced that the state government is all set to start an umbrella brand ‘Holy Himalayas’ to promote the products made in Uttarakhand. CM Rawat had shared the brand name ‘Holy Himalayas’ for the first time during an award function held at Doon University in Dehradun. While addressing the gathering, CM Rawat said that the state government is working to develop growth centres across the state to identify the potential of a particular area and help the locals and self-help groups in starting the projects. “Uttarakhand has recorded a business to the tune of Rs 92 crore in aroma oils. There are several other items which are exclusively made in different parts of Uttarakhand. We are working to sell it under a common brand name,” said CM Rawat. Meanwhile, the CM awarded four teachers the Dr Bhakt Darshan award for their contribution in the field of higher education. The recognition has been instituted in the name of Dr Bhakt Darshan, who represented the Garhwal constituency in the Lok Sabha in the 1950s and also held important portfolios, including education in the governments headed by Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi. The four teachers who were awarded by the chief minister are — Dr Mohan Chandra Pandey for his contribution in the field of Commerce and Administration, Dr Sanjay Kumar for his contribution in the field of History, Dr Shiv Dutt Tiwari for his work in the field of Botany, and Dr Satendra Kumar for Literature. On the occasion, CM Rawat also released a book written by Colonel DP Dimri (retired) on the issue of inspiring entrepreneurs of the Himalayas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-sell-local-products-under-holy-himalayas-brand-name-cm/articleshow/78986515.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 2, 2020||Lucknow||After 2 days decline, coronavirus claims 8 lives in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: After keeping low for two days, the number of coronavirus deaths spiked again on Sunday with eight patients losing battle with the virus. One death each was recorded on Friday and Saturday. Times ViewThe Covid-19 transmission rate has dropped significantly in many parts of the city, but incidence continues to be high in areas such as Gomtinagar, Indiranagar, Rae Bareli Road and Hazratganj. Authorities need to identify area-specific factors responsible for the growth of the virus in these areas and plan accordingly to contain it in every locality with the help of local residents. This will also help in preventing the second wave.The figure was the highest in the state — accounting for over one-third of the total deaths in UP in last 24 hours. City’s death toll has now mounted to 886, which is 1.4% of the total caseload. Virus gripped 253 more people in the city, while 244 patients were declared ‘recovered’. The new cases were the highest in the state and comprised 13% of UP’s Sunday tally. With this, Lucknow Covid tally stands at 63,515 while the number of recoveries is 59,478 (94%). About 3,151 patients are still under treatment — 1,929 in home quarantine and the remaining in hospitals. There was no let up in the situation in Gomtinagar which continued to report the highest number of cases with 26 residents testing Covid positive on Sunday, followed by Rae Bareli Road (21). The Rae Bareli Road has been among the top three for over two months now. Spike in cases was also recorded in Hazratganj (20). Madiaon recorded 17, Indiranagar 16, Alambagh 15, Jankipuram 13, Vrindavan Yojana 12, Chinhat and Vikasnagar 11 each, and Aliganj 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-2-days-decline-virus-claims-8-lives/articleshow/78989494.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||ED forcing me to take blame: Bineesh||Bengaluru: “Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials are forcing me to accept money-laundering crimes that I haven’t committed,” Bineesh Kodiyeri told reporters at a Bengaluru hospital where he was taken for treatment on Sunday evening after he complained of severe fatigue and back pain. Bineesh, son of CPM Kerala secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who is in ED custody in Bengaluru till Monday evening, is being questioned in a money laundering case. He was brought to Bowring Hospital here around 4.30pm on Sunday after he complained of fatigue and severe lower back pain during the third day of questioning by ED sleuths into his money links with city drug dealer and his long-time aide Mohammed Anoop, who was arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in August and remains in prison. “The officials are forcing me to accept acts I haven’t committed and I’m being tormented despite my ill-health,” Bineesh told reporters gathered at the hospital even as the ED team whisked him away from the media glare. ED officials didn’t allow his advocates and his brother Binoy Kodiyeri who had reached the hospital to speak to him. Shiju Abraham Varghese, one of Bineesh’s lawyers, told TOI from the hospital that his client has been denied the basic rights of an official interaction with his attorneys. “We will raise the matter in court on Monday,” Varghese added. Following basic medical checks, Bineesh was escorted back by the ED team to their office in Shantinagar. He will be produced before a special judge on Monday evening as his four-day custody ends. While he is expected to be sent to Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru for judicial custody, his lawyer team will be moving for his bail in the case, sources said.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ed-forcing-me-to-take-blame-bineesh/articleshow/78987461.cms||Petlee Peter
November 2, 2020||Dehradun||Schools set to reopen from today||Dehradun: The government and private schools in the state are set to reopen from Monday for Classes X and XII. A selected number of private residential schools in the state have announced that they will open with a limited strength of students from Monday. Some of the private day-schools, meanwhile, have said that they will not open immediately. However, a lot of such schools will reopen as they have been inspected by the education department officials to check the implementation of the Covid-19 protocols issued in the SOP. The Principals Progressive Schools Association, a body representing schools in the state, said that initially, only 10% of parents had agreed to send their children to the schools but once the SOPs were issued, then the number increased substantially. They further stated that many of them have decided to reopen the school in order to send a positive message even if they would have to function with less than 50% of their students for the initial few weeks. As far as the government schools are concerned, nearly all of them will reopen on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-set-to-reopen-from-today/articleshow/78986537.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 2, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 222 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 222 fresh cases of novel coronavirus on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases shot up to 62,550 in the Himalayan state. The active Covid-19 cases in the state stand at 3,914. Dehradun has the maximum of 754 active cases of the virus, followed by Pauri (528), and Haridwar (462). Till Sunday, Dehradun also had the maximum of 13 containment zones, followed by Haridwar (5), Champawat (1), and Pauri Garhwal (1). Also, four more fatalities pushed the Covid-19 toll to 1,027 in the state. Among the four Covid-19 patients who died on Sunday, two were men and the other two were women. All the four victims were suffering from comorbidities. According to the health department, the deaths took place in Dehradun, Almora, Srinagar, and in Rishikesh. Till date, the maximum of 591 patients died in Dehradun, followed by 145 in Nainital, 121 in Haridwar, 93 in Udham Singh Nagar, and 30 in Pauri Garhwal. The highest number of positive cases have been reported from Dehradun (17,294), followed by Haridwar (11,035), Udham Singh Nagar (9,488), Nainital (7,361), Tehri (3,126), and Pauri (3,018). Meanwhile, as many as 178 people recovered from the Covid-19 infection on Sunday, taking the total number of cured cases to 57,101 and the recovery rate to 91.29% in the state. The Covid-19 test results of 11,595 samples were pending till Sunday. Most of the sample test results are pending in Udham Singh Nagar (2,857), Haridwar (2,554), and Nainital (1,145).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-222-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/78986532.cms||Shivani Azad
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||Parakeet trading racket busted, birds rescued||Nagpur: In a joint raid, Kalmeshwar and Seminary Hills range forest officials rescued 60 birds including 22 rose-ringed parakeets, 30 love birds, and eight pigeons from Motibagh slums in the city. The action was initiated by forest staff under assistant conservator of forests (ACF) PD Palwe after a tip-off from People for Animals (PFA) supporters Swapnil Bodhane and Ashish Korde from Nagpur and Wardha. Officials have arrested main accused Sheikh Abid Nasir Khan (26), a resident of Ansar Nagar slums. He was produced in the court on Sunday. The officials demanded five-day forest custody remand (FCR) but the court granted two days’ custody. Two other accused managed to escape. The birds have been sheltered at Transit Treatment Centre (TTC) in Seminary Hills and will be released after court order. Rose-ringed parakeets are protected under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, and trading them or keeping them as pets is a crime. According to PFA’s rescue in-charge Kaustubh Gawande, “The action is just a tip of the iceberg. A big racket capturing parakeets and selling them to a particular section of the society is active in the city. The birds and their chicks are captured from forest areas near the city and sold to this section. The birds seized from the accused on Sunday were captured from Dhapewada in Kalmeshwar range.” “For the past two months, we were keeping a watch on the movement of the accused and informed about the racket to forest officials who then deputed two teams simultaneously at Lakadganj and Motibagh. Shaikh is a habitual offender and was caught in 2017 and 2018 also. He was also convicted for a similar offence,” said Gawande. “Shaikh was nabbed from Lakadganj area by one team and another team of forest staff raided three houses in Motibagh slums near the railway line. Shaikh was linked to Motibagh from where 60 birds and over 40 empty cages were seized,” said ACF Palwe. Nagpur is a flourishing market for birds and these avians are clandestinely sold in weekly bazaars in Lakadganj, Mangalwari, and Cotton Market areas. A few years ago, frequent raids by forest department had curbed the trade but as the anti-poaching squad with the Nagpur circle has become defunct, there is a spurt in wildlife crime in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parakeet-trading-racket-busted-birds-rescued/articleshow/78988954.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||2 held for shooting at Burrabazar trader||Kolkata: Two persons were arrested a day after a 35-year-old trader was shot at in the Burrabazar area. The duo, Kishan Ram and Akshay Sharma, has a local address but both of them hail from Bikaner in Rajasthan, according to police. Cops said two other accused are still on the run. The victim, Rambaksh Parekh, a resident of Golabari in Howrah, was admitted to a private hospital off EM Bypass, where he has undergone an operation. Having questioned the duo, cops said it has been established that the accused had gathered there for a robbery as they had planned to decamp with at least Rs 15-20 lakh. Cops have found that Ram is a former employee of the victim. “While robbery seems to be the most likely motive, we are probing both personal enmity and business-related dispute that could have played a part in the incident too. So far, the possibilities of personal enmity or business-related dispute have not surfaced,” said a senior central division officer. The probe has shown so far that around 4pm on Saturday, the four accused, armed with firearms, had entered into the victim’s office on the fourth floor of a building on Rabindra Sarani. The victim was alone there at that time. The accused had brandished weapons to scare Parekh. But the victim tried resist and one of the accused, Shaukat, had shot at the victim in the melee when he refused to pay them the money. “The bullet hit the right side of Parekh’s chest. Kishan was caught by locals while three others fled. Later, Sharma was nabbed,” said DC (Central) Sudheer Kumar Neelakantam. Cops are searching for two other accused, including Shaukat, who was alleged to have shot at the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-held-for-shooting-at-burrabazar-trader/articleshow/78988950.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Kasaragod revokes covid-19 test rule||MANGALURU: The Kasaragod district administration, which had made Covid-19 tests mandatory for all interstate travellers, has revoked the order. In the wake of rising cases, the district administration had mandated online registration and Covid-19 tests for interstate travellers, who enter Kerala from Karnataka via Talapady and other border checkposts, a week ago. However, on Sunday, district collector D Sajith Babu said, “The Covid core committee’s decision to conduct antigen tests at border check posts of Kasaragod district has been withheld till further orders.” But he said section 144 of CrPC which is in force in the district will continue till midnight of November 15. The administration had planned to open antigen test centres on five border roads that connect Dakshina Kannada district. All preparations were in place to ensure interstate travellers entering Kerala undergo antigen tests at Talapady (NH 66), Adkastala–Adyanadka (SH 31), Adoor–Kotyadi–Sullia (SH 55), Panathur–Chemberi–Madikeri (SH 56) and Manimoola–Sullia roads. These test centres were supposed to function between 6am and 6pm and those who travelling after 6pm had to furnish Covid-19 negative certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kasaragod-revokes-test-rule/articleshow/78986959.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chennai||In TN, central funds for roads and water get buried in mystery||The Fourteenth Finance Commission (FFC) funding from the Centre for local bodies struck a controversial note years ago. In 2016, chief minister J Jayalalithaa wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about how Tamil Nadu was unfairly penalised by reduced grants under FFC.Four years later, FFC funding is mired in yet another controversy. This time, it is the state government that is at the receiving end and those who felt aggrieved are the panchayat presidents. A group of panchayat presidents approached the Madras high court complaining that they are being deprived of having a say over spending FFC funds meant for their panchayats and that the state government had appropriated the powers. The state had called for tenders for civil work, decided the bidders and executed projects reducing the panchayat presidents to signing the cheques.The Centre had allotted `2,369 crore in 2019-20 for upgradation of civic infrastructure in rural local bodies in TN. Of this, only `1,820 crore was released for 27 districts where local body elections were held. The state had sanctioned `359 crore for road development in panchayats from the fund in the first instalment while `399 crore road work was proposed in the second instalment. The panchayat chiefs challenged the second instalment as they were ‘sidelined’ unlike the previous tranches of expenditure when there was no panchayat council in place.The state making district rural development agency project director as tender inviting authority instead of the panchayat presidents who are meant to spend the funds has not only raised questions of usurping of powers by the state, but also reflects lack of transparency. “We cannot rule out irregularities. There is an apprehension of irregularities in such contracts,’’ said B Thangavel, president of Odanthurai panchayat in Coimbatore.The state argued that panchayats are not equipped to scrutinise tenders or have the wherewithal and technical knowhow to assess the financial standing of the bidding firms, their efficiency and capacity to execute the project.R Varatharajan, president of Valayamadevi panchayat in Salem district, disagrees. “This is undermining panchayati raj institutions. We have engineers with expertise and there are block development officers to help us,’’ he said. Varatharajan, who was a panchayat president from 2011 to 2016, said this was not the case then.“Since only registered contractors could work on government tenders, only those who are qualified will bid. So, there is no difficulty in scrutinising and selecting,’’ said V Chezhiyan, former panchayat president of Appasamudram village in Salem.Panchayat presidents also allege a political angle, as several panchayats have been won by DMK men. The Madras high court has put on hold road work worth `399 crore under FFC after hearing the panchayat presidents. Similar is the case with the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission in TN, which again is shrouded in lack of transparency.Only 22% of the state’s rural households have drinking water tap connections in the state. After an allocation of `2,265 crore was made under the Centre’s ambitious Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) this fiscal to provide drinking water connections to rural people, the state government’s tendering policy is caught in a controversy.Managing director of Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board has been appointed the mission director of the project, and additional chief secretary, rural development and panchayat raj department is the state nodal officer for implementation of JJM. A fortnight ago, tenders for an estimated `2,006 crore were finalised at the district level in packages and the work commenced in all the identified panchayats in the state. Several panchayat presidents from Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore, Salem, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts moved the Madras high court on October 9, challenging the tenders floated to implement JJM.G Ramesh, president, Devanandhal village in Tiruvannamalai district, stated in the petition that according to the guidelines issued by the Union government, the rural department and panchayat raj department has to facilitate the village panchayats to carry out their duties. “An April 3 order by additional chief secretary, rural development department to district collectors to take ‘total ownership of JJM’, usurps the statutory powers of village panchayats,’’ he said.The panchayat presidents, who were elected this January had challenged this earlier too, but their petition was dismissed by a judge in July, who observed that allowing panchayats to float tenders will result in confusion and inconsistencies in the rates and create problems in identifying agencies to perform the work. Undeterred, they have filed the appeal petition and sought an interim stay on calling for tenders under the project and restraining the authority of district collectors and project directors of DRDA with regard to the tenders. A division bench of Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy issued notice to authorities including the Union and state governments on the matter and adjourned the hearing to the first week of November.Government officials deny lack of transparency as the bidding was done through e-tender. “No violation has been reported and the Jal Jeevan Mission guidelines of the Union government are followed,” said a senior government official. Tripartite agreement is entered into by the panchayat, local BDO and the executing agency, officials pointed out.“The action plan is considered by the district water and sanitation mission. Since many villages are involved and water resources have to be distributed, the district water and sanitation mission takes up the role of tendering as per guidelines,” another official said.Panchayati raj expert and Gandhigram University professor G Palanithurai said the state government was inventing reasons to reduce panchayats from the stature of local government to a mere administrative set-up. "If the government feels panchayat presidents lack expertise, the best way would be to equip them, not snatch away their rights,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-tn-central-funds-for-roads-and-water-get-buried-in-mystery/articleshow/78987477.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||Metro coach factory put in cold storage||Nagpur: MahaMetro’s plan to set up a coach factory near the city has been put in the cold storage due to lack of land and reluctance of private parties to set up the plant just for assembling 75 coaches. MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit, however, said that the plan was still not off the table. Sources in MahaMetro said that the agency was buying 102 coaches for Pune Metro. As per the tender conditions, 75% coaches were to be assembled at the Nagpur plant. However, coach suppliers told MahaMetro that setting up an assembly plant for just 75 coaches was not viable. Secondly, neither Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), which is building a dry port in Sindi nor MIDC agreed to provide land to MahaMetro for the plant. This means that the coach supplier has to buy private land, which is a very costly and cumbersome process. MahaMetro had engaged Tooltech Global Engineering for preparing the detailed project report (DPR) of the plant. As per the DPR, a full fledged coach manufacturing plant was to cost Rs1,300 crore and generate 1,350 direct jobs. The plant was to be constructed in three phases. In the first phase, coaches would be produced by the private partner while its final assembly, commissioning and testing would take place at the plant. In the second phase, most of the parts would be provided by the partner which, would be welded in the plant. The coaches would be painted in the plant too. In the third phase, coaches would be completely manufactured in the plant. The first phase entailed an investment of Rs440 crore, second Rs380 crore and third Rs480 crore. The first phase was to provide direct jobs to 200 people, second 400 and third 750. Out of the 200 jobs in the first phase, 70 were blue collared while 130 were white collared. MahaMetro had sought 50 acre land for the plant from JNPT and MIDC. Of this, 30 acre was required for the factory while 20 acre was to be kept aside for future expansion. China Railway Rolling Stock Corporation (CRRC), which is supplying coaches to Nagpur Metro, had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the state government for setting up a coach manufacturing plant in Butibori in 2016. However, nothing came out of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-coach-factory-put-in-cold-storage/articleshow/78988986.cms||Ashish Roy
November 2, 2020||Kochi||Janamunnetam to contest from all seats in Thrikkakara||KOCHI: Following the lines of Twenty20 at Kizhakkambalam panchayat, an independent forum titled as ‘Thrikkakara Janamunnetam’ has announced that it would contest from all the 43 seats in the municipality in the upcoming local body elections. The forum has already announced candidates for 11 wards and search is on for candidates in the remaining wards. “Though we have no links with the Twenty20 team, we will be looking at contesting something on those lines. The Thrikkakara municipality had 10 municipal chairpersons over the past decade and it is time that the local body has administrators who do not have any political affiliations,” said Thrikkakara Janamunnetam treasurer Dr Babu Joseph. He said that among the selected persons, ASHA and anganwadi workers have been selected for women reserved seats. The candidates are Yesudas Kandathil, Kanyaka Mohan, Jenifer Savio, Sabitha Gopakumar, Bini Joseph, Rafi Alapatt, Valsa Tomy, Paul Francis, Sharada Srijesh, Rani Jose and Sasi E N. In its draft manifesto, that forum has promised to set up a development council in tandem with the municipal council and a master plan will be made for the long-term development of the municipality. Other promises include conversion of the municipality into a mosquito-free residential area within six months and a decentralized waste disposal system that relies on waste disposal at source with public participation. The forum also proposes to follow the Kizhakkambalam model by setting up a chain of fair price shops to help customers buy essentials at lower prices. Health insurance, fair price diagnostic and dialysis units are also proposed. Other proposals in the draft manifesto include scientific renovation of canals and drainages, reconstruction of roads by ensuring higher quality and durability, footpaths for all roads with heavy traffic and construction of bus stops with separate washrooms for men and women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/janamunnetam-to-contest-from-all-seats-in-thrikkakara/articleshow/78986544.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||Two held for shooting Burrabazar trader||KOLKATA: Two persons were arrested a day after a 35-year-old trader was shot at in the Burrabazar area. The duo, Kishan Ram and Akshay Sharma, has a local address but both of them hail from Bikaner in Rajasthan, according to police. Cops said two other accused are still on the run. The victim, Rambaksh Parekh, a resident of Golabari in Howrah, was admitted to a private hospital off EM Bypass, where he has undergone an operation. Having questioned the duo, cops said it has been established that the accused had gathered there for a robbery as they had planned to decamp with at least Rs 15-20 lakh. Cops have found that Ram is a former employee of the victim. “While robbery seems to be the most likely motive, we are probing both personal enmity and business-related dispute that could have played a part in the incident too. So far, the possibilities of personal enmity or business-related dispute have not surfaced,” said a senior central division officer. The probe has shown so far that around 4pm on Saturday, the four accused, armed with firearms, had entered into the victim’s office on the fourth floor of a building on Rabindra Sarani. The victim was alone there at that time. The accused had brandished weapons to scare Parekh. But the victim tried resist and one of the accused, Shaukat, had shot at the victim in the melee when he refused to pay them the money. “The bullet hit the right side of Parekh’s chest. Kishan was caught by locals while three others fled. Later, Sharma was nabbed,” said DC (Central) Sudheer Kumar Neelakantam. Cops are searching for two other accused, including Shaukat, who was alleged to have shot at the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-held-for-shooting-burrabazar-trader/articleshow/78988957.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 2, 2020||Hubballi||Dinesh Gundurao’s statements on Mahadayi trigger a storm in Karnataka||DHARWARD: A statement made by former Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief and All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge for Goa Dinesh Gundurao has triggered quite a storm in Karnataka. During his visit to the neighbouring state on Saturday, Dinesh’s statements on the dispute over the sharing of River Mahadayi’s waters, have triggered extreme reactions in both Karnataka and Goa. There were allegations that Dinesh said that he would stand by the decision taken by the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) on the dispute. However, Dinesh dismissed these allegations, claiming that his remarks had been distorted. However, politicians and some section of the public have raised questions about his commitment to Karnataka. A Panaji-based newspaper quoted Dinesh as having said, “This (the Mahadayi dispute) is a sensitive issue concerning three states, all of whom have approached the Inter-State Water Dispute Tribunal. We (Karnataka) have also moved the Supreme Court. This is a dispute that must be decided in the apex court and by the tribunal.” The AICC general secretary had also opined that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who ought to have mediated between the three states and resolved the dispute, had not done so. Incidentally, while Dinesh is being criticised for allegedly ‘betraying’ Karnataka, activists of the Progressive Front of Goa (PFG) have also condemned his remarks and warned him of protests should he enter the state again. The activists said that each state involved in the dispute would fight for its rights. Union minister and Dharwad MP Pralhad Joshi, meanwhile, charged Dinesh of ‘betraying’ Karnataka, while Dharwad district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar recalled a statement made by AICC president Sonia Gandhi, wherein she had stated that not a single drop of Mahadayi would be allowed to flow to Karnataka. “Congress leaders are akin to chameleons. They say one thing while in Karnataka, and something else when in Goa,” Shettar told TOI. However, Dinesh, in a tweet on Sunday, sought to clear the air over the controversy. He made it plain that he had never said that he would support the GPCC’s stance on the dispute. Those statements, he said, had been distorted. However, Dinesh stood by his remarks concerning PM Modi, stating that he had not resolved the inter-state dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dinesh-gunduraos-statements-on-mahadayi-trigger-a-storm/articleshow/78987372.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
November 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Within a confined space, the men pursued the tigress by foot for hours||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The nine-year-old tigress that kept both villagers and forest officials on tenterhooks for nearly two days was eventually captured and shifted to cage at Neyyar in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. She escaped from the cage on Saturday triggering panic. For hours, the tigress played hide and seek with three teams who were in pursuit and the animal made optimal use of limited confines of the Safari park to make it harder for the officials. On Sunday, three teams split across the park, spread over 10 acres, and chose pursuit by perambulation, the riskiest choice when working in a limited area. There were people placed at the perimeter of the fence and there were some atop trees to spot and report the animal. On the ground, the teams moved on foot, exposing themselves to the risk of running straight into the animal that could lurk behind the bushes. The highly camouflaged terrain made it easier for the animal to sneak past the teams every time they sensed she was closer. Usually in forests, the animal runs deeper unlike in a confined space where the animal could actually run around the teams in pursuit. “Pursuing the animal by foot was always risky. It was a confined area; either we could have run straight into her and she could have pounced on us from nowhere. But there was no other way,” said an official who was part of the team. The teams were also guided by trackers from tribal community who signalled the presence of the animal. The tigress, though exhausted moved at a brisk pace, careening through the bushes even as the teams closed in on her. Earlier the teams had thought of trap and dart options, however she didn’t walk into the trap that lay in wait and the officials went for spot and dart method. The search began around 10am on Sunday and by 1pm, the animal was spotted, standing still in an area. The terrain gave the opportunity for a clean shot and one of the teams tranquilized the animal. It was straightforward spot and dart exercise, according to the officials. She was sedated and shifted to the cage where she was given antidote and brought back to conscious state. J R Ani, wildlife warden, Neyyar sanctuary, said the animal has been secured and the cage was repaired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/within-a-confined-space-the-men-pursued-the-tigress-by-foot-for-hours/articleshow/78987520.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Thane||Mumbai's case fatality rate drops below 4% first time in 4.5 months||MUMBAI: The city’s Covid case fatality rate (CFR) has dropped below 4% for the first time since mid-June. It was 3.9% on Sunday, after soaring to as high as 6% in May, reports Sumitra Deb Roy. CFR is the ratio of deaths to the number of positive patients. Mumbai recorded 908 cases and 25 deaths on Sunday, taking the case tally to 2,58,405 and fatalities to 10,318. It has reported fewer than 1,000 cases for the second day in a row. Meanwhile, the state for the second day in a row recorded a little over 5,000 Covid-19 cases (5,369). The state’s case tally touched 16,83,775 on Sunday. The death toll rose to 44,024 with an addition of 113 fatalities. Just a day earlier, only 74 deaths were reported, the lowest addition in the state in 159 days. The active cases for the state stood at 1,25,109, accounting for 22% of the country’s overall count of 5.7 lakh active cases. The city’s CFR saw an overnight spurt on June 16 when 917 deaths were added as part of data reconciliation. The process pushed the city’s cumulative CFR to 5.25% from 3.79%. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that the deaths were on a decline, but the aim was to further reduce the death rate. “We want it lower than that, and hence we are carrying out the ‘My Family My responsibility’ campaign to pick up cases early,” he said, adding that the firming up of treatment protocols over the months and better understanding of the disease by doctors had helped reduced deaths to a great deal. The weekly CFR has already come below 2% for the city, a civic official said. Kakani said that the BMC is also introducing more labs for free testing so that people get tested as soon as they develop symptoms. The state’s CFR is hovering around 2.61%, which is the second-highest in the country after Punjab (3.14%). India’s Covid mortality rate has now dropped to 1.49%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical committee, said that deaths within 48 hours continue to be very high in the state. “Cities like Mumbai, Pune, Thane definitely have room for improvement,” he said. He, though, underlined that the data transparency of many states was questionable. Neighbouring cities, too, saw a decline in cases. As many as 176 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Thane city on Sunday, taking the tally of the infected to 46,842 while three deaths took the virus toll to 1155. The recovery rate in Thane was 93.1% with 43,623 patients recovered till date and only 2,064 active cases left. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 130 cases and three deaths, taking the tally of patients to 50,194, including the 1,006 deaths so far. The recovery rate in the city was 94.7% and only 1,652 patients were undergoing treatment. The state’s recovery rate has touched 90% with 15.14 lakh discharges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mums-case-fatality-rate-drops-below-4-first-time-in-4-5-mths/articleshow/78990163.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 2, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's case fatality rate drops below 4% first time in 4.5 months||MUMBAI: The city’s Covid case fatality rate (CFR) has dropped below 4% for the first time since mid-June. It was 3.9% on Sunday, after soaring to as high as 6% in May, reports Sumitra Deb Roy. CFR is the ratio of deaths to the number of positive patients. Mumbai recorded 908 cases and 25 deaths on Sunday, taking the case tally to 2,58,405 and fatalities to 10,318. It has reported fewer than 1,000 cases for the second day in a row. Meanwhile, the state for the second day in a row recorded a little over 5,000 Covid-19 cases (5,369). The state’s case tally touched 16,83,775 on Sunday. The death toll rose to 44,024 with an addition of 113 fatalities. Just a day earlier, only 74 deaths were reported, the lowest addition in the state in 159 days. The active cases for the state stood at 1,25,109, accounting for 22% of the country’s overall count of 5.7 lakh active cases. The city’s CFR saw an overnight spurt on June 16 when 917 deaths were added as part of data reconciliation. The process pushed the city’s cumulative CFR to 5.25% from 3.79%. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that the deaths were on a decline, but the aim was to further reduce the death rate. “We want it lower than that, and hence we are carrying out the ‘My Family My responsibility’ campaign to pick up cases early,” he said, adding that the firming up of treatment protocols over the months and better understanding of the disease by doctors had helped reduced deaths to a great deal. The weekly CFR has already come below 2% for the city, a civic official said. Kakani said that the BMC is also introducing more labs for free testing so that people get tested as soon as they develop symptoms. The state’s CFR is hovering around 2.61%, which is the second-highest in the country after Punjab (3.14%). India’s Covid mortality rate has now dropped to 1.49%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical committee, said that deaths within 48 hours continue to be very high in the state. “Cities like Mumbai, Pune, Thane definitely have room for improvement,” he said. He, though, underlined that the data transparency of many states was questionable. Neighbouring cities, too, saw a decline in cases. As many as 176 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Thane city on Sunday, taking the tally of the infected to 46,842 while three deaths took the virus toll to 1155. The recovery rate in Thane was 93.1% with 43,623 patients recovered till date and only 2,064 active cases left. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 130 cases and three deaths, taking the tally of patients to 50,194, including the 1,006 deaths so far. The recovery rate in the city was 94.7% and only 1,652 patients were undergoing treatment. The state’s recovery rate has touched 90% with 15.14 lakh discharges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mums-case-fatality-rate-drops-below-4-first-time-in-4-5-mths/articleshow/78989519.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: No decision on ‘rail roko’, farmers’ meeting continues||AMRITSAR: While maintaining that their rail roko agitation had no impact on rail services in Punjab, farm body Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) blamed the government for ignoring alternate rail routes and instead shifting the responsibility of blocking rail traffic on farmers. KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher told TOI on Sunday: “We have begun the meeting of our core committee, which will have various sessions, and could last till late in the night since we have significant and important issues to discuss.” “All rail tracks are open. We have come to know that the Jakhal-Dhuri goods train was seen plying, maybe for maintenance, but it meant that the route was open. So, why is the government blaming farmers for blocking trains?” he said. He also questioned the government for not using alternate routes where farmers were not sitting on protest. KMSC, which is not part of the 31 organisations of farmers protesting against farm laws but support their cause, is contemplating to intensify its agitation against the Centre, state government and corporate houses, which, it claims, would wrest control over Punjab’s farming with the implementation of Centre’s three agriculture laws. Farm leader Gurbachan Singh Chabba said they had appealed to all people of Punjab, especially women, to come out of their houses and be part of November 5 nationwide ‘Chakka Jam’ call . “People should realise it is not just farmers who will be affected by these controversial laws, but common people also, even a small shopkeeper as well as those in service will have to face the brunt of these laws, so it is the issue of common interest for which it is the time to come forward and extend support,” said Chabba. Pandher said they were also serious over Centre’s recently introduced law imposing heavy penalties, including jail term, even for those burning stubble in Delhi NCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-decision-on-rail-roko-farmers-meeting-continues/articleshow/78988965.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 2, 2020||Lucknow||Viraj Khand: Cops nab 7 in raid on illegal hookah bar||LUCKNOW: Seven persons, including the operator, were arrested in a raid by police at an illegal hookah bar in Viraj Khand area on Saturday night. Inspector Vibhutikhand, Sanjay Shukla said acting on the informer’s tip-off about a hookah bar being operated illegally near Hahnemann crossing a police team raided the bar. “We found the bar operator Subhagya Gupta, waiter of the café Amarjeet Vishwakarma and five other persons identified as Azaharuddin, Puneet Singh, Vipin Dixit, Mazhar Nawab, and Zeeshan Ahmad smoking hookah and arrested them from the spot,” said Shukla. Cops also recovered three hookahs from the spot during the raid. All the seven arrested have been booked on the charges of unlawful and negligent act, and for not following prohibitory orders, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-nab-7-in-raid-on-illegal-hookah-bar/articleshow/78989496.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||Airport police station to be shifted to a new address soon||Kolkata: The city airport operator has asked the Airport police station — its old guard of six decades — to shift out of the Airports Authority of India’s premises. Set up in the early 1960s, Airport police station used to handle all law and order issues of the Kolkata Airport along with other areas till Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport (NSCBIA) police station was carved out of it in 2000. Since then, both the police stations have been operating on the Airports Authority of India’s land, although the Airport police station no longer handles major responsibilities of the airport other than taking care of a portion of the boundary wall along Jessore Road. “The Airport police station has no real task concerning the airport but they continue to function from our premises, creating confusion and encroaching a large area. Hence, we have asked them to shift out,” said a senior official of the Kolkata airport. The request was placed before the Bidhannagar Commissionerate two weeks ago during a meeting of the Airport Advisory Committee, where the commissionerate representatives also agreed on the proposal. “We are looking for a suitable land outside the airport premises and will shift the police station at the earliest,” said J Mercy, deputy commissioner (airport division) of Bidhannagar City Police. Initially a part of Dum Dum police station, the airport police station outpost used to operate from beside a Defence Movement Control Unit (DMCU) building near airport Gate No. 3. In 1982, it became a full-fledged police station handling responsibilities of the Kolkata airport along with several other nearby areas.  In December 1999, the proposal to form a new police station exclusively for the airport was floated while in 2000, the NSCBIA police station was formed opposite the old domestic terminal, taking the load off the Airport police station. Since then, the airport premises have two police stations. The NSCBI Airport police station is in charge of the airport premises while the Airport police station covers around 22sq km, including places like Kaikhali, Birati, West Beraberi and Ganthi among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-police-station-to-be-shifted-to-a-new-address-soon/articleshow/78988983.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 2, 2020||Kochi||A teacher’s creative solutionto get closer to kids, virtually||KOCHI: A month ago Nathalie Trouveroy a Belgian writer and art historian made her way to the virtual classrooms of plus one and plus two students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, INS Dronacharya in Kochi, interacting with them on a live chat and answering their doubts. She was there as a virtual guest on the YouTube channel of Santhosh Kumar Kana, an English teacher with KV Sangathan, who had been trying to navigate the children through the chapter ‘Landscape of the Soul’, an essay on art and its link to Chinese philosophy, authored by Trouveroy. The video turned out to be a valuable learning resource not just for students across India, but for teachers who were finding it hard to understand the references. “The essay was prescribed many years ago and many teachers considered it quite hard because it contained references to Taoism and two world views on art,” says Kana, who has previously won an award for the best teacher in KV in 2018. He had launched the series called ‘Insights with Kana’ in July and the channel has now close to 13 episodes, each highlighting a chapter from English language syllabus. “When I started virtual classes, I felt something was amiss and the students said they could not feel the impact of physical classroom environment. The video series came out of a crisis-like situation, “says Kana, a poet and author. On Thursday, his students premiered live a radio play ‘The Rat Trap’ based on a short story by Swedish writer Selma Lagerlof. Kana says it stemmed from the need for a creative solution to the constraints of teaching lessons that exigently call for visual and auditory experience for the learners. “Physically we have shifted to another platform of learning and we need to shift psychologically too. If teachers try to replicate the physical classroom, it is going to be a tragedy,” added Kana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-teachers-creative-solutionto-get-closer-to-kids-virtually/articleshow/78986576.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Low-cost incubator made by student is an online hit||KOCHI: With many people venturing out to start poultry farms as livelihood amid the pandemic, a low-cost incubator made by Libin Martin, a Class X student from Malayattoor, is trending on social media platforms with many poultry farmers making orders for it. An incubator is a device simulating avian incubation by keeping eggs warm at a particular temperature range and optimum humidity to hatch them. While company-made incubators cost more than Rs 10,000 in the market, Libin’s incubator cost only Rs 2,500 and he has made and sold more than 200 incubators over the past two months. Libin is a student of St Thomas HSS, Malayattoor, and is making the incubator not only out of his passion for electronics but also to help his family financially. Libin’s father Martin P A died last year due to cardiac arrest and the family is struggling to pay the housing loan taken by him. With his incubator business slowly picking up, Libin is happy that he could contribute his earnings towards the repayment of the loan and help his mother Chippy, a homemaker. Libin also has two elder sisters – Limitha (BSc nursing student) and Liya (Class XII student) – and a younger brother named Linto, who studies in Class IX. “I studied about how to make an incubator from my cousin who is an electrical engineer. During the lockdown I tried making one using a thermocol box for my mother and it became successful. Later, I made it for my school teacher and it was he who posted about it on social media. Since then, I have been receiving orders for the incubator,” said Libin. The incubator controls heat using two incandescent light bulbs connected to a thermostat. It has a display to show the temperature inside the box and a sensor to switch off the bulbs if it overheats. “Around 100 eggs can be placed in it and my customers said that around 85 to 90% eggs have hatched. The temperature is kept at 37.8 degree Celsius, which is ideal for hatching eggs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/low-cost-incubator-made-by-student-is-an-online-hit/articleshow/78986554.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: 2 women, who died in farm law protests on Oct 9, to be cremated after govt pays up||BATHINDA: Two elderly women who died during protests against the Centre’s agriculture-marketing laws on October 9 will finally be cremated as the Punjab government on Sunday agreed to pay Rs 10-lakh compensation to each of their families. The state government agreed to pay the compensation amounts, in installments of Rs 5 lakh each, after farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) kept on exerting pressure on it, claimed an office-bearer of the faction of Bharatiya Kisan Union. The bodies of Tej Kaur (80), who hailed from Barey village in Mansa, and Megh Raj (62) who was from Nagri village in Sangrur, had been kept at the civil hospitals of Mansa and Sangrur, respectively, for 23 days. The state government provided a cheque of Rs 5 lakh each to the families on Sunday and assured to pay the Rs 5-lakh balamce to them on the day of bhog. The families agreed to the cremations only after being paid the compensation. Tej Kaur had lost her balance on railway tracks at Budhlada town of Mansa and fell on tracks. She died on the spot due to head injury. The same day, Megh suffered a cardiac arrest at a protest outside a Reliance petrol pump at Benra village in Sangrur. BKU Ekta Ugrahan secretary Ram Singh Bhainibagha said, “The state government provided cheques of Rs 3 lakh and Rs 2 lakh cash in both cases and rest will be given on bhog day. The government promised to look for jobs to one of the family members. The organisation had taken up the matter with state government and had decided to intensify the protest from today onwards.” Mansa deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal said, “The compensation has been provided and rest will be provided later. The families have agreed for cremation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-women-who-died-in-farm-law-protests-on-oct-9-to-be-cremated-after-govt-pays-up/articleshow/78988987.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Mysuru||Covid centre running out of engineering college in Karnataka's Chamarajanagar to be closed||MYSURU: The decline in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases being reported in the district has set the Chamarajanagar administration thinking of shutting down the 419-bed Bedarapura Covid Care Centre, which was set up at a government engineering college on the outskirts of the Chamarajanagar town. Currently, only four patients are being treated at the Bedarapura centre, and the district administration is of the opinion that the beds would be better utilised to other hospitals and facilities where Covid-19 patients are being treated. A decision to shut the CCC at Bedarapura is likely to be taken either on Monday or Tuesday. Chamarajanagar district health officer (DHO) Dr MC Ravi told TOI, “The district administration has recently opened CCCs in Gundlupet, in addition to 30-bed centres in Kabballi and Beguru villages, not to mention the fact that the district hospital can treat up to 100 Covid patients, while there are 60 beds at the Santhemarahalli community health centre in Chamarajanagar taluk.” The DHO said that, given that the district had just 228 active cases, including 42 patients currently undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit, the closure of the CCC in Bedarapura and distribution of its resources to other hospitals would be in the best interest. “Since most patients who are asymptomatic are being asked to quarantine themselves at home, the district administration can manage the current caseload with the number of beds avaiable at the other centres,” Dr Ravi said. In all, as many as 94,355 swab samples have been tested in Chamarajanagar, including those sent from people in Mysuru, Bengaluru and Udupi, of which 5,964 have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The district boasts an impressive recovery with 5,613 patients having recovered from the infection. Of the 228 active cases, 115 are in home quarantine. Dr Ravi said that the government engineering college would be cleaned and disinfected once the beds were shifted out of the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-centre-running-out-of-engineering-college-in-cnagar-to-be-closed/articleshow/78986550.cms||---
November 2, 2020||India||Gadkari balm even as critical videos from kin flood NHAI officials||NEW DELHI: Senior NHAI officials found some solace on Saturday when Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari said most of the officials and engineers working there were “good”. Some of them said they suffered an ordeal for five days since the minister lashed out at the highway authority terming a section of its staff as “inefficient” and for delaying works. Several NHAI officials told TOI that they were not just facing public ire but also their mobile phones were flooded with video clips of Gadkari and in several cases these were forwarded by their relatives and family members. “For past few days I have been receiving several calls from people since the minister’s speech went viral. They were asking whether we are actually doing no work,” said one of them. Another official said NHAI’s core activity is highway construction and maintenance and operation of roads under its jurisdiction. Official data shows that the pace of highway construction has increased by more than 150% in the past six years – from 1,501 km in 2014-15 to 3,979 km in 2019-20 - and the authority had recorded the highest ever construction during the last financial year. Gadkari had lashed out at officials for completing the new office building in eight years when he inaugurated it on Monday. His speech went viral on social media on Wednesday. However, while addressing an event of industry lobby Assocham on “Advanced Digital Technology & Policy for Infrastructure with special focus on Tunnel Engineering” on Saturday, Gadkari said, “I was deeply hurt due to the inordinate delay and had spoken about it. There are good people in NHAI, my ministry and NHIDCL including the NHAI chairman, secretary in the ministry and managing director of NHIDCL. There are hundreds of good engineers. My unhappiness was against only a few people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gadkari-balm-even-as-critical-videos-from-kin-flood-nhai-officials/articleshow/78990035.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 2, 2020||Bhopal||Congress ignored MP’s development: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||INDORE: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday accused PCC chief Kamal Nath of ignoring state’s development and not sanctioning any penny for many of the constituencies . “Kamal Nath ji has not given one and a quarter rupees during his one and a quarter years of tenure as CM to ensure development of the state,” said Chouhan, while addressing a public gathering in Hatpipliya constituency of Dewas. Chouhan also claimed that this prompted Congress MLAs like Manoj Choudhary and Hardeep Singh Dang to resign and join BJP. Chouhan took out mega roadshows in Hatpipliya and Agar and also addressed gatherings at both the places in addition to Suwasra constituency in Mandsaur district to seek public support for the partye candidates. Chouhan also made a series of announcements related to irrigation and piped water connections to ensure supply of drinking water in households at these places on the last day of the campaigning for the bbypolls.  “Nath discontinued most of my public welfare schemes such as Ladli Lakshmi Yojana, Kanyadaan Yojana, laptop distribution, fee payment of students, and even the pilgrim scheme. I am going to restart all these schemes for the citizens,”Chouhan said. Later addressing a public gathering in Agar, Chouhan also took a dig at the Congress candidate and said that the true meaning of Congress is destruction, not development. “Congress means destruction, not development. Its candidate has been demolishing shops and houses, and might have also done extortion,” he said.  Chouhan also criticised Nath’s ‘item’ remark against BJP leader and state minister Imarti Devi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/congress-ignored-mps-development-chouhan/articleshow/78989046.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP panel briefs top brass on farm stir||JALANDHAR: Punjab BJP core committee has briefed its central leadership on the situation in the state in view of the recently enacted agriculture laws. It is learnt the BJP top brass has told its state leadership that there was no question of going back or making any amendments in the laws. Sources in BJP revealed that worried over no let-up in strong opposition to farm bills in Punjab, the state unit leadership decided to brief the central leadership. It is learnt that state BJP leaders also wanted to urge the leadership to explore the option of an amicable solution to the situation. The 13-member delegation of the core committee led by state unit chief Ashwani Sharma met BJP president J P Nadda and general secretary B L Santosh on October 29 in Delhi and they explained the situation in Punjab. The possible negative fallouts, which can have serious ramifications for future and present situation in Punjab, are being seen and projected as a case of discrimination against the state. It is learnt that they explained that continuing bitterness could make the perception of discrimination plausible, which could have social and political ramifications as most farmers in the state were Sikhs. Sources said they also explained that “some vested interests” could also “exploit” the situation. With train traffic remaining suspended, especially goods trains which can lead Punjab-based industry into a mess, the state leadership has been apprehending negative reactions from urban sectors also. Sources in Punjab BJP said they urged central leaders to help scale down the situation and options should be explored to bring farmers around. It is learnt that the core committee members were told by top party leaders that there was no question of amending the laws or backing off, and state leaders should still try to reach out to farmers and explain to them the benefits of farm bills. When contacted, Sharma said they explained the prevailing situation of agitation and political situation in the state. He said the Union government was convinced that farm laws were in favour of farmers, but they were open to talk to anybody. “They also asked us to stay in touch with farmers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-panel-briefs-top-brass-on-farm-stir/articleshow/78989018.cms||IP Singh
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Married man kills paramour||CHANDRAPUR: A married man thrashed his paramour to death at her home in Junona Square here on Sunday morning. Ram Nagar police have arrested the accused, identified as Rakesh Dhole. Sources said Dhole (35) had been in a relationship with the already married deceased, Durga Umre (29), for last four years. Durga had separated from her husband and used to live in Junona Square locality. Even after Rakesh got married to another woman, his affair with Durga continued but they often used to get into squabbles. Sources in police said Durga had summoned Rakesh to her home in the morning. They had a heated argument over some issue. In a fit of rage, Rakesh started beating Durga with a stick. A heavy blow on Durga’s head led to severe injury. Durga’s relatives rushed her to GMCH where she was declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/married-man-kills-paramour/articleshow/78989048.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 2, 2020||Lucknow||Anupam Kher to share ‘Saraansh’ of Lucknow days||LUCKNOW: It was in Lucknow that this 24-year-old young man got his first job, first two-wheeler – a blue-coloured Atlas bicycle – on which he pedaled his way to his workplace everyday. And everytime he moved past the magnificent Lucknow University, he was awestruck by its grandeur. Now a legendary actor, Anupam Kher will be in the city, though virtually, to participate in Lucknow University’s centenary celebrations and make students understand that there is no substitute to hard work. A motivational lecture by the actor will be the most desired success guide for students. Kher has a very strong connect with the city and the ‘Saraansh’ of his life is incomplete without Lucknow. “Coming to Lucknow is good in many ways as it was the place where I got my first job after passing out from drama school. From no money to getting Rs 1,200 per month and being called as a lecturer by noted director Raj Bisaria in a department of the Bhartendu Natya Academy (BNA) was something good at the age of 24,” recalls Kher while talking to TOI. Kher, who hails from Shimla, spent around three years (1979-81) in Lucknow as a lecturer at BNA. Later, this dynamic teacher came to be known for his prolific career in Indian cinema, having worked internationally in more than 500 films and 100 plays over a span of 35 years. He has to his credit films like ‘Saaransh’, ‘Khosla Ka Ghosla’, ‘A Wednesday’, ‘Special 26’, ‘Maine Gandhi Ko Nahin Mara’, and ‘The Accidental Prime Minister’, to name a few. Having worked with acclaimed directors like Ang Lee, David O Russell, Woody Allen, Gurinder Chaddha and the Wachowskis, some of his Hollywood films include ‘Silver Linings Playbook’, ‘Hotel Mumbai’ and ‘The Big Sick’. “It was 1979 when I was learning to be independent and didn’t want to go to Bombay straightaway to try my luck. I started teaching at BNA. The best part about teaching acting is that a teacher gets to learn more than students because it gets confirmed what he knows,” he says. “I got a job offer from Raj Bisaria who was the head of the Bhartendu Natya Academy. On September 12, 1979, I reached Lucknow and started my first job,” he adds. “Lucknow is an amazing city. I still remember people in Zubaida Manzil in Niralanagar where I lived on rent. Being a foodie, Lucknow was the best place for me. Be it Tundey ke kababs or Doodh Jalebi, every cuisine was heaven,” Kher recalls. “Not very often I visited the LU campus but whenever I went there I was amazed as it is very beautifully dominating and had its own cultural charm. I used to hear a lot about LU from Raj Bisaria who taught in the English department. Everything about Lucknow, including the university, is royal,” he says. “My message to LU students is that there is no alternative to hardwork and honesty. You should not let go off your individuality no matter how much discomforting it is. The moment you become the part of the crowd you stay in the crowd,” says Kher, adding that the title of his first book ‘The Best Thing About You Is You’ is something students need to discover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kher-to-share-saraansh-of-lucknow-days/articleshow/78989681.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 2, 2020||Kochi||Malayali Diaspora: Home & Away||Seattle: Better a child who learns to read and write one’s mother tongue than to be someone with an appearance of a Malayali. This, perhaps, could have been the driving urge that led the Kerala Association of Washington (KAW) in Seattle, US, to open a ‘Malayalam School’ as one of their main activities. A long-term commitment that led to more than 120 kids signing up this year. When a few members of KAW came up with the idea of teaching their children, born and raised in the US, it was as if they were hungry to raise the standard of Malayalam language – kindling the fire that would have otherwise burnt itself out among the first generation-born Malayali children. And thus, it was indeed impossible to hide this plan too deep, because the parents were the neediest among the lot, and felt the urgency to have their children explore the fruitful Eden of Malayalam language and literature. To make this experience more holistic, KAW got in touch with the government of Kerala that runs the program ‘Malayalam Mission’ under its department of culture -- a program that aims to benefit non-resident Malayali children. A mutually responsive discussion led a team of members in KAW to compile a syllabus that was apt for the children here. Parents are aware that their kids being raised in a foreign country have limited exposure to their mother tongue language – often limited to conversations at home – and so they had to follow this improvised and structured syllabus to improve their wards’ proficiency in the language. Ojus John, the president of KAW, asserts that the Malayalam school is the hard work of a group of committed members, but at the same time, a confident attempt to groom the children to be self-sufficient in their mother tongue. The one-hour virtual classes on weekends enabled the volunteer teachers and students to communicate on a consistent basis and making the learning interactive and engaging. The association is also making a deliberate attempt to get Malayalam added as a language approved for foreign credits in the neighbourhood school districts in Washington state, says Nimesh Sethumadhavan, joint-treasurer of KAW. Meanwhile, forming letters into words and those words into sentences isn’t the only focus of the association. They are promoting the Malayalam Book Club too. Even if the kids stumble with classics like Randamoozham by M T Vasudevan Nair or Aarachaar by K R Meera -- books the adult readers chose to include – the very effort to familiarize themselves with such narratives will only benefit the kids. Jojo Chalissery, joint-secretary of KAW, clarifies that the kids are also urged to read books such as Kalikudduka and Muthuchippi so that the fun doesn’t go out of the learning. A talent show slated to be held later this year will have these first generation Malayali kids performing and showcasing their skills and aptitude provided they use Malayalam language as their medium for exploration -- be it singing, dancing, reciting a poem, or narrating a story, it has to be through Malayalam. What KAW is trying to achieve is nothing short of extraordinary – making their children straddle two cultures and be equally at home in both. (Remitha Mathew is a journalist based in Washington state in the US)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-diaspora-home-away/articleshow/78989063.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bhopal||Made Kamal Nath govt bite the dust, says Jyotiraditya Scindia||BHOPAL: On the last day of campaigning, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia addressed poll rallies in Mehgaon and Bhander assembly seats. He also held joint rallies with former chief minister Uma Bharti in Karera and Ashoknagar constituencies.  Scindia made a scathing attack on Congress leaders Nath and Digvijaya Singh and said that both betrayed the people. He said Digvijaya was running the Congress government as a ‘super CM’ from behind the curtains. “One of them had been taught a lesson by Uma Bharti and the other had started betraying the public, so I did the same with him. In 1967, my grandmother had toppled the anti-people D P Mishra's government. The Nath government betrayed the public, youths, sisters and daughters and I made it bite the dust,” Scindia said. Scindia also said that developments initiated by the BJP government is merely a trailer. “You have two options. On one side, Digvijaya-Nath duo for the destruction of the state. And on the other side is Shivraj and me for development. Our pair is dedicated to the welfare of the public like the ‘Moti-Madhav Express’ (Motilal Vora and Madhavrao Scindia) of the 1980s. BJP has already started its work and all the development you see is merely a trailer. Those who want to see the entire picture, they should resolve to help BJP win the bypolls”, he said. BJP claimed that its rallies witnessed a huge response from the public, clearly indicating that saffron party candidates would emerge victorious in all the 28 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/made-nath-govt-bite-the-dust-says-scindia/articleshow/78989070.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Meerut||Children, elderly at risk as west UP gasps for fresh air||MEERUT/BAREILLY/AGRA: With November marking the beginning of the Diwali month, Uttar Pradesh gasps for fresh air as most of its cities recording ‘very poor’ air quality, surpassing even the Air Quality Index (AQI) of 364 recorded in Delhi on Sunday. Track the pollution level in your cityAt 389, Baghpat recorded “very poor” AQI in the state on Sunday, followed by Greater Noida (388), Noida (384), Ghaziabad (384), Moradabad (384) and Meerut (364) — equalising Delhi. An AQI ranging 0 to 50 is considered “good” and “satisfactory” if it falls between 51 and 100. Similarly, from 101 to 200 it will be “moderate”, 201 to 300 is considered “poor”, 301 to 400 is taken as “very poor”, and above 400 it’s “severe”. The air quality, meanwhile, further deteriorated in Moradabad on Sunday with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recording an AQI of 384 or “very poor” on Sunday. Earlier this week, in the city had recorded an AQI of 351. Similarly, the air quality in Agra district deteriorated further with the AQI in Agra — which falls under the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) — recorded at 339 or “very poor” by the CPCB. The AQI on Saturday was, however, 332. The AQI takes into account five chief pollutants — particulate matter (PM) with a diameter less than 10 micrometres (PM10), PM2.5, ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and carbon monoxide (CO). Moradabad recorded PM 2.5 at 389 and PM 10 at 306 on Sunday, while the city of Taj recoded PM 2.5 at 416 milligrams per cubic meter, which is considered hazardous. According to the CPCB, very poor AQI results in respiratory illness if exposed prolonged. Suggesting people, especially children and elderly, to wear N95 masks, Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “They should avoid coming out of homes as it can have an impact on those already suffering from respiratory diseases.” Agra’s SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala, too, cautioned people to avoid public places, especially during daytime. “Prolonged exposure to PM 2.5 beyond the safe limit can severely affect the respiratory system as ultra-fine particulates can find their way deep into the lungs and also enter the bloodstream. Asthma and tuberculosis patients should avoid going to construction sites or dusty areas. Wearing a face mask could, however, significantly prevent respiratory complications caused by air pollution.” Experts, meanwhile, said the air quality might deteriorate further with Diwali approaching. (With inputs from Deepak Lavania and Maria Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-gasps-for-fresh-air-as-diwali-month-begins/articleshow/78998021.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 2, 2020||Bareilly||Children, elderly at risk as west UP gasps for fresh air||MEERUT/BAREILLY/AGRA: With November marking the beginning of the Diwali month, Uttar Pradesh gasps for fresh air as most of its cities recording ‘very poor’ air quality, surpassing even the Air Quality Index (AQI) of 364 recorded in Delhi on Sunday. Track the pollution level in your cityAt 389, Baghpat recorded “very poor” AQI in the state on Sunday, followed by Greater Noida (388), Noida (384), Ghaziabad (384), Moradabad (384) and Meerut (364) — equalising Delhi. An AQI ranging 0 to 50 is considered “good” and “satisfactory” if it falls between 51 and 100. Similarly, from 101 to 200 it will be “moderate”, 201 to 300 is considered “poor”, 301 to 400 is taken as “very poor”, and above 400 it’s “severe”. The air quality, meanwhile, further deteriorated in Moradabad on Sunday with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recording an AQI of 384 or “very poor” on Sunday. Earlier this week, in the city had recorded an AQI of 351. Similarly, the air quality in Agra district deteriorated further with the AQI in Agra — which falls under the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) — recorded at 339 or “very poor” by the CPCB. The AQI on Saturday was, however, 332. The AQI takes into account five chief pollutants — particulate matter (PM) with a diameter less than 10 micrometres (PM10), PM2.5, ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and carbon monoxide (CO). Moradabad recorded PM 2.5 at 389 and PM 10 at 306 on Sunday, while the city of Taj recoded PM 2.5 at 416 milligrams per cubic meter, which is considered hazardous. According to the CPCB, very poor AQI results in respiratory illness if exposed prolonged. Suggesting people, especially children and elderly, to wear N95 masks, Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “They should avoid coming out of homes as it can have an impact on those already suffering from respiratory diseases.” Agra’s SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala, too, cautioned people to avoid public places, especially during daytime. “Prolonged exposure to PM 2.5 beyond the safe limit can severely affect the respiratory system as ultra-fine particulates can find their way deep into the lungs and also enter the bloodstream. Asthma and tuberculosis patients should avoid going to construction sites or dusty areas. Wearing a face mask could, however, significantly prevent respiratory complications caused by air pollution.” Experts, meanwhile, said the air quality might deteriorate further with Diwali approaching. (With inputs from Deepak Lavania and Maria Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-gasps-for-fresh-air-as-diwali-month-begins/articleshow/78998022.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||Did not join legal profession to earn wealth or become judge: Justice Deshpande||Nagpur: “I did not enter into the legal profession to earn wealth or to become a judge,” said Justice Ravi Deshpande, in an emotional farewell speech on Sunday. Recalling his father’s advice, the senior administrative judge said he didn’t join the noble profession with an intention to acquire name and fame. “My only aim was to earn income honestly and sufficiently to maintain a family and discharge social obligations. My father advised me to engage in the profession with full devotion, dedication, hard work and to keep in mind the plight of an ordinary litigant,” he said. Speaking at the felicitation function organized by High Court Bar Association (HCBA) at the HC auditorium, Justice Deshpande, who would be superannuating on Thursday, broke down while acknowledging the wealth of “love and affection” of the bar as his only property which he would be carrying forward forever. The senior judge, who heard many high profile cases and delivered many landmark judgments, was elevated as HC judge in 2009 after 25 years of practice as a lawyer. After starting his career in 1983 under his illustrious father KH Deshpande, also a senior counsel, he never looked back. “With hard work and eminence, Justice Deshpande soon became a distinguished lawyer. He had rich experience on all branches of law. After he adorned the bench in 2009, he honed his decision-making skills with use of his knowledge of law and rich experience,” said HCBA president Gauri Venkatraman in her introductory remarks. After his successful journey as a jurist, the judge was assigned the task of managing administrative side along with judicial assignments at Nagpur bench. “During his stint as administrative judge of Nagpur bench, he has been instrumental in starting various innovative and new ventures,” she said. Venkatraman added that Justice Deshpande had many landmarks judgments in various PILs to his credit. “In a recent judgment of full bench, he ruled that benefit of Section 436A of CrPC was available only to undertrials and not convicts. In another ruling, new opportunities were opened up for Gowari community when a division bench headed by him held that the tribe existed more than 100 years back and must get benefits under Scheduled Castes category,” she said. (Section 436A deals with release of undertrial prisoners on bail during the investigation period on completion of half of the maximum jail sentence.) The senior judge also took suo motu cognisance of abysmal and collapsing health care infrastructure during Covid-19 pandemic and issued a series of stringent directives, including augmenting bed capacity, that forced the government to act and increase 400 beds in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). While dealing with a PIL on pitiable condition of Kasturchand Park, the judge visited the historic place along with Justice Pushpa Ganediwala to check the reality and passed strictures on authorities for not complying with HC orders. An alumnus of Nagpur University’s Babasaheb Ambedkar College of Law, Justice Deshpande also conducted various election trials. “It is because of the cooperation of government pleaders and assistant solicitor general of India, I could dispose of many cases,” Justice Deshpande said while applauding their assistance. Major cases and rulings by Justice Deshpande Bed shortage in city leading to more Covid deaths, state acts after HC order and decides to add 400 more beds in GMCH Pitiable condition of Kasturchand Park & its restoration Ruled that govt can’t force private hospitals to cap treatment charges for non-Covid patients Gowari community comes under Scheduled Castes category Benefit of CrPC’s Section 436A available only to undertrials & not convicts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/did-not-join-legal-profession-to-earn-wealth-or-become-judge-justice-deshpande/articleshow/78989072.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Suspension of goods train: CM writes an open letter to Nadda||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, in an open letter to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president J P Nadda, expressed concern over the continued suspension of goods trains by the Indian Railways even after easing of the blockade by the farmers. He called for “collective will and statesmanship” to resolve the blockade issue and warned that it could have dangerous consequences not just for Punjab but the entire nation, including the armed forces in Ladakh and Kashmir. Expressing resentment over recent statements of various BJP national and Punjab leaders on the farmer’s protests, particularly the continued suspension of goods trains by the railways, Capt Amarinder said it was neither the time nor the occasion to indulge in political confrontation or allegations/counter-allegations. “What is needed at this critical moment is for all of us to put aside any temptations we may be harbouring to promote our political interests,” he said. It was, on the contrary, “time for all of us to rise above political considerations and to respond as statesmen, to a situation that threatens to spiral irrevocable out of control”, he added. Citing the repercussions the continued suspension of goods trains services would have for national security, in addition to the critical shortages faced not just by Punjab but also J&K, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh, the chief minister warned that the armed forces were likely to be badly affected with the onset of winter, as they could run out of supplies and other requisites once the snowfall blocks the roads to Ladakh and the Valley. “These are dangers that neither the central government nor any political party, including BJP, can choose to ignore,” he said, adding that “the onus lies on all of us….We need to all liaise together, with the common goal of solving the contentious issue, in the interest of the country”. Referring to the losses caused in Punjab due to the prolonged blockade, Captain Amarinder said every day of the continued suspension of goods trains meant critical losses to the industry, agriculture and overall economy, in view of critical shortages of power (coal), urea and DAP stocks. As for the consequences for national security, he claimed that if the armed forces were deprived of critical supplies, amid the increasingly aggressive overtures from both China and Pakistan, the situation could become extremely dangerous for the country. “Even Punjab could become more vulnerable to security threats from Pakistan, if the current crisis around the farmers is not resolved at the earliest,” he warned, noting that ISI-backed terror groups were perpetually looking at exploiting any unrest in Punjab. Reacting to the statements of BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh and Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma, he said, “Frivolous and baseless allegation of collusion of my government with what they call ‘naxal forces’ shows a shocking lack of maturity and absence of understanding of the current situation.” He said the reference to farmers as ‘naxals’ was reprehensible. The chief minister expressed surprise over the reason of “uncertainty and safety of train operations” cited by the railways to not allow goods trains’ movement through Punjab despite the easing of blockade by farmers. He described the decision as an apparent case of trust deficit of the central government viz-a-viz farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/suspension-of-goods-train-cm-writes-an-open-letter-to-nadda/articleshow/78989067.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Do not disturb law and order in Haryana: CM to farmer outfits||KARNAL: Four days ahead of the all-India ‘chakka jam’ (road blockade) call on November 5 by farmers’ organisations, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said no one would be allowed to take the law into their own hands. The CM was replying to a question by media persons in Karnal regarding the all-India ‘chakka jam’ by farmers’ outfits against the three farm laws recently passed by the Central government. Khattar said, “Everyone has the right to express their views in a democracy. We will act strictly if anyone tries to disturb law and order in the state. Farmers should hold their protest peacefully.” On Haryana Day, the CM kicked-off preparations for Khelo India Games at Karan Stadium in Karnal. He said Haryana would host the fourth edition of Khelo India Gamers in 2021,which will be held in Panchkula. Preparations for the games have started. Khattar said Haryana has established a strong identity in sports, education, agriculture, health and information technology. The sports policy of Haryana, he said, has become an example for other states. The CM exhorted players to give their 100% to the games. He also inaugurated the Wi-Fi chaupal facility for all gram panchayats in the district. He informed that out of 382 gram panchayats, the Wi-Fi facility has been started in 225. Fibre cable and other equipment is being installed in 288 panchayats, where the facility would be started soon. The CM said internet connections would be provided to gram sachivalaya, government school, anganwari, CHC/PHC, veterinary hospital and police station free of cost for one year. WiFi chaupals will give people in rural areas effective Internet access for digital processes. They can avail benefits of 500 types of government schemes at home, he said. Khattar also interacted with sarpanches of a few gram panchayats and took their feedback on the Wi-Fi Chaupal facility. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, BJP district president Yogendra Rana and other BJP functionaries were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/do-not-disturb-law-and-order-in-haryana-cm-to-farmer-outfits/articleshow/78989074.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Pune||After SC stay on Maratha quota, minister proposes full fee refund||MUMBAI: As college admissions in the state cannot be delayed further, minister of medical education Amit Deshmukh has recommended extending support to students from the Maratha community while following the Supreme Court directive on their quota issue at the same time, reports Yogita Rao. In an interim order on September 9, the SC had stayed the implementation of the SEBC quota for the 2020-21 academic session. Deshmukh proposed reimbursing the fees of students who would have benefited from the quota in government medical colleges. If these students seek admission to private colleges under the open category, their fees can be reimbursed as an interim relief, he said. The indecisiveness of the state government on college admissions in the face of the Maratha quota impasse has put the future of lakhs of students in the state in jeopardy. Those pursuing higher education, especially medical, engineering and MBA courses, are staring at a chaotic and curtailed academic session. But the government does not have much of a choice now. An official said the state may decide to just go ahead with admissions excluding the Maratha quota, as there is no option left before it in the face of a binding medical admission schedule released by the Centre. In 2019, the Devendra Fadnavis-led government had decided to reimburse the fees of 112 meritorious students from the open category who were displaced after the implementation of the Maratha quota. The amount was disbursed recently by the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, in Deshmukh's term. The state set aside Rs 33 crore to fund the education of these 112 students in private colleges for four and a half years. Minister of medical education Amit Deshmukh told TOI the state can extend a similar benefit again, only this time to those who would have benefitted from a possible Maratha quota. If the proposal is accepted, the benefit can be extended to other professional courses as well, after discussions with higher and technical education minister Uday Samant, said Deshmukh. The state already subsidises 50% fees of students whose annual family incomes are less than Rs 8 lakh. This may have to be extended to 100% to students who were to benefit from the SEBC quota, said Deshmukh. As per the SEBC Act, 12% seats are reserved for students from the Maratha community in government and private educational institutions. Of the total seats in government medical colleges, around 450 seats would have been reserved for Maratha students. “The state government is committed to the needs of the Maratha community and at the same time it will also have to honour the Supreme Court ruling… Not just medical, but no admissions can be put on hold for long now. The state’s policy decision is expected soon,” Deshmukh said, adding that students are already bearing with academic losses on account of the pandemic. The Centre's Medical Counselling Committee has asked all states to start their counselling rounds for medical admissions from November 6 onwards. Unlike admissions to other professional courses, medical admissions usually are conducted in a synchronised manner, along with the all-India process, and the schedule is binding on states. Parents of medical aspirants are planning to move court if the state fails to initiate the process in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-sc-stay-on-maratha-quota-min-proposes-full-fee-refund/articleshow/78995306.cms||Yogita Rao
November 2, 2020||Mumbai||After SC stay on Maratha quota, minister proposes full fee refund||MUMBAI: As college admissions in the state cannot be delayed further, minister of medical education Amit Deshmukh has recommended extending support to students from the Maratha community while following the Supreme Court directive on their quota issue at the same time, reports Yogita Rao. In an interim order on September 9, the SC had stayed the implementation of the SEBC quota for the 2020-21 academic session. Deshmukh proposed reimbursing the fees of students who would have benefited from the quota in government medical colleges. If these students seek admission to private colleges under the open category, their fees can be reimbursed as an interim relief, he said. The indecisiveness of the state government on college admissions in the face of the Maratha quota impasse has put the future of lakhs of students in the state in jeopardy. Those pursuing higher education, especially medical, engineering and MBA courses, are staring at a chaotic and curtailed academic session. But the government does not have much of a choice now. An official said the state may decide to just go ahead with admissions excluding the Maratha quota, as there is no option left before it in the face of a binding medical admission schedule released by the Centre. In 2019, the Devendra Fadnavis-led government had decided to reimburse the fees of 112 meritorious students from the open category who were displaced after the implementation of the Maratha quota. The amount was disbursed recently by the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, in Deshmukh's term. The state set aside Rs 33 crore to fund the education of these 112 students in private colleges for four and a half years. Minister of medical education Amit Deshmukh told TOI the state can extend a similar benefit again, only this time to those who would have benefitted from a possible Maratha quota. If the proposal is accepted, the benefit can be extended to other professional courses as well, after discussions with higher and technical education minister Uday Samant, said Deshmukh. The state already subsidises 50% fees of students whose annual family incomes are less than Rs 8 lakh. This may have to be extended to 100% to students who were to benefit from the SEBC quota, said Deshmukh. As per the SEBC Act, 12% seats are reserved for students from the Maratha community in government and private educational institutions. Of the total seats in government medical colleges, around 450 seats would have been reserved for Maratha students. “The state government is committed to the needs of the Maratha community and at the same time it will also have to honour the Supreme Court ruling… Not just medical, but no admissions can be put on hold for long now. The state’s policy decision is expected soon,” Deshmukh said, adding that students are already bearing with academic losses on account of the pandemic. The Centre's Medical Counselling Committee has asked all states to start their counselling rounds for medical admissions from November 6 onwards. Unlike admissions to other professional courses, medical admissions usually are conducted in a synchronised manner, along with the all-India process, and the schedule is binding on states. Parents of medical aspirants are planning to move court if the state fails to initiate the process in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-sc-stay-on-maratha-quota-min-proposes-full-fee-refund/articleshow/78989530.cms||Yogita Rao
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||245 sanitary workers test positive; undetected cases still exist in city||Nagpur: In an exclusive drive undertaken by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), 245 sanitary workers tested positive for Covid-19 indicating that undetected cases still exists in the city despite the drastic decline since the beginning of October. The civic body conducted tests for 5,470 sanitary workers who sweep roads and clean sewage lines. They reside in different parts of the city. They were tested in a phased-manner between September 30 and October 20. The union as well as activists have alleged that the workers were not tested when Covid was peaking in the last two weeks of August and the first two weeks of September and that this exercise by the NMC was only meant to show the increasing number of tests. According to the NMC’s data, 245 (4.48%) tested positive. “The 245 sanitary workers who tested positive were asymptomatic. None of them needed admission and treatment in hospitals,” NMC deputy commissioner Dr Pradeep Dasarwar told TOI. Going by the NMC version, the sanitary workers who tested positive were not high-risk contacts of positive patients. “It is not possible that cases will be zero till all get the vaccine. At present, active cases are 5,712 and cases, though below 500, continue in the district daily. Therefore, the infection will be there and cases will be below the baseline of 5%. A second wave is likely in the district in January and February 2021. The cases will probably be negligible from April onwards,” said Dr Nitin Shinde, a specialist of infectious diseases. Dr Shinde feels that some of the sanitary workers may have contracted the virus sometime ago. He added that workers carrying the dead virus cannot not be ruled out. “They may not spread the disease if the CT value is above 25 and so, there’s nothing to worry about such asymptomatic cases,” he said. The district had witnessed 5-6 weeks of the Covid peak between the third week of August and the last week of September. The daily average number of cases was 1,615 in September. The cases started to decline in a drastic manner from the beginning of October. In the first week, on an average, cases were 867 per day. They further declined to 631 per day in the second week and 498 in the third week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/245-sanitary-workers-test-positive-undetected-cases-still-exist-in-city/articleshow/78987619.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 2, 2020||Agra||Children, elderly at risk as west UP gasps for fresh air||MEERUT/BAREILLY/AGRA: With November marking the beginning of the Diwali month, Uttar Pradesh gasps for fresh air as most of its cities recording ‘very poor’ air quality, surpassing even the Air Quality Index (AQI) of 364 recorded in Delhi on Sunday. Track the pollution level in your cityAt 389, Baghpat recorded “very poor” AQI in the state on Sunday, followed by Greater Noida (388), Noida (384), Ghaziabad (384), Moradabad (384) and Meerut (364) — equalising Delhi. An AQI ranging 0 to 50 is considered “good” and “satisfactory” if it falls between 51 and 100. Similarly, from 101 to 200 it will be “moderate”, 201 to 300 is considered “poor”, 301 to 400 is taken as “very poor”, and above 400 it’s “severe”. The air quality, meanwhile, further deteriorated in Moradabad on Sunday with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recording an AQI of 384 or “very poor” on Sunday. Earlier this week, in the city had recorded an AQI of 351. Similarly, the air quality in Agra district deteriorated further with the AQI in Agra — which falls under the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) — recorded at 339 or “very poor” by the CPCB. The AQI on Saturday was, however, 332. The AQI takes into account five chief pollutants — particulate matter (PM) with a diameter less than 10 micrometres (PM10), PM2.5, ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and carbon monoxide (CO). Moradabad recorded PM 2.5 at 389 and PM 10 at 306 on Sunday, while the city of Taj recoded PM 2.5 at 416 milligrams per cubic meter, which is considered hazardous. According to the CPCB, very poor AQI results in respiratory illness if exposed prolonged. Suggesting people, especially children and elderly, to wear N95 masks, Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “They should avoid coming out of homes as it can have an impact on those already suffering from respiratory diseases.” Agra’s SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala, too, cautioned people to avoid public places, especially during daytime. “Prolonged exposure to PM 2.5 beyond the safe limit can severely affect the respiratory system as ultra-fine particulates can find their way deep into the lungs and also enter the bloodstream. Asthma and tuberculosis patients should avoid going to construction sites or dusty areas. Wearing a face mask could, however, significantly prevent respiratory complications caused by air pollution.” Experts, meanwhile, said the air quality might deteriorate further with Diwali approaching. (With inputs from Deepak Lavania and Maria Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-gasps-for-fresh-air-as-diwali-month-begins/articleshow/78986601.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 2, 2020||Bhopal||I did not call Jyotiraditya ‘dog’, says Kamal Nath in Gwalior||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Sunday denied calling Jyotiraditya Scindia “kutta”, or that he had used a derogatory word for CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan. “I have never used such words and I never will,” he said in Gwalior on the last day of campaigning, adding that the “item“ controversy was “blown out of proportion”. On Saturday, at a campaign rally in Ashok Nagar, Scindia had alleged that Nath called him a dog. “Yes, Kamal Nath ji, I’m a dog and the public is my master. I serve and protect them. If anyone raises a finger at my master, dog will bite,” he had said. Nath said on Sunday that the people of Ashoknagar and local media are evidence that he said no such thing. “I never used the word ‘kutta’ for Scindia ji in Ashoknagar .But if he himself uses such words for himself, I am helpless,” the former CM said, adding: “Sometimes he (Scindia) says ‘tiger zinda hai’, sometimes he says ‘tiger sharminda hai’.” Nath also said that he had not called Shivraj “nalayak”. “I had said ‘aap toh bade layak hain, nalayak nahi (you are very worthy, not unworthy),” Nath said. “But Shivraj calls me ‘papi’. My biggest paap was to waive loans of farmers,” he remarked. On the way his government was toppled, Nath said: “I had knowledge of the saudebazi 3-4 months in advance. I too, could have done the same but I don’t believe in it.” Nath said many people had left Congress in the past and later rejoined. “But no one had indulged in the politics of gaddari, saudebazi and bikau rajniti (treachery, wheeling-dealing and politics of sale) in the history of Congress,” he said, adding that there was no question of “these gaddars returning to the party fold”. He refused to comment on the EC and said people of the state will give a befitting reply to BJP on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/i-did-not-call-jyotiraditya-dog-says-nath-in-gwalior/articleshow/78989080.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Mysuru||Low-key Karnataka Rajyotsava celebrations, awards presented||MYSURU: The state celebrated its 65th foundation day on Sunday by hosting the Karnataka Rajyotsava and presenting awards to 65 achievers in the fields of theatre, music, folk, sports, literature, Yakshagaana, medicine, art, agriculture, law, education, journalism, social service, environment among others. Speaking after launching the celebrations at Kote Anjaneyya Temple at North Gate of the Mysuru Palace, district in-charge minister ST Somashekar said the district will enter the Green Zone shortly if people continue to follow all the health guidelines issued by the government. The minister presented the Rajyotsava award to eleven achievers who have immensely contributed to the society in their respective fields. “We have to thank the corona warriors, the doctors, nurses, pourakarmikas, officers and police force who are fighting against coronavirus. The government is adopting all measures to detect the virus and provide quality treatment to infected persons,” he said. “Earlier, people were admitted to hospitals only after developing complications resulting in more fatalities. After realising the issue, the government has increased testing to aid early detection,” he said. Stating that lockdown relaxation had escalated the positive cases, Somashekar said the situation has been brought under control. “We hope the vaccine is developed soon and made available to the public,” he said. Fete in Madikeri “We should not limit respecting Kannada on Rajyotsava day. We should honour the language every day and the concept of Nityotsava is to be developed,” said state housing and Kodagu district in-charge minister V Somanna. He was speaking after hoisting the flag on Rajyotsava day at the General Thimmaiah stadium. He recalled the great service by the poets and writers to promote Kannada. He appreciated the Kodagu administration in their effort to bring down the Covid cases in the district. He said the government will attend the grievances of people affected by the recent natural calamities and restore the situation, including the worst hit Talacauvery. Meanwhile, the Codava National Council (CNC) observed a peaceful satyagraha at Madikeri —“Codava Kol Mandh” i.e. the sanctum-sanctorum of the Kodava tribal World — on Sunday to highlight their demands, aspirations and goals. Low-key fete in Hassan Hassan district in-charge minister K Gopalaiah led the celebrations at the district stadium. It was a low-key affair conducted by district administration wherein the minister felicitated the corona warriors. The minister felicitated district level Rajyotsav price awardees, government and private doctors, police officers, CMC workers and farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/low-key-karnataka-rajyotsava-celebrations-awards-presented/articleshow/78986022.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hubballi||Simple affair marks Rajyotsava fete in Dharwad||DHARWAD: The celebration of 65th Kannada Rajyotsava was a simple affair in Dharwad on Sunday, thanks to the restrictions imposed by the authorities due to Covid-19 crisis. Dharwad was the launching pad for the Karnataka Unification Movement and the dignitaries at the functions organised by the district administration, various voluntary and pro-Kannada organisations, educational institutions and others recalled the sacrifice and struggle of those engaged in the movement. The attendance was thin at the programme organised by the district administration at the RN Shetty stadium here as the students were not involved in the celebration. Minister for large and medium industries, Jagadish Shettar, garlanded the portrait of Goddess Bhuvaneshwari, hoisted the tricolour, received the guard of honour from police, NCC and other troupes and delivered the Rajyotsava Day address. Shettar recalled the role of Ra Ha Deshpande and others in establishing the Karnataka Vidyavardhaka Sangha to give Kannada a strong foothold in the Marathi-dominated north Karnataka, which subsequently paved way for the unification of all Kannada-speaking areas in south India. DC Nitesh Patil, ZP CEO Sushila, police commissioner Labhuram, SP P Krishnakanth and others were present. Rajyotsava was celebrated at Karnatak Vidyavardhak Sangha, the institution that has played a decisive role in the unification movement. Karnatak University, Kannada Sahitya Parishat, Karnatak College, JSS College and other educational institutions also held special programmes to mark the occasion. ** Caption BIG DAY: Minister for large and medium industries Jagadish Shettar offers floral tributes to Goddess Bhvaneshwari at the 65th Kannada Rajyotsava celebration at Dharwad on Sunday. HDUDA chairman Nagesh Kalburgi, DC Nitesh Patil, police commissioner Labhuram and SP P Krishnkanth were present||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/simple-affair-marks-rajyotsava-fete-in-dharwad/articleshow/78987396.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hubballi||Some private hospitals fleecing people under pretext of Covid treatment, rues Pralhad Joshi||HUBBALLI: Union minister for parliamentary affairs and Dharwad MP Pralhad Joshi on Saturday slammed those private hospitals charging exorbitant sums for treating patients with Covid-19. However, the Union minister admitted that this was not widely prevalent, he criticised those few private hospitals that were prioritising their commercial interests when the world was gripped by a humanitarian crisis. “When the situation is so dire, private hospitals should act more responsibly, and conduct themselves humanely. But that is not the case. Some of them are trying to fleece patients, which I think is very bad,” said Joshi. The Union minister said that, not only patients from poor families, but also those from the lower middle-classes would not be able to bear the expenses if private hospitals charged them hefty sums. “I have brought this issue to the notice of the Dharwad deputy commissioner, who has assured me of initiating action once the model code of conduct, in place for the legislative council elections, is no longer in force,” Joshi added. Echoing the Dharwad MP’s sentiments, Karnataka large- and medium-scale industries minister Jagadish Shettar said, “Many hospitals are not even offering good treatment to the patients despite the hefty amount they charge. Many hospitals are offering packages, which start from Rs 5 lakh!” Both Shettar and Joshi hailed the staff and administration of the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) for their response to the Covid-19 crisis. Joshi said that he could personally vouch for the quality of treatment at KIMS, having received treatment from the hospital’s doctors when he was quarantined at home. “The doctors treated me very well. The Union government will extend support to transform KIMS into one of the best healthcare institutions. We have already provided Rs 5.5 crore towards developing the hospital,” Joshi added. Meanwhile, Aequs, a company engaged in the manufacture of precision instruments, donated 200 portable ventilators to KIMS, which were entrusted to the hospital by Shettar and Joshi. Officials of the company said that the device ‘AQovent’ ensured constant flow of pressure-cycled ventilation support to patients in respiratory distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/some-private-hospitals-fleecing-people-under-pretext-of-covid-treatment-rues-joshi/articleshow/78986619.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hubballi||Diktat on Kannada display boards remains on paper||HUBBALLI: The move of Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) on ensuring Kannada on the display boards of commercial establishments in the twin cities has remained on paper. In 2018, HDMC decided to slap notices to commercial establishments and initiate stern action against those who failed to use Kannada as the first language on their display boards. But a reality check of establishments on major roads like Koppikar Road, Station Road, Gokul Road, Subhash Road in Dharwad and other roads speaks otherwise, indicating the decision has remaind on paper. Commercial establishments, mainly hotels, textile shops/ showrooms, medical shops, as also those in malls, have not used Kannada in their display boards. Former mayor Sudhir Saraf said during his tenure as the mayor in 2018, the process to have Kannada language prominently on display board was initiated. Wide publicity was given on this, and also warning was issued to those using only English on their display boards. “HDMC officials have to ensure strict implantation. But due to their negligence, the process has hampered. The officials should at least act now and slap fine on erring establishments,” said Mohan Asundi, former corporator. Kannada activist Amrut Ijare said they are only hearing about the implementation for the last 2-3 years, “but nothing has changed”. “HDMC commissioner should act tough and implement it. Union minister Pralhad Joshi and district minister Jagadish Shettar must take the matter seriously, else pro-Kannada organisations will stage a protest against the negligence,” he said. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said during December and January, over 1,000 notices were issued to commercial establishments to enforce the rule strictly. “Following this, many have changed their display boards. But later, the follow-up could not be done as the civic officials got busy with Covid-19 works. They will be asked to look into the matter seriously and initiate action on violators,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/diktat-on-kannada-display-boards-remains-on-paper/articleshow/78987464.cms||J Abbas Mulla
November 2, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: I am an aspirant for the CM’s post too, says Tanveer Sait||MYSURU: Against the backdrop of a rising chorus among various sections of the party, each backing a different leader for the chief minister’s post, former minister and Narasimharaja MLA Tanveer Sait on Sunday threw his hat in the ring, stating that he was among the aspirants for the post too. Sait’s remarks come close on the heels of senior Congress leader and MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan’s statements made during the byelection campaign for the Raja Rajeshwari (RR) Nagar constituency. Zameer had said that leader of the opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah would assume the office of the CM again. “Zameer is unaware of the principles governing the functioning of the Congress. To become the CM, one must have the support of the requisite number of MLAs. The party high command will decide the candidate,” said Sait, calling on all leaders and workers in the party to work unitedly to ensure the Congress returned to power in the next assembly election. A discussion on who would occupy the CM’s post would be held later, he said. “The people are unhappy and disgusted with the misrule of the BJP. There is no doubt that the Congress will return to power in the next election,” Sait added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/i-am-an-aspirant-for-the-cms-post-too-says-tanveer-sait/articleshow/78987286.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Mysuru||Nearly 400 lakes to be revived in Chamarajanagar||MYSURU: The Chamarajanagar administration has taken up a major drive for the conservation of all 395 lakes in the border district. Of the 395 water bodies, about 199 are encroached upon. Taluk and district-level task force committees headed by the deputy commissioner have taken up a special drive to clear encroachments twice a month. Deputy commissioner MR Ravi told TOI that instructions had been given to local panchayat development officers in all gram panchayats and revenue and micro irrigation departments to clear encroachments on priority as the state government has given clear-cut orders to clear them. Officials have already cleared encroachments in about 100 lakes and initiated the process to recover the land in the remaining 99 water bodies by this year. While encroachments have been cleared in 47 lakes, it is followed by 27 in Gundlupet, 13 in Chamarajanagar, nine in Hunsur and four in Yelandur taluks. “Officials must conduct the drive on every second and fourth Saturday of the month. They must also hand over the reports to the department concerned after surveying and marking the boundaries”, said Ravi. “The state and Central governments have given special focus for conservation and restoration of all lakes to tackle water crisis and make several villages drought free in coming year years,” he added. “District minister Sureshkumar too has given clear orders for the revival of lakes under Jalamrutha and Jaladhare schemes. A freshwater source is a boon to the people living around it as well as the flora and fauna. It is key for recharging groundwater table, recreational activity and tourism in an area, and Chamarajanagar district, which is deprived of much irrigation facilities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nearly-400-lakes-to-be-revived-in-chamarajanagar/articleshow/78985888.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hubballi||State cabinet mulling over airport in central Karnataka: Basavaraj Bommai||HAVERI:Highlighting the need for improved air connectivity for the people of Haveri, Ballari, Davanagere and Shivamogga districts, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that the state cabinet had deliberated on the proposal to build an airport in the region loosely referred to as ‘central Karnataka’. Bommai, participating in the 65th Karnataka Rajyotsava celebrations at Hosamani Siddapa District Stadium in Haveri, said that improved connectivity, particularly by air, would help attract investment and therefore generate employment in the region. “Improved air connectivity will encourage industries in the IT sector to set up companies here and the youth will get have more employment opportunities as a result,” said Bommai, also the Haveri district in-charge minister. The outbreak of Covid-19 had upset the government’s calendar of events, owing to which a decision was yet to be taken on the date for the 86th Akhila Kannada Sahitya Sammelana, scheduled to be hosted by Haveri. “We will finalise the date for the literature fest in two months,” he said. Meanwhile in Kalaburagi, members of Kalyana Karnataka Pratyeka Rajya Horata Samiti were arrested for tyring to hoist a separate state flag at Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Circle here on Sunday. They were released later. Besides boycotting the official Rajyotsava programme, the members demanded a separate statehood. The agitators alleged that Kalyana Karnataka region is being neglecting by the government. “Successive governments have worked for the development of the region,” they claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/state-cabinet-mulling-over-airport-in-central-ktaka-basavaraj-bommai/articleshow/78987455.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Rs 124 crore approved under NABARD for construction of 1,662 classrooms||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has approved Rs 124 crore for construction of 1,662 rooms in 1,626 government schools. School education minister Vijay Inder Singla said all classrooms will be converted into smart classrooms after the completion of civil works, which would include projector, computer, green board and required furniture. He added their government has been working to improve infrastructure and standard of education of government schools. Elaborating details, Singla said in view of the lack of space in schools, a proposal of construction of rooms under RIDF-XXVI project of NABARD was sent to the finance department which was positively addressed. He added the schools will be given Rs 7.51 lakh for construction of each room and specifications of the rooms had already been sent to the district education officers. He added the education department will ensure the quality of material being used for the construction of these rooms and every single penny would be used in a transparent manner. The minister said besides improving basic infrastructure, the state government had also focused on conversion of ordinary schools into smart schools. He added new e-learning techniques had also helped improve quality of education due to which results had also been improved. Singla said despite Covid-19 pandemic, government school teachers were putting their best to reach out to maximum students through e-learning techniques.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-124cr-approved-under-nabard-for-construction-of-1662-classrooms/articleshow/78989076.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Fewer Covid fatalities in Oct, early detection saving lives||BHOPAL: The Covid-19 death rate has further declined in Bhopal in October. Extended testing options in private and government laboratories are leading to early detection and improvement in medical treatment and are the two key factors for the decline in deaths, according to experts. Average hospitalisation days between infection diagnosis and death has improved from 5.2 days to 7.5 days. The average age of the deceased was 65. For every 10 deaths, seven were males, going by health department reporting. Deaths is private hospitals were nearly equal to the deaths in government-run hospitals. A high number of deceased were residents of Bairagarh, Ashoka Garden and Kamla Nagar. Koh-e-Fiza recorded a low percentage of deaths compared to previous months. Awadhpuri, Bag Sewania, Nishatpura, Piplani and Shahpura show an upward trend in Covid-19 deaths. At the beginning of October, there were 2,136 active cases, which has declined by about 1,000. In October, Bhopal reported 6,953 new cases of the infection. In the last 31 days, 2.7 deaths were reported on an average each day. In September 3.4 deaths were reported in 30 days. However, fewer number of new cases — 6,713 — were diagnosed in September in Bhopal. Eighty-six deaths were reported in Bhopal in October. “The reduction in death toll can be attributed to better infrastructure and improvement in diagnoses (Covid-19 testing),” said CMHO Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. It has been over seven weeks that guidelines for testing were changed. A doctor’s prescription is no longer required for people to get a Covid-19 test, as per the new Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. Only four of the deceased were first diagnosed through rapid antigen test. The rest were diagnosed with RT-PCR which is more sensitive and has a higher efficacy. Patients in around 30% of the cases were already hospitalised before Covid-19 test results were known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fewer-covid-fatalities-in-oct-early-detection-saving-lives/articleshow/78989091.cms||Jamal Ayub
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||RBD plasma in high demand, donate if antibody score high||Nagpur: The country’s first RBD Plasma Bank and RBD-Coronavirus Antibody Testing Centre set up at Lifeline Blood Bank in the city is facing acute shortage of donors with demand surging to 50 bags per day. Its medical director Dr Harish Warbhe told TOI that the therapeutic effectiveness of RBD plasma has made it popular and he has been receiving requisitions from Central India as well as far off places like Kolkata. Dr Warbhe said after 14 days of asymptomatic phase, a recovered Covid patient can donate convalescent plasma as long as the RBD antibody level is high in the blood. Initially, a four months cap was placed on plasma donation for recovered eligible donors, as per traditional blind plasma therapy. Now, they have apparatus to check RBD antibody level before each plasma donation. “If RBD antibody level is good up to six months, there is no harm in donation. If antibodies deplete within two months, then donation should be stopped,” he said. Dr Warbhe said the harvested plasma must benefit the patient. He agreed that some recovered patients carry antibody for a longer phase than expected. While in India a gap of 14 days is given before next donation, it is done in the US and Canada more frequently. “In these countries, 700ml plasma is harvested every 7 days. Hence, it is 100% safe as far as health of donor is concerned,” said Dr Warbhe. The age of donor too has been extended up to 65 years from 60 earlier. According to Dr Warbhe, more people are coming for donation due to increased awareness.Though Covid cases have declined and less patients are in critical stage, the plasma being harvested can be preserved for up to one year,” he said. Dr Warbhe said, “Plasma therapy should be first line of treatment. Plasma is 100% anti-viral specific therapy. It must be given in early phase which is golden time in the therapy.” Regarding shortage, Dr Warbhe said clinicians who are aware of the RBD plasma are going for it. He said, “There was no kit to test the antibody and hence old traditional blind plasma therapy was used. After setting up the RBD Plasma testing kit, I harvested plasma from among known recovered patients and administered it to known patients. We got wonderful result in each patient.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rbd-plasma-in-high-demand-donate-if-antibody-score-high/articleshow/78987666.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 2, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University teachers, staff bat for centenary celebrations in style||LUCKNOW: Despite there being no academic activity on the campus, it was an action-packed day for teaching and non-teaching staff of the Lucknow University on Sunday as they kept chalk, dusters and pens aside to try their hands at the ‘gentleman’s game’. In a friendly 20-20 cricket match played at Paranjpe sports ground to mark the LU centenary celebrations, Registrar XI comprising non-teaching staff beat Vice-Chancellor XI by three wickets. Winning the toss, Registrar XI comprising non-teaching staff decided to bowl first, letting Vice-Chancellor XI set up a target. V-C XI started off well with Prof Rajiv Manohar hitting four boundaries but the team started struggling the moment he lost his wicket. Prof Nagendra Maurya of Applied Economics and Shabib Alvi, a faculty in Persian department, added a few more runs but were dismissed. Vice-Chancellor Prof Alok Kumar tried to support his team by scoring the second highest 14 runs, including a six. VC’s wicket was taken by proctor office guard, Neeraj Pandey, who claimed highest four wickets. Thereafter, five wickets of VC XI fell in quick succession. Registrar XI successfully chased the target of 113 runs in just 17.3 overs at a loss of seven wickets. Captain of Registrar XI and deputy registrar Vidya Nand Tripathi said, “It doesn’t matter who wins as both the teams were of Lucknow University and the Vice-Chancellor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-teachers-staff-bat-for-centenary-celebrations-in-style/articleshow/78989566.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Officials will move to JMC Heritage HQ from today||Jaipur: The officials will move to headquarters of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Heritage from Monday. With this, it will start functioning as an independent body.With conclusion of civic polls on Sunday, it was necessary to shift the officials to new building as it would have been difficult to accommodate the newly elected councillors, two mayors and two commissioners at Lal Kothi headquarters.A senior JMC official said, “Orders have been issued and will shift the officials to old police headquarters near Hawa Mahal. Almost 70% of the work is complete and commissioner of JMC, Heritage, Lok Bandu will also start functioning from within a few days.”The JMC Heritage headquarters is divided into three blocks – A, B and C. In A block, there are 35 rooms in which mayor, commissioner and officials will have their offices. In other two blocks, work is going on and will take around two months to complete. Mayor will sit in room number 101 and commissioner will sit on room number 202.JMC Greater will keep on functioning from Lal Kothi building.One important issue that will arise after the selection of mayor on November 10 and appointment of chairmen in the committee is that their rooms are not prepared. Before delimitation, there were 23 committees in the JMC and now if the numbers will remain, the same seating arrangements will be an issue.Similarly, there is not general body meeting hall in the new headquarters of JMC Heritage. Board would have to come to Lal Kothi headquarters for any meeting and budget session.Until the restoration work is completed, there will be parking problem in the new headquarters as work is going on and except a small space there is no parking space for the public. That space will be acquired by the officials, mayor and councillors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/officials-will-move-to-jmc-heritage-hq-from-today/articleshow/78989098.cms||---
November 2, 2020||---||It’s double engine growth vs jungle raj of double yuvraj in Bihar: Narendra Modi||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi on Sunday attacked the Mahagathbandhan CM candidate, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and dubbed the two as the ‘double yuvraj’ (crown princes) trying to bring back ‘jungle raj’ in Bihar. Addressing rallies in Chhapra, Samastipur, Motihari and Bagaha on the last day of electioneering for the second phase of state assembly elections, Modi referred to the 15-year rule of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi as the ‘jungle raj’ and said the ‘double yuvraj’ will fail in Bihar like in Uttar Pradesh. He was referring to Congress’s Rahul and Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Prasad Yadav, who had joined hands against BJP in the 2017 UP assembly elections. Modi, in his rallies on October 28, had called Lalu’s son Tejashwi the ‘Jungle Raj ka Yuvraj’. Akhilesh is the son of former UP chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav while Congress president Sonia Gandhi is the mother of Rahul. The PM called the grand alliance in Bihar comprising RJD, Congress and Left parties as “tukde tukde gang”. Modi contrasted the ‘double yuvraj’ jibe with the “double-engine government” of the NDA at the Centre under him and in Bihar under Nitish. “On the one side is double-engine government of the NDA at the Centre and in Bihar that has provided facilities and infrastructure to the state. On the other side is ‘double yuvraj’ who will pursue family interests and make wealth by looting the resources meant for the poor. That is what they have done by way of their family track record,” Modi said. Modi also invoked ‘Chhathi Maiya’, worshipped by women during the ‘Chhath’ festivities in November, and called upon “women, mothers, their daughters and sisters” to vote for the NDA candidates in large numbers in the remaining two phases of the polls to help form government under CM Nitish Kumar, again. In the same vein, he invoked the ‘matritva shakti’ (mother power) to give strength to the NDA. “O Mother! You have installed your son (read Modi) in Delhi, so that you can celebrate ‘Chhath’ without deprivation,” he said, and also mentioned the free foodgrain that has been provided to all the ration card holders and even those without ration cards, to mitigate their problems during coronavirus pandemic. “No mother, child, daughter, sister should remain hungry at night and go to sleep without food,” he said, adding that they should have peaceful sleep unlike their experience in the ‘jungle raj’. Modi also said people should not forget those who questioned the existence of Lord Ram and created hurdles for building the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. He accused the opposition of spreading misinformation on the Citizenship Amendment Act and abolition of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir. “A grand Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya. You should not forget those who questioned the existence of Lord Ram and created hurdles in way of building a Ram temple in Ayodhya,” Modi said. Referring to the despondency among youths under the ‘jungle raj’ of RJD, he pointed out that the investments to build industries did not come to Bihar in the past and, therefore, no jobs could be created for youths outside the government. “The investors nursed fears of kidnapping and ransom and they always thought that they would have to set aside the ransom money for the kidnappers in advance,” he said and asked people whether they would like the return of that period again? As to Tejashwi’s promise of 10 lakh jobs to youths, Modi said, “Jungle raj waale do not have sensitivity to understand the aspirations of new Bihar. They have been waiting keenly and struggling to form their government to earn crores for their families through corruption.” In Chhapra, Modi talked about great natives from the area like the country’s first President Dr Rajendra Prasad and Jayaprakash Narayan (JP) and even the newly elected president of Seychelles, Wavel Ramkalawan, whose ancestors belonged to the Gopalganj area of Bihar. As to Champaran, the PM called it the land where the ancient epic Ramayana was written by Valmiki. That apart, Modi mentioned the “pro-poor steps” taken by his government, besides bringing in infrastructures like power, roads, railways, mega bridges that had given “ease of living to middle class sections”. He said that facilitation of inland waterways through the Ganga had been made to transport cargo from Bihar towns. He also referred to the ongoing road and railway projects under the ‘PM package’ that he had announced in 2015. Dubbing Bihar as the “holy land that has given lessons in democracy to the world,” Modi said his government has been practising democracy as “it is taking decisions in the interest of people. In fact, all the BJP or NDA governments in the country are doing it.” He further said that “the ‘jungle raj wale divide Bihar districts in groups and give it to their family members as principalities to get elected to the Lok Sabha or assembly, or to use them for their own good. (With Inputs from H K Verma in Chhapra, S K Jain in Samastipur, Chandra Bhushan Pandey in Motihari and Thirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/its-double-engine-growth-vs-jungle-raj-of-double-yuvraj-in-bihar-modi/articleshow/78989099.cms||Abhay Singh
November 2, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: NBRI files patent for herbal drug||LUCKNOW: National Botanical Research Institute has filed a patent for its herbal product NBRI-Uro-05, a cost-effective oral medication to treat kidney stones. The scientific institute, during its annual day celebration on October 27, had transferred its technology to a private company for its commercial production Consultant urologist and andrologist of Northern Eastern Railway Hospital, Salil Tandon, who in collaboration with NBRI developed the herbal product, said, “The patent has been filed for this medication, which is effective up to one centimetre stone size. Initial results have shown up to 75% reduction in stone size with no adverse effects.” He said NBRI-Uro-05 helps in post-lithotripsy stone expulsion and about 65% of patients have shown very good symptomatic relief like reduction in pain and burning sensation with urination. Tandon said this product is 20% to 30% more effective in comparison to the other alternatives available in the market. Tandon said NBRI-Uro-05 developed by the CSIR-NBRI is a synergistic herbal combination for mitigating the conditions of urolithiasis (the formation of stony concretions in the urinary tract), nephrolithiasis (a condition in which individuals form calculi (stones) within the renal pelvis and tubular lumens) and post-lithotripsy conditions (a medical procedure that uses shock waves or a laser to break down stones in kidney or ureter) The inventor team includes NBRI director S K Barik, senior NBRI scientists Sharad K Srivastava and Ankita Misra and scientist team of Vikas Srivastava, Dr. Dhirendra Singh and Hafizurrahman Khan from Indian Institute of Toxicology Research and Dr S N Sankhwar from the King George's Medical University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nbri-files-patent-for-herbal-drug/articleshow/78989569.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Choked Vents, buildings in lake led to Nadeem Colony floods||HYDERABAD: Nadeem Colony has bore the brunt of all the major floods in recent years — 2000, 2008 and 2020 — the city has seen. Tonnes of now unusable household articles piled along the streets and bunds of Shah Hatim Talab reveal the extent of damage residents here have suffered during the recent floods. The October rains had also submerged adjacent colonies such as Neeraja Colony and Balreddy Nagar around the historic Shah Hatim Talab, also know as Shatam Cheruvu. Choked outlet channels, blatant dumping of debris, narrowing of inlet and outlet channels due to constructions, and encroachments are key reasons cited for the flooding. In fact, a study of satellite maps reveals huge buildings are coming up in the lake and FTL. Experts suggest the quick-fix solution would be to open the vents, clear hyacinth and desilt the lake. But the permanent solution would be to remove encroachments in the lake and on channels, and activate the defunct culvert that was built a few years ago. Mohammed Moiz, a resident of Nadeem Colony, said: “Water level in the inlet nalas and lake increased as entire water from upstream Jubilee Hills flowed down here. The outlet channel is blocked, and our houses got flooded. The water rose to 10ft in the streets causing immense damage to property.” “The Shah Hatim Talab was originally spread over 74 acres, but now its area has reduced to just one-third,” said Ilyas Khan, a resident of Naya Qila, who has been fighting for the lake. “Jamali Kunta is 14 acres, and Naya Qila talab is spread over 28 acres. All these lakes were interconnected, but encroachments have broken the link. I used to play here as a kid three decades ago, and today they have turned into sewage ponds. Land grabbers filled up the lake and sold the plots. Even private shikam land should not have constructions, but surprisingly, colonies came up there.” When TOI did ground verification, all the three outlet channels of Shah Hatim Talab were either are fully and partially blocked with debris, aquatic weed, and with damage to the outlet structure. Locals demand the culvert to drain out excess water be made operational. Irrigation department assistant engineer, Ch Praveen, said: “When they have built houses in FTL, how can the residents of Nadeem Colony, Shatamnagar and Virasatnagar expect they will not get flooded? After 2013, I fenced Shatam Cheruvu after fixing FTL and final notification was also issued. Recently, before the pandemic, encroachers dumped debris in the lake near Virasatnagar and came up with a layout. We booked a criminal case, and along with revenue and police reclaimed the land.” Praveen said, “Rest of the fencing will be done. We have also proposed diversion of sewage water. We are working on making the culvert operational and the ASI is also positive about it. We have started distributing compensation to those who are on the channel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/choked-vents-buildings-in-lake-led-to-nadeem-colony-floods/articleshow/78989269.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 2, 2020||Bhopal||‘Unmasked’ crowds & early chill worry experts; virus still on prowl, they warn||Bhopal: The dip in temperatures has led to respiratory problems among several people in the city. In the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic and festive season, the situation has more people apprehensive than ever before. The novel coronavirus has infected many citizens. Experts indicate that influenza-like illness (ILI), which are accompanied by flu-like symptoms, similar to Covid-19, should be diagnosed early. “Early medical diagnosis of possible influenza or other illness can be easily treated at manifestation. The important thing is to remain calm and seek medical help,” said Dr Atulya Saurabh. Health experts are also cautious about H1N1 cases, which generally see a spurt in cold weather. The good news after wearing masks and other protection, during the pandemic, has resulted in record low cases of H1N1 in 2020, said CMHO Bhopal, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. During the festive season in winters, regardless of cause, most cases of ILI are mild and self-limiting, he added. Health experts expect a spurt in influenza, most cases of ILI, in the winter. “The weather triggers medical problems. Special OPD to help people with ailments is open. The numbers in the ‘winter OPD’ are still low,” said a JP hospital official. ILI is very common, indicate experts. An adult can average about three episodes per year and in children of younger age, such cases can be double, as compared to adults. The city’s largest tertiary care facility at Gandhi Medical College (GMC) has also witnessed an increase in patients reporting for weather-related ailments. Patients with sinus, asthma, allergy, headache and arthritis are frequently asked to return for follow-up care, said Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr ID Chaurasia. Patients with cold, cough and respiratory ailments are set to rise. Experts are warning people with cardiac conditions to be on watch for irregular heart rhythm accompanied by acute myocardial infection (decrease in flow of oxygen to heart). This phenomenon is observed in 5% to 8% patients, said Dr Rajiv Singh. Experts also said that use of heaters in closed rooms should be avoided. “Hypoxia, or fall of oxygen, leads to increase in carbon dioxide levels in rooms. Elderly patients are unable to identify the cause leading to health issues,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/unmasked-crowds-early-chill-worry-experts-virus-still-on-prowl-they-warn/articleshow/78989095.cms||Jamal Ayub
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Low turnout of voters on JMC, Greater election day||Jaipur: The second phase of the municipal polls for Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Greater, witnessed scattered and low turnout in most of the booths on Sunday.Although, the percentage of voting was similar to JMC, Heritage, most of the booths looked empty as the crowd was scattered.Following delimitation, the size of wards have become smaller and more polling stations were created for the 250 wards. In many polling booths, only 200 voters were allotted.Congress and BJP workers were seen distributing masks and pamphlets to voters outside polling stations.BJP candidate Rakhi Rathore made arrangements for disposable gloves in her ward. Another councillor appointed members in every lane who went door-to-door motivating people to go and vote.Setting up an example, Rajesh Taapadiya, a resident of Ward No. 26, came to vote with his entire family a day after losing both his parents. “My mother died on October 27 and my father died on October 31. We cremated my father on October 31 evening, but I still came to vote as development of the city and country is also important. We will complete the rituals after returning home,” said Taapadiya.Many first-time voters also exercised their franchise. Kuldeep Khichar (18) voted for the first time in ward no 65. “I was excited and nervous to vote in the elections. Our colony has a major issue regarding drains and sewerage. I hope the next mayor will solve it,” said Kuldeep.Many leaders such as Satish Poonia and Ashok Lahoty voted on Sunday. Sanganer MLA Lahoty claimed that their party will win this election. “Division of Jaipur city will be challenging for the Congress. Since the Congress is in power, condition of sanitation in the city has degraded and people will teach them a lesson in the election,” Lahoty said.Results of the elections will be announced on November 3 and mayoral elections will be held on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/low-turnout-of-voters-on-jmc-greater-election-day/articleshow/78989093.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Patna||It’s double engine growth vs jungle raj of double yuvraj in Bihar: Narendra Modi||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi on Sunday attacked the Mahagathbandhan CM candidate, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and dubbed the two as the ‘double yuvraj’ (crown princes) trying to bring back ‘jungle raj’ in Bihar. Addressing rallies in Chhapra, Samastipur, Motihari and Bagaha on the last day of electioneering for the second phase of state assembly elections, Modi referred to the 15-year rule of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi as the ‘jungle raj’ and said the ‘double yuvraj’ will fail in Bihar like in Uttar Pradesh. He was referring to Congress’s Rahul and Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Prasad Yadav, who had joined hands against BJP in the 2017 UP assembly elections. Modi, in his rallies on October 28, had called Lalu’s son Tejashwi the ‘Jungle Raj ka Yuvraj’. Akhilesh is the son of former UP chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav while Congress president Sonia Gandhi is the mother of Rahul. The PM called the grand alliance in Bihar comprising RJD, Congress and Left parties as “tukde tukde gang”. Modi contrasted the ‘double yuvraj’ jibe with the “double-engine government” of the NDA at the Centre under him and in Bihar under Nitish. “On the one side is double-engine government of the NDA at the Centre and in Bihar that has provided facilities and infrastructure to the state. On the other side is ‘double yuvraj’ who will pursue family interests and make wealth by looting the resources meant for the poor. That is what they have done by way of their family track record,” Modi said. Modi also invoked ‘Chhathi Maiya’, worshipped by women during the ‘Chhath’ festivities in November, and called upon “women, mothers, their daughters and sisters” to vote for the NDA candidates in large numbers in the remaining two phases of the polls to help form government under CM Nitish Kumar, again. In the same vein, he invoked the ‘matritva shakti’ (mother power) to give strength to the NDA. “O Mother! You have installed your son (read Modi) in Delhi, so that you can celebrate ‘Chhath’ without deprivation,” he said, and also mentioned the free foodgrain that has been provided to all the ration card holders and even those without ration cards, to mitigate their problems during coronavirus pandemic. “No mother, child, daughter, sister should remain hungry at night and go to sleep without food,” he said, adding that they should have peaceful sleep unlike their experience in the ‘jungle raj’. Modi also said people should not forget those who questioned the existence of Lord Ram and created hurdles for building the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. He accused the opposition of spreading misinformation on the Citizenship Amendment Act and abolition of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir. “A grand Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya. You should not forget those who questioned the existence of Lord Ram and created hurdles in way of building a Ram temple in Ayodhya,” Modi said. Referring to the despondency among youths under the ‘jungle raj’ of RJD, he pointed out that the investments to build industries did not come to Bihar in the past and, therefore, no jobs could be created for youths outside the government. “The investors nursed fears of kidnapping and ransom and they always thought that they would have to set aside the ransom money for the kidnappers in advance,” he said and asked people whether they would like the return of that period again? As to Tejashwi’s promise of 10 lakh jobs to youths, Modi said, “Jungle raj waale do not have sensitivity to understand the aspirations of new Bihar. They have been waiting keenly and struggling to form their government to earn crores for their families through corruption.” In Chhapra, Modi talked about great natives from the area like the country’s first President Dr Rajendra Prasad and Jayaprakash Narayan (JP) and even the newly elected president of Seychelles, Wavel Ramkalawan, whose ancestors belonged to the Gopalganj area of Bihar. As to Champaran, the PM called it the land where the ancient epic Ramayana was written by Valmiki. That apart, Modi mentioned the “pro-poor steps” taken by his government, besides bringing in infrastructures like power, roads, railways, mega bridges that had given “ease of living to middle class sections”. He said that facilitation of inland waterways through the Ganga had been made to transport cargo from Bihar towns. He also referred to the ongoing road and railway projects under the ‘PM package’ that he had announced in 2015. Dubbing Bihar as the “holy land that has given lessons in democracy to the world,” Modi said his government has been practising democracy as “it is taking decisions in the interest of people. In fact, all the BJP or NDA governments in the country are doing it.” He further said that “the ‘jungle raj wale divide Bihar districts in groups and give it to their family members as principalities to get elected to the Lok Sabha or assembly, or to use them for their own good. (With Inputs from H K Verma in Chhapra, S K Jain in Samastipur, Chandra Bhushan Pandey in Motihari and Thirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/its-double-engine-growth-vs-jungle-raj-of-double-yuvraj-in-bihar-modi/articleshow/78990653.cms||Abhay Singh
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||Attendance not mandatory even after physical reopening of schools||Nagpur: There are concerns among parents about sending their kids to school whenever physical reopening is permitted by the state government. The concern of ‘missing out on education’ if the child does not join back is amplified due to the rumour mills of the social media. However, the SOPs released by the central and state government make it very clear that physical attendance is not mandatory. Minister of state for school education Bacchu Kadu said parents must not fall for rumours. “Till the Covid-19 pandemic does not show a sharp decline and we are convinced about all the safety issues, there is absolutely no question of schools reopening physically,” said Kadu. He reiterated that attendance cannot be enforced. “Even after physical reopening, no school can force a child to attend classes,” said Kadu. Similar clarity is seen in the circular issued by CBSE on October 8. The circular refers to guidelines issued by the central government about school reopening and attendance of students. It goes on to say that students can attend school only after “written parental consent”. The other concern parents have is that their child will suffer if s/he does not attend physical classes. This concern is not without valid reasons because multiple issues related to online classes have clearly established that there can’t be a better option than the traditional format of teaching. Here, too, the central government guidelines clarify that both online/offline teaching shall continue simultaneously. Those who wish to attend online only may be permitted to do so. And choosing the online option won’t have any effect on the child’s academic outcome. Ashok Agarwal, president of All India Parents’ Association (AIPA) said parents need not worry about the academic aspect at all. “Schools will have to promote every child to the next class and it will happen across the country. Even if your child opts for online schooling in the 2020-21 academic session no action can be taken by the school. Your child will get the same academic attention from the teacher regardless of the mode of education,” said Agarwal, who is a well known Delhi-based activist. Kadu too assured that a similar pattern will be followed in Maharashtra. “Classes will continue online as well. Students won’t suffer academically,” said Kadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/attendance-not-mandatory-even-after-physical-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78987692.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Good voting in Kota, BJP MLA’s name missing from list||Kota: People in most of the 80 wards of Kota South, bastion of the BJP, seemed to have voted for development work by the Congress government against individual political influences in the second phase of polling for civic polls on Sunday.Heavy voting was witnessed in the first two hours. About 66.43% polling were recorded till 7.30pm.Lok Sabha Speaker and local MP Om Birla, along with his family members, was among the first to reach the polling booth in Ward number 2 to cast vote at 7.30am.Birla said municipal polls are the elections of smallest democratic urban unit and collective efforts are required to strengthen it.Meanwhile, BJP MLA from Ramganjmandi Madan Dilwar could not vote as his name was missing from the voters’ list. However, his family members cast their votes.“I am not going to lodge compliant in the matter. I have learnt a lesson. Next time, I will personally confirm my name in the list,” he said.The Congress holds advantage here as people allege that mayor Mahesh Vijay did not carry out any development work. He even didn’t campaign for the party, they allege.Besides, overwhelming vote cast in Muslim majority areas in Kishorepura, Sajidhera, Wafq Nagar, Kotri, Chawani, Vigyan Nagar, Banjara Colony, Anantpura, Sripura and part of Mokhapara further seemed to bring Congress in neck to neck fight against the BJP in its fort.The independent candidates, some of them supported by former BJP MLA Phralad Gunjal, appeared to be weakening BJP’s winning prospect and turning the contest triangular such as in Ward number 76.Six corona positive people exercised their franchise as per the guideline at various polling booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/good-voting-in-kota-bjp-mlas-name-missing-from-list/articleshow/78989105.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||BJP shifts heritage aspirants to hotel||Jaipur: The state BJP has shifted 98 of its candidates of Jaipur Heritage Municipal Corporation to an undisclosed hotel on Ajmer Road here on Sunday. The move, which took place two days before counting, makes it clear that the BJP doesn’t want to take any chances with its candidates as they are expecting a close contest with the Congress. BJP state president Satish Poonia has called it a routine move aimed to keep them together for training purposes. “For quite long, this has been happening after every election. Nothing is new this time,” said Poonia. Sources confirmed that the BJP will shift its Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation candidates to a hotel on Monday. “They will be in a hotel till counting for sure. In case of any side getting majority by a thin margin, the stay can be extended till the mayoral polls are held on November 10. The entire move is being coordinated by the polls incharge former education minister Vasudev Devnani and BJP leader Madan Dilawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-shifts-heritage-aspirants-to-hotel/articleshow/78989100.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||SHRC justice visits waterlogged areas in Ayyappa colony, LB Nagar||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) justice G Chandraiah visited waterlogged areas in Ayyappa colony, Nagole division, LB Nagar constituency on Sunday. He interacted with locals, GHMC executive engineer and police officials. He suggested for a bund around Nagole lake, a separate system for drainage water outflow and other appropriate remedies. He also advised locals in Ayyapa Colony to approach the commission to report grievances so that the commission can recommend measures to the government. Parts of GHMC LB Nagar zone were adversely affected during the recent floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shrc-justice-visits-waterlogged-areas-in-ayyappa-colony-lb-nagar/articleshow/78989102.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||UK govt must define anti-Sikh hate, says a group of MPs and peers||A cross-party group of MPs and peers in the British Parliament is calling for a new official term and definition for anti-Sikh hate crime for the first time in Britain amid fears that anti-Sikh crimes are being overlooked as the government focus is on anti-semitism and Islamophobia. The chair of the All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for British Sikhs, Preet Gill MP has written to home secretary Priti Patel and communities secretary Robert Jenrick, putting forward proposals for the term “anti-Sikh hate” – the same as the one used in the USA - to be used to describe hate crimes against Sikhs. The proposed definition for anti-Sikh hate is “any incident or crime which is perceived by the victim or any other person to be religiously or racially motivated by hostility, hatred or prejudice against Sikhs or those perceived to be Sikh people, gurdwaras, organisations or property.” A 60-day public consultation has started to allow governing bodies, Sikhs and gurdwaras to agree on the official term and definition to be recognised and adopted by governing bodies so anti-Sikh hate crimes can be identified, reported, recorded, monitored and prevented. The APPG has released a report into anti-Sikh hate crimes which will be sent to ministers, shadow ministers and MPs. In addition to the new term and definition, the report recommends government funding for the Sikh Network and Sikh Council UK to act as a “third-party reporting partner for anti-Sikh hate” via the establishment of a UK-wide network of open reporting centres within 15 Sikh gurdwaras, to allow Sikhs to record hate crimes in a private environment in their native tongue or in English, as well as the development of an app and website for reporting Sikh hate crime. The report states: “Hate crimes against Sikhs became a worldwide phenomenon after 9/11. These crimes are often based on ignorance and misinformation about the Sikh identity.” It cites examples of taxi driver Vaneet Singh who was racially abused while driving four men home from a casino in Reading when he was asked if he was a member of the Taliban, Tory MP Philip Dunne who accused his Labour Sikh opponent Kuldip Sahota of "talking through his turban" during a hustings ahead of the 2019 December general election, and an attack on Guru Arjan Dev Ji Gurdwara in Derby this year. According to Home Office statistics Sikhs were targeted in 202 offences (3% of cases) in 2019/2020 - an increase of 7% as compared to 188 hate crimes against Sikhs in 2018/2019. But the APPG report claims these figures are wildly inaccurate as 95% of the crimes against Sikhs reported to the police are incorrectly recorded as Islamophobic, or simply reported under “race.” “The scale of hate crimes targeting the Sikh community is a phenomenon that is largely invisible to government and the wider public,” Gill said. “The rise of hate crimes against Sikhs and gurdwaras are of grave concern to me. I have heard many upsetting experiences from victims and the related frustration and disappointment by the lack of action and ignorance shown by government and other public bodies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uk-govt-must-define-anti-sikh-hate-says-a-group-of-mps-and-peers/articleshow/78989104.cms||NAOMI CANTON
November 2, 2020||Bhopal||Experts to visit 5 sites in MP for cheetah relocation||BHOPAL: A team of scientists from WII-Dehradun will visit Madhya Pradesh to inspect possible locations for the ambitious project of reintroduction of Cheetahs in India. “We are ready with five sites. It would on the experts to finalize the location. The schedule of their visit has not been cleared yet,” said Alok Kumar, chief wildlife warden of MP. The shortlisted locations include Kuno National Park in Sheopur, Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Damoh, Madhav National Park in Shivpuri and Gandhi Sagar Wildlife Sanctuary in Mandsaur. Kuno was, in fact, chosen for translocation of Gir lions. In 2019, Supreme Court had given its nod to National Tiger Conservation Authority’s proposal to experimentally introduce African cheetahs in Indian jungles. The last of the cheetahs in the country was hunted down in the 1950s. Pressing for SC’s nod for the two-year-old proposal from NTCA, senior advocate S Wasim Ahmed Qadri had told a bench of Justices S A Bobde and B R Gavai that 19 cheetahs were proposed to be brought from Namibia and introduced in sanctuaries carefully selected by experts. In its plea-cum-roadmap, NTCA had said it had carried out extensive survey and research to locate ideal habitats for cheetah in India and zeroed in on three — Kuno and Nauradehi wildlife sanctuaries in MP and Shahgarh in Rajasthan. NTCA said, “The habitat and the prey base of Kuno, Nauradehi and Shahgarh are still being monitored by Wildlife Institute of India. The Cheetah Conservation Fund, Namibia, has expressed its willingness to donate cheetahs and only cost towards transportation of these animals to India is needed to be funded.” “Reintroduction of cheetah in India would be a matter of great conservation significance and pride for the country, as it would be the only large animal that peninsular India has lost in its historical times and bringing focus on country’s most productive yet neglected grassland ecosystem and upon the endangered species dependent upon them,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/experts-to-visit-5-sites-in-mp-for-cheetah-relocation/articleshow/78989109.cms||P Naveen
November 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Indian Embassy in Qatar lauds Kannadiga Covid warrior||MANGALURU: The Embassy of India in Doha, Qatar has heaped appreciation on a Kannadiga expatriate for his major contributions as a Covid warrior in the Arab country. Subramanya Hebbagilu, joint secretary of Indian Community Benevolent Forum (ICBF), Doha, Qatar, was given a letter of appreciation by the Embassy of India in Doha for his philanthropy. “Thank you for all your efforts and your unselfish contribution over the past couple of years towards the welfare of the Indian community in Qatar, particularly the vulnerable sections. Your continuous efforts as an indefatigable Corona warrior during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, be it in terms of supplying food to distressed workers and stranded tourists, or in helping set up a call centre to manage such assistance, despite the obvious risks to your own health, were indeed commendable,” the embassy stated in its letter of appreciation. Subramanya, who is the project coordinator in Gulfar group, hails from Theggarse in Udupi district. After completing his engineering degree from Davanagere, Subramanya served in the Chitradurga-Haveri National Highway project before leaving for Qatar. Initially, he started serving people through Karnataka Sangha, and became the vice-president of the organisation. Later, he became the joint secretary of ICBF When most of the Indian community in Qatar lost jobs during the lockdown clamped due to the pandemic, ICBF members led by Subramanya worked tirelessly to give a ray of hope to them. He took a lead role in supplying food and arranging flights for the repatriation of Indians, with the help of the Indian Embassy in Qatar and Airports Authority of India, under the Vande Bharat Mission. He was also instrumental in arranging a chartered flight to repatriate Kannadigas from Qatar, with the help of ICBF vice-president Mahesh Gowda and Karnataka Qatar Sangha president Nagesh Rao. Subramanya’s efforts were appreciated by chief minister B S Yediyurappa and many organisations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/indian-embassy-in-qatar-lauds-kannadiga-covid-warrior/articleshow/78986659.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Governmet distributes Rs 387 crore among 3.8 lakh flood-affected families||HYDERABAD: The state government has distributed Rs 387 crore among 3.87 lakh flood-affected families. In a review meeting held with officials including chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Sunday, it was decided that government will resume the distribution of Rs 10,000 financial aid to flood-affected families. The government has sanctioned Rs 550 crores from CMRF to MAUD department for rescue, relief and rehabilitation programmes in flood-affected areas. The chief secretary directed officials to prepare a schedule for distribution of financial aid in all affected localities. Further, it was also decided to ensure distribution of financial aid at the doorstep of all remaining flood-affected families. It was also decided to take up a sanitation drive in the city between November 4-10 in view of floods. Residents can complain on the call centre number 21111111. Additionally, ahead of GHMC elections, the government will launch 30 basti dawakhanas immediately in addition to the existing 199 functioning dawakhanas. Another 37 basti dawakhanas will be functional by next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-distributes-rs-387cr-among-3-8l-flood-affected-families/articleshow/78989186.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab approves wheat seed subsidy policy||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has approved wheat seed subsidy policy-2020-21 to provide certified wheat seed at 50% subsidy to farmers in the rabi season. Under the policy, a total of 1.85 lakh quintals of certified seed, with Rs 18.50 crore worth of subsidy, will directly benefit approximately 2.5 lakh farmers. Chief minister Amarinder Singh directed the agriculture department to give priority for providing subsidised seeds to small and marginal farmers. The subsidy should be given only to eligible farmers and subsidy amount should be transferred directly to the accounts of beneficiary farmers, he said. Additional chief secretary for development Anirudh Tewari has been asked to issue detailed instructions to the officers/staff of the agriculture department to closely monitor the seeds being sold in their respective area. Captain Amarinder asked him to ensure that only quality seeds reach farmers. If any complaint is received in this regard or any malpractice detected, then the concerned officers/employees of the seed agencies, as well as the district and block level agriculture officers would be considered to be directly responsible, warned the chief minister. Farmers interested in availing the subsidy can submit their applications at the offices of agriculture department in their areas from November 1. Tewari said the agriculture department had ensured all requisite arrangements to provide wheat seed at subsidised rates to the farmers. Subsidy equalling 50% of total cost of seeds, or to a maximum of Rs 1,000 per quintal, will be directly transferred to the bank accounts of applicant farmers and subsidy on wheat seed will be provided for a maximum of five acres area. During the rabi season 2020-21, wheat is expected to be cultivated over an area of about 35 lakh hectares in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-approves-wheat-seed-subsidy-policy/articleshow/78989107.cms||---
November 2, 2020||---||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav questions PM’s silence on unemployment, sugar mills||PATNA: RJD leader and the CM candidate of opposition Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, hit out at PM Narendra Modi over his remarks made at his election rallies in Bihar on Sunday. PM Modi said the “NDA’s double-engine government is committed to development, but ‘double-yuvraj’ (Tejashwi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi) are concerned only about protecting their respective interests. Tejashwi questioned the NDA government led by CM Nitish Kumar over unemployment, migration and rising crime in Bihar. Addressing election rallies in favour of the Mahagathbandhan candidates, Tejashwi asked, “Why the PM is not talking about rising unemployment and crime rate in Bihar under Nitish’s regime. Honourable PM, you did not say why the unemployment rate in Bihar is 46.6% due to double-engine government? Why there is migration from every other house in Bihar? Why does Bihar top the NCRB statistics on crime? As per Niti Aayog report, why does Bihar fall behind in health and education sectors?” Slamming Nitish, he said corruption prevailed in government offices. “While the CM says there will be no compromise on corruption, crime and communalism, the ground reality is juxtaposed,” Tejashwi said. “The resentment among people against 15-year regime of Nitish is palpable. The winds of change is blowing across the state and people will dethrone the ‘double-engine’ government in this election,” he added. Tejashwi also reminded the PM of his promise made about the reopening of Motihari sugar mill. “The respected Prime Minister had said in 2014 election meeting that he would reopen the closed sugar mill in Motihari and have the next cup of tea upon arrival in Motihari from the sugar made there only. The Prime Minister today came to Motihari six years later but did not speak anything about the closed sugar mill and tea?” Tejashwi tweeted. Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala reminded Modi of his comments made in 2015 about Nitish. “In 2015 election, you said Nitish Kumar had 18th century mindset. But, today, you called his government ‘double-engine’. The truth is that this is the government of ‘double-deception’. One is ‘jumlebaz’ and the other is ‘dhokhebaaj’. Bihar voters will give you a fair treatment,” Surjewala tweeted. Later, RJD Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha took a swipe on PM Narendra Modi’s ‘lakarsungha’ remarks. “Everybody knows about the ‘lakarsungha’ who enforced lockdown, leaving the poor in dire straits. People of Bihar are aware of it,” he said. Slamming PM Modi for his statement that the poor would get foodgrain through PDS shops till Chhath festival, Jha asked, “Will the poverty come to an end after the ‘Chhath’? People will not feel hungry?” Jha said if RJD was voted to power, its state government would exert pressure on PM Modi to give special status to Bihar. “If required, we will launch indefinite fast unto death agitation to fulfil the demand,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/tejas-questions-pms-silence-on-unemployment-sugar-mills/articleshow/78989112.cms||Ramashankar
November 2, 2020||Lucknow||Healthy kids a must for ‘golden UP’ dream: CM||LUCKNOW: Calling upon the officials to make child health protection a mass movement, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the dream of a ‘golden Uttar Pradesh’ cannot be realised until childhood is healthy and safe. “Infant mortality rate in the state has come down but it is still a major challenge for us to bring it below the national average,” he said. Kicking off a campaign to identify TB patients in 29 districts of the state and initiate vaccination and issuance of golden cards under Ayushman Bharat scheme, the CM said the state government was committed to protecting women and children in every way. He also dedicated culture and drug susceptibility test (c-DST) lab to the people and unveiled public awareness material under the National TB control programme. Yogi also initiated distribution of new drug Dolamenid which is helpful for those who have developed resistance against various TB drugs. The CM said the state government was committed to ensuring good health to the people. He also hailed the officials of the health and medical education department, doctors and paramedics for putting up a brave front against the coronavirus pandemic. “PM Narendra Modi has set a target of making India free of TB by 2025. The state government is committed to achieving the goal,” he said. During the TB patients’ identification campaign from November 1 to 11, those suffering from the disease will be found and connected to screening and treatment benefits. Health workers will reach out to a population of 81 lakh in 29 districts and provide free treatment to patients. Yogi said Governor Anandiben Patel’s appeal to adopt children who are undergoing treatment is yielding good results. “Adoption of children aged up to 18 years also gives them emotional support and ensures proper nutrition to them. The Centre is also providing financial help of Rs 500 to TB patients for treatment,” he added. The CM said despite pandemic, the state government ensured vaccination and admitted that there was a possibility that some children might have been left out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/healthy-kids-a-must-for-golden-up-dream-cm/articleshow/78989581.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur residents feel civic polls won’t solve their woes||JODHPUR: People of Jodhpur, the home town of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, are not bothered about which party forms the civic boards in north and south zones. Inspite of massive exercise of restructuring the wards by bifurcating 65 municipal wards of Jodhpur into 180 wards and dividing the city into two municipal zones each having a separate mayor, people believe that the move will not improve the city in any manner except making things more messy. Many are of the view that the civic polls were largely aimed at securing political control of as much area as possible and not with a view to address the civic issues earnestly. “There are a lot of issues that people of the city face. Many of such issues have been lingering since years. But despite repeatedly knocking on the doors of the administration, nothing happened,” said Pawant Saraswat, a resident of Ward No. 3 in Soorsagar constituency. He said people living in Siroli Bera don’t have roads and sewerage lines for over a decade and both Congress and BJP have done nothing about it. Many complain about the pet replies by mayors and councillors about inadequate funds for development work . Some councilors have even expressed their ire over lack of funds for various work in their respective wards. “There has always been inadequate funds with the municipal body. With tripling of wards now, more funds will be required. How will it be arranged,” asked Rajendra Vyas from the Walled City area, adding that councilors and mayors do not focus on funds generation and keep looking at the state government. Neeta Thanvi from Ward No. 35 comprising posh localities of Prem Nagar and Gulab Nagar said she doesn’t have any hopes. “We have perpetually broken roads and shabby parks. But if no attention is paid in such a posh area, one can guess the condition in other areas,” she said. Even with the election being held and polling taking place, many roads, streets and mohallas could be seen with overflown sewerage lines, dug and broken roads, piles of garbage and stray animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-residents-feel-civic-polls-wont-solve-their-woes/articleshow/78989106.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 59.96% polling in second phase of municipal polls||JAIPUR: In all, 59.96 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the second phase of elections to three municipal corporations - Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South – for the posts of 310 councillors on Sunday. Kota South recorded highest polling at 66.43 per cent. State election commissioner P S Mehra informed that 58.31 per cent voters cast their votes in Jaipur Greater and in Jodhpur South, 58.76 per cent voters exercised their franchise. Of 19.45 lakh voters in 3,211 polling booths, 11.66 lakh exercised their franchise on Sunday. Even in the second phase of elections, Covid patients refused to come out to vote. At Vedic Kanya PG school at Adarsh Nagar, not a single out of 45 Covid patients turned up to vote, said a health official. Till 10 am, the three municipal corporations recorded 15.76 per cent polling. Polling percentage reached 36.16 at 1 pm and 47.60 per cent by 3 pm. Till 5:30 pm, 58.96 percent voters cast their votes. Mehra thanked the voters for adhering to Covid protocol while casting their votes. He said, “The second phase of elections in the three municipal corporations has been completed successfully with the support of voters and dedication of district election officers, police officers and all the officials involved in the election work.” In 2014 municipal corporation elections in Jaipur, 60% polling took place and in 2009, the polling was 51.80%. Similarly, 63% polling took place in Jodhpur in 2014 and 58.53% in 2009. In Kota, 67 per cent voting took place in 2014 and 60.53 per cent voters exercised their franchise in 2009.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/59-96-polling-in-second-phase-of-municipal-polls/articleshow/78997356.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 59.96% polling in second phase of municipal polls||JAIPUR: In all, 59.96 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the second phase of elections to three municipal corporations - Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South – for the posts of 310 councillors on Sunday. Kota South recorded highest polling at 66.43 per cent. State election commissioner P S Mehra informed that 58.31 per cent voters cast their votes in Jaipur Greater and in Jodhpur South, 58.76 per cent voters exercised their franchise. Of 19.45 lakh voters in 3,211 polling booths, 11.66 lakh exercised their franchise on Sunday. Even in the second phase of elections, Covid patients refused to come out to vote. At Vedic Kanya PG school at Adarsh Nagar, not a single out of 45 Covid patients turned up to vote, said a health official. Till 10 am, the three municipal corporations recorded 15.76 per cent polling. Polling percentage reached 36.16 at 1 pm and 47.60 per cent by 3 pm. Till 5:30 pm, 58.96 percent voters cast their votes. Mehra thanked the voters for adhering to Covid protocol while casting their votes. He said, “The second phase of elections in the three municipal corporations has been completed successfully with the support of voters and dedication of district election officers, police officers and all the officials involved in the election work.” In 2014 municipal corporation elections in Jaipur, 60% polling took place and in 2009, the polling was 51.80%. Similarly, 63% polling took place in Jodhpur in 2014 and 58.53% in 2009. In Kota, 67 per cent voting took place in 2014 and 60.53 per cent voters exercised their franchise in 2009.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/59-96-polling-in-second-phase-of-municipal-polls/articleshow/78989110.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Dehradun||One in four students in rural areas of U’khand has no smartphone: Survey||Nainital: According to the recently-released annual status of education report (ASER) by NGO ‘Pratham’, one in four students in the rural areas of Uttarakhand had no access to smartphones during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The report also points out that while almost 80% of the students studying in private schools had access to smartphones, the percentage was just 67% for the students of government schools. The ASER 2020 survey also focused on modes of online learning in rural areas during the lockdown. According to the report, a quarter of students did not receive any learning material/activities from their schools and around 92.6% of the content that was shared was sent via WhatsApp. Of the students who did not receive these materials and activities, over 60% had no acc ess to smartphone/internet/mobile network. Meanwhile, over 40% of the surveyed students said that no one from their school contacted them or their parents in the reference week and almost the same percentage of students said that they had not been contacted even once since the imposition of the first lockdown. The availability of books has also been highlighted as a major issue in the survey. Around 20% of the surveyed private school students and 25% of the surveyed government school students said that they did not have subject textbooks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-in-four-students-in-rural-areas-of-ukhand-has-no-smartphone-survey/articleshow/78986678.cms||Prashant Jha
November 2, 2020||Kochi||Garden Variety: From freezing New York to scorching Missouri, their homegrown vegetables are fit for a king’s table||New Jersey: This year’s Onam was celebrated by Keralites around the world while continuing their fight against Covid-19. In Kerala, the chief minister and other leaders exhorted people to arrange modest celebrations only, using homegrown vegetables and flowers as much as they can. For many Malayalis who live in foreign countries, cooking an Onasadya with their own homegrown vegetables remain a dream. that is obviously not the case with Bala Kearke, a nurse practitioner living in Searingtown, New York. Bala is a passionate vegetable gardener who cooked a sumptuous Onasadya with organic homegrown vegetables. “This year, we not only made the Onasadya with our own vegetables but we also organized an Onam market (Onachantha) giving out several of our fruits and vegetables”, says Bala who is originally from Karakulam, Trivandrum. Bala Kearke came to the US in 2001 and it was in 2010 that she started growing vegetables and fruits in her backyard. Her garden has an array of vegetables and fruits native to North America, the Caribbean, East Asia and Kerala including kale, lettuce, cabbage, garlic, thyme, mint, rosemary, sage, parsley, cilantro, ginger, turmeric, beans, squash, corn, snake guard, bitter gourd, bok choy, capsicum, a variety of chillies, cucumber, eggplant, lady’s finger, spinach, clove beans and she plans to grow banana plants as well. “Gardening is my passion. I usually start my day early checking on the garden for about an hour before I go to work. After coming back, I spend two to three hours there and when I get days off from work, I spend more time in the garden. The hard work is enjoyable as my family helps with anything I need. My husband Vinod and my children Nithin and Tessa are involved in shopping for the gardening supplies, digging holes, planting seeds and watering them. My son takes a special interest in caring for the plants”, says Bala. Unlike Florida which has year-long tropical weather like Kerala that favours the Malayali home gardeners, the bitterly cold winters occasionally dipping to sub-zero temperature is challenging for those residing in New York. “It requires dedicated effort. In autumn, I collect scraps of vegetables, fruits and eggshells which I would use later to make organic fertilizer. In winter, I will start the seeding process indoors using our window wells for sunlight and plant them outside in spring. We do this process to get a yield for four to five months. Then the cycle starts all over again. Since we freeze the vegetables, we can use it during winter as well”, Bala explains. She looks forward to having a greenhouse so her plants could grow all year long. Bala received the New York Karshakasree award this year and she gives organic gardening tips to others through Malayali associations and social media. Miles away in Missouri City, Texas, Johnny Mepratheril and his wife Susan have been growing organic vegetables and fruits since 1977, a year after they emigrated to the US from Kidangannoor, Pathanamthitta. Johnny Mepratheril is a retired electrical engineering technician. His garden features vegetables needed for typical Malayali dishes like tapioca, elephant yam, different types of beans, bitter gourd, snake gourd, ivy gourd, taro, cucumber, ash gourd and fruits like banana, guava and hog plum. He also grows Switzerland-style pumpkins and Persian-style persimmons. “To my wife and myself, gardening is a hobby as well physical exercise. We love working out every day in our garden. The fresh organic food we eat is a reward for our hard work and we get tremendous happiness and satisfaction when we share our fruits of labor with friends and the church community”, says Johnny. Summer in Texas can be scorching and it requires plenty of effort to sustain the garden. Johnny uses the sprinkler system to water the plants and guard them against the sweltering heat. In winter, he starts planting cauliflower, cabbage, broccoli, onion, etc,. He stores the excess vegetables in a freezer in his garage and does not buy any vegetables from outside. Johnny Mepratheril is passionate about fishing too. He catches fish from the lake behind his home and also from other water bodies in the area. (Vineetha Krishnan, who hails from Thiruvananthapuram, is an independent journalist and public speaking coach based in New Jersey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/garden-variety-from-freezing-new-york-to-scorching-missouri-their-homegrown-vegetables-are-fit-for-a-kings-table/articleshow/78989114.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Family alleges murder after youth dies||Jaipur: In the death of a youth who fell down from a balcony and died, cops claimed that they have not found any evidence to suggest that it was a murder as alleged by the victim’s family.The victim, along with his friend, was attempting to wake up another friend in Malviya Nagar.Rahul Singh, 27, died around 3am on Saturday when he, along with his friends, had climbed up a three-storey building to wake up another friend following which his father had registered a case of murder against four of his friends.“Rahul was holding his friend’s hand when the latter was climbing down a pipe. His friend’s hand slipped and he fell on a parked car. Due to the sudden tug, Rahul lost his balance and fell on his head. He died on the spot,” said an official of Malviya Nagar police station. The deceased, who hailed from Sikar, stayed in Jaipur with his friends in a rented accommodation.Cops claimed that the incident happened after Rahul along with his friends had partied. “It seems that the youths had consumed alcohol as well and while the deceased’s father has registered a murder case, we have not found any evidence to support this allegation as yet. We are investigating the case,” added the official.After Rahul fell down, cops reached the spot and had to break the door of the woman who the deceased was trying to wake up to get more details about the case. The deceased’s friend suffered injuries on his leg and was discharged after undergoing treatment.Officials claimed that all the persons involved were adults and they have not found anything to indicate foul play. The victim’s body was handed over to the family after autopsy according to which head injury was the cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/family-alleges-murder-after-youth-dies/articleshow/78989113.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav questions PM’s silence on unemployment, sugar mills||PATNA: RJD leader and the CM candidate of opposition Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, hit out at PM Narendra Modi over his remarks made at his election rallies in Bihar on Sunday. PM Modi said the “NDA’s double-engine government is committed to development, but ‘double-yuvraj’ (Tejashwi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi) are concerned only about protecting their respective interests. Tejashwi questioned the NDA government led by CM Nitish Kumar over unemployment, migration and rising crime in Bihar. Addressing election rallies in favour of the Mahagathbandhan candidates, Tejashwi asked, “Why the PM is not talking about rising unemployment and crime rate in Bihar under Nitish’s regime. Honourable PM, you did not say why the unemployment rate in Bihar is 46.6% due to double-engine government? Why there is migration from every other house in Bihar? Why does Bihar top the NCRB statistics on crime? As per Niti Aayog report, why does Bihar fall behind in health and education sectors?” Slamming Nitish, he said corruption prevailed in government offices. “While the CM says there will be no compromise on corruption, crime and communalism, the ground reality is juxtaposed,” Tejashwi said. “The resentment among people against 15-year regime of Nitish is palpable. The winds of change is blowing across the state and people will dethrone the ‘double-engine’ government in this election,” he added. Tejashwi also reminded the PM of his promise made about the reopening of Motihari sugar mill. “The respected Prime Minister had said in 2014 election meeting that he would reopen the closed sugar mill in Motihari and have the next cup of tea upon arrival in Motihari from the sugar made there only. The Prime Minister today came to Motihari six years later but did not speak anything about the closed sugar mill and tea?” Tejashwi tweeted. Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala reminded Modi of his comments made in 2015 about Nitish. “In 2015 election, you said Nitish Kumar had 18th century mindset. But, today, you called his government ‘double-engine’. The truth is that this is the government of ‘double-deception’. One is ‘jumlebaz’ and the other is ‘dhokhebaaj’. Bihar voters will give you a fair treatment,” Surjewala tweeted. Later, RJD Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha took a swipe on PM Narendra Modi’s ‘lakarsungha’ remarks. “Everybody knows about the ‘lakarsungha’ who enforced lockdown, leaving the poor in dire straits. People of Bihar are aware of it,” he said. Slamming PM Modi for his statement that the poor would get foodgrain through PDS shops till Chhath festival, Jha asked, “Will the poverty come to an end after the ‘Chhath’? People will not feel hungry?” Jha said if RJD was voted to power, its state government would exert pressure on PM Modi to give special status to Bihar. “If required, we will launch indefinite fast unto death agitation to fulfil the demand,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-questions-pms-silence-on-unemployment-sugar-mills/articleshow/78990676.cms||Ramashankar
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports more Covid cases in later half of Oct than 1st 15 days||JAIPUR: While daily new infections took a dip in the last few days of the second half of October, the last 15 days of the month reported more cases and deaths than the first half. In the first 15 days, the state had reported 29,714 cases and 199 deaths, but in the second half, 31,987 cases and 222 deaths were reported. Out of the five worst-hit districts — Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Alwar and Kota —, four of them except Kota reported more Covid-19 cases in the second half. In the first 15 days, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Alwar and Kota had reported 5,945, 4,277, 3,420, 1,926 and 1,032 cases, respectively. In the next 15 days, the districts reported 6,235, 4,889, 3,803, 2,347 and 971 cases, respectively. Health department officials said the new daily infections have gone down significantly and even active have come down to 15,255 from 21,000 a fortnight ago. While the active cases are going down, the state is still reporting deaths. In the last 24 hours, 10 persons died while 1,754 others tested positive. The current tally stands at 1,98,747 while the cumulative count is 1,917. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (250), Bikaner (222), Alwar (117), Sikar (87), Bharatpur (83), Ajmer (74), Jhunjhunu (73), Kota (70), Nagaur (68), Sriganganagar (67), Udaipur (54), Jalore (48), Barmer (30), Bhilwara (27), Pali (25), Churu (19), Chittorgarh (17), Dausa (15), Jaisalmer (14), Sirohi (10), Dungarpur (9), Rajsamand (7), Jhalawar (6), Sawai Madhopur (5), Banswara (5), Dholpur (4), Baran (2) and Bundi (1). Jaipur’s toll currently stands at 375, Jodhpur (185), Ajmer (142), Bikaner (140), Bharatpur (95), Sikar (58), Alwar (57) and Dausa (13).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-more-covid-cases-in-later-half-of-oct-than-1st-15-days/articleshow/78989118.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Mercury dives across Rajasthan; Churu coldest at 8.7°C||JAIPUR: Majority of the places witnessed cold conditions on Sunday with the mercury dipping by almost 4°C was recorded across the state. Churu remained the coldest logging a minimum temperature of 8.7C, the Met report said. Attributing the climatic conditions to active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office said temperatures would continue to dip across the state in the coming days. People in Jaipur woke up to the coldest morning of the season with a minimum temperature of 14.7°C was recorded. Ground frost was witnessed during early morning hours at many places across the city. “There has been a continuous dip in the city’s temperature for the past fortnight. From 25°C, the minimum temperature has now come down to 14.7°C. As it is below 15°C, it officially termed as winter now in Jaipur,” said a senior officer of the Jaipur Met office. Churu was followed by Bhilwara which logged 10.4°C, Udaipur (11.4°C), Kota (13.6°C), Sriganganagar (13.9°C), Ajmer (14.5°C), Jodhpur (16°C), Jaisalmer (16.8°C), Bikaner (17.6°C) and Barmer (18.3°C). “This was the first time when majority of the places in the state witnessed its maximum temperatures below 20°C,” the officer added. Weathermen said temperatures would further dip across the state in the coming week. Many places in the state including Jaipur are likely to witness sub-10°C temperature. “Winters have almost covered the entire state except a few parts. By the end of next week, the whole state will witness winters. Places including Churu, Sriganganagar, Bikaner and Hanumangarh are likely to log below 7°C,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-dives-across-state-churu-coldest-at-8-7c/articleshow/78989116.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Singh Badal urges home ministry to expedite cases against Tytler, Nath||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal urged the Union home ministry on Sunday to expedite cases registered against senior Congress leaders, including Jagdish Tytler and Kamal Nath, in the 1984 Sikh riots. The SAD president said victims of the mass killings had been awaiting justice for 36 years. He expressed solidarity with the victims of the November 1-4 massacres and said the party would continue to stand with them and fight to ensure Congress leaders behind the mass killings were brought to book. He said SAD had been at the forefront of ensuring imprisonment of Sajjan Kumar and others who had committed carnage against the Sikh community in Delhi. Speaking about other cases, Badal said even though witnesses had stepped forward to testify against Tytler anad Kamal Nath, they were successful in delaying their prosecution which was very unfortunate. “Recently, senior journalist Sanjay Suri, who had witnessed Nath leading a mob indulging in mass killings of Sikhs, tweeted that he had written to the SIT to offer evidence as a witness but was never called for the same,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-urges-home-ministry-to-expedite-cases-against-tytler-nath/articleshow/78989115.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||TATR starts canter, minibus safaris||Nagpur: Ahead of Diwali vacation, when the park witnesses a big rush, Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) has restarted safaris in canters and minibus, with riders to curb manipulation of bookings. “Till the canters are put online, two canters each in the morning shift and evening shift will operate offline, and can be booked by contacting the TATR office. Booking of canters will go online in next 15 days,” said Jitendra Ramgaonkar, field director. For canter, Rs500 per tourist will be charged. As the minibus will start from the Tadoba office at Chandrapur, Rs600 per person will be charged. No fee will be charged for kids below 5 years but they will not get a seat. Tourists will not be able to transfer bookings to another name, and if cancelled money will not be refunded. The guidelines say that for canter booking presence of a minimum 15 tourists is mandatory. These bookings can be done 15 days in advance from the date of the safari. However, if a party wants to book an entire canter of 22 seats this can be done 45 days before. For cameras up to 250mm lenses Rs200 will be charged per camera. The park has also announced canter timings. From November 1 to February 28 (winter season), the morning shift canter will leave at 6.30am and return at 10.30am, while in the evening it will enter at 2pm and exit at 6pm. From March 1 to April 30, the morning shift will be between 6am and 10am and evening from 2.30pm till 6.30pm. From May 1 to June 30, safari will start at 5.30am till 9.30am and in the evening from 3pm till 7pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tatr-starts-canter-minibus-safaris/articleshow/78987758.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bhopal||Arif Masood arrested for rally against Macron||Bhopal: Congress MLA Arif Masood was arrested on Saturday for holding a protest in Bhopal on Thursday against French President Emmanuel Macron’s remarks on Islam. He was released on bail. Initially, a case under IPC 188 was registered at Talaiya police station for Covid violation at the rally. Later, other sections were added on Masood and 50 of his supporters — IPC sections 269 and 270 (negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and Section 51B of Disaster Management Act (refusal to comply with government direction). Since they were bailable, the MLA and 50 others were was released after arrest. On Friday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had warned of strong action against any such protest, saying: “Madhya Pradesh is an island of peace. We will be tough with everyone who tries to disrupt peace. No one will be spared, no matter who that person is.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/arif-masood-arrested-for-rally-against-macron/articleshow/78989117.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Udaipur||Mercury dives across Rajasthan; Churu coldest at 8.7°C||JAIPUR: Majority of the places witnessed cold conditions on Sunday with the mercury dipping by almost 4°C was recorded across the state. Churu remained the coldest logging a minimum temperature of 8.7C, the Met report said. Attributing the climatic conditions to active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office said temperatures would continue to dip across the state in the coming days. People in Jaipur woke up to the coldest morning of the season with a minimum temperature of 14.7°C was recorded. Ground frost was witnessed during early morning hours at many places across the city. “There has been a continuous dip in the city’s temperature for the past fortnight. From 25°C, the minimum temperature has now come down to 14.7°C. As it is below 15°C, it officially termed as winter now in Jaipur,” said a senior officer of the Jaipur Met office. Churu was followed by Bhilwara which logged 10.4°C, Udaipur (11.4°C), Kota (13.6°C), Sriganganagar (13.9°C), Ajmer (14.5°C), Jodhpur (16°C), Jaisalmer (16.8°C), Bikaner (17.6°C) and Barmer (18.3°C). “This was the first time when majority of the places in the state witnessed its maximum temperatures below 20°C,” the officer added. Weathermen said temperatures would further dip across the state in the coming week. Many places in the state including Jaipur are likely to witness sub-10°C temperature. “Winters have almost covered the entire state except a few parts. By the end of next week, the whole state will witness winters. Places including Churu, Sriganganagar, Bikaner and Hanumangarh are likely to log below 7°C,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/mercury-dives-across-state-churu-coldest-at-8-7c/articleshow/78997509.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Easy win for BJP candidates in Karwar CMC polls||KARWAR: In the end, it was an easy win for the BJP’s nominees – Nitin Pikle and Prakash Naik – who were elected respectively to the posts of president and vice-president of the Karwar City Municipal Council (CMC) on Sunday. The run-up to Sunday’s election had been marked by some drama, with the BJP taking its councillors, along with those of its allies, to a resort in Goa on Saturday to forestall any possibility of cross-voting. With four councillors from the JD(S) and two Independents voting in favour of the BJP’s candidates, the saffron party reclaimed power in the local urban body after seven years. Meanwhile, in the Ankola Town Municipal Council (TMC), Shantala Nadkarni and Rekha Gaonkar were elected president and vice-president respectively. In the 30-member Karwar CMC, both the BJP and Congress has 11 members. However, the support of the JD(S) councillors and two Independents, who did so at the instance of former minister Anand Asnotikar, swung the election in the BJP’s favour. Meanwhile, all 11 councillors of the Congress boycotted the election in a gesture of protest against the leadership of the party, for not making an effort to reach out to the JD(S) for support. The Congress’s candidate for the president’s post Mohan Naik arrived at the venue only 11.45, by which time the deadline for the filing of the nomination for the election had elapsed by 15 minutes. Karwar assistant commissioner Priyanka M, also the returning officer for the polls, informed him of having missed the deadline and Naik left, much displeased with the turn of events. Meanwhile, Uttara Kannada district in-charge minister Shivaram Hebbar was among those who congratulated the newly elected president and vice-president of the local body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/easy-win-for-bjp-candidates-in-karwar-cmc-polls/articleshow/78987306.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
November 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan reports more Covid cases in later half of Oct than 1st 15 days||JAIPUR: While daily new infections took a dip in the last few days of the second half of October, the last 15 days of the month reported more cases and deaths than the first half. In the first 15 days, the state had reported 29,714 cases and 199 deaths, but in the second half, 31,987 cases and 222 deaths were reported. Out of the five worst-hit districts — Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Alwar and Kota —, four of them except Kota reported more Covid-19 cases in the second half. In the first 15 days, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Alwar and Kota had reported 5,945, 4,277, 3,420, 1,926 and 1,032 cases, respectively. In the next 15 days, the districts reported 6,235, 4,889, 3,803, 2,347 and 971 cases, respectively. Health department officials said the new daily infections have gone down significantly and even active have come down to 15,255 from 21,000 a fortnight ago. While the active cases are going down, the state is still reporting deaths. In the last 24 hours, 10 persons died while 1,754 others tested positive. The current tally stands at 1,98,747 while the cumulative count is 1,917. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (250), Bikaner (222), Alwar (117), Sikar (87), Bharatpur (83), Ajmer (74), Jhunjhunu (73), Kota (70), Nagaur (68), Sriganganagar (67), Udaipur (54), Jalore (48), Barmer (30), Bhilwara (27), Pali (25), Churu (19), Chittorgarh (17), Dausa (15), Jaisalmer (14), Sirohi (10), Dungarpur (9), Rajsamand (7), Jhalawar (6), Sawai Madhopur (5), Banswara (5), Dholpur (4), Baran (2) and Bundi (1). Jaipur’s toll currently stands at 375, Jodhpur (185), Ajmer (142), Bikaner (140), Bharatpur (95), Sikar (58), Alwar (57) and Dausa (13).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-reports-more-covid-cases-in-later-half-of-oct-than-1st-15-days/articleshow/78997251.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan reports more Covid cases in later half of Oct than 1st 15 days||JAIPUR: While daily new infections took a dip in the last few days of the second half of October, the last 15 days of the month reported more cases and deaths than the first half. In the first 15 days, the state had reported 29,714 cases and 199 deaths, but in the second half, 31,987 cases and 222 deaths were reported. Out of the five worst-hit districts — Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Alwar and Kota —, four of them except Kota reported more Covid-19 cases in the second half. In the first 15 days, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Alwar and Kota had reported 5,945, 4,277, 3,420, 1,926 and 1,032 cases, respectively. In the next 15 days, the districts reported 6,235, 4,889, 3,803, 2,347 and 971 cases, respectively. Health department officials said the new daily infections have gone down significantly and even active have come down to 15,255 from 21,000 a fortnight ago. While the active cases are going down, the state is still reporting deaths. In the last 24 hours, 10 persons died while 1,754 others tested positive. The current tally stands at 1,98,747 while the cumulative count is 1,917. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (250), Bikaner (222), Alwar (117), Sikar (87), Bharatpur (83), Ajmer (74), Jhunjhunu (73), Kota (70), Nagaur (68), Sriganganagar (67), Udaipur (54), Jalore (48), Barmer (30), Bhilwara (27), Pali (25), Churu (19), Chittorgarh (17), Dausa (15), Jaisalmer (14), Sirohi (10), Dungarpur (9), Rajsamand (7), Jhalawar (6), Sawai Madhopur (5), Banswara (5), Dholpur (4), Baran (2) and Bundi (1). Jaipur’s toll currently stands at 375, Jodhpur (185), Ajmer (142), Bikaner (140), Bharatpur (95), Sikar (58), Alwar (57) and Dausa (13).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-reports-more-covid-cases-in-later-half-of-oct-than-1st-15-days/articleshow/78997254.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan reports more Covid cases in later half of Oct than 1st 15 days||JAIPUR: While daily new infections took a dip in the last few days of the second half of October, the last 15 days of the month reported more cases and deaths than the first half. In the first 15 days, the state had reported 29,714 cases and 199 deaths, but in the second half, 31,987 cases and 222 deaths were reported. Out of the five worst-hit districts — Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Alwar and Kota —, four of them except Kota reported more Covid-19 cases in the second half. In the first 15 days, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Alwar and Kota had reported 5,945, 4,277, 3,420, 1,926 and 1,032 cases, respectively. In the next 15 days, the districts reported 6,235, 4,889, 3,803, 2,347 and 971 cases, respectively. Health department officials said the new daily infections have gone down significantly and even active have come down to 15,255 from 21,000 a fortnight ago. While the active cases are going down, the state is still reporting deaths. In the last 24 hours, 10 persons died while 1,754 others tested positive. The current tally stands at 1,98,747 while the cumulative count is 1,917. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (250), Bikaner (222), Alwar (117), Sikar (87), Bharatpur (83), Ajmer (74), Jhunjhunu (73), Kota (70), Nagaur (68), Sriganganagar (67), Udaipur (54), Jalore (48), Barmer (30), Bhilwara (27), Pali (25), Churu (19), Chittorgarh (17), Dausa (15), Jaisalmer (14), Sirohi (10), Dungarpur (9), Rajsamand (7), Jhalawar (6), Sawai Madhopur (5), Banswara (5), Dholpur (4), Baran (2) and Bundi (1). Jaipur’s toll currently stands at 375, Jodhpur (185), Ajmer (142), Bikaner (140), Bharatpur (95), Sikar (58), Alwar (57) and Dausa (13).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-reports-more-covid-cases-in-later-half-of-oct-than-1st-15-days/articleshow/78997252.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Lucknow||Jalaun Cong president thrashed by women alleging harassment||Jhansi: The district president of Congress in Orai-Jalaun was thrashed in public by two women on Sunday for allegedly sexually harassing them continuously and sending obscene messages on phone. A video of the incident went viral. The high voltage drama took place at Station Road in Orai when the two women, both sisters, intercepted Congress district president Anuj Mishra and while one of them started thrashing him with a shoe, the other started making a video. Mishra kept begging them to leave him while saying sorry, but the women did not let him go till police arrived. The women accused Mishra of harassing them with obscene comments on phone and kept doing this despite several warnings. One of the women, Maya Singh Parihar is former district secretary of Congress and had been removed from the post by Mishra on October 30 citing inefficiency. “He was sexually harassing us for many days. We complained about him to Ajay Kumar Lallu ji (state Congress president) but no action was taken,” she said. UP Congress committee has formed a five-member panel comprising former Jhansi MP Pradeep Jain Aditya to visit the district and probe the allegations. Maya told media that she runs an organization where many women come and Mishra keeps ogling them. “He has been harassing us and keeps sending obscene messages. I called him today to meet as I wanted to tell him to stop harassing us but he still kept doing unwanted things and so I thrashed him,” said Maya. On the other hand, Mishra said he had recommended her ouster from the post because of her inefficiency and that he supplied building material worth Rs 3 lakh to Maya but she is not paying for it. She is levelling false charges on me so that she may not have to pay the money, Mishra alleged. “I am ready for any kind of enquiry, even if it is a DNA test. I am also going to file a complaint against Maya for her misdeeds and will write to senior leaders of party,” he said. An FIR was lodged against Mishra under section 354A IPC on the complaint given by Maya. SP Jalaun, Yashveer Singh said, “We have lodged an FIR against the accused and are investigating the matter.” UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu told TOI that the disciplinary committee has sought explanation from both Maya and Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jalaun-cong-president-thrashed-by-women-alleging-harassment/articleshow/78989606.cms||Arindam Ghosh
November 2, 2020||Dehradun||Police start probe into Sakya Academy teacher's suicide, Nepal embassy informed||DEHRADUN: A day after a 25-year-old teacher committed suicide at Sakya Academy, from where seven students had escaped last week alleging beating by one of the teachers, police have begun investigating the suicide note left behind by the teacher that says he felt responsible for the matter getting out of hand and the school falling into disrepute. The teacher being a Nepal citizen, the Nepalese embassy has been informed. When a TOI team tried to enter the Sakya Academy on Sunday, they were stopped saying the entry of media persons and outsiders had been prohibited at the school. “From his suicide note, we believe he hanged himself out of guilt. He has also recorded a voice note on his mobile phone, which is in his native tongue and we are in the process of translating. Currently, it seems we can expect no major revelations from it apart from what we already know,” said Rakesh Shah, in-charge of the Rajpur Police Station. Police are also verifying the students’ claims, who said in a video that they were beaten up when they wanted to go home for the festive season. Between October 27 and 28, seven Nepal-origin students had fled the school by taking a cab to Banbasa. While four managed to reach home in India and Nepal, three were stopped at Banbasa check point and brought back to school. The deceased teacher was one of the teachers who went to Banbasa to bring back the trio. Sources told TOI that soon after returning with the escaped students on Saturday, the teacher, who taught Buddhist Studies, shut himself in his room and subsequently hanged himself. In a suicide note and a voice recording that he left behind, the teacher said he had been feeling responsible for the allegations of physical abuse levelled against his senior colleague by the students. He also confessed to have kept a mobile phone with him against the rules of the school. Police are investigating whether the pictures and videos of the escaped students had gone viral from the teacher's phone. To recall, the pictures and videos of the students, some showing bruises on their bodies and accusing their teacher of assault, had gone viral last week. The matter had also caught the attention of the state child rights panel, which had demanded a probe. Lokjeet Singh, SP (crime), Dehradun who is handling the case, told TOI, “We have registered the statement of the in-house students. The three students, who were brought back have not complained of any major physical abuse. The allegations of violence have been levelled by some other students who didn’t flee and we are ascertaining if such a crime took place or not.” He added that the teacher who has been accused of thrashing the students can’t be interrogated at present as he has tested Covid-19-positive and is presently undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-start-probe-into-sakya-academy-teachers-suicide-nepal-embassy-informed/articleshow/78986696.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt schools to reopen for classes IX-XII from today||Chandigarh: Government schools are ready to welcome back classes IX-XII from Monday. These students had been coming to school for clearing their doubts only so far sessions. Private schools will decide on the reopening by the end of the month. Although unsure of how many students will turn up as consent of parents is mandatory, schools have prepared tentative time tables. They have decided to teach two subjects each day. Each subject will be taught on alternate days. Following the guidelines, around 12 to 15 students will be allowed to sit in a class, depending on the size of the classroom. Going by the schedule prepared, if one section has 45 students, a teacher will have to teach the same topic thrice if 15 students attend the class in one-go. Principals said this was manageable, though teachers did not seem convinced. “There is no option at the moment. Let’s see how it all goes,” said one of the teachers. Wearing of masks will be mandatory for students and teachers. Teachers will be stationed at the gates to ensure social distancing. Sanitisers will be available at the entrance. Schools will have to follow staggered timings. Classes X and XII will come in first session from 9am to 11.30am and classes IX and XI in the second session from 12noon to 2.30 pm. Along with physical classes, teachers will continue with online classes. Principals had been told to prepare schedule or time table in a systematic manner so that all the teachers take their classes offline and online from school. In the time available after online and offline classes, teachers have been asked to prepare some need-based worksheets or assignments to supplement their teaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-ix-xii-from-today/articleshow/78989128.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jhotwara elevated road moving at snail pace||Jaipur: In the last two years, there has been only 40% progress of Jhotwara elevated road as the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has failed to chalk out a plan to rehabilitate 604 house owners falling on the route alignment. The JDA had earlier earmarked land to rehabilitate affected shop owners of Jhotwara on government land in Jhotwara Industrial Area, Niwaru and Ninder. However, none of the land has been finalised and decision has been pending. An official source said, “Due to unavailability of land, a stretch towards Kalwar Road end remains completely untouched. So far, approximately work worth Rs 32 crore has been completed. The total project cost is Rs 167 crore.” The road is proposed to ease traffic in one of the most congested areas of the city and provide relief to more than six lakh residents. The project is crucial as the narrow flyover has become a major bottleneck. As no land is available on either side, the JDA is left with no option but to construct an elevated road. Sources said delay in project was expected to escalate cost and more problems might crop up. Final notices to raze the houses can only be issued once consent is provided by affected house owners. Dialogues between owners were initiated, but they failed as many of them have now have demanded rehabilitation on land near Roshan Farm, Gandhi Path. In the budget of 2016-2017, the BJP government had announced the construction of elevated road to give relief to commuters travelling to Phalna’s Jhotwara. “Not only the project cost will increase, the affected owners could increase their demands which could create problem. For the project, the JDA has also taken loan of Rs 119 crore. This might pinch the authorities to pay instalments for incomplete project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhotwara-elevated-road-moving-at-snail-pace/articleshow/78989122.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Ahead of Diwali, corona warriors to take out rally for generating Covid awareness||JAIPUR: Ahead of Diwali, a 15-km rally by corona warriors will be taken out in the city on Monday. It will be from Ramniwas Bagh Circle to Jawahar Circle and back. The health department is apprehensive that Covid-19 cases might spread rapidly post-Diwali if people do not take proper precautions.For the purpose, the health department is making an attempt to make people aware about using face masks, follow social distancing norms and hand hygiene. Health minister Raghu Sharma will flag of the rally at 9am, said Dr Pradeep Kumar Sharma, nodal officer of the rally. Health department officials said doctors, nursing staff, paramedical staff and even guards of hospitals will take part in the rally. They are those corona warriors who have been providing care to Covid patients and also helping the state government in preventing spread of the virus. In October, 11,880 persons were found infected with the virus and 52 persons died. Health department officials are taking measures to prevent cases from increasing again in the city in December. They are apprehensive that cases might increase next month, which has also been suggested by the advisory committee formed by the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ahead-of-diwali-corona-warriors-to-take-out-rally-for-generating-covid-awareness/articleshow/78989120.cms||---
November 2, 2020||---||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar mocks MGB’s 10-lakh job promise||PATNA: Putting a big question mark before the Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s poll promise to provide government jobs to 10 lakh youths, CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday asked how would he create so many posts in the state government. “Arre, kahan se naukari dega? Kahan se pad srijit karega? (from where he will give government jobs? How will he create so many posts?)” Nitish asked while addressing a virtual meeting in favour of the NDA candidates in Bajpatti, Kadwan and Amour assembly constituencies. Nitish, who is seeking fourth term as the CM, also asked whether the state treasury has enough funds to pay salaries to the new employees in case of their recruitment. “Aur, kya paisa hai? (Is money available in the treasury?)” Nitish asked, adding, “Some people have no idea about the nitty-gritty of governance and how the government system works. That is why they keep talking baseless things,” Nitish said while dismissing Tejashwi’s job promise as immature. Nitish said a huge sum of Rs1.44 lakh crore would be required if the state government provides 10 lakh jobs. “If you see his (Tejashwi) statement, he is promising jobs to 10 lakh youths in the first cabinet meeting, in case he is voted to power. But it is impossible. He will not be in the government. It is not going to happen,” Nitish told his supporters while mocking Tejashwi’s claim of forming the next government. Making a frontal attack on Tejashwi, Nitish further asked, “What was the annual budget of Bihar during the governments headed by his father (Lalu Prasad) and mother (Rabri Devi)? Their highest annual budget was less than Rs24,000 crore. And today, we raised the state’s annual budget to more than Rs2.11 lakh crore.” Earlier in the day, while addressing two election rallies with PM Narendra Modi in Samastipur and Bagaha, Nitish urged the electorates to vote for the NDA candidates in the next two phases of the assembly polls. Showering praises on Modi for helping the state government in many development works, Nitish told people, “If you give us one more chance to work in the state, you can be rest assured that the NDA governments at the Centre and in the state would take Bihar to new heights of development and progress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-mocks-mgbs-10-lakh-job-promise/articleshow/78989140.cms||Madan Kumar
November 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar mocks MGB’s 10-lakh job promise||PATNA: Putting a big question mark before the Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s poll promise to provide government jobs to 10 lakh youths, CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday asked how would he create so many posts in the state government. “Arre, kahan se naukari dega? Kahan se pad srijit karega? (from where he will give government jobs? How will he create so many posts?)” Nitish asked while addressing a virtual meeting in favour of the NDA candidates in Bajpatti, Kadwan and Amour assembly constituencies. Nitish, who is seeking fourth term as the CM, also asked whether the state treasury has enough funds to pay salaries to the new employees in case of their recruitment. “Aur, kya paisa hai? (Is money available in the treasury?)” Nitish asked, adding, “Some people have no idea about the nitty-gritty of governance and how the government system works. That is why they keep talking baseless things,” Nitish said while dismissing Tejashwi’s job promise as immature. Nitish said a huge sum of Rs1.44 lakh crore would be required if the state government provides 10 lakh jobs. “If you see his (Tejashwi) statement, he is promising jobs to 10 lakh youths in the first cabinet meeting, in case he is voted to power. But it is impossible. He will not be in the government. It is not going to happen,” Nitish told his supporters while mocking Tejashwi’s claim of forming the next government. Making a frontal attack on Tejashwi, Nitish further asked, “What was the annual budget of Bihar during the governments headed by his father (Lalu Prasad) and mother (Rabri Devi)? Their highest annual budget was less than Rs24,000 crore. And today, we raised the state’s annual budget to more than Rs2.11 lakh crore.” Earlier in the day, while addressing two election rallies with PM Narendra Modi in Samastipur and Bagaha, Nitish urged the electorates to vote for the NDA candidates in the next two phases of the assembly polls. Showering praises on Modi for helping the state government in many development works, Nitish told people, “If you give us one more chance to work in the state, you can be rest assured that the NDA governments at the Centre and in the state would take Bihar to new heights of development and progress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-mocks-mgbs-10-lakh-job-promise/articleshow/78990672.cms||Madan Kumar
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Campaign ends in Dubbak constituency||HYDERABAD: With only two days to go for the Dubbak by-poll, the high-voltage political campaigning ended in the constituency on Sunday evening. Mock polling is set to commence at 6 am on November 3. Voting is scheduled to take place from 7 am to 6 pm in compliance with all Covid-19 norms. Further, officials have said that no tables associated with political parties or contestants will be allowed within 200 yards of a polling station. No poster or banners should also be put up. As many as 5,000 revenue and police personnel will be on duty during the Dubbak bypoll. The polling staff has been instructed to see to it that voters are not brought to the station in private vehicles like autos, jeeps and cars by political parties. Polling agents will not be allowed to carry match boxes, water bottles and mobile phones among other things into the polling stations. There are 315 polling stations overall. In 104 of those, web-casting arrangements have been made while in 98 polling stations, videographers will be deployed. As many as 113 polling stations will have unmanned cameras. Election returning officer B Chennaiah said that there are a total of 1.98 lakh voters in the constituency and all arrangements had been made for a peaceful conduct of polling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/campaign-ends-in-dubbak-constituency/articleshow/78989151.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD demands launch of postmatric scholarship scheme for current session||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) accused chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh of trying to fool Dalit students by announcing re-launch of the SC scholarship scheme in 2021-22 after having refused to release money from the Rs 2,440 crore budgetary provisions made for the SC scholarship scheme in the last three years. SAD demanded that the scheme be restarted from the current academic session and all pending scholarships be paid immediately. Terming the postmatric scholarship scheme launched by the chief minister as a new ‘jumla’, former chief parliamentary secretary Pawan Kumar Tinu said it had been done as a cover-up exercise to divert attention from the Rs 64 crore SC scholarship scam engineered by SC welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. Asking the chief minister how he could launch a scheme for next year after failing to provide any budgetary allocation for the purpose for three years running, Tinu said a budgetary provision of Rs 620 crore was allocated for the scheme in 2018-19, Rs 860 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 960 crore in 2020-21. “However, not a single rupee was released to SC students, which destroyed the future of four lakh students. Now, the government is trying to fool the SC community by announcing that it will provide postmatric scholarship from the next academic year. This is akin to committing a sin against the poor and the oppressed. The Dalits of Punjab will never forgive the Congress and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for inflicting this cruel joke on them,” Tinu said. He also pointed out that the chief minister has announced the postmatric scholarship scheme from the next financial year and has claimed that private educational institutions will bear 40% of the cost of the scheme. “These institutions have already announced that they will not do so. It means they were not even consulted before making the announcement. It shows how serious the government is towards the Dalit community,” he said. The SAD leader asked the chief minister to tell Dalit students why Rs 309 crore, which was sent for their welfare by the Centre nine months back had not been distributed to them. He said even as the Punjab government misappropriated money sent for the welfare of Dalit students, other state governments, including Rajasthan, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh had provided budgetary support to the scheme from state funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-demands-launch-of-postmatric-scholarship-scheme-for-current-session/articleshow/78989124.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Physical OPDs begin at PGI today, but with appointments||Chandigarh: With PGI set to resume its OPD services from Monday, doctors are giving preference to old cases waiting for a follow up since the coronavirus lockdown. “There has been a cap on the numbers. Each OPD will see 50 or may be less patients. This shall be decided by the heads of the departments,” said a PGI doctor. In a meeting that reviewed the operation of the OPDs, it was decided that as overcrowding can spread Covid-19 amongst the susceptible population, physical OPDs will be run through appointment system only and patients coming without appointment will not be entertained. “There are patients waiting for their follow- ups for long. In case we suspect some cases, they shall be tested fbefore any procedure,” said a faculty member. Patients and their attendants shall be seated in holding areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/physical-opds-begin-at-pgi-today-but-with-appointments/articleshow/78989123.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||JAC rejects new post matric scholarship scheme||Chandigarh: The Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) on Sunday rejected the Dr BR Ambedkar Post Matric SC Scholarship scheme launched by the Punjab government for 2020-21, saying that the government is yet to clear the pending scholarship amounts for the last several years. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had announced the new scholarship scheme for the Scheduled Caste students on Saturday. The body demanded that the government first clear the scholarship amounts for the years 2016-17 (Rs 415.60 crore), 2017-18 (Rs 538 crore), 2018-19 (Rs 437.19 crore) and 2019-20 (Rs 450 crore). JAC president Jagjit Singh, chairman Gurmeet Singh Dhaliwal and association’s co-chairman Anshu Kataria said out of the 1,650 unaided colleges of Punjab, majority of them have turned into NPAs because of the four-year delay in the post matric scholarship and even in the new policy, nothing has been mentioned about the pending scholarships. They said in the new policy, the government has imposed the condition of 40% contribution from private unaided colleges without taking JAC into confidence. “It is a one-sided decision of the government which we will not accept. We are concerned about the future of three lakh SC students of Punjab, but at the same time, we cannot contribute any amount against the tuition fees of the SC student, as it is not being done anywhere in the country,” said Kataria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jac-rejects-new-post-matric-scholarship-scheme/articleshow/78989119.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||21 senior IAS officers transferred in a major reshuffle||Jaipur: In a major bureaucratic reshuffle, 21 senior IAS officers have been transferred to different departments.The unexpected transfers have stamped the speculation of a power struggle between the ministers and the officers, while others were to adjust to senior officers in view of the appointment of chief secretary Niranjan Kumar Arya.Sources said three senior officers — Veenu Gupta, Subodh Agarwal and Rajeshwar Singh — have been kept out of the secretariat so that they don’t have to report to Arya, who is from their junior IAS batch.Gupta has been shifted from the post of ACS, PWD, to the post of director of Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board, Agarwal moved from ACS, Mines and Petroleum department, to chairman and managing director, Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd and Singh transferred to Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation from ACS, tribal area development.Sources said Akhil Arora has been given the charge of finance department which is considered to be a crucial position in the government. Siddharth Mahajan has been moved to Medical health and family welfare, an important portfolio due to Covid-19.While to some the additional responsibility has been given related to their current subject. Naveen Mahajan has been given the complete responsibility of the most critical department in the state, water resources. He is now in-charge of water resources department, state water resources planning department and Indira Gandhi canal department, public health and engineering, and ground water department.“I feel humbled that the government has entrusted additional responsibility of drinking water sector to me. It brings the whole water sector in the state under one umbrella and it should aid rational decision making promptly on water-related issues,” said Mahajan.Similarly, Om Prakash has been given the additional responsibility of commissioner, horticulture department. He is already commissioner of agriculture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/21-senior-ias-officers-transferred-in-a-major-reshuffle/articleshow/78989126.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Seasonal winged visitors from Siberia arrive at Telineelapuram bird reserve||VISAKHAPATNAM: Ahead of winter, migratory birds from Siberia and Eurasian countries have started to make their way to Telineelapuram Bird Reserve in Tekkali, Srikakulam district for nesting, breeding and feeding. The birds, mainly spot billed or grey pelicans and painted storks, have started coming to the reserve from October and setting up nests atop tall trees. By Deecmber, the number of migratory birds will reach 2,000, staff at the reserve said. Vishveshwara Rao, bird keeper at Telineelapuram Reserve said, “The birds have just started coming and they will stay over six months. As of now, there are 280 grey spotted pelicans nesting on 12 trees and 18 painted storks on two trees. By December-end, the numbers will increase to around 2,000, 60% of which will be pelicans.” Due to Covid-19 restrictions, the area, which was demarcated an ‘Important Bird and Biodiversity Area’ (IBA) in 2004, has few people at present. The four-acre bird reserve also has an interpretation centre describing through infographic panels the significance of migratory birds, their habits and habitat, paintings and life-like statues of birds. The area surrounding the reserve has wetlands, including the Dalcheruvu and Naupada swamps, which are home to more than 120 different species of birds. Recently, a group of bird lovers, including researchers and bird watchers visited the sanctuary. Speaking about the site, V Bhagyasree, a budding ornithologist, who has worked with the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (Sacon) said, “Every year, this zone of Srikakulam faces the wrath of cyclones that devastates the flora and fauna. It is therefore important to ensure there is enough plantation and the trees should be conserved. These migratory birds nest atop tall trees. If the trees diminish in number, the birds may stop coming due to lack of habitat.” Heritage narrator Jayshree Hatangadi, who organised a recent visit to the Telineelapuram Reserve, pointed out that the place should be better maintained. “The washroom has no water and its door is missing. The interpretation centre and the pagodas for public need some repair, cleaning and maintenance,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/seasonal-winged-visitors-from-siberia-arrive-at-telineelapuram-bird-reserve/articleshow/78986700.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 2, 2020||---||It’s double engine growth vs double Yuvraj in Bihar: PM||PATNA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday attacked the opposition Mahagathbandhan’s CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi by calling them crown princes without naming them, saying the fight in the Bihar elections was between ‘double yuvraj’ and the ‘double engine growth’ under the NDA rule at the Centre and in the state. Addressing rallies in Chhapra, Samastipur, Motihari and Bagaha on the last day of electioneering for the second phase of assembly elections, Modi referred to the 15-year rule of Tejashwi’s parents, RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi, and said that ‘double yuvraj’ were trying to bring back ‘jungle raj’ in the state. Referring to the unsuccessful attempt by the coalition of Rahul and SP president Akhilesh Yadav to win the 2017 UP assembly elections, he said ‘double yuvraj’ will fail in Bihar just like they did in the neighbouring state. “On the one side is double-engine government of the NDA at the Centre and in Bihar that has provided facilities and infrastructure to the state. On the other side is ‘double yuvraj’ who will pursue family interests and make wealth by looting the resources meant for the poor. That is what they have done by way of their family track record,” Modi said. Referring to the “despondency among youth under the jungle raj” he pointed out that the investments to build industries did not come to Bihar during the RJD rule and, therefore, no jobs could be created for youths outside the government. “The investors nursed fears of kidnapping and ransom and they always thought that they would have to set aside the ransom money for the kidnappers in advance,” he said and asked people whether they would like the return of that period again. He invoked ‘Chhathi Maiya’, worshipped by women during the ‘Chhath’ festivities in November, and called upon “women, mothers, their daughters and sisters” to vote for NDA candidates in large numbers in the remaining two phases of the polls to help form the government under CM Nitish Kumar again. In the same vein, he invoked the ‘matritva shakti’ (mother power) to give strength to the NDA. “O Mother! You have installed your son (read Modi) in Delhi, so that you can celebrate ‘Chhath’ without deprivation,” he said, and also mentioned the free foodgrains provided to all the ration card holders and even those without ration cards, to mitigate their problems during the coronavirus pandemic. “No mother, child, daughter, sister should remain hungry at night and go to sleep without food,” he said. Attacking the Congress-led governments at the Centre in the past on the Ayodhya issue, Modi said: “A grand Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya. You should not forget those who questioned the existence of Lord Ram and created hurdles in way of building a Ram temple in Ayodhya.” He accused the opposition of spreading misinformation on the CAA and nullification of Article 370 in J&K||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/its-double-engine-growth-vs-double-yuvraj-in-bihar-pm/articleshow/78990039.cms||Abhay Singh
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 31% rape survivors are minors||JAIPUR: Rajasthan police data from September 2019 to September 2020 shows that in 31% of the rape cases, the survivors are minors, while in 70% cases, the accused are between the age of 18 and 30. The numbers also reveal that in 8% cases, the accused are minors and 21% of the accused are aged between 30 and 60 years. In cases where survivors are minors, majority of them are aged between 12 and 18. “There are various factors which influence the criminals especially the minors including. In most cases, the accused are known to the survivors, which make it equal responsibility of the guardians to tell their wards about right and wrong. Teenagers need to be taught about this in schools as well,” a senior police officer said. Out of the total cases registered, 17% were of gang-rape, 36% of the incidents happened at the survivors’ house while 12% took place at the residence of the accused. Further, 13% rape occurred in residential areas, 17% in open spaces like fields and forests and 20% in isolated locations. In the profile of the survivors, 12% are from general category, 20% from ST, 30% of SC and 38% are OBC. Although there is a big jump in rape cases from 2018 to 2019, the percentage has seen a decrease in 2020 with nearly 16% dip in incidents involving the SC/ST category women. Among the accused, 14% are from the general category, 19% from ST, 26% SC and 41% OBC. “In 2017-2018, it would take 278 days to complete a rape investigation but that has now been reduced to 113 days. We are making attempts to reduce this even further so that survivors get justice at the earliest,” said the official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/31-rape-survivors-are-minors/articleshow/78989141.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Nagpur||Restaurant business hit hard due to early closure||NAGPUR: Even though the state government has allowed restaurants to reopen, the closure time of 10pm imposed by local authorities has badly affected business. Owners point out that restaurants and bars in Mumbai and Pune are allowed to remain open till 11.30pm and have demanded that Nagpur be treated in a similar manner. Nagpur Eatery Owners’ Association (NEOA) has already met guardian minister Nitin Raut and will meet district collector Ravindra Thakare on Monday. Mandeep Singh Padam of Sanjha Chulha said that business is so bad that he wished the government did not allow restaurants and bars to reopen at all. “The time between 9.30pm and 10.30pm is our peak business time but we have to stop allowing customers to enter after 9.30pm. In fact now the Sadar police want us to down shutters completely at 10pm. So I am unable to allow people to enter after 8.30pm. This is ridiculous. How will we survive,” he said. Despite employing around 25 staffers, Padam can’t call all of them every day. “Their salaries have reduced and they too are having a difficult time. There is no uniformity in imposition of the 10pm deadline. You go to Mominpura at 1am and you will find huge crowds at eateries. Dharampeth restaurants are also not closing down at 10pm. The police are favouring some hotel owners as I saw half a kilometre long line of cars in front of a restaurant at midnight,” said Padam. Regarding home deliveries, Padam said that they were only 10% of the business and did not make much of a difference. Amit Behmi of Harry’s Pastry and NEOA secretary said that business is slack and blamed it on the early closure time. “People used to come to my outlets after 9pm and we used to do business till 11.30pm. Now we have to close down at 10pm. This hurts business very badly. Many restaurant owners are finding it difficult to pay rent and power bills,” he added. Manoj Sethi of Moti Mahal said that while business has picked up, early closure was a major problem. “Does Covid spread only after 10pm? The early closure time makes no sense. Restaurant owners are unable to pay full salaries to their staff due to this problem,” said Sethi. Anjan Puri, who owns two Subway outlets, however, has no complaints. “He said that people coming to the outlets as well as home deliveries, both had picked up,” he said. Cyrus Fonging Chang of Nankings said that while his business was good, the sector in general was in bad shape. “The closure timings should be extended for the sake of revival of our sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/restaurant-business-hit-hard-due-to-early-closure/articleshow/78987849.cms||Ashish Roy
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Canal water revives Patiala’s Rajindra Lake after a decade||Patiala: The heritage city of Patiala is all set to witness revival of Rajindra Lake after a decade. The authorities concerned have finally succeeded in supplying canal water and have also installed fountains as part of the project, thus, allowing the local residents to enjoy its pristine glory. The officials of the drainage department claimed that within the next few days water will be filled in the lake, which is spread over 10 acres of land. Under the Mission Tandrust Punjab, the project to supply canal water through hansli (underground channel) has been completed with an expenditure of several lakhs of rupees. The authorities have thanked the SGPC for providing no objection certificate (NOC) for utilisation of hansli as the carrier channel connecting the Rajindra Lake, Sheesh Mahal Tank and other historical buildings. The irrigation officials revealed that the management of the Gurdwara Sahib Dukh Nivaran wanted that they should be given priority to fill their reservoir with the canal water first and their demand was also met. Under the beautification project of Rajindra Lake in Patiala, a separate regulatory gate has been installed, which extends from the Bhakra mainline and the capacity of water going to hansli has been increased. “Water has reached Rajindra Lake through a regulatory gate installed on hansli near the railway crossing number 21 in Patiala. Now, a separate pipeline is being added to the hansali,” said superintending engineer Devinder Singh. The district officials claimed that it will be a tourist place where morning or evening walkers will be able to relax and rejuvenate. They said the entire project is being personally supervised by deputy commissioner Kumar Amit. Notably in June last year, efforts on releasing canal water into the lake on a trial basis had turned out to be unpleasant for the local residents after the sewage water got allegedly mixed into the then dried lake. The officials claimed that after Rajindra Lake, the canal water will be released into the Sheesh Mahal Lake and both these lakes will be given a complete heritage look. In 2010, the state government had sanctioned a grant of Rs 22 lakh for the beautification of the lake, but nothing could be done to revive the lake as the grants lapsed. In 2015, the municipal corporation began with the beautification project of the lake under which it decided to spend Rs 2 crore in three phases. A 10-feet broad walking path was planned besides the boating for the city residents. The plantation of lotus flowers was also planned. However, later it was left to the ignorance of the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/canal-water-revives-patialas-rajindra-lake-after-a-decade/articleshow/78989150.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||No check, mining continues unabated in Ambala city||Ambala: Tippers, tractor-trailers and earth-moving machines continue to carry out illegal loading of mined mineral and construction material at Baldev Nagar area of Ambala city. An earth-moving machine was spotted loading a tractor-trailer with sand, which was unloaded and stocked in large quantity at an empty place under the flyover of the National Highway 152. A large number of such transport vehicles and earth-moving machines remain parked under the flyover illegally without any permission from the administration or the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Baldev Nagar chowk area under the NH-152 flyover in Ambala City is one of the busiest areas. When questioned, officials of the state road transport authority (RTA), Ambala said the issue comes under the jurisdiction of the district police and the NHAI. Brij Bhushan, RTA inspector, Ambala, said, “Earlier, the enforcement agency was responsible for checking transport vehicles, but recently the state government has changed it and the task has been assigned to the police and the local administration.” Hukam Chand, motor vehicle officer, Ambala, said, “We will get this checked and see if any illegal activity is being carried out underneath the flyover.” Ambala police traffic in-charge inspector Munish said, “There is no permission from the administration or the police for parking transport vehicles at the vacant space under the flyover.” Ambala mining officer Bhupinder Singh said, “Stocking sand or gravel on the NHAI space is unauthorised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-check-mining-continues-unabated-in-ambala-city/articleshow/78989148.cms||Jaskaran Singh
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Body of woman recovered||Ajmer: The body of a 50-year-old woman with her limbs tied with a rope was found in Transport Nagar area here on Sunday. On Saturday, relatives of the woman identified as Chameli had registered a missing complaint at Ramganj police station.Family members told police that Chameli was a ragpicker and hadn’t returned home on Saturday. The brother of the deceased had lodhed a missing complaint.61 cartons of illegal liquor seizedTimes News NetworkAjmer: Adarsh Nagar police on Sunday seized illegal 61 cartons of liquor from a truck going towards Gujarat and arrested the driver. Police are investigating the matter.According to police, they got a tip-off that illegal liquor was being transported through trucks and put barricades. While checking a truck that was going to Gujarat, they found 61 cartons of Haryana-made liquor. Police arrested driver Sunil Kumar (24), a resident of Jhunjhunu district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/body-of-woman-recovered/articleshow/78989149.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Goa||Amid raging pandemic, govt approves Sunburn fest in Goa||PANAJI: The state government has granted “in-principle” approval to the Sunburn electronic dance music (EDM) festival at Vagator this December, tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said on Sunday. The move immediately sparked a severe backlash on social media, as the decision came days after Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar and several doctors warned against taking Covid-19 lightly. “We will have to wait (till December) to see (the pandemic status),” Bandekar, head of the state’s Covid hospitals, recently told TOI. On Sunday, senior GMC doctor Jagdish Kakodkar too warned against complacency, cautioning that a second wave, as seen in Europe, could be on its way. He also appealed to young persons to safeguard the elderly and consider the consequences before freely mingling and partying. Goa’s Covid figures have reduced over the past few days. Ironically, the state’s decision coincides with the UK, Germany, France and other countries ordering extended lockdowns as cases spike uncontrollably after a lull. In September, Ajgaonkar had said that he was not in favour of holding EDM festivals till a vaccine is introduced. “To us, the safety of people is more important,” he had said. ‘Are you going to put circles in front of the stage for drunk people to dance?’However, on Sunday, in a sharp volte-face, he said, “we need to have such festivals with social distancing”. The minister said “we don’t want to hold it at a very large scale, this year, it would be restricted to around 12,000 people”, adding that if the Union ministry of home affairs “doesn’t allow” the festival, the state government would cancel it. He said the file has been sent to a high-level permission committee for final approval. On October 20, PM Narendra Modi warned that Covid is still around, though lockdowns have been eased. Ajgaonkar, however, said that EDM festivals are being organised around the world in the present situation. In fact, most of the world’s biggest such events — including Tomorrowland, Ultra Music Festival and Electric Daisy Carnival — have cancelled or postponed their 2020 dates. On the drug issue, Ajgaonkar put the ball squarely in the home department’s court. “We do not want to promote drugs and any other illegal activities at Sunburn,” he said. “We have representatives of the state home department on the permission committee. They should thoroughly scrutinise everything before final permission is granted. Home department offices should make sure that there is no sale of drugs at the venue, and they should be held responsible if any such incident are reported. I will not be responsible for any such activities.” Meanwhile, Sunburn, said that “they have thought long and hard about how to make the festival happen this year”. “We came to the conclusion that life must begin again,” it posted. The post drew instant flak online. “The country with the second-highest Covid infections in the world is having a music festival,” remarked standup comedian Daniel Fernandes. Stating that fan safety is their “utmost priority”, Sunburn said, “We will be following social distancing norms with every attendee having their designated space in front of the stage.” Football strategist Conrad Barreto asked the festival’s Twitter handle — “Are you going to put circles in front of the stage for drunk people to dance with social distancing? Our Goan doctors are already not getting paid, and have to leave their residency to convert rooms for hospital beds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/even-as-pandemic-rages-govt-approves-sunburn-in-goa/articleshow/78989147.cms||Murari Shetye
November 2, 2020||Kochi||Licence To Kill? Malayali nurses and docs in the West agonise over assisted dying||Dublin: After working double shifts for three days in a row, the last thing a burned-out nurse would want to do must be listening to polarized debates on news channels. But ever since the assisted dying debate gathered steam in the Republic of Ireland, Remya Mary Chandapillai, who works as a nurse manager at Parke House Nursing Home in Kilcock, Co. Kildare, has been doing just that. The Thiruvalla-native nurse is glued to television news at the expense of her precious off days. Chandapillai is just one among many Malayali nurses here who seem deeply perturbed by the proposal to allow terminally ill patients end lives under medical supervision. More than 75 percent of Ireland’s Malayali nurses work at nursing homes and hospices. For the same reason, if Ireland’s ‘Dying with Dignity’ bill becomes a law, many of them will soon be duty-bound to participate in the permissible suicides of their patients. Chandapillai says the new bill undervalues people’s lives. “I would never want to help my patient die, no matter how willing he/she is,” she said, still glued to the TV news. Raising concerns regarding the underlying social dynamics of the bill, she said: “The idea is clear: if you are terminally ill, you ought to consider the option of assisted dying. Won’t that be traumatic for a seriously ill person who’s already suffering from anxiety?” And then there will be some patients who may be made to feel a burden to their families and come under pressure to opt for assisted death. “As for nurses, when our job mandates us to administer a patient with a lethal dose of drugs, we might as well do it. But unlike doctors, nurses share a unique bond with their patients owing to the nature of our interactions and that will certainly make the whole thing stressful for us,” she said. Like Chandapillai, Arun Kumar from Kochi is clearly not in favour of the bill. Kumar, who’s a nurse manager at TLC Nursing Home in Maynooth, Co. Kildare, believes that as a nurse, his primary duty is to “restore purpose, give hope and show love”. He pointed out that for those who have no capacity to make a sound decision, the bill will act as a license to kill. However, Dr Mitha Mathai Muthirenthi, who’s working as a pulmonologist with Franziskus Krankenhaus, Linz Am Rhein, Germany, begs to differ. “The question is whether a terminally ill patient should die with or without suffering. It’s about their pain and trauma, not a healthcare professional’s feelings. “In Germany, a person can avail of the option only after an array of evaluations by an ethics committee; it’s not like we pull the plug on a patient right after they decide to give up. If the committee feels that the person’s quality of life is subpar and has less than six months left to live, his decision might be upheld,” she said. According to Dr Muthirenthi, laboured breathing can sometimes distress a patient much more than acute pain. “Oftentimes, that’s when most terminally ill patients call it quits. They are then shifted to palliative care and are intravenously given opiates such as morphine in small doses. Apart from its analgesic properties, morphine also helps relieve anxiety and aids in a painless, dignified death,” she said. Echoing the same sentiments is Neethu Anna Alexander, a nurse who works in the Netherlands, where physician assisted death has been legal since 2002. The Kochi-based nurse said over phone that she has never faced an ethical dilemma when physical deterioration forces someone to choose death over suffering. “In most cases, when there’s no hope of recovery, it is the only rational decision one can make at that point. That doesn’t mean they are not fighters. Everyone tries to kick the crap out of an illness but once a patient realizes that he is fighting a losing battle, he would want to die on their own terms. “I’ve often noticed how peaceful they look once they take that difficult decision. So I just feel happy for them. Through assisted dying, we are killing the pain, not the patient,” she said. Alexander works as an oncology nurse at Amsterdam University Hospital in the Netherlands. Like in most parts of the world, assisted dying is a highly controversial subject in most European countries and only four of them, viz., the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Germany, approve of it as a whole. Switzerland allows assisted death only under specific circumstances but has made passive euthanasia, by means of withdrawal of life support, legal. Five years ago, Germany had outlawed the provision of assisted dying. But in February, the ban was overturned. The debate surrounding euthanasia and assisted dying is particularly sensitive in the country owing to the ‘euthanasia’ killing by the Nazis. Although passive euthanasia is legal in the Germany, active euthanasia, including the lethal compound administration, is a criminal offence. (Merin Rebecca is a journalist from Kochi living in the Republic of Ireland for the past four years)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/licence-to-kill-malayali-nurses-and-docs-in-the-west-agonise-over-assisted-dying/articleshow/78989139.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt action against mafia has unsettled SP & Congress: BJP||LUCKNOW: Ahead of polling for byelections on seven assembly seats, the ruling BJP government escalated attack on the Samajwadi Party and the Congress accusing them of patronising mafias and criminals. The BJP, however, spared the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Government spokesman Sidharth Nath Singh said the policy of zero tolerance towards corruption and decisive action against mafias by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has unsettled the two parties which used to patronize criminals. “The recent activities of opposition leaders like SP president Akhilesh Yadav and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have shown their true colours and exposed their intention before the people,” Singh said. He added that the action initiated against Mukhtar Ansari (a BSP MLA) has left both these leaders anguished, making it apparent that their political DNA is more or less the same when it comes to criminals and mafias. “Priyanka Gandhi chose not to respond to a letter sent to her by BJP MLA Alka Rai, widow of late lawmaker Krishnanand Rai, in which she said the Punjab government is helping Mukhtar Ansari. Punjab government has gone all out to ensure that the law does not catch up with Ansari, who is lodged in Ropar jail,” he said. “It is twisting laws and doing everything to ensure Ansari is out of the reach of the courts where he has to be produced,” Singh said. “Akhilesh Yadav has been raising questions in the past on the action taken by the government against criminals and their fiefdom. We can understand the trauma he must be feeling as SP’s nexus with criminals is an open secret,” he said, adding that the BJP was cleaning up the mess created by previous governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-action-against-mafia-has-unsettled-sp-congress-bjp/articleshow/78989617.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||‘94% Covid patients have recovered’||Chandigarh: A total of 87% of the total tested Covid-19 samples have been found negative and 94% patients have recovered, according to the authorities. “It was predicted that the peak would be in October and then subsequently decline. The numbers are showing this. However, we need to be still watchful as the virus has not gone yet,” said a public health expert in PGI. Tests per million have increased from 597 to 811 in the city, improving its position from 27 a week back to 18. Tests per million in India until October 31 were 806. The total number of samples tested till October 31 were 10,7015 and 14,418 samples had tested positive. Out of 14,418 cases, 13,551 have been discharged till October 31. The total positivity rate is 0.6 “With 6% active cases, the city is heading towards a declining phase,” an expert said. All over the country, 10.9 lakh tests have been done until October 31. The seven-day average test positive rate is at 4.33%. Cases growth has decelerated to 0.57%,” said Dr Rijo M John, a Kerala-based health economist and a former consultant with the WHO. The weekly growth rate indicates the doubling time of the infection. There are daily some 60-70 cases across the city for the virus. The deaths have also decreased as not many are being hospitalised for severe Covid. “But complacency should not set in. Kerala which had contained the virus has seen a resurgence after Onam. The PGI could discontinue with physical OPDs in case there is another peak,” said a medical specialist in PGI. “With the onset of winter, an Europe-like situation can happen in the country. It is early to be satisfied with the declining infection rate,” said a public health expert in PGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/94-covid-patients-have-recovered/articleshow/78989132.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Mohan Meena new Chief Wildlife Warden||Jaipur: The state government on Sunday transferred/ re-designated six Indian Forest Service (IFS) officers.Shruti Sharma has been appointed as Head of Forest Force (HOFF) at the rank of Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCCF), as per an order of Department of Personnel.Mohan Lal Meena, who was PCCF (works and planning), has been appointed as Chief Wildlife Warden replacing Arindam Tomar.IFS officer Deep Narayan Pandey and Rajeev Kumar Goyal have been promoted to pay scale of PCCF from their existing designations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mohan-meena-new-chief-wildlife-warden/articleshow/78989130.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Aiming a slot in top 10 in 2028 LA Olympics: Kiren Rijiju||JAISALMER: Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju on Sunday said the Centre has set the target of remaining in the top 10 in 2028 Los Angeles Olympics and the preparations for this have already begun. “We are searching for sporting talent across the country. We do not lack better players and its result will be seen in 2024 Paris Olympics and 2028 Los Angeles Olympics. Apart from this, we are working on the action plan to set up national excellence centre throughout the country,” Rijiju said during his stay in Jaisalmer. He said the Olympics task force formed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has chalked out different strategies to keep India in a better place in the Japan Olympics to be held next year. “We are imparting best training to our young athletes. Over 380 children in the age group of 10-12 are being imparted the best training for future games,” he said and added that he was excited seeing the performance of these players. He said various academies are being set up under Khelo India in the entire country. Soon, an academy will be set up in Rajasthan too and other states in the second phase. There are many possibilities in shooting and basketball in Rajasthan, he added. He further said the sport council law will be strengthened in the entire country. Replying to a question on China repeatedly showing Arunachal Pradesh as its part, he said people of Arunachal are patriotic and are dedicated for the country’s security. Sports minister said that it is the dream of the PM that India becomes a superpower in sports and therefore it is important for the people of India to remain fit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aiming-a-slot-in-top-10-in-2028-la-olympics-rijiju/articleshow/78989152.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Amaravati||AP 3rd best-governed state in PAI, CII chairman praises government re-start package||AMARAVATI: Chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) AP chapter D Ramakrishna congratulated chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy after Andhra Pradesh retained its place as the third-best governed state in the country in the Public Affairs Indes-2020, a report released by Public Affairs Centre. Public Affairs Index, PAI, is an annual report comparing states on three broad parameters: equity, growth and sustainability. The index comes out in two categories: states with population of more than two crore, and states with population less than two crore. Ramakrishna, who is also the managing director of Efftronics Systems, said that the state government’s initiative of setting up village and ward secretariats has helped decentralise governance at the micro-level. He appreciated the state government for supporting industry through the ‘re-start package’ and said that industries minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy has taken various steps to promote industrial development .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-3rd-best-governed-state-in-pai-cii-chairman-praises-govt-re-start-package/articleshow/78986716.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP planning to create violence in Hyderabad: KTR||HYDERABAD: TRS working president KT Rama Rao on Sunday alleged that BJP is conspiring to create violence in Hyderabad on Monday, a day before Dubbak goes to poll. He said that the TRS has written to chief election commissioner and DGP of the state to prevent any untoward incident in the state. Addressing a press conference at the TRS party headquarters, KTR said that the information of trouble has come from BJP leaders of the state unit. “We are urging director general of police to ascertain that BJP does not resort to any violent tactics,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress MP A Revanth Reddy dared state finance minister T Harish Rao to reveal the developmental projects TRS took up for Dubbak constituency. “In seven years, TRS did not do anything. But our former MLA Cheruku Mutyam Reddy worked hard for the constituency’s development,” Revanth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-planning-to-create-violence-in-hyd-ktr/articleshow/78989167.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Man, sister-in-law commit suicide over illicit affair in Rajasthan's Barmer district||JAISALMER: A 25-year-old man and his sister-in-law committed suicide by jumping into a water tank at Rodwa Kala village in Barmer district on Friday night. Their bodies were found floating in the tank on Saturday. Police retrieved the bodies and handed them over to the family members after postmortem. Mandali SHO Dawood Khan said Sugani Devi, 35, wife of Shankar Ram Bheel and her brother-in-law Bhomaram were in love for quite some time and they went missing on Friday night. On Saturday, when they were not found in the house, the family members launched a search for them and found the bodies floating in the water tank near their house. Bhomaram was unmarried whereas his sister-in-law did not have any child. Two days ago, a couple had committed suicide in a similar manner in Mandali police station area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-sister-in-law-commit-suicide-over-illicit-affair/articleshow/78989153.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Goa||Second wave can hit us, youth must safeguard elderly: Goa Medical College doctor||PANAJI: Head of department of social and preventive medicine at Goa Medical College (GMC) has warned against complacency during the current phase of the pandemic, cautioning that the second wave as seen in Europe could be on its way. “Prevention is the best cure and the best vaccine as far as Covid-19 is concerned, because it will take several months to know whether a vaccine is safe and effective,” Dr Jagdish Kakodkar said. He appealed to young persons to safeguard the elderly and consider the consequences before freely mingling and partying. If preventive measures are not followed the state will see a repeat of the situation experienced in September and October when there were no beds available to treat Covid-19 patients. “It was a very difficult situation,” Kakodar said. “If we don’t want it to happen again, we should not be complacent just because cases are decreasing and because the death rate is declining. We have seen it in France, US and England. Second, third and fourth waves are coming,” Dr Kakodkar said. “To clear a few doubts about whether the virus survives in summer. It did in Goa,” he said, adding that it is surviving in winter in Europe that is seeing a resurgence of the virus. “In winter it will be a double jeopardy where other diseases, like influenza are also going to cause pneumonia,” he said. He appealed to youngsters not to party without following social distancing, not to take photographs in hordes or mingle freely without masks in the interest of the elderly. “If such crowds and such parties continue in Goa, the danger is youngsters will not suffer from serious complications and neither are they likely to die. They’re more likely to be asymptomatic carriers of the infection. They will come back home and infect elderly parents, relatives, pregnant women and children in the house,” he said. Dr Kakodkar was speaking at a webinar on ‘Covid-19: Safety and Prevention’ organised by Damodar College of Commerce and Economics, Margao, as part of Vidya Vikas Mandal’s golden jubilee celebrations. “Safeguard the old people in the house. Keep them at home. If possible, keep them under proper isolation or wear a mask when interacting with them,” he said. He advised people to celebrate festivals within their homes. “Do not visit people. That’s how the virus spreads,” he said. “Crowds and big gatherings are strictly contraindicated,” he said. Until then one must follow respiratory etiquette, social distancing and personal hygiene measures, he said. “There are no magical remedies that can cure everything. Prevent still remains our best bet,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/second-wave-can-hit-us-youth-must-safeguard-elderly-gmc-doc/articleshow/78989160.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Make MSP mandatory in mandis too: Kisan Mahapanchayat||JAIPUR: The Kisan Mahapanchayat has asked the Rajasthan government to make minimum support price (MSP) mandatory for every sale and purchase of crops in the mandis too. The amendment bills tabled in the state assembly on Saturday make MSP compulsory only for contract farming.  The Mahapanchayat wants punitive action for any transaction done in the mandis below the MSP, as has been proposed for contract farming in the bills that would be taken up in the assembly on Monday. The Mahapanchayat has further asked the state government to avoid conflict with the Centre over the union farms laws by bringing in MSP related amendments in the Rajasthan Agriculture Produce Markets (APMC) Act, 1961, which would require the consent of Governor and not of the President. "If the state’s intention is to benefit the farmers and not lock horns with the Centre for political mileage, the amendments should be made in the state law of 1961, which already has the President’s consent," Mahapanchayat’s national president Rampal Jat told TOI on Sunday. "The governor will not be able to hold it if the state sends the amendment bills to him for the second time. We conveyed this to chief minister Ashok Gehlot in writing early in October," Jat added. Cooperatives minister Udai Lal Anjana said, "If the demand is raised during the assembly debate tomorrow (Monday), the state government may consider it." Referring to the APMC Act, 1961, the Kisan Mahapanchayat has asked the chief minister to amend its section 9 to make it binding on the market committees to take measures for preventing any sale and purchase below the MSP. The Mahapanchayat wants the state to insert a provision in the Act to punish any transaction below MSP with a jail term from three to ten years and a fine of Rs 10 lakh. Further, the guilty purchaser be made liable to pay the farmer an amount twice the MSP. "The APMC Rules, 1963, should also be amended to include that an open bid for the sale of a crop in the mandi shall start from its MSP. All types of fees, cess and GST charged in mandi areas should be abolished," said Jat. The six amendment bills, including four related to farmers, are likely to passed on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/make-msp-mandatory-in-mandis-too-kisan-mahapanchayat/articleshow/78989161.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Racing resumes in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: November 1 is a big day for the people of Karnataka and the festivity usually spills over to the Bangalore Turf Club, which hosts the one of the plum events of the winter season -- The Rajyastova Trophy. On Sunday too, the club hosted the event, sans spectators. Barring the voice of commentators on the microphone, there was eerie silence at the expansive facility as horse racing resumed after a seven-month pandemic-induced break. The BTC is the first club in the country to start the season. The setting for the eight-race inaugural day of the season was unusual. There were no spectators, no tote operators and the hooting and cheering was missing as the horses hit the track. On a normal race day, there are anywhere between 7,000-8,000 spectators, but not so on the day because of Covid-10 regulations. Although avid racegoers stood at the gates hoping to get in, the club authorities had made it clear that only essential staff, club officials and one owner per horse would be in attendance. With social distancing being the norm, there was no presentation ceremony after each race. Wearing a mask at the venue was mandatory and the jockeys removed it only while racing. Speaking to TOI on the experience, champion jockey Suraj Narredu said: “It was a surreal feeling to be back to competition. We are grateful that the sport has returned after a long hiatus. There was that initial nervousness like children returning to school. We did miss the crowd and the excitement they bring to the races, but we’ll have to wait till the government eases its norms.” On the difference spectators make to the horses, Suraj explained: “Audience have a different effect on horses. The newer horses, for example, were calmer today but some of them get overexcited due to the noise. Among the top horses, which are calmer in the morning, change their attitude in the paddock before the race. When they hear people, they tend to realise it is showtime.” Trainer Irfan Ghatala, whose horse Salazaar, ridden by Anjar Alam, won the Rajyastova Trophy, later said: “It is nice to be back to racing. That’s what we do. The horses were well-rested, and I guess happy to be racing again.” The horses usually race amidst a lot of commotion, but Ghatala felt the horses, like humans, react differently to varied situations. “Each horse reacts differently. Some enjoy the noise and get motivated, while some feel the pressure,” the champion trainer pointed out. ARTIFICIAL SOUND CAN BE USED There’s a different charm to racing when there are spectators and seasoned trainer S Padmanabhan believes the BTC should introduce recorded crowd noise to improve the ambience. “I have suggested to the BTC to introduce fake crowd noise like they have done in the Indian Premier League and the football leagues across the world. It creates a different kind of ambience. Also, the horses react more to sound than visuals,” he said. A FRESH START The BTC officials were relieved after the opening day’s proceedings. Having worked with various agencies over the past couple of months, they were happy that the races have finally resumed. “We are very happy that racing is back, and we are the first club to begin a season in the country. The crowds were definitely missed, but we are working with the government to have at least a limited number of spectators back in the gallery,” informed BTC managing committee member Harimohan Naidu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/racing-resumes-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78987859.cms||Manuja Veerappa
November 2, 2020||Goa||NEP implementation in Goa from 2021-22||Panaji: The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is expected to be implemented in the state from 2021-22, for nursery, Classes III, VI and IX, chairman of the Goa task force, Subhash Shirodkar, told TOI. “We will ensure that no existing school is destabilised,” he said. “We will keep it as our main principle in implementation of the NEP. The taskforce is to ensure smooth coordination and transition of the existing infrastructure, students, parents, teachers and management.” “ This goes even for unaided schools,” Shirodkar said. He said that the new curriculum is expected to come from the Union education ministry by December and that experts from the State Council for Education Research and Training (SCERT) as well as other academics in the state will immediately begin work on it to see how best it can be adapted to Goa. “The government as well as the task force is trying to begin NEP’s implementation from the academic year 2021-22. We will begin the implementation starting from nursery level for the early education stage. At the primary level, we will start implementation with Class III and then for higher level from Class VI and Class IX to begin with in the first year,” he said. Shirodkar said that the task force, after its first meeting, has formed three sub-committees, which will study the existing infrastructure, student numbers and other ground realities, and present its report to the task force for deliberation. The task force expects to submit its recommendations to the state government by March-April. Thereafter, the teachers’ training will begin. “Before beginning implementation of the policy, training for teachers will have to begin two months prior. Particularly, training will have to be imparted to teachers at the nursery and KG I level. Similarly, teachers of Class VI will have to be trained, as the policy calls for introducing vocational education at this level. And teachers teaching in Class XI will have to be trained. After March, the training will have to begin,” Shirodkar said. BOX Need to revive super school complex concept: Shirodkar Times News Network Panaji: The concept of super school complexes implemented in Goa in the early 2000s needs to be revived as it is in sync with the provisions of the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, chairman of the task force for NEP implementation in Goa, Subhash Shirodkar, told TOI. Under the super school complex, schools offering education at different levels in the neighbourhood were clubbed into one unit, to share resources. The teachers in the higher classes helped mentor those in teaching at the lower levels. “Goa’s first super school complex, as per my information, was established in Shiroda higher secondary school. Following that super school complexes were set up in many places across the state. Today, there are even school complexes (like at Cujira). We will have to revisit this concept so that there is a good blending of schools from the nursery to the higher secondary school level,” Shirodkar told TOI. The super school complex scheme had been lauded for its success. He said that the task force’s singular focus will be to improve the delivery of education and not to dictate terms to schools. “Our only aim will be to improve the delivery of education and to raise our students to international standards. We will have to introduce them to different sectors. For instance, very few from Goa may have gone into the field of astronomy. If this number is meagre, then we will have to think how we will improve their exposure to these sectors. There are many sectors like these where Goans have not yet been able to make a mark in significant numbers,” Shirodkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nep-implementation-in-goa-from-2021-22/articleshow/78989164.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 2, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: More arijitha sevas move online to keep Covid at bay||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has decided to live telecast proceedings of a number of arijitha sevas at the Tirumala temple to maintain Covid-19 safety protocols and provide devotees with the opportunity of virtual participation. The temple body, which conducted arjitha sevas at the Tirumala temple, including Dolotsavam, Arjitha Brahmotsavam and the Sahasra Deepalankara seva through a virtual mode in Ekantham on an experimental basis on Sunday, announced that preparations were afoot to release online tickets for these arijitha sevas from the second week of November. But, unlike the case of Srivari Kalyanotsavam in which the TTD facilitated darshan for arjitham ticket holders within a span of 90 days, devotees willing to book tickets for online arjitha sevas such as the Dolotsavam, Arjitha Brahmotsavam and the Sahasra Deepalankara seva will not be entitled for darshan. The online grihasta will have to make an additional booking of Rs 300 for special entry darshan in order to avail darshan at the Tirumala temple. The TTD management has announced that the Dolotsavam, Arjitha Brahmotsavam and the Sahasra Deepalankara sevas will be held in Ekantham inside the temple in view of prevailing Covid-19 guidelines. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/more-arijitha-sevas-move-online-to-keep-covid-at-bay/articleshow/78986724.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 2, 2020||Jaipur||Security guard shot at in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A security guard was shot at in Jaipur’s Pratap Nagar on Sunday due to personal animosity. The guard was taken to the hospital where he is undergoing treatment while the cops are looking for the accused. The injured guard has been identified as Murli Gurjar and the accused as Raju Pandit. Purshottam Maheriya, SHO, Pratap Nagar police station said, “It appears that duo were having a dispute for a while now and it intensified on Sunday though initial investigation suggests that the accused had not intended to shoot the victim but pulled the trigger accidentally. We are investigating the case and will arrest the accused soon.” A case under relevant IPC sections was registered against the accused. Just two days back, shots were fired in Muhana on Friday evening in which one person got injured after getting hit with two bullets. Police immediately placed blockades in the area to look for the accused. As the lockdown is gradually being eased, more cases of firings have been reported across the state. Three firing incidents in Bikaner in a week raised the concerns of the police department and the government and now the pattern appears to be being followed in Jaipur as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/security-guard-shot-at-in-city/articleshow/78989163.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath orders crackdown on hoarding of potato, onion||LUCKNOW: With the prices of potato and onion hitting the roof, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed officials to crack down on hoarders and black marketers. Presiding over a meeting here on Sunday, Yogi said the state government was doing everything possible to control prices of essential commodities, including vegetables and pulses. He said that those engaged in hoarding and making profit through ill gotten means would be brought to book. “The state government is sensitive towards problems being faced by people. The government would do every bit to provide relief from escalating prices of food materials,” Yogi said. The CM directed the officials to conduct raids at shops and godowns of people involved in hoarding and black marketing so that prices of vegetables and pulses could be brought under control. The demand for potatoes, experts said, had increased during the pandemic as the vegetable could be stored. Prices of potato have increased by around 92%, while prices of onion increased by around 44%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-orders-crackdown-on-hoarding-of-potato-onion/articleshow/78989638.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Goa||GST aggregation reaches pre-Covid levels in Goa too||PANAJI: Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections for October improved significantly in Goa, coming on par with the October 2019 figure, data released by the Centre on Sunday showed. According to the Union ministry of finance, GST mop up in Goa amounted to Rs 310 crore in a month when the all India GST figures crossed 1 lakh crore for the first time in eight months. In September, GST collected in Goa amounted to Rs 240 crore. Few sectors showing signs of recovery: MinIn September, GST collected in Goa amounted to Rs 240 crore. A 29% increase in GST collections in October saw Goa nearly matching the Rs 311crore earned in October 2019. However, Goa continues to lag in economic revival. Nationally, there is a 11% increase in GST collections on a year-on-year basis, while in Goa the growth in GST collections is stagnant. Authorities attributed the increase in GST collections to the festive season, revival in Goa’s tourism sector and higher sales in the auto sector. “This is a clear signal that the recovery in Goa’s has started,’ said transport minister Mauvin Godinho, who also represents Goa on the GST Council. “With the finances of the Centre improving, the country will continue to grow strongly.” The monthly GST shortfall stood at 23% in September, but the gap has been bridged in October. However, the gap between the GST collection and Goa’s revenue from the VAT regime prior to the rollout of GST continues. Godinho said that revenue from GST will continue to improve and said that he is hopeful that the overall reduction in annual GST collections will also be met. “There are strong signs emanating from various sectors of the economy. In the new normal some sectors are showing signs of revival, like the auto sector and some sectors which are not doing so well,” said Godinho. At the national level, gross GST revenue in October stood at Rs 1,05,155 crore of which CGST is Rs 19,193 crore, SGST is Rs 25,411 crore, IGST is Rs 52,540 crore and cess is Rs 8,011 crore. The growth in GST revenue as compared to that in months of July, August and September — -14%, -8% and 5%, respectively — clearly shows the trajectory of recovery of the economy and, correspondingly, of the revenues, the finance ministry said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oct-gst-in-goa-matches-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/78989171.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Admn hopes for Rs 27cr bailout to let Citco pay 1,200 staffers||Chandigarh: The coronavirus pandemic has left Chandigarh Industrial Tourism and Corporation (Citco) teetering on a financial precipice, imperiling the future of its around 1,200 employees. The agency has no funds to pay its staff working in different units, pushing the UT administration to ask the ministry of finance of the central government to issue a one-time grant-in-aid of Rs 27 crore to Citco, in a first of its kind bailout request. A copy of the application said, “One-time grant-in-aid of Rs 27 crore for Citco due to Covid-19 for meeting salary expenses of its employees and on account of compensation due to waiving-off licence fee.” “We were forced to waive off the licence fee of our commercial establishments given on rent at different locations due,” said an official. Citco shells out Rs 5 crore every month in salaries to its employees who are permanent, contractual and from outsourced agencies, according to the records. The financial crisis gripping Citco has squeezed its fixed deposits (FDs) too. Citco has spent Rs 24 crore from its FDs in the past few years, leaving it with no other financial means to run the department. Earnings from hotels, tourism and restaurants have dried up since the pandemic broke out. “We used to earn a significant amount of money from our hotels, boating and shops at Sukhna and other eating outlets outsourced on monthly rent in different parts of the city. But the business is ruined because of the Covid-19 outbreak,” said the official. “Since the matter has been discussed at the highest level and all the officers are convinced about our plea, we are quite hopeful that the central government will help us out,” he added. Box: Day 1: Nearly Rs 2L in pocket Citco earned Rs 1.64 lakh from boating at Sukhna Lake on its first day on Sunday. All precautionary measures — guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare and UT administration — are being taken before allowing people to hit the waters, sources said. “We are sanitising boats, life jackets and other related items regularly. All customers are also checked for fever,” sources said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/admn-hopes-for-rs-27cr-bailout-to-let-citco-pay-1200-staffers/articleshow/78989166.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 2, 2020||Chandigarh||GST collection dips in Oct too||Chandigarh: Goods and services tax (GST) collection fell in October as well, stopping at Rs 152 crore — 3% less than Rs 157 crore GST collected in the same month last year. The poor run comes at a time when neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh are continuing to witness a growth in their tax figures, prompting the UT administration to seek a report from the excise and taxation department. A senior UT official said the department is asked to explain the downfall when other states are showing continuous improvement. Recently, the administration had blocked e-way bill generation of 1,026 firms for not filing GST returns for December 2019 and January 2020. Last month, the excise and taxation department officials had attributed the continuing dip to the coronavirus pandemic. They had maintained that people of neighbouring states used to come to Chandigarh for shopping but the tourist footfall had now come down, affecting revenue collection. “People these days prefer to purchase items from their nearby markets and are not coming to Chandigarh,” they had submitted. In the data released by the finance ministry, the city’s GST collection from April to August had dipped by 29.5%. The ministry had informed Parliament the GST collection dipped up to 44% in various states/UTs during April-August period. In response to a question on GST collection, minister of state Anurag Singh Thakur had submitted the figures of GST collection. According to the data, GST collection in Chandigarh came down to Rs 578 crore during April-August period this fiscal as against Rs 821 crore during the corresponding period last fiscal. NEIGHBOURS LEAD State/UT GST (Oct 2019) GST (Oct 2020) Growth Chandigarh Rs 157cr Rs 152cr -3% Punjab Rs 1,189cr Rs 1,376cr 16% Haryana Rs 4,578cr Rs 5,433cr 19% HP Rs 669cr Rs 691cr 3% CITY A LAGGARD Month 2019 2020 Growth July Rs 156cr Rs 137cr -12% August Rs 160cr Rs 139cr -13% September Rs 157cr Rs 141cr -10% Revenue generation The UT administration in May had enhanced value added tax (VAT) to 5% for petrol and diesel, imposed 5% Covid cess and hiked excise duty by 12% on liquor. In addition, the UT had also imposed cow cess on liquor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gst-collection-dips-in-oct-too/articleshow/78989169.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 2, 2020||India||1cr seized from contestant’s kin, AP BJP cries foul||HYDERABAD: On the last day of campaigning for the Dubbak assembly bypoll, Hyderabad Police seized Rs 1 crore unaccounted cash from the brother-in-law of BJP’s contesting candidate M Raghunandan Rao in Begumpet on Sunday. While police alleged the cash was meant to be distributed among voters ahead of the November 3 bypoll in Dubbak, the BJP denied the allegation, terming it as TRS’ ploy to derail the party. Sunday’s seizure comes six days after police seized Rs 18.67 lakh from another relative of Raghunandan Rao in Siddipet. Rao’s brother-in-law S Srinivas Rao and his driver T Ravi Kumar were caught with Rs 1 crore cash near Begumpet flyover while Srinivas was transporting the money. The duo was taken into custody and their vehicle and two mobile phones seized, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1cr-seized-from-contestants-kin-ap-bjp-cries-foul/articleshow/78990043.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||Independent candidate pledges support to BJP in Bermo||BOKARO: Two days before the bypolls in Bermo, Independent candidate Sameer Kumar Das, a deed writer by profession, pledged his support to BJP candidate Yogeshwar Mahato Batul. In Bermo, there are 16 candidates in the fray. Das said, “In view of the present situation in Jharkhand, I offer my unconditional support to BJP candidate Yogeshwar Mahto Batul.” The announcement was made in the presence of the saffron party’s general secretary Pradeep Verma, Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan and Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahato. Das also appealed residents, particularly his chunk of voters, to vote for BJP. It may be noted that in Bermo, the fight is directly between BJP’s Mahto and Congress’s Kumar Jaimangal, son of former MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh, who died of ailments this year in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/independent-candidate-pledges-support-to-bjp-in-bermo/articleshow/78989237.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Jamshedpur||Introspect on loss, don’t try to destabilise Jharkhand govt, RJD tells BJP||RANCHI: The state unit of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), which is a part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, on Sunday warned BJP of any attempt to destabilise the “popularly-elected government” in the state. Addressing a press conference, RJD’s senior leader Radha Krishna Kishore and others, said, “BJP’s recent statements of toppling the current government in the next two-three months exposes that it is hatching a conspiracy to do so. But the government is strong enough to resist any such attempts by power-hungry BJP. It proves BJP’s lust for power,” he said. “We advise BJP to introspect why they lost the polls than to resort to any political misadventures,” said Kishore, adding that after several years, political stability returned to the state in 2014 and is continuing thereafter. “BJP shouldn’t try to destabilise a popularly-elected government in the interest of the state as it will push Jharkhand to uncertainty again, which will not be in the interest of the people at large,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/introspect-on-loss-dont-try-to-destabilise-govt-rjd-tells-bjp/articleshow/78993710.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||Introspect on loss, don’t try to destabilise Jharkhand govt, RJD tells BJP||RANCHI: The state unit of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), which is a part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, on Sunday warned BJP of any attempt to destabilise the “popularly-elected government” in the state. Addressing a press conference, RJD’s senior leader Radha Krishna Kishore and others, said, “BJP’s recent statements of toppling the current government in the next two-three months exposes that it is hatching a conspiracy to do so. But the government is strong enough to resist any such attempts by power-hungry BJP. It proves BJP’s lust for power,” he said. “We advise BJP to introspect why they lost the polls than to resort to any political misadventures,” said Kishore, adding that after several years, political stability returned to the state in 2014 and is continuing thereafter. “BJP shouldn’t try to destabilise a popularly-elected government in the interest of the state as it will push Jharkhand to uncertainty again, which will not be in the interest of the people at large,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/introspect-on-loss-dont-try-to-destabilise-govt-rjd-tells-bjp/articleshow/78988982.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Jamshedpur||326 new Covid cases, 1 death in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported 326 fresh Covid cases and one death from Simdega, taking the toll in the district to five and 885 in the state. The number of recovered cases, which stood at 398, surpassed the fresh cases during the day. The state has now a cumulative caseload of 1,02,087, of which 5,229 are active and 95,973 have recovered. Only a few districts, including Ranchi, reported a spike in the new cases. Of the total cases on Sunday, Ranchi reported 95, Bokaro 47 and Dhanbad detected 42 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/326-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-state/articleshow/78993764.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||Jagarnath Mahato to undergo lung transplant soon||RANCHI: Ailing state education minister Jagarnath Mahato, who is currently admitted at Mahatma Gandhi Research Institute (MGRI) in Chennai and being treated for Covid infection, will soon undergo lung transplantation, doctors at the hospital said on Sunday. Mahato was airlifted to Chennai on October 19 from a private hospital here after his condition deteriorated. His lungs were extensively damaged after he tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28, the doctors said. Since his condition is critical, he was airlifted by putting him on Extra Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) treatment. A team of medical experts from the Chennai hospital came to Ranchi to assist the doctors here for the shifting. Mahto continues to be admitted at the hospital’s ECMO ICU. Talking to TOI, clinical director of lung transplant, pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine, MGRI, Chennai, Dr Apar Jindal said, “Mahato is currently admitted at our ECMO ICU and has been tracheostomised and is doing good. Apart from his lungs, all other organs are working fine and his vital parameters are within the normal range. Since his lungs aren’t showing good signs of recovery yet, he has been listed for a transplant and we are awaiting cross-matching for organ allocation.” According to other doctors at the hospital, the decision for Mahato’s lung transplant was taken after his CT scans and pathological findings did not show any improvement. Mahato’s family members have also given their assent for the transplant, after which the registration was done. Confirming the development, Mahato’s son Akhilesh, who accompanied his father to Chennai in a special air ambulance, said, “Based on reports and discussions with doctors, we gave our assent for the lung transplant a week ago and the registration process has started.” According to MGM hospital sources, now that Mahato has been listed for an organ transplant, the doctors are waiting for a brain dead patient whose lungs can cross-match with his so that they can start the process at the earliest. Notably, Mahato was admitted to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on September 28 itself and was shifted to Medica on October 1 after his condition did not improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jagarnath-to-undergo-lung-transplant-soon/articleshow/78988817.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||Tribal organisation wants Adivasi code, but opposes use of ‘Sarna’||RANCHI: At a time when the JMM-led state government is gearing up to send a proposal to the Centre favouring the adoption of a separate Sarna code in the census, sections of the tribal community in Jharkhand have decided to oppose the move. Chief minister Hemant Soren had only recently said that his government would convene a special session of the assembly to adopt the proposal. The chief minister’s announcement was read in political circles as a bid to retain his party’s tribal voter bank in the run up to the upcoming bypolls in Bermo and Dumka. The members of Rashtriya Adivasi Dharma Samanvay Samity (National Tribal Religion Coordination Committee), which represents around 32 tribal communities, held a meeting on the issue presided over by former speaker of Bihar assembly Devendra Champia on Sunday. The chairperson of All India Tribal Development Council and a former state minister, Geetashri Oroan, and the president of Adivasi Jan Parishad, Prem Shahi Munda, also attended the meeting. It was decided in the meeting that the committee will oppose the state government’s proposal at the national level. “The Union home ministry has rejected the proposal for Sarna Code once and so even if the state government sends a proposal to that effect now it would immediately be rejected by the Centre,” Munda said. He added that since the registrar general for census has already rejected the Sarna Code, pushing for the same proposal is nothing but an eye wash. Munda said the term, Sarna, is used for describing the place of worship of the Oraon tribe and so there is no logic in using it for all tribal communities. “Sarna is particular to the Oraon tribe only. Mundas call their religious place ‘Jaher’ and Santhals call it ‘Jaherthan’. And no religion is known by its place of worship. For example, Hindu is the name of the community and the religion and their place of worship is a temple. Similarly, Islam is the name of the religion that Muslims follow and its place of worship is a mosque. Then how can all the tribals be identified with the Oraon tribe’s place of worship,” he added. He further said, “The tribal population of the entire country stands at 12 crore, which includes more than 700 tribes of different kinds. For instance, the Bheel community of Rajasthan has a population of two crore and it has nothing to do with Sarna. We should instead opt for Adivasi religious code or else most of the other tribal communities will feel left out.” The committee members have adopted a five-fold resolution, as part of which they will hold a national conference of tribal communities in Ranchi on November 8 in which a consensus for a tribal religious code will be drawn. The committee members will then handover a representation to governor Draupadi Murmu, demanding a tribal religious code. They said the organisation will also stage dharnas in every district from November 5 to 14 and hand over a proposal to chief minister Hemant Soren, asking him to send a proposal to the Centre for adopting a tribal religious code. The committee also decided to hold a massive tribal rally to press for a uniform religious code for the tribals on February 21 next year at Morhabadi ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tribal-org-wants-adivasi-code-but-opposes-use-of-sarna/articleshow/78989248.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||326 new Covid cases, 1 death in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported 326 fresh Covid cases and one death from Simdega, taking the toll in the district to five and 885 in the state. The number of recovered cases, which stood at 398, surpassed the fresh cases during the day. The state has now a cumulative caseload of 1,02,087, of which 5,229 are active and 95,973 have recovered. Only a few districts, including Ranchi, reported a spike in the new cases. Of the total cases on Sunday, Ranchi reported 95, Bokaro 47 and Dhanbad detected 42 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/326-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-state/articleshow/78988955.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 2, 2020||Goa||MP native stabbed to death at Calangute||Calangute: A man from Madhya Pradesh (MP) was stabbed to death at Calangute on Saturday evening. Santosh Gautam, 46, who was residing at Calangute, was allegedly stabbed following a drunken quarrel with some acquaintances. Calangute police said the accused has still not been traced, but have registered an offence of murder against unidentified persons. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mp-native-stabbed-to-death-at-calangute/articleshow/78989185.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||Dumka, Bermo bypoll campaigns end, 48-hour silence period begins||RANCHI: The high-pitched campaigns for Tuesday’s bypolls in Dumka and Bermo came to an end at 5pm on Sunday, signalling the start of the silence period till the voting day in both the constituencies. While the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government, which already has 50 MLAs in the 81-member state assembly, is looking at stability in the House, BJP, which has threatened to “topple the government” after the bypolls, is trying to regain its lost ground. Both Dumka and Bermo are legacy seats for the ruling alliance. However, stakes are higher in Dumka, a seat reserved for Scheduled Tribes and considered a stronghold of JMM. Chief minister Hemant Soren’s brother Basant is making his electoral debut from this seat while BJP has pitted its ex-MLA and former minister Lois Marandi, who lost to Hemant in December, against him. Hemant vacated Dumka and retained Barhait, necessitating a bye-election. In Bermo, Congress is banking on Kumar Jaimangal, son of former MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh, who died in May this year. Here, BJP has fielded yet another old warhorse of the party — Yogeshwar Mahto Batul — who, too, lost his seat in the last election. With two days left for the voting, both the camps claimed that the tide is in their favour. JMM’s working president and chief minister Hemant said he is extremely confident for a rerun of the 2019 results. “There is no doubt about the outcome of both the seats. We will win Dumka and Bermo with good margins because of the good works of the government in the last 10 months,” Soren said while speaking to reporters in Dumka before flying back to Ranchi. Hemant had spent days camping in the state’s sub-capital to lead the campaign trail. Congress, on the other hand, took up flash-campaigns by pressing different teams led by its MLAs across Bermo through roadshows and pocket-sized rallies to consolidate its strength. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon held about half-a-dozen small rallies in Bermo as part of his public-connect programme while agriculture minister Badal Patralekh followed suit in Bokaro thermal area. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The results are a foregone conclusion for us. We don’t have any doubts about our victory and all that is to be seen is the winning margin.” Another spokesperson, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, said their focus will now shift towards effective booth management from Monday. “We have appointed booth-level teams and given them tasks to ensure maximum turnout at each booth on the voting day. The key is to strengthen the booth committees through effective coordination so that no glitches occur. Half-a-dozen MLAs and senior party workers have been assigned over clusters to oversee the polling affairs,” he added. Meanwhile, BJP, which is fighting the bypolls with a renewed vigour after bringing back its old allies, Ajsu-P and JD(U) into the NDA fold, is largely banking on the perceived anti-incumbency in the current regime along with the persona of Babulal Marandi, Jharkhand’s first chief minister and its strongest tribal face, to work in its favour. For Marandi, these polls will be a test of his leadership of the BJP's legislative party, a post he was given soon after he returned to the saffron camp. Marandi had vowed never to return to BJP but took a U-turn after over a decade and his “ghar wapasi” took place when he merged his erstwhile JVM-P with BJP. On Sunday, he held roadshows in favour of Lois Marandi in Dalia Masaliya and Dumka to target both urban and rural voters. State BJP president Deepak Prakash said “anti-government sentiments” have already started to creep in because of the lack of governance and lawlessness in the state since the formation of the alliance government. “As we have been saying, this bypolls will decide the future political course in the state. In both the seats, BJP will get a landslide mandate as people are fed up with this government in such a brief period because of the utter lawlessness and the lack of governance,” Prakash claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dumka-bermo-bypoll-campaigns-end-48-hr-silence-period-begins/articleshow/78988941.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM defends FIR against Deepak Prakash||DUMKA: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday defended the FIR filed against state BJP president Deepak Prakash in connection to the latter’s statement that the state government would be toppled in the next couple of months. A formal complaint against Prakash was filed by district Congress president Shyamal Kishore Singh at the Town police station on Saturday. The cops have pressed sedition charges against Prakash along with other sections of the Indian Penal Code. “The statements from the BJP camp regarding the possible toppling of my government point towards a larger conspiracy of horse trading,” Soren said during a press conference at his Khijuriya-based residence on the final day of campaigning for the twin bypolls in Dumka and Bermo. The chief minister added, “Destabilising a democratically-elected government by misusing money is not good for democracy in the country. It is, however, up to the police to investigate the matter and take suitable action.” Soren also said that his government will last the full term. “We are united and shall complete the term,” he said, adding that statements of BJP leaders claiming that his government would fall betray their lust for power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-defends-fir-against-deepak/articleshow/78988861.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 2, 2020||India||Mizoram stays cut off for 5th day||SILCHAR: The economic blockade on NH-306 connecting Silchar with Aizawl entered the fifth day on Sunday, crippling supply of essentials and other commodities to Mizoram from other parts of the country. Police said no truck or other vehicles could leave for Mizoram from the Lailapur inter-state border point on Sunday because of blockade. Truckers from Assam also joined in. They said there was no report of fresh violence in the areas along Assam-Mizoram border. Sources said while the agitators have been demanding withdrawal of Mizo security from Assam areas, truckers have been demanding adequate security inside Mizoram territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mizoram-stays-cut-off-for-5th-day/articleshow/78990047.cms||BB Goswami
November 2, 2020||Noida||Lockdown? But Noida earned Rs 15 crore more in liquor licence fees||NOIDA: The excise department of Gautam Budh Nagar raked in 16% more revenue through liquor licence fees in 2020 than it did last year. Contrary to expectations, businessmen in the district did not mind taking in the plunge into liquor trade despite the pandemic. From Rs 93 crore in 2019, the revenue through licensing fees increased to Rs 108 crore this year. While the excise department officers expected a muted response, the rise in revenues has cheered them up. According to officials, multiple factors — no business in April, weekend lockdowns, restrictions on allowing consumption of liquor inside premises, lower spending and negative market sentiments — could have acted as a deterrent in the business. “Also, the government had increased the licence fees by an average of 15% for 2020-21 fiscal. But, many traders were interested to set up shops in localities that have been developed over the past three to four years in Noida. They were willing to pay extra for obtaining licence since the business potential is quite high,” said excise officer of the district, RB Singh. Instead of March 31, the settlement process to give out the licences was wrapped up by July 22 in four phases and the department compiled its report for the current fiscal year on October 16. To run a country-made liquor shop in Nithari, a businessman shelled out Rs 37 lakh — the highest licence fee set by the department. For English wine shops, the highest fee paid to the department was Rs 92 lakh for a shop in Sector 29. A businessman paid Rs 43 lakh to open a beer shop near Parthala Chowk. The licence fees for model shops jumped up to Rs 1.35 crore since interested individuals have to pay the sum of the highest fee secured for English wine and beer shop. The number of liquor vends in the district has also gone up from 482 to 526. The excise department also carried out more seizures this year. Between April 1 and October 15, 37,000 litre of illegal liquor was seized compared to 25,000 litres between April 1, 2019, and March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/lockdown-but-noida-earned-rs-15cr-more-in-liquor-licence-fees/articleshow/78989266.cms||Shalabh
November 2, 2020||Surat||27% of Gujarat’s cases from Ahmedabad, Surat||AHMEDABAD: While the number of Covid-19 positive cases are constantly falling in Gujarat – the daily tally of 860 on Sunday was the lowest in 116 days –, the decline is primarily recorded in the areas outside of municipal corporations, reveals analysis of the pandemic statistics. In fact, Ahmedabad and Surat – the two major cities of the state — have not recorded a significant drop in daily cases in the past one month. Between August 1 and October 31, the two cities recorded 30,417 positive cases, which is 27% of the 1.11 lakh cases recorded in the state — meaning one in every four cases recorded in Gujarat was from these cities. The share of the eight municipal corporations — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar – have remained almost stagnant with around 50% in the past three months. The share of eight corporations in total cases in August, September and October was 52.4%, 50% and 51.7% respectively. The burden of mortality is also more for the cities — out of total Covid-19 deaths in August, September and October, 63.6%, 59.3% and 67.7% were recorded from the eight cities respectively. Region-wise analysis reveals that in October, 76% of the deaths were recorded from east-central and southern districts of Gujarat. “The phenomenon is not unique to Gujarat,” said a Gandhinagar-based epidemiologist. “Across India, the cases are falling, but the relative burden of disease will still be with the cities due to multiple factors. Comparatively more movement of citizens, densely-populated areas and easily available public transport are some of the factors.” Experts also pointed at the fact that a high number of tests to find new cases are also carried out more in urban areas compared to the rural population. It is possible that many of the asymptomatic cases are not detected due to lack of testing, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/27-of-states-cases-from-abad-surat/articleshow/78994756.cms||Parth Shastri
November 2, 2020||Vadodara||27% of Gujarat’s cases from Ahmedabad, Surat||AHMEDABAD: While the number of Covid-19 positive cases are constantly falling in Gujarat – the daily tally of 860 on Sunday was the lowest in 116 days –, the decline is primarily recorded in the areas outside of municipal corporations, reveals analysis of the pandemic statistics. In fact, Ahmedabad and Surat – the two major cities of the state — have not recorded a significant drop in daily cases in the past one month. Between August 1 and October 31, the two cities recorded 30,417 positive cases, which is 27% of the 1.11 lakh cases recorded in the state — meaning one in every four cases recorded in Gujarat was from these cities. The share of the eight municipal corporations — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar – have remained almost stagnant with around 50% in the past three months. The share of eight corporations in total cases in August, September and October was 52.4%, 50% and 51.7% respectively. The burden of mortality is also more for the cities — out of total Covid-19 deaths in August, September and October, 63.6%, 59.3% and 67.7% were recorded from the eight cities respectively. Region-wise analysis reveals that in October, 76% of the deaths were recorded from east-central and southern districts of Gujarat. “The phenomenon is not unique to Gujarat,” said a Gandhinagar-based epidemiologist. “Across India, the cases are falling, but the relative burden of disease will still be with the cities due to multiple factors. Comparatively more movement of citizens, densely-populated areas and easily available public transport are some of the factors.” Experts also pointed at the fact that a high number of tests to find new cases are also carried out more in urban areas compared to the rural population. It is possible that many of the asymptomatic cases are not detected due to lack of testing, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/27-of-states-cases-from-abad-surat/articleshow/78994753.cms||Parth Shastri
November 2, 2020||Rajkot||27% of Gujarat’s cases from Ahmedabad, Surat||AHMEDABAD: While the number of Covid-19 positive cases are constantly falling in Gujarat – the daily tally of 860 on Sunday was the lowest in 116 days –, the decline is primarily recorded in the areas outside of municipal corporations, reveals analysis of the pandemic statistics. In fact, Ahmedabad and Surat – the two major cities of the state — have not recorded a significant drop in daily cases in the past one month. Between August 1 and October 31, the two cities recorded 30,417 positive cases, which is 27% of the 1.11 lakh cases recorded in the state — meaning one in every four cases recorded in Gujarat was from these cities. The share of the eight municipal corporations — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar – have remained almost stagnant with around 50% in the past three months. The share of eight corporations in total cases in August, September and October was 52.4%, 50% and 51.7% respectively. The burden of mortality is also more for the cities — out of total Covid-19 deaths in August, September and October, 63.6%, 59.3% and 67.7% were recorded from the eight cities respectively. Region-wise analysis reveals that in October, 76% of the deaths were recorded from east-central and southern districts of Gujarat. “The phenomenon is not unique to Gujarat,” said a Gandhinagar-based epidemiologist. “Across India, the cases are falling, but the relative burden of disease will still be with the cities due to multiple factors. Comparatively more movement of citizens, densely-populated areas and easily available public transport are some of the factors.” Experts also pointed at the fact that a high number of tests to find new cases are also carried out more in urban areas compared to the rural population. It is possible that many of the asymptomatic cases are not detected due to lack of testing, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/27-of-states-cases-from-abad-surat/articleshow/78994754.cms||Parth Shastri
November 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||27% of Gujarat’s cases from Ahmedabad, Surat||AHMEDABAD: While the number of Covid-19 positive cases are constantly falling in Gujarat – the daily tally of 860 on Sunday was the lowest in 116 days –, the decline is primarily recorded in the areas outside of municipal corporations, reveals analysis of the pandemic statistics. In fact, Ahmedabad and Surat – the two major cities of the state — have not recorded a significant drop in daily cases in the past one month. Between August 1 and October 31, the two cities recorded 30,417 positive cases, which is 27% of the 1.11 lakh cases recorded in the state — meaning one in every four cases recorded in Gujarat was from these cities. The share of the eight municipal corporations — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar – have remained almost stagnant with around 50% in the past three months. The share of eight corporations in total cases in August, September and October was 52.4%, 50% and 51.7% respectively. The burden of mortality is also more for the cities — out of total Covid-19 deaths in August, September and October, 63.6%, 59.3% and 67.7% were recorded from the eight cities respectively. Region-wise analysis reveals that in October, 76% of the deaths were recorded from east-central and southern districts of Gujarat. “The phenomenon is not unique to Gujarat,” said a Gandhinagar-based epidemiologist. “Across India, the cases are falling, but the relative burden of disease will still be with the cities due to multiple factors. Comparatively more movement of citizens, densely-populated areas and easily available public transport are some of the factors.” Experts also pointed at the fact that a high number of tests to find new cases are also carried out more in urban areas compared to the rural population. It is possible that many of the asymptomatic cases are not detected due to lack of testing, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/27-of-states-cases-from-abad-surat/articleshow/78988373.cms||Parth Shastri
November 2, 2020||India||Religion card? Islam Gymkhana bans rummy||MUMBAI: The 129-year-old sea-facing Islam Gymkhana near Marine Drive, a popular sports hub and centre for socio-cultural activities, is in the eye of a storm after its president Yusuf Abrahni banned rummy and other card games on its premises. Claiming that some members indulged in gambling while playing rummy, Abrahni closed the card room on Friday, which was Eid-e-Milad. The members have alleged that “a very religious” Abrahni is changing the Gymkhana’s “liberal” character and turning it into a “madrassa”. “If Abrahni knew that some members gambled at the Gymkhana, why didn’t he lodge a complaint?” asked Ishtiaq Ali, a member. “It is a club not a madrassa. He should not play the religion card.” Abrahni, a former Congress MLA, said: “We encourage all games and sports, but some members, in the name of playing rummy or cards, gambled. Our records show that there were five guests for one member at the cards room.” “We have added over a dozen games, including tennis, badminton, volleyball, a women’s recreation section, a state-of-the-art gym, jacuzzi, steam bath, sauna bath and spa. Those who say I have turned it into a madrassa should explain which madrassa has spa and steam bath facilities,” he said. But Asif Farooqui, another member, said: “If they want to stop gambling, they should do it. But preventing members, especially sen-ior citizens, from playing cards is wrong.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/religion-card-islam-gymkhana-bans-rummy/articleshow/78990070.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
November 2, 2020||Faridabad||Nikita Tomar murder: What led to violence by agitators in Faridabad||BALLABHGARH: Around 250 protesters seeking “justice” for BCom student Nikita Tomar, who was shot dead by an alleged stalker in Faridabad last week, blocked Mathura Road, set husk on fire and pelted a police team with stones on Sunday morning. At least 10 cops were injured in the stone-pelting as they tried to stop the agitators from disrupting traffic. The protesters were taking part in a mahapanchayat held by Sarv Samaj on a Dussehra ground in Faridabad and headed towards the road as they felt that the mere meeting would not ensure “exemplary punishment” for the accused. On October 26 afternoon, Nikita was shot in the head by Tauseef, the cousin of Congress MLA Aftab Ahmed, after she snubbed his marriage proposal. The mahapanchayat that was organised on the ground had members from both Congress and BJP. Around 900 people participated in the event, including Nikita’s brother Naveen, his two maternal uncles and grandfather. At the panchayat, a memorandum was shared by the organisers who demanded that the case be investigated by the CBI and dubbed the daylight murder an instance of “love jihad”. Halfway into the event, around 250 youths walked out of the venue and marched towards to the Mathura Road. The few cops who were deployed at the gates of the Dussehra grounds could do little to stop the agitators. Rajesh Bhati, one of the oganisers, claimed the protesters who resorted to violence were all “outsiders”. No sooner had the agitators invaded the road, they set bundles of husk on fire and started damaging vehicles that were passing by. Two roadside eateries were also vandalised. When a police team intervened, the protesters hurled stones at them. The police later confirmed that 10 cops were injured. Sharda Rathore, a BJP member who was present at the protest site, accused the police of failing to control the crowd. “The police action was insufficient. Had they wanted, they could have easily prevented the protesters from leaving the panchayat venue itself,” Rathore added. Later in the day, an FIR was registered at Faridabad City police station and 30 people were detained. Nikita’s family said they had nothing to do with the violence,terming the protesters “anti-social elements”. “We had gone to attend the panchayat only as guests. We had nothing to do with the organisation or the events that took place after it,” said Hakim Tomar, the BCom student’s maternal uncle. The case has, however, triggered a political blame game. While Congress functionaries blamed BJP government for alleged inaction in the case, BJP took a shot at Opposition party as the accused is the cousin of Congress legislator from Nuh. “People from within BJP are holding protests. Why can’t they take action despite being in the government? It is a failure of Haryana government,” said Neeraj Sharma, Congress MLA from NIT-Faridabad. Rathore said the case was above politics. “I’m a woman and a daughter first. I demand better safety and security for women across the state,” the BJP functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/nikita-tomar-murder-what-led-to-violence-by-agitators-in-faridabad/articleshow/78988513.cms||Shubhra Pant
November 2, 2020||---||‘Narrative of performance will win over falsehood’||Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has been based in Patna for the NDA campaign and he tells TOI’s Akhilesh Kumar Singh why the Opposition’s attacks on the Bihar government’s track record will not work as the RJD-Congress combine lacks credibility with JD(U)-BJP having delivered good governance. Excerpts from the interview:The first phase of polling is over and reports suggest a close contest between the two alliances. Do you see a challenge to CM Nitish Kumar?Let me straightaway come to the point, does Bihar have electricity in every village? The answer is yes. I campaigned in Bihar and I asked how much time it takes to reach Araria and Purnia from Patna, they say five hours, earlier it used to take 10-12 hours. There are roads, village roads. Now we are bringing optical fibre network to all 45,000 villages, good internet with wifi facility. The point is, what is the narrative? Narrative of performance or narrative of falsehood. And I am quite sure people of Bihar will repose faith in NDA and Nitish Babu. The Covid-19 crisis brought the migrant issue to the fore. Were efforts will be made to help them?I see this in two ways. Any Bihari must be free to earn more in the country, in the area he wishes to earn. For me, it was a day, noted with excitement, that our cooks from Banka are the top cooks for making Hyderabadi biryani. I was amazed to hear that most of the tailors who make jeans in Mumbai and Gujarat are from Supaul and Saharsa. We need to skill more. And I would see that in the larger context that a promising Bihari worker, if he gets better opportunity to earn more, he should have the option. We should create conditions for him to stay in Bihar also. How relevant is NDA’s focus on ‘jungle raj’ given the fact that Nitish has been in power for 15 years?The campaign strategy of RJD answers this question. Why is Tejashwi Yadav reluctant to display photographs of his parents on RJD hoardings and banners. Why? Laluji was CM for 7.5 years and Rabriji for 7.5 years. That too when Bihar and Jharkhand were united. Therefore, you (Tejashwi) are also apprehensive of your legacy. Because the moment they are on display, the overpowering fear or kidnapping for ransom will be there. In the 2005 election, with late Pramod Mahajan, I was campaigning in Bihar. In Nokha, I suffered a gunshot injury. I was seriously injured. This attack was televised nationally for three days but the police took no statement. Only after the Nitish government was elected after two and a half months, someone from Sasaram came to record my statement. Everyone is reacting to the promise on free vaccine. Was it necessary to make it specific for Bihar since it was a national issue? There is a larger issue of conviction. Should healthcare become an issue or not. If Covid-19 is a challenge, free provision is a part of that process. We have tried to make it an issue of priority. If the entire country, all states decide, it is most welcome. Many states have already announced. Even Mr Biden is announcing it in America. You were the lead lawyer for Ram Lalla in Ayodhya case. Will this be a factor in the Bihar elections?In Bihar’s context, this issue is important in the sense that Ram Janmabhoomi construction has started and Congress party’s opposition also keeps on rising from time to time. I was lawyer for Ram Lalla in Allahabad high court where we won. I could not do so in Supreme Court because I was law minister. And I have a great sense of personal fulfilment that I got the privilege to fight the case of Ram Lalla successfully. Bihar is one exception in the Hindi heartland where you still have to rely on alliances. Do you think you have not been able to cultivate a face, a leader and galvanise the party the way it should have been done?There is no dearth of leaders in Bihar. All of us are disciplined party workers and our relationship with Nitish Kumar is not of today, but since the 90s, in the fight against corruption in the Lalu Prasad government. He was a minister in the Vajpayee government. Except an 18-month break for some reasons, we have jointly worked and the BJP respects its allies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/narrative-of-performance-will-win-over-falsehood/articleshow/78990079.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: After 14 yrs, enrolment in govt schools goes up||BENGALURU: Government schools in Karnataka have registered an increase in enrolment after 14 years, said minister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar. About 90,000 students moved from unaided schools to government schools this year. Usually, government schools lose about 1-1.2 lakh students to private schools every year. Speaking at a Rajyotsava event here on Sunday, the minister said, “The government has taken several measures to strengthen its schools. The bilingual — Kannada and English medium on same campus — schools have been established to find solutions for the difficulties our children face in learning in an English-medium school. These schools equip students to learn English in the Kannada environment to face the global competition.” During the pandemic, the poor families are looking up to government schools, he said. The government has introduced NCERT textbooks for I and II PU in Kannada. Other measures to strengthen Kannada include making it mandatory for all schools to teach Kannada as a language. “The government’s stand is that every student in the state must learn Kannada and safeguard his or her existence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-after-14-yrs-enrolment-in-govt-schools-goes-up/articleshow/78990072.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Business||‘Not just signs of economic recovery, but also growth’||Finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey believes that the recent tax numbers point to signs of recovery in the economy. He tells Sidhartha & Rajeev Deshpande that the government has identified certain stressed sectors for possible assistance in the coming months, and rules out the possibility of tweaking tax rates. Excerpts from the interview:Based on tax collections, what is your assessment of the economy? There are some important indicators. The GST collection in October is indicative of the trend that we are recovering and trying to be back on track with 10% growth in this month’s collection. Also, we have the eway bills. There is steady improvement over the last few months. We have not only reached the pre-Covid level but are going into a growth trajectory. In September, e-way bill issuance was 10% higher and it went up to 21% in October. This points to higher production as goods are being produced and transported to consumers. The response to the electronic invoice scheme has been better than what we had anticipated. The economy is not only showing signs of recovery but also showing signs of growth. The Covid numbers have come down but danger of higher infection is still there. So, we have to continue to take precautions. If we have achieved growth in these areas, it does mean that the economy is getting back on a good trajectory. This also means that policy interventions made by the government since March are yielding results and they are in the right direction. There was debate whether enough was done or whether the right choices were made. The interventions have to be need- and time-specific. They have to meet the needs of the deserving segments of the economy and society. The scenario changes from week to week or month to month and so does our interventions. There were demands from sectors like automobiles for tax cuts at the time. Are there some sectors that need help now and is tax cuts the way to do it?This has to be considered carefully. Are such tax cuts going to help the industry or the people? Having reduced corporate tax to among the lowest in the world, it is doubtful if further tax cuts or exemptions will help. Any such tinkering distorts the tax system and makes it complicated. On the GST front, there is a misunderstanding that tinkering with GST rates will help some industry or the other. In March, we removed the inverted duty structure on mobiles and rates rose from 12% to 18%. Did that lead to any reduction in sales? Did prices go up? Similarly, the auto industry is now doing well and a section from the auto industry is speaking against a reduction. We have to give a signal of stability in tax rates. One should not keep on tinkering with tax rates in the name of helping the economy. Is there an assessment of the recovery on the service sector side? Is there a need to support the sector?Certain stressed sectors have been identified. Some suggestions have been received from various industries. Finance minister has said we are open to more action. Stimulus or intervention is not a one-time measure. We are monitoring and if a sector needs help, we will do our best. The approach is sector wise and segment (of the population) we want to help. What is the estimate of the overall shortfall?We did lose significant amount of revenue in the initial months. Now, we have begun to see growth, we expect this to continue. We need to watch for another month or two. We will have a fair estimate when we present the revised estimate. Is there any decision on the Vodafone tax award?The award has been received and it is being examined. We will decide shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/not-just-signs-of-economic-recovery-but-also-growth/articleshow/78990108.cms||Sidhartha
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru women carve out a niche with handmade products||BENGALURU: Harry Potter in knitted jumpers, Spider-Man in woollen vest and Mischievous Minions in crochet trousers. And the popular Rapunzel’s hairy story is told with a hundred tangled yarns. Archana Karthikeyan’s Knitty Knotty Gifts is redefining the ‘creative grandma’s’ traditional craft with a trendy twist. The Jalahalli resident is among a growing tribe of women who offer sustainable alternatives to eco-conscious Bengalureans, and their success is all handmade. Apart from drawing inspiration from popular fictional characters, Archana’s enterprise focuses on creating educational toys that support developmental milestones of children. The idea took root when she was pregnant. The MBA graduate, who worked in the corporate field for a few years, had concerns about the quality of toys available in the market and realised the solution was right at her finger tips. She had mastered knitting and crocheting during her school days and she revisited her passion. “I managed to get toys for my first child from abroad, but it wasn’t a practical solution as they were expensive. I never wanted my kids to lay hands on harmful toys. I knew there would be hundreds of parents facing the same dilemma. I experimented with wood and crochet dolls and was overwhelmed by the response. Many parents placed orders with me,” says Archana. Recognising the complexities arising out of the pandemic, she now makes toys that assist parents in teaching children various concepts, apart from increasing their bonding time by playing together. “They aid in reducing screen time for kids. Also, with many parents switching to home-schooling, we are glad to have the best combination of learning toys in crochet and wood,” she says. Housebound for months, Archana has also started an Instagram influencer marketing programme to support small businesses. “I don’t want any budding entrepreneur to struggle the way I did,” she adds. For Reena Kappen, jewellery is not about all that glitters. Earth Craft is her humble attempt to make this world a more liveable place. The medium she chose, terracotta, suits her quest to blend diversity with artistic sense and helps her create something that carries the eco-friendly message in the most aesthetic way. Each handcrafted piece, dexterously kiln-fired, speaks in its natural tone. “The meeting of earth, air, water and fire makes the ornaments special. For me, it’s a meditative process. Clay has this spontaneous quality; you don’t have to do much, it moulds itself into amazing shapes,” says the Hennur resident, who has been selling ethnic jewellery for the past 20 years. As each creation needed long hours to take shape, she quit her nine-to-five admin job to set up a home studio. Word-of-mouth praise and social media platforms gave a new lease of life to her venture. Suprava Rath’s venture, SSN Hastakala, focuses mainly on home décor, apart from jewellery and hair accessories. “I use clay, wood, foam and cloth. It’s all about people, not machines. Pandemic has been such a disruptive event and it’s the right time to go vocal for local to support small businesses,” she says. After working for corporates and heading business units for a decade, Chanchal Badsiwal realised that her passion lies in setting up an enterprise around Indian traditional art forms. In 2015, she founded Chanchal-Bringing Art to Life with the aim of bridging the gap between current generation’s preferences and age-old heritage forms. The venture sells saris, handbags, laptop bags, dokra jewellery and lifestyle accessories. “I started engaging with the artisan and weavers’ communities in the eastern and southern parts of India and realised how bad their condition was in the hinterlands. Some heritage art forms were already lost. Many weavers had stopped working and artists were struggling to make ends meet; they no longer wanted to teach their craft to their children,” Chanchal says. “The need to revive some of the dying art forms and sustain them for the next generation grew stronger in me.” Fighting the inertia — of a steady job and pay check and established credentials — was not easy, neither was launching the venture. “I faced many challenges as a small bootstrapped business. But as a woman, I feel I’m much more prepared to handle the situations and come up with solutions,” she says. Like all other industries, handloom and handcrafted businesses have also suffered a slump. “We hope to bounce back as demand picks up during the festive season. As the state president of the Karnataka Handloom Council, under the aegis of the Women’s Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, I work to support women in the sector. I interacted with many weavers, NGOs and entrepreneurs and some of them had to shut their operations,” she adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-women-carve-out-a-niche-with-handmade-products/articleshow/78990028.cms||M Ashitha
November 2, 2020||India||HC: Special Marriage Act one of earliest efforts towards UCC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad HC, while issuing an order in a habeas corpus writ petition recently, said it is disconcerting that one should change one’s faith just for the sake of matrimony when two people professing different religions can marry under Special Marriage Act, which is ‘one of the earliest endeavours towards Uniform Civil Code’. The order has come days after another HC judge had observed in another case that religious conversion just for the sake of marriage was not acceptable. Allowing the habeas corpus writ petition filed by Saharanpur’s Pooja alias Zoya, who had converted her religion to marry a Muslim boy, Justice JJ Munir observed, “Though, under the Constitution, a citizen has the right to profess, practise or propagate the religion of his/her choice, but it is disconcerting that in matrimonial matters one party should change his/ her faith to the other’s just for the sake of matrimony and nothing more. Marriage is one thing and religion quite another. If two citizens of India professing different religions wish to marry, it is open to them to do so under the Special Marriage Act, 1954, which is one of the earliest endeavours towards a Uniform Civil Code. This Court does not wish to say anything more.”  In an earlier order, passed on September 23, another HC judge, Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi, while delivering his verdict while disposing a petition filed by a Shamli girl, had observed that religious conversion just for the sake of marriage was not acceptable. The petitioner, Pooja alias Zoya, who had changed her religion to marry Shavez, was produced before the court under police custody as per an earlier order on September 24. When the court asked the petitioner, she said she was a major and wanted to go with her husband Shahwez. She categorically indicated her clear choice to stay with her husband whom she claimed to have married. The court directed Pooja alias Zoya to be set at liberty forthwith and said she is free to stay with whomsoever she wants. The petition said that Pooja had married Shavez on August 5 but her father was against the marriage and had illegally detained his daughter and was not allowing her to live with Shavez. The habeas corpus writ petition was filed challenging her alleged detention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-special-marriage-act-one-of-earliest-efforts-towards-ucc/articleshow/78990146.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Vokkaligas, Kurubas may shape bypoll outcomes||BENGALURU:Multiple factors, including development work and candidates’ profiles, are expected to shape the outcomes of the November 3 bypolls. But parties believe that caste combinations will decide the contests, as they have often in the past. Vokkaligas and Kurubas, in particular, will be closely watched. Vokkaligas form the largest voter group in both assembly constituencies and they tend to have consensus about which candidate they will support as a community. This could make things tough for BJP in Sira, where it doesn’t have a strong support base. It campaigned on the development pitch to woo Sira electors, who have traditionally backed Congress and JD(S). In RR Nagar, BJP is banking on the popularity of N Munirathna, who has represented the segment twice as a Congress candidate. A senior Congress functionary Munirathna won two consecutive elections, 2013 and 2018, because Vokkaligas, Kurubas and OBCs voted for him en bloc. Voting trends may change this time as state Congress president DK Shivakumar, a Vokkaliga, and former chief minister Siddaramaiah, a Kuruba, have campaigned extensively to give Munirathna a tough fight, the functionary added. Congress has fielded 31-year-old H Kusuma, also a Vokkaliga, in RR Nagar. Her impressive educational qualifications and down-to-earth attitude on the campaign trail have appealed to many in the community, especially women. A video of Kusuma performing a ritual at the Rajarajeshwari Temple recently was widely circulated. Some political observers say that despite switching political camps, Munirathna remains a popular figure in RR Nagar, where he is fondly called a ‘worker’, but he faces a tough fight this time. BJP’s Vokkaliga face, deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, has made several trips to the constituency to canvass for Munirathna. He claimed voters would not fall for Congress tricks as they knew development of the constituency was more important than caste. Some BJP functionaries said the party was hoping for consolidation of votes of upper castes, Lingayats, Dalits and OBCs. RR Nagar has a sizeable number of SC voters. In the past, these votes were split among parties. The Congress strategy of focusing on Vokkaligas and Kurubas has faced a challenge from JD(S) patriarch and former prime minister HD Deve Gowda, who has actively campaigned this time. This may indirectly benefit BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vokkaligas-kurubas-may-shape-bypoll-outcomes/articleshow/78990032.cms||---
November 2, 2020||India||Mumbai cops search homes of suspects in TRP scam||MUMBAI: The Mumbai crime branch searched the residences of two suspects, Ashish Choudhary and Abhishek Kolawade, in the TRP manipulation scam over the weekend and recovered laptops, pen drivers and cash amounting to Rs 13.2 lakh. Police said with the help of forensic experts they will retrieve contents from the laptops and pen drives as they may contain incriminating evidence in the ongoing case. Ashish runs a cable distribution company, Crystal Broadcast Private Limited, in Thane, while Kolawade is the owner of Max Media, a social media company. The duo are the 10th and 11th accused to be arrested in the case. They allegedly accepted money from various TV channels to rig their TRPs and fraudulently boost viewership for their shows. The crime branch is probing the role of Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema, News Nation and Maha Movie’s managements in this case for paying households to keep TV sets tuned into their channels in order to inflate their viewership figures, which are a key parameter for media houses in placing advertisements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mumbai-cops-search-homes-of-suspects-in-trp-scam/articleshow/78990154.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Lingayat group suggests CM candidates||BENGALURU: Some prominent members of the Lingayat-Veerashaiva community on Sunday suggested names of politicians whom BJP could consider for the chief minister’s post, if and when BS Yediyurappa decides to step aside. During a debate on Lingayat leadership at a hall, the community group, led by former high court judge Ashok B Hinchigeri, reportedly said Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Jagadish Shettar and Basavaraj Bommai were ideal candidates in the community for the top job after Yediyurappa. The discussion took place amid speculation that the BJP high command is considering a change of guard in Karnataka. Yediyurappa and senior BJP members have rejected these reports. The group behind the discussion involves lawyers, other judges and a few political figures. It said BJP should identify alternatives for future. Justice Hinchigeri and other attendees said the debate was not against Yediyurappa’s leadership or his status in the community. “The purpose of the debate was not to criticise the existing leadership. This is not against any one person or party. We are looking for a broad and inclusive outlook, keeping in mind the future of community leadership,” he added. The group is expected to meet again after two weeks. Spiritual leaders and seers will also be invited. The group has also expressed a desire to see former Congress minister MB Patil in BJP. It alleged that former chief minister Siddaramaiah made Patil a scapegoat in the fallout over the proposal to create separate identities for Lingayats and Veerashaivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lingayat-group-suggests-cm-candidates/articleshow/78990036.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Goa||Immediate precautions help contain virus within households: Doctor||PANAJI: Several families have been able to contain Covid-19 within the household, restricting it to one member of the family only. “These families immediately took precautions and isolated themselves from the positive person in the house,” head of department of preventive and social medicine Dr Jagdish Kakodkar said during a webinar. Since the virus is airborne for up to three hours, the moment someone in the house is positive, the person must be put in a separate bedroom with attached bathroom and toilet, he said, adding that family members must knock on the door and let the person pick up the food. Explaining the importance of family members not sharing the same toilet with the infected person he said the virus is also passed in stools where an invisible cloud containing the virus is formed when one flushes the toilet. He advised those opting for home isolation not to delay in applying online to the collector for permission. “A lot of people self-isolate and follow all precautions but apply to the collector late. Unfortunately, the 17 days period of isolation starts from the day one applies,” he said. Family members of an infected person, who have no symptoms must also get tested, he said. “If they are positive and go about freely, they risk developing complications or serious disease themselves. Apart from worsening their own condition they will be infecting others as well,” he said. Close contacts must test, he said, explaining that these are people who have been without a mask in the presence of an infected person for more than 15 minutes in close proximity. The virus can spread through aerosol, droplet infections when one coughs or sneezes and when the germs fall on the floor and mixes with dust and floats in the air. They can also spread through fomites surfaces we touch or through prolonged close contact within 2m/ 6ft with an infected person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doc-immediate-precautions-help-contain-virus-within-households/articleshow/78989065.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Aam Aadmi party clinic offers free treatment||BENGALURU: The Bengaluru unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday inaugurated a clinic at Basappa Road, Shantinagar, Bengaluru, which seeks to replicate the service delivery model of Delhi Mohalla Clinics. Named after the party, the clinic provides free general primary and preventive healthcare services and will be operational from Monday. Set up by AAP volunteers, the clinic will function on support and donations from volunteers and supporters of the party. The Aam Aadmi Clinic Trust is a nonprofit organization registered in Bengaluru by five party volunteers. Just like Delhi’s Mohalla Clinics, the Aam Aadmi Clinic will provide services such as clinical consultation and medicines including oral antidiabetic, anti-hypertensives, antibiotics, analgesics and others free of cost, besides free diagnostic tests. The clinic will pay for all the tests, but will not charge patients a single paise. Due to the pandemic, general health services have taken a huge hit in the city and AAP seeks to bridge this gap through its clinic. AAP volunteers said they have conducted medical camps in four communities in Shantinagar assembly constituency. “We have treated more than 400 patients through the camps, and during the pandemic, with the help of generous donors, we have been able to supply medicines for patients with chronic diseases,” party workers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-aam-aadmi-party-clinic-offers-free-treatment/articleshow/78990162.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Why invalid postal votes are a concern for parties||BENGALURU: Parties are worried that many postal ballots for the November 3 assembly bypolls may be invalidated because of improper filing and this could become a factor in close contests that are decided by narrow margins. Ensuring voter turnout at polling stations is already a concern because of the pandemic, though there was decent participation in the recent MLC elections. In the Sira assembly constituency, 8,707 voters were eligible for the postal ballot option. Nearly 5,020 selected it and finally, 4,887 voted. In the RR Nagar segment, 512 out of 6,355 eligible voters picked the option. In the end, 225 voted through the facility. People who applied for postal ballots but didn’t finally use them won’t be able to vote at polling stations November 3. There are complaints that voters were not properly taught the steps they needed to follow while filling in postal-ballot paperwork, and as a result, errors have creeped into many forms. Election officials may not consider these forms, invalidating them. “Who will take responsibility for hundreds of votes getting invalid? This could prove costly for candidates, especially if it’s a tight race,” said electoral analyst PG Bhat. Chief electoral officer Sanjiv Kumar said many voters from rural areas had used postal ballots and some forms might not be considered because of mistakes. “We undertook door-to-door campaigns to create awareness among voters,” he said Postal ballots involve a somewhat cumbersome procedure. Voters get two documents: the ballot paper and a declaration form. One must put a stamp against the preferred candidate’s name on the ballot paper and ensure there are no other marks. The filled-in declaration form should be placed in a separate envelope. “At times, voters put their signature on the ballot paper or fold it improperly. They also put forms in the wrong envelopes. All this will lead to invalidity of votes,” Kumar said. Such mistakes can result in postal ballots being declared invalid. “Officials have failed to properly explain the modalities of postal ballots to voters,” alleged JD(S) MLC KA Tippeswamy. Congress said it would formally raise objections if there were a high number of invalid votes. “We will challenge the results in that case,” claimed KM Enjarappa, a Congress functionary who is in charge of the party’s Kallambella taluk unit in Sira. BJP MLC N Ravikumar is confident there won’t be an issue with validity of votes. The Election Commission (EC) had issued a special set of guidelines for the pandemic-era bypolls. Three categories of voters — senior citizens aged above 80, people with disabilities and Covid-19 patients and contacts — were given the postal ballot option. In Sira, 99 Covid-19 patients have voted through the facility. No such ballots have been registered in the RR Nagar segment because local officials decided to change the criteria for the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/why-invalid-postal-votes-are-a-concern-for-parties/articleshow/78990037.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
November 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Margao’s post-Covid clinic sees persistent symptoms||PANAJI: The weekly post-Covid care clinic at Hospicio Hospital, Margao, that opened a fortnight ago has seen around 30 patients over the past two Thursdays. The majority of these Covid long haulers have been patients with co-morbidities and other complications. Those with persistent Covid symptoms of fatigue, cough, fever that continue even after a month have been coming to the clinic. They need medical guidance managing their diabetes and hypertension with the steroids they were taking. Others have reported with chills and even episodes of shivering and fever, and re-appearance of symptoms after recovery. “The clinic aims to treat moderately to severely ill patients who have been discharged, completed 17 days of testing positive, and need care. The rest can visit their nearest health centre as post-Covid clinics are opening at every centre. Many have already begun,” medical superintendent Hospicio Hospital, Dr Deepa Correia said. The clinic operates once a week on Thursdays, between 2pm and 4.30pm, at OPD 12 on the ground floor of Hospicio Hospital. The number of patients is capped at 20 per day through prior appointments made at the registration counter. Patient’s are offered comprehensive treatment by a team of consultants in medicine, pulmonary medicine, a physiotherapist, Ayush doctor and lifestyle consultant. A patient’s X-ray is done and doctors decide whether a CT scan is warranted or not. There is no post-Covid clinic at the new district hospital that has been turned into a Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margaos-post-covid-clinic-sees-persistent-symptoms/articleshow/78989089.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Mumbai||'It is not a madrassa': Mumbai's Islam Gymkhana bans rummy||MUMBAI: The 129-year-old sea-facing Islam Gymkhana near Marine Drive, a popular sports hub and centre for socio-cultural activities, is in the eye of a storm after its president Yusuf Abrahni banned rummy and other card games on its premises. Claiming that some members indulged in gambling while playing rummy, Abrahni closed the card room on Friday, which was Eid-e-Milad or Prophet Muhammad’s birth anniversary. The dissenting members have alleged that “a very religious” Abrahni is changing the gymkhana’s “liberal” character and turning it into a “madrassa”. “If Abrahni knew that some members gambled at the gymkhana, why didn’t he lodge a police complaint?” asked Ishtiaq Ali, a member. “It is a club, not a madrassa. He should not play the religion card.” Which madrassa has jacuzzi, asks Islam Gymkhana prezDefending his decision, Abrahni, also a former Congress MLA, said: “We encourage all games and sports, but some members, in the name of playing rummy or cards, gambled. Our records show that there were five guests for one member at the cards room.” “Ever since I took over as president last year, we have added over a dozen games, including tennis, badminton, volleyball, a women’s recreation section, a modern gym, jacuzzi, steam bath, sauna bath and spa. Those who say I have turned it into a madrassa should explain which madrassa has spa and steam bath facilities,” he said, adding that a swimming pool is in the pipeline and its multi-purpose turf hosts football, volleyball and cricket matches. But Asif Farooqui, another Islam Gymkhana member, said: “If they want to stop gambling, they should do it. But preventing members, especially senior citizens, from playing cards is wrong. It will send a wrong message.” Many non-Muslims are also gymkhana’s members, he added. In the 1890s, the British gave sea-facing plots along Marine Lines to build six gymkhanas to promote sports and games. Parsi, Islam, Hindu, Catholic, Police and Grant Medical College Gymkhanas came up on the plots leased by the city collector. Spread over 3.5 acres or 19,300 sq m, Islam Gymkhana has hosted several cricket matches where legends like Sunil Gavaskar and Sachin Tendulkar have played. The gymkhana team has also produced many Ranji players, said a member of the Mumbai Cricket Association. Islam Gymkhana’s banquet hall and a portion of the ground have hosted several glitzy parties and wedding receptions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-islam-gymkhana-bans-rummy-members-livid/articleshow/78990089.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
November 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: GSM protests reopening of casinos||PANAJI: GSM on Sunday held a protest in Panaji against the state government decision to begin offshore casino operations from November 1. The protesters said the government had not put in place the necessary guidelines to prevent spread of Covid-19. “We condemn the government decision to reopen casinos. Casinos are a threat to Goa’s social and cultural fabric and it is extremely shameful that the state government is supporting the gambling business under the guise of attracting tourists and earning revenue,” GSM’s Nitin Phaldesai said. He said the government was fooling the people as it continues to give extension to casinos to operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsm-protests-reopening-of-casinos/articleshow/78989111.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: With schools closed, tutors fear gaps in pupil learning||BENGALURU:One of the biggest challenges teachers and managements will face when schools reopen is the learning gap in children. The gap, educationists say, will not be in academics alone. It could extend to other skills including emotional, social, communication, cognitive and attitudinal ones as children have missed out on a school environment. From the discipline of getting ready for school to classroom etiquette, physical fitness and peer interaction, children will have plenty to learn and unlearn. “School provides children with exposure and experience with peer groups and mentors,” said Jyothis Mathew, Treamis World School. “Lack of it can lead to motivational and psychological wellbeing challenges, gaps in social, cognitive and emotional intelligence skills and the very basic way of how they even express themselves and their ideas.” Sarada Chandrasekharan, director, Whitefield Global School, said, “In a classroom atmosphere, 95% of issues amongst children never reach teachers, but are resolved by children themselves. But today, if a child is called names on a chat box, s/he does not know how to deal with it. These skills are learnt in a classroom atmosphere. We fear even attentive skills may have dropped because children now have the option of not listening by muting a teacher.” Manila Carvalho of Delhi Public School (East) said school atmosphere inculcates discipline such as waking up early, getting ready for school and attending assembly. “During this period there has been no adherence to a rigid system. They will have to start all over again.” She also pointed out how children have been missing out on the camaraderie that’s built during lunch breaks and games; the system of a student council where young children look up to seniors and find a role model; or management skills of adjusting to a neighbour. Sanaaz R Dous, counselling lead, Inventure Academy concurred: “As much as students love school and are waiting to get back, they have also entered a comfort zone at home due to limited social interactions. Some may have even forgotten what face-toface interactions with peers are like. This is seen more in children who are introverts.” However, there some who have bloomed in online classes — those who are shy by nature or had unpleasant experiences in schools. “There is no robust scientific evidence to predict the long-term consequences of the current gap. However, it is an educated guess that the effect will depend on various factors: Child’s age, temperament, grade, family support, economic support, and social opportunities in the community,” said Thomas Kishore, additional professor of Clinical Psychology, Nimhans. The good news, educationists say, is that children are resilient. They learn and unlearn quickly and would be the fastest to bounce back. “Academic learning can be covered through extra classes,” said Sulata Shenoy, director, Turning Point, a counselling centre. “Schools should focus on helping children close the gap on socio-emotional skills by introducing games, music and other activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-with-schools-closed-tutors-fear-gaps-in-pupil-learning/articleshow/78990172.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
November 2, 2020||Goa||Casinos restart date passes, but no SOPs for industry yet||Panaji: The state government, which said that casinos can begin operating from Sunday, hasn’t yet released its standard operating procedure (SOP) for the industry. The home department said that it hasn’t received any cabinet decision from the general administration department (GDA). A senior official said that the department is simultaneously working on an SOP, so that once the cabinet decision is received, it will be issued. Casino Pride director Srinivas Naik told TOI that he hasn’t received any communication from the state government. “We will wait for the official order and SOP to commence operations,” he said. Last week, the cabinet had decided to allow casinos to resume operations from November 1, but at 50% capacity. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had told reporters that the home department would send SOPs to casino operators. TOI reported that casino operators are keen on starting business in the state, but are apprehensive about viability, considering fewer tourists are coming to Goa due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Casino operators also said they would manage their operations with 50% capacity, as mandated by the state cabinet. “Business will be very low because we don’t know how many people will actually visit casinos. We are a little concerned about that,” said Delta Corp chairman Jaydev Mody. He said the group was thinking of starting business, but that costs are high and it would be difficult to sustain as “we don’t have customers”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/casinos-restart-date-passes-but-no-sops-for-industry-yet/articleshow/78989121.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid cases fall below 200 mark on Sun , 5 deaths reported||PANAJI: Even as Covid-19 positive cases fell below the 200- mark on Sunday, five Covid-related deaths were reported taking the mortality count to 610. A 25-year-old lady from Bicholim died of septic shock six hours after admission at Goa Medical College. She had pulmonary kochs as a comorbidity and developed Covid pneumonia and urosepsis. Two other males from Bicholim, aged 46 and 70, died. The 46-year-old had Adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) a rare genetic condition, combined with compromised immunity and died within 30 minutes of admission due to septic shock after developing Covid pneumonia. The 70-year-old had hypertension and ischemic heart disease and passed away of Covid pneumonia after 25 days of hospitalisation at GMC. A 68-year-old man from Chimbel died of acute coronary syndrome after developing bilateral Covid pneumonia. He had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as a co-morbid condition and died after four days in hospital. A 72-year-old from Mapusa with hypertension died of acute coronary syndrome after developing bilateral Covid pneumonia. He was undergoing treatment at GMC for eight days New Covid infections in the state dipped below the 200-mark, to 142, on Sunday, when testing too dropped to 892. The state last reported daily infections below the 200-mark, on two occasions, a fortnight ago and again over the weekend, when testing slows down. Prior to that, the state saw daily infections drop below 200 only on two days in August. Compared to August and September, when a daily average of 370 and 533 infections were reported, October recorded a daily average of 330 new infections. Currently, the count of active Covid-19 cases in Goa stands at 2,244 with a recovery rate of 93.48%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-cases-fall-below-200-mark-on-sun-5-deaths-reported/articleshow/78989131.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's next Covid peak will be smaller than previous surges: TIFR||MUMBAI: The next peak in Mumbai's Covid graph, if at all, is unlikely to be as damaging or widespread as the May or the September Covid surges, according to scientists from the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Colaba. However, hospitalisations would be much higher if the city opened up completely in the first week of November as against January 1, their studies have projected. Using data available till October 26, the TIFR team says the city would more or less reach ‘herd immunity’ with almost 80% of the slum population and 55% of the non-slum population being exposed to the virus by January 2021. Having studied the percentage of population infected by the virus in three wards across Mumbai, it said the increase in cases about a week or two after Diwali would appear like a “bump” in comparison to previous peaks. “Even if there is an increase in intermingling for Diwali of the same order we saw for Ganpati, corresponding increase in infections will be lesser,” said Dr Sandeep Juneja, dean of TIFR's School of Technology and Computer Science. This is because more Mumbaikars have been exposed to the SARS-CoV-2-causing Covid-19 now than in August-end when the Ganpati festival ended. “More people are likely to have developed some kind of immunity,'' he said. New projections were developed for both November and January assuming the economy and local trains are fully opened. Reopening schools and colleges in January 2021 would not majorly increase hospitalisations, the team said. “Our key observation is the second wave of hospitalisations and critical cases would be substantially higher with the November 1 opening as compared to the January 1 opening,’’ said Dr Juneja. Hospitalisations could jump from 2,300-3,200 a day with the November 1 loosening of restrictions while it would be between 200 and 2,000 a day if it is January 1. The November 1 opening could lead to 20-30 fatalities a day, while the corresponding number for January 1 would be 4-20 a day. TIFR has been working with BMC on sero studies to find the prevalence of Covid-19 in three civic wards. A July study found 57% in slums and 16% in non-slums had antibodies as against 42% and 18% in August (though dip in proportion infected was likely due to fast declining antibodies). Based on a simulation model and data from the first sero survey, the team recommended a blueprint on gradual unlocking of trains and offices till November to reduce the impact of Covid. The TIFR paper also looked at effect of vaccination on Covid's tally and toll. “One scenario we worked out was that if 13.1 lakh people over 60 years of age are given the Covid-19 vaccine if it becomes available in February 2021, assuming that it is 100% effective, it will reduce mortality by over 50% in the six months thereafter,” said Dr Ramprasad Saptharishi from TIFR’s computer science department. Hospitalisations, including critical cases, will reduce by estimated 40% from around 8,840 to 5,340 in the six months following the February vaccination. If 29.3 lakh people over 50 years in Greater Mumbai are vaccinated on February 1, number of fatalities thereafter will drop by estimated 64%. “Around 950 deaths as per today's calculations would reduce to 340 in the next 6 months,” said Juneja. Hospitalisations will reduce by an estimated 67% over a six-month period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mums-next-covid-peak-will-be-smaller-than-previous-surges-tifr/articleshow/78990180.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Goa||New app to promote women’s businesses||Panaji: Go-womania, a women’s organisation is launching its first e-commerce app — Goenkart — touted as, made by women for women. Available on Google Play, the mobile app will be launched today by chief minister Pramod Sawant. The app will list eatables, clothing, home decor and also consultancy services by women doctors, financial advisers and lawyers. Go-womania has been offering a platform since the past three years to various women who operate their businesses as self-help-groups and start-ups to market their produce. “Digital marketing is the biggest opportunity that people can get. Until now we were active on Facebook but through this app, the access to the products and services is available at the tap of a button,” said Dr Sneha Bhagwat, one of the partners of the app. “Every woman therefore has a chance to promote their product or agency through this platform. The ladies have been listed as vendors on this app. The user will be able to see the vendor on and provide feedback about the product or services. Women who have all their licenses in place have been marked as ‘verified’ on the app,” Bhagwat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-app-to-promote-womens-businesses/articleshow/78989162.cms||Nida Sayed
November 2, 2020||Goa||Body of 16-yr-old boy found at Surla||Bicholim: Police on Sunday retrieved the body of a 16-year-old youth from a cashew plantation at Surla. Police said the deceased, hailing from Barajan-Surla had been missing for two days. The boy was a SSC student. The body was handed over to his relatives after a post mortem was conducted at the GMC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/body-of-16-yr-old-boy-found-at-surla/articleshow/78989168.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||Didi-GJM meet on Tue, all eyes on Hills future||Darjeeling/ Kalimpong: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s meeting with Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leaders Binoy Tamang and Anit Thapa on Tuesday is being seen by Hills people as an attempt at reconciliation between the two rival GJM factions, the other led by Bimal Gurung. Thapa is the present chairman of GTA (Gorkhaland Territorial Administration) and Tamang is the GJM president. A senior Nabanna official said the CM agreed to have a dialogue with GJM’s Tamang faction so that differences with Gurung can be ironed out and various issues discussed for development of the Hills before the 2021 assembly polls. Amir Basnet, a GJM youth leader, described Tuesday’s meeting to be the second one in recent times, the earlier one being attended by Tamang and Thapa when the CM was at Uttarkanya in Siliguri in September-end. The Tamang group has been organising rallies against Gurung, who was on the run for three years since September 2017 before he surfaced in Kolkata on October 21. Gurung shifted allegiance from BJP as the party did not help in reaching his goal of Gorkhaland. Promising all support to TMC, he expressed his desire to see Mamata Banerjee win as CM for the third term in a row. A Tamang sympathiser said: “Gurung has several pending cases, including UAPA charges, for grenade attack on Kalimpong police station and is still on the wanted list of police.” On Sunday, the Tamang faction clarified that it will not shake hands with Gurung, who earlier headed GTA — an autonomous body formed in August 2012. Keshavraj Pokhrel, spokesperson for the Tamang group, said: “We assure Hills people that we will not share dais with Bimal Gurung. We will convey it to the Bengal government.” Pokhrel said, “A week ago, Tamang and Thapa were invited for talks on how peace and tranquillity can be maintained and to discuss current political situation of north Bengal. In 2017, we distanced ourselves from Gurung for his policies. He absconded during the agitation and GJM supporters were jailed or forced to run away. We will not allow disturbances again.” Bhuwan Khanal, another GJM leader of Tamang group from Kalimpong, said, “We hope that the CM will bring a solution for lasting peace and prosperity in the Hills.” Suva Pradhan, general secretary of Gurung faction, refused to comment. “Only time will tell what will happen,” Pradhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-gjm-meet-on-tue-all-eyes-on-hills-future/articleshow/78989235.cms||Deep Gazmer
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||Female Covid fatality rate dips below 1.5% in Bengal||KOLKATA: The female Covid case fatality rate (CFR) in Bengal, initially higher than the male CFR, has registered a sharp drop and stayed below the 1.5% mark for about two weeks, even as the male CFR has consistently remained above 2%. This could be because of better hygiene practices among women, greater mobility among men and more men getting tested, felt experts. The CFR is the ratio of total number of Covid deaths to the total number of cases, expressed as a percentage. Till the first week of July, Covid had claimed more women than men in the state. Since then, it has shown a steady decline, falling below the 1.5% mark since October 17, and it has stayed that way. In end-March, a 44-year-old Kalimpong woman died in North Bengal Medical College — the second reported Covid death in Bengal, the first woman to have died of the disease. For the next two-and-a-half-months, Covid fatalities were higher in women. Since then, the women’s CFR has seen a sharp downward curve. On June 8, it was 5.4%, more than the male CFR, which was at 4.4%. On July 2, the male-female CFR rates were the same, at 3.5%. Four days later, on July 6, it slid below the male CFR for the first time. The female CFR on July 6 was 3.3%, while it was 3.4% for males. This slide continued. The female CFR slid below the 3% mark on July 13 and on July 31, it slid below the 2% mark. Since October 17, the female CFR has stabilised at 1.4% but the male CFR has stayed above 2% since July 30. Bengal’s CFR stands at 1.8%. “Pinpointing the specific reasons requires detailed study,” said Bandana Sen, director-professor, All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health. “Lower female CFR due to Covid than males has been reported in several international publications. Immediately, two reasons can be cited: one, lesser mobility among women than men; second, better hygiene practices among women.”Whether other factors are responsible requires more statistical data, Sen said. “But the trend is noticeable,” she added. Sanjukta Dutta, head of emergency medicine, Fortis Hospital, said: “It is a fact that we are getting more male Covid patients than females in emergency. This could explain the lower female CFR now. The reversal of the male-female CFR happened when the strict lockdown measures started to ease in Bengal, which may have led to higher male mobility.” Rahul Jain, internal medicine consultant, Belle Vue Clinic, felt more men were getting tested, treated, and diagnosed than women. “Hence, the number of male fatalities, being recorded, is also higher. The figures could be different in rural and urban areas. In the former, women have less access to health facilities,” he said. A detailed study conducted by the state health department on Covid deaths in Bengal shows that while hypertension, diabetes, cardiac ailments, kidney ailments and COPD have proven to be the most fatal in Covid patients, it has impacted men and women with Covid with varying intensity. Among those who have died with Covid, 28% women had hypertension and 24.4% of them had diabetes. In males, these numbers have been lower (25.8% and 22.8%). Men had reported a higher percentage of kidney ailments and COPD than women as the underlying comorbidity in Covid deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/female-cov-fatality-rate-dips-below-1-5-in-bengal/articleshow/78989406.cms||Saibal Sen
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||Shibu, Basant and Hemant not registered voters in Dumka: Babulal Marandi||DUMKA: On the final day of campaigning for the twin bypolls on Tuesday, BJP leader and Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi held roadshows in the urban pockets of Dumka constituency on Tuesday as a last-minute effort to give an edge to party candidate Lois Marandi against JMM and Mahagathbandhan nominee Basant Soren. The fight for Dumka, which is considered as a traditional stronghold of JMM, will be a prestigious one for both BJP and JMM. For the saffron party, a win in Dumka will put it back in prominence and earn a name for Babulal, who is leading the party in the assembly after rejoining it recently. In 2019, Lois, who was then a minister, lost to incumbent chief minister Hemant Soren by a huge margin. The onus is now on Babulal and other party stalwarts to wrest the seat back from JMM. Addressing his supporters, he said, "None of the family members of the JMM candidate, including his father and party chief Shibu Soren, brother and chief minister Hemant Soren will be casting their votes in the bypoll as they are not registered here. So why should the local electorates vote for him?" Babulal, who won the Dumka parliamentary seat twice in the past before becoming Jharkhand's first chief minister in 2000, led the 5-km roadshow accompanied by Lois and scores of party workers in the Rasikpur locality here. Talking to TOI, senior BJP functionary Pintu Agrawal said, "The roadshow was a grand success given the huge turnout. We are now hopeful of a grand victory in Dumka this time." He added, "The ruling alliance may not have acknowledged Babulal ji as the leader of opposition in the assembly, but the Mahagathbandhan knows that he still has enormous clout among the tribal voters in Dumka and often targets him during their campaigns." Bimlesh Tudu, a college student who took part in the rally, claimed, "No doubt JMM chief Shibu Soren is still recognised as the most influential tribal leader in Santhal Pargana and elsewhere in the state but the fact that Babulal ji walked the extra mile in the interest of tribals and other indigenous people of the state is still dear to many. He had stepped down from the chief minister in early 2000s showing his commitment to the tribals." Babulal also held another roadshow at Dalahi in Masaliya in the afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/shibu-basant-and-hemant-not-registered-voters-in-dumka-babulal/articleshow/78987659.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand BJP president stands by his ‘will topple govt’ claims, dares GA to arrest him||RANCHI: A day after an FIR was filed against state BJP president Deepak Prakash in Dumka for repeatedly claiming in all his campaigns that the saffron party “will topple the government” after the bypolls, Prakash on Sunday said he stood by his statement and dared the ruling Mahagathbandhan constituents to arrest him. Prakash, at an election rally on Friday, had said that the current government would be replaced by a new one in the next couple of months although the ruling coalition of JMM-Congress-RJD has 50 MLAs in the current 79-member assembly. “In the next two months, a new government formed and it will be led by none other than BJP,” he had said. In the FIR, several sections, including sedition, were slapped against him by Dumka district Congress president Shyamal Kishore Singh. On Sunday, Prakash said, “I am ready to court arrest and let me inform them (Mahagathbandhan) that I will be in Ranchi till 10am on Monday and tour the city. In the afternoon, I’ll leave for Delhi for a day and return on November 3.” Invoking nationalism, Prakash said, “If being a BJP worker, who chants Vande Mataram and Bharat Mata Ki Jai, amounts to sedition, then so be it.” The BJP leader reiterated that the JMM-Congress-RJD government will not last more than a few months. “I will stick to my statement that it (government) is going to fall in the next few months. Just wait and watch. It will fall because of its own MLAs, the majority of whom are disgruntled with the current regime and are unable to find any voice or space for themselves. Except those who are holding ministerial portfolios, all others are unhappy that their concerns about their constituencies are neither being heard by the government nor by any other official. The fall of this government is just a matter of time,” Prakash said. He also took a dig at the government for “misusing” sedition charges and accused it of adopting dual standards. “On one hand, it favours the release of Stan Swamy, who was recently arrested by NIA for anti-national activities and attempts to plot an assassination on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on the other hand, JMM has filed a sedition case against a BJP worker. But we don’t fear going to jail,” he claimed. Meanwhile, JMM dubbed BJP’s “change of guard” chorus during the campaigning for the upcoming Dumka and Bermo bye-election as a symbol of its helplessness to create confusion among voters. On Saturday, the tribal party’s general secretary, Supriyo Bhattacharya had said, “Unfortunately, BJP succeeded in toppling the democratically-elected governments elsewhere in the country by exercising its money power, but it won’t succeed here in Jharkhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-bjp-prez-stands-by-his-will-topple-govt-claims-dares-ga-to-arrest-him/articleshow/78987553.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh: 3 fraudsters held for duping youths with Army job promises||RAMGARH: Following military intelligence inputs, a police team in coordination with military officials, on Saturday arrested three persons, including a jewellery trader of Ramgarh, for cheating youths with the false promise of getting them a job in the Indian Army. Ramgarh SP Prabhat Kumar said jeweller Manish Kataria, owner of Katariya Jewellers, and two middleman from a tea shop were arrested. The duo allegedly counselled youths arriving from Punjab and Jammu and promised them jobs in the Indian Army. Youths from various villages in Punjab and Jammu are arriving at the garrison town of Ramgarh to appear for the recruitment test to be conducted by Punjab Regimental Centre (PRC) in Ramgarh on Sunday. Police said that conmen are targeting youths at the new bus stand as those coming to Ramgarh are putting up at lodges near the bus stand. Army officials informed the district police headquarters after inputs were received from military intelligence about the fraudsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-fraudsters-held-for-duping-youths-with-army-job-promises/articleshow/78987441.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||Nadia man found hanging from tree sparks political row||Kalyani: A 37-year-old man was found hanging from a tree at Gayeshpur in Nadia on Sunday morning, triggering a political slugfest. Bijay Shil’s family members claimed he was murdered. BJP, which claimed the deceased was a party member, pointed a finger at Trinamool and called a 12-hour bandh in Kalyani on Monday. Residents noticed the body hanging from a tree in ward 4 of Gayeshpur Municipality and informed police. Shil was identified as a local and his body sent for autopsy; a case of unnatural death was registered. “We have sent the body for post-mortem examination and have initiated a probe following the unnatural death,” a police officer said. Shil’s nephew Bappa, who is vice-president of Gayeshpur town BJP Yuva Morcha, said: “He was a victim of political rivalry. Uncle had left Trinamool before the Lok Sabha election. Later, he started actively working for BJP. Trinamool supporters have killed him.” BJP workers staged a protest in front of the Kalyani police station. Shil’s family, however, said he was not associated with any political party. “None of us is into politics. He was seen with local political leaders. But those were casual chitchat,” a family member said. Trinamool leader Mahua Moitra tweeted a video in which Shil’s family members were seen claiming he had a good rapport with each political party but was never close to any. Refuting BJP’s allegation, Trinamool claimed Shil had committed suicide. “He was into addictions and locals are aware of that. He committed suicide and there is no Trinamool connection to the incident,” said municipality chairman Maran Kumar Dey of Trinamool. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh lashed out at the administration. “There is mockery in the name of democracy in West Bengal now. A man was killed and hung from a tree. Now, they are claiming he committed suicide. It is a nexus of police and criminals,” he said. BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy claimed Shil was murdered. “The pattern remains the same. This time it is in Gayeshpur constituency, Nadia. Law and order in Bengal has totally gone awry,” he said. Roy has drawn governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s attention to the incident. BJP Mahila Morcha leader Agnimitra Paul and local MLA Subhrangshu Roy rushed to the spot to meet Shil’s family. BJP’s Jagannath Sarkar was attacked by suspected Trinamool supporters after he had met the deceased’s family members. A wounded BJP worker succumbed to injuries at Kalyani JNM Hospital on Sunday, sparking protests in Bhatpara, North 24 Parganas. Party supporters agitated in front of the Bhatpara police station, demanding immediate arrest of culprits. Birendra Shaw (44), of Kankinara’s Gali no. 11, was rushed to hospital on October 23 with chest, head and back injuries after a group of youths attacked him in front of his house. “Shaw was an active BJP supporter in Bhatpara-Kankinara area. TMC-backed goons had threatened him with dire consequences several times,” said BJP state vice-president Arjun Singh. Bhatpara’s senior Trinamool leader Somenath Shyam said Shaw was a victim of gang feud. “The victim had a criminal past. None of our Trinamool supporters is involved in the attack.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nadia-man-found-hanging-from-tree-sparks-political-row/articleshow/78989241.cms||Ashis Poddar
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||Guv, TMC at loggerheads over comment on Gurung||Siliguri: Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday claimed that Bimal Gurung was a threat to democracy and questioned the “neutrality” of the Darjeeling district magistrate and police superintendent, inviting sharp reactions from the Trinamool. State tourism minister Gautam Deb asked the governor to step down as constitutional head before starting to speak for a political party. Dhankhar arrived in Siliguri by train from Kolkata on Saturday and left for Darjeeling on Sunday morning. He will be in Darjeeling the whole of November and leave for Kolkata on December 1. Speaking to reporters at the state guest house in Siliguri, Dhankhar dubbed Gurung as a threat to democracy. Shrugging away questions on Gurung’s earlier proximity with BJP. Dhankhar said: “Putting a complaint in the right office solves the problem, while asking for a solution in the wrong door does not help.” But the governor trained his guns on the Darjeeling district administration more. “Why are public servants working as frontline political workers? I will appeal to the Darjeeling district magistrate and police superintendent to work as public servants and be politically neutral instead of the bureaucracy that is politically orientated.” Deb condemned the statement. “The governor is speaking like a party spokesperson. The governor has to understand his position of holding office as a constitutional head and maintain his dignity. The way he has commented on the SP and DM of Darjeeling is quite condemnable. The governor should resign from the constitutional post and hit the streets and project a party as he is doing now,” Deb said. TMC’s Rajya Sabha MP Santa Chettri said, “This is purely a political statement. It is against the dignity of the position he holds.” Trinamool Lok Sabha MP Saugata Roy said, “These irrelevant and unnecessary st-atements in these now-daily press conferences do not behove the positions he holds.” State BJP president Dilip Ghosh told reporters in Midnapore: “Bimal Gurung was close to chief minister Mamata Banerjee once and used to address her as Mother of the Hills. But he had to remain absconding for three years after that. What had suddenly prompted him to seek shelter from the government? People in the Hills suffered in the Gurung and TMC tussle.” (With inputs from Sujay Khanra in Midnapore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guv-tmc-at-loggerheads-over-comment-on-gurung/articleshow/78989249.cms||Roshan Gupta
November 2, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip scotches talk on TMC minister’s defection||Midnapore: State BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday said he wasn’t aware of any Trinamool Congress minister who had expressed his willingness to defect to BJP. Ghosh was responding to questions on senior TMC minister Suvendu Adhikari gradually distancing himself from the party. “I am not aware of any minister, but several MLAs have envisaged their interest,” he claimed. Ghosh said there was no joining ceremony planned during Union home minister Amit Shah’s November 5 rally in Bankura, but mass-joining programmes have been planned in West and East Midnapore. One such programme, incidentally, has been planned in Tamluk on November 8. Ghosh’s statements came on a day when TMC supporters put up social media posts saying “Amra Didi’r Anugami” (We are Didi’s followers) in an apparent bid to counter a campaign by Adhikari’s followers who say they are “Dada’r Anugami”. Speaking specifically on Adhikari, Ghosh evaded a direct reply and said: “He is a leader and a minister. We in the opposition are trying to form our own party and contest the assembly elections. They will decide what they will do with their party.” Adhikari is likely to convene a large rally in Nandigram on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-scotches-talk-on-tmc-ministers-defection/articleshow/78989355.cms||Sujay Khanra
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Special police unit to take care of drug and liquor||RANCHI: Ranchi Police has recently appointed an inspector-rank official as the nodal officer for issues related to drug trafficking and the illicit liquor trade. The appointment was made following directions from the state police headquarters. Ranchi police said the new appointment will help take time-bound action against people involved in drug trafficking as well as sale and manufacture of illicit liquor. Talking to TOI, Ranchi SSP Surendra Kumar Jha said: “We have appointed two inspector-rank officials to rein in the drug menace and crimes against women. These officers are responsible for collecting information, conducting raids and booking the culprits at the earliest as per law. We have already issued WhatsApp numbers for the common citizens and requested them to provide information to police if they have any information regarding the drug and liquor trade. The identity of the informers would be kept secret.” Jha added: “We have seized opium and ganja from several places and action against the culprits has been initiated at the respective police stations. For the next seven days, all station in-charges have been asked to co-ordinate with the nodal officer and exchange information regarding the contraband and illicit liquor trade so that the offenders could be nab at the earliest.” Meanwhile, police have also planned awareness campaigns to protect youngsters from drug traffickers. “We have planned webinars for students as well as parents to create awareness against the use of contrabands. For rural areas, we are roping in sahiyas and rozgar sewaks to spread the message among the masses,” Jha said. When contacted, the nodal officer for drive against drugs and illicit liquor, John Murmu, said: “We have destroyed several illegal hooch brewing facilities. We are collecting information on people involved in the drug trade.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/special-police-unit-to-take-care-of-drug-and-liquor/articleshow/78987433.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 2, 2020||Ranchi||Sanitization teams to tag along with sector magistrates to Bermo poll booths||BOKARO: The district administration here will send sanitisation teams to each of the polling station along with sector magistrates deployed for  duty to ensure compliance of Covid-19 safety norms during polling on November 3 in the Bermo assembly constituency. Officials said that all sector magistrates have been given training and poll officials have been apprised on ways to identify suspected infected voters to make them vote only during the final one hour of the voting day. There are 51 sector magistrates on duty across 468 polling booths. Of these, 100 fall in the hypersensitive areas while 255 come under sensitive areas. District election officer cum Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said all sector magistrates and police have been asked to be flexible and courteous to voters. “Focus is to ensure Covid norms are adhered to and also no legitimate voter is devoid of a chance to cast his/her vote,” Singh said. Chas SDO Shashiprakash Singh said circles are being put up at six feet distance at polling booths to ensure social distancing during voting. Bermo election officer Anant Kumar said that the total number of voters in the constituency is 3,12,212, of which 1,64,194 are male and 14,8017 are women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sanitization-teams-to-tag-along-with-sector-magistrates-to-bermo-poll-booths/articleshow/78987686.cms||Divy Khare
November 2, 2020||World||Sean Connery’s widow reveals he had dementia||LONDON: Iconic British actor Sean Connery, who has died at the age of 90, suffered from dementia in his final years, his widow Micheline Roquebrune revealed on Sunday. Connery passed away at his home in the Bahamas. He died peacefully in his sleep surrounded by family members, his widow Micheline Roquebrune told Mail on Sunday. “I was with him all the time and he just slipped away,” the 91-year-old said. “He had dementia and it took its toll on him. He got his final wish to slip away without any fuss. It was no life for him. He was not able to express himself latterly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/sean-connerys-widow-reveals-he-had-dementia/articleshow/78990187.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru clinic to treat mask scars||BENGALURU: GVG Invivo, a private hospital in Bengaluru, on Sunday launched a ‘scar clinic’ to treat those who have recovered from Covid-19 for mask scars. The scars are primarily caused by patients wearing non-invasive ventilator (NIV) masks. Hospital authorities claimed it is the first such clinic in the country. Due to a steady surge in Covid-19 cases in the past few months, the hospital, which specialises in anti-ageing care, became a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. Now that the number of Covid-19 cases is falling, the hospital has decided to set up a clinic to treat masks scars as a part of its post-Covid recovery treatment. Dr Gunasekar Vuppalapati, chief plastic surgeon, CMD, GVG Invivo Hospital, said, “When we were treating Covid-19 patients, we observed that though they were cured of the disease, many patients were going home with pressure scars and were finding it hard to manage by themselves. The only aim is to help people manage scars caused by NIV pressure sores.” He said this was especially true of people with sensitive skin and Fitzpatrick skin type 3 to 6. “These patients had more problems than others as scars on their skin would lead to a condition called post inflammatory hyperpigmentation (PIH), where scars get darker than usual. Such cases need professional attention and mustn’t be neglected as it affects one’s looks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-clinic-to-treat-mask-scars/articleshow/78990182.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Only half the number of interstate buses to run||NEW DELHI: After seven months, the three interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) in the city are finally ready to reopen, with safety measures in place to fight both Covid-19 and deteriorating air quality. Social distancing measures will mean halving interstate bus operations and, due to the alarming pollution situation, only buses of 2015- or later-make will be allowed to enter the ISBTs. Delhi Disaster Management Authority, on October 23, allowed Delhi’s three ISBTs to reopen and the transport department has prepared a standard operating procedure. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot will hold a meeting on Monday where the date for reopening will be decided, said a source. On a daily basis, 3,467 buses from other states used to arrive at the three ISBTs at Kashmere Gate (1,636), Anand Vihar (1,210) and Sarai Kale Khan (621). Most buses — 1,519 — are run by Uttar Pradesh, followed by 757 by Haryana and 313 by Uttarakhand. Delhi Transport Corporation doesn’t operate any interstate bus as its entire fleet runs on CNG, which is not easily available in other states. The number of buses from each state will be limited to 50% of the Pre-Covid count till November 15. The buses will have to produce a certificate of sanitisation at the place of origin for getting entry into Delhi’s ISBTs. In case any passenger or bus staffer develops Covid symptoms, officials of Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (DTIDC), which manages the ISBTs, will have to be informed immediately. Wearing face masks at all times will be mandatory for everybody and only passengers found asymptomatic will be allowed inside ISBTs. In case of any doubt, passengers will have to undergo a rapid antigen or RT-PCR test at special camps set up at the ISBTs. Passengers can also get voluntarily tested in these camps. Social distancing will be followed on the premises and passengers will have to use alternate bench seats in the waiting areas. DTIDC will ensure thermal scanning of bus drivers, conductors, helpers etc and sanitisation of every vehicle before departure from the ISBTs. No standing passenger will be allowed. In view of the alarming pollution situation in Delhi, other states will be advised not to send any bus built before 2015. As these buses run on diesel and petrol, the cutoff age of buses may be gradually reduced and DTIDC ultimately plans to allow only CNG, electric and BS-VI vehicles. Transport authorities and bus operators will be advised to start preparing at the earliest for the shift.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-only-half-the-number-of-interstate-buses-to-run/articleshow/78990190.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 2, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Starting today, free testing for Covid-19 at 244 centres||MUMBAI: The BMC will provide free testing for Covid-19 at 244 more locations across the city from Monday. Citizens can call up the local ward war room or 1916. Alternatively, they can also check online for details of the nearest testing centre. This will take the number of free testing centres in the city to over 300. Initially this facility will be available on a walk-in basis from 10 am to noon in various civic dispensaries and hospitals in all 24 civic wards. Each ward is expected to have about 10 centres to enable easy access to testing. This is in addition to the nearly 54 private laboratories that currently offer Covid-19 tests, including home services. Testing facilities are being ramped up to ensure timely detection and treatment as the ongoing festive season is seen as a super-spreader. There was a spike in cases after the Ganesh festival and with further easing of lockdown, including more people being allowed to travel by suburban trains, there is fear of a second peak. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), BMC, said November and December are crucial months on account of Diwali and winter. “World over there is a warning of a surge in cases on account of winter. We do not have a severe winter, but we need to be careful. None of the Covid centres will be shut down for the next two months. With December being holiday season as well, we want to ensure we are prepared,” he said. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state task force for Covid-19, said there has neither been a drastic increase in deaths in Mumbai nor a drastic decline in positive cases. “This has led to a complaint that Mumbai has not tested adequately. The BMC is now implementing the Korean/Chinese model of testing kiosks everywhere which is a very valid approach,” he said, adding this may also help break the fear and stigma associated with the disease and encourage citizens to get tested. Dr Joshi said the city will also witness reverse migrations. “People will be coming from colder regions of the country which makes Mumbai more vulnerable,” he said. The BMC in a press release said at some places it will provide for RT-PCR tests, while antigen tests will be offered at other locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-starting-today-free-testing-for-covid-19-at-244-centres/articleshow/78990202.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Metro may spur housing demand on K’pura Rd||BENGALURU: With the Kanakapura Road (Yelachenahalli-Anjanapura) section of Namma Metro likely to be operational November-end, the real estate sector is expected to get a boost. Real estate consultants say Metro connectivity to Kanakapura Road is likely to push up housing demand, especially among those looking for affordable options on the city’s outskirts. “Kanakapura Road has an advantage as it houses premium educational institutions, is near IT hubs and connects to both Outer Ring Road and NICE Road. “The extended work-from-home option is encouraging people to invest in Kanakapura Road as it offers properties at affordable prices. Metro will improve connectivity to various IT hubs,” said E Jayashree Kurup, head content & advisory, magicbricks.com. Sonu Abhinandan, VP and business head, Quikr Real-Estate, said: “Kanakapura Road has witnessed a 40% year-on-year increase in interest to search for real-estate properties in September 2020. This could be because the area has more to offer in the residential segment; 12 apartment projects were launched in 2019-20 with 2,600 units. Kanakapura Road is close to the city and yet far from traffic and pollution, thus serving as an ideal location for residential realty.” In addition to premium projects, many governmentapproved plots are also available in the area, that too at a lower cost when compared to north Bengaluru, added Kurup. “Banashankari 6th Stage, which is near Gubbalala, Kaggalipura and Anjanapura can be termed major real estate hotspots. Kanakapura Road also offers accessibility to IT hubs of Electronics City, ORR, Sarjapur Road and Bidadi Industrial Area,” she said. There’s more demand for 2BHK and 3BHK rentals on Kanakapura Road, say representatives of online property firms. “The prices usually range from Rs 11,500 to Rs 16,000 per month for 2BHKs and Rs 17,500 to 22,000 for 3BHKs. This makes the locality affordable,” said Abhinandan. “Since, a majority of professionals are working from home, the inclination to own a house has increased. Many are willing to spend a couple of thousands extra each month on EMI and get a property of their own. As their preference has shifted from densely populated core areas to well-connected pockets on the outskirts, which will ensure ease of travel once offices resume, Kanakapura Road has gained popularity,” said Maneesh Upadhyaya, chief business officer, 99acres.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-metro-may-spur-housing-demand-on-kpura-rd/articleshow/78990224.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 2, 2020||Business||CIL posts 25% jump in Oct coal offtake||Kolkata: In a clear signal to a possible revival of demand, Maharatna coal behemoth Coal India (CIL) has witnessed a 25% surge in coal offtake in October this year compared to the same period last fiscal. The coal off-take was 50.5 million tonne (MT) in October this year. This represents a volume increase of 10.1 MT compared to 40.4 MT that the company supplied in the year-ago month. All the subsidiary companies of CIL recorded growth in supplies. Sustaining the growth momentum, CIL produced 46.8 MT of coal in October, a 18.7% jump compared to 39.5 MT produced in the same period last year. The increase in absolute terms was 7.4 MT. With its production impeded by the Covid-induced slowdown during the first four months of the present fiscal, CIL started logging positive growth from August on a monthly basis. “For the first time, CIL posted a positive growth for the year at 0.9% ending October. Production during April-October, 2020, was 282.9 MT, which is 2.5 MT more than what was produced during the same period last year. Though the progressive growth in output was nominal, importantly we could wipe off the negative trend and now look forward to consolidating the positive pattern for the rest of the fiscal,” said a senior official of the company. CIL officials pointed out that as the country’s core sector output contraction narrowed sharply to 0.8% in September, 2020, growth in the coal sector was 21.2%, the highest among all the eight core sector industries, compared to the same month last year. “CIL’s contribution was sizeable in this,” added an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cil-posts-25-jump-in-oct-coal-offtake/articleshow/78989314.cms||---
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Safety enforcement takes a hit in poll-bound RR Nagar||BENGALURU: Twenty massive political rallies, where social distancing and mask rules were flouted with impunity, were held in bypoll bound RR Nagar assembly constituency during the week ending October 30, yet the zone under which the segment falls has reported a meagre 690 Covid-19 safety violations during the period. Top political functionaries across party lines have held rallies, drawing massive crowds, in the constituency which goes to the polls on Tuesday. The zone had 5,260 active cases as on October 30 and reported 1,282 new Covid cases and 12 deaths over the preceding week. The positivity rate in the zone in the last 14 days has remained at 5.6%. Yet, the number of violations has been far fewer compared to other zones and this has not been lost on citizens. Jnanesh, a resident of RR Nagar, said that though rules are the same for all, BBMP marshals are not going after politicians and their followers. “Marshals target only the poor and powerless,” he said. City police commissioner Kamal Pant, however, said his force has booked multiple cases in RR Nagar zone. R Vishal, BBMP’s zonal coordinator for Covid-19, RR Nagar zone, admitted enforcement has fallen in his jurisdiction. “After electioneering commenced, police became very busy with security and BBMP marshals in the area were also given various tasks,” he said. “This was a setback in enforcement, but in order to prevent the spread, we are focusing on testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-safety-enforcement-takes-a-hit-in-poll-bound-rr-nagar/articleshow/78990263.cms||Kiran Parashar
November 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Gold paste worth Rs 83 lakh found inside flyer’s clothes||BENGALURU: A passenger, who tried to slip in over 1.6kg of gold worth Rs 83 lakh in the form of paste by hiding it in specially stitched compartments inside his clothes, landed in custody of Bangalore Customs on Saturday. Harichandra, 45, a resident of Kodagu, had arrived at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on Etihad Airways flight EY216 from Abu Dhabi. Officials intercepted Harichandra and questioned him to ascertain if he had flown to the Gulf on October 14 from Kannur in Kerala and had returned to Bengaluru. When he gave an unsatisfactory reply on his purpose of visit to the Gulf, investigators frisked him to find something strange about his trousers. They found that he had hidden gold paste in a specially crafted clothing portion of the inner-waist area. Further examination revealed more gold paste in his undergarments. The melted gold paste weighed 1,640 grams and is estimated to be worth Rs 83 lakh in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-gold-paste-worth-83-lakh-found-inside-flyers-clothes/articleshow/78990269.cms||Petlee Peter
