November 3, 2020||Mysuru||Swami and Friends are soon headed to the Malgudi Museum||MYSURU: A tribute museum to the iconic novel and television series Malgudi Days would be incomplete without its primary characters — Swami and Friends. Mysuru-based sculptor Arun Yogiraj’s most recent art work takes care of that. Arun has created life-size models of the popular characters, which will be displayed at the Malgudi Museum at the Arasalu Railway Station in Shivamogga. Arun was contracted by Southern Railways for this work. “It’s a great pleasure to recreate characters that have been an integral part of our childhood. During the lockdown, the series was re-telecast, bringing it to a whole new set of audience, as well as old fans. Watching it again allowed me to study the characteristics and features of each of them carefully and reproduce as statues. Of course, I also used still photographs from the show for reference,” says Arun, who created the statues first in clay and then in fibre with natural colours. As an artiste, the creation challenged Arun, as he has to represent a set of children in a way that their characteristics and physical features were captured perfectly. Earlier, Arun had created a life-size model of the popular cartoon character The Common Man, which was initially intended for the Malgudi Museum, but was eventually established at the Railway Museum in Mysuru. (With input from: Sridhar VG)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/swami-and-friends-are-soon-headed-to-the-malgudi-museum/articleshow/79001937.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Business||Ex-RBI governors warn of NPAs delaying recovery||MUMBAI: Domestic banks, which have the highest bad loan pile in the world, pose a huge risk to the recovery of the pandemic-ravaged economy unless the government rescues them, four former Reserve Bank governors warn in a soon-to-be-released book. While Raghuram Rajan blames excessive investments by companies and the exuberance of bankers, coupled with inability to act fast as the prime causes for NPAs (Non-Performing Assets), Yaga Venugopal Reddy opines that the bad loans are not only a problem but a consequence of other problems. Duvvuri Subbarao sees NPAs as a big and real problem that needs to be contained, and Chakravarthy Rangarajan blames the lingering real sector problems, partly policy-driven most recently seen with demonetisation, aggravated the crisis. "Yes, the bad loan problem is big and real," says Subbarao, who was the governor for five years from September 2008 to September 2013, in the book by senior journalist Tamal Bandyopadhyay titled 'Pandemonium: The Great Indian Banking Tragedy'. The author has interviewed the four former governors for the book that will soon be launched by Roli Books. And all of them say what is also big and real is the fiscal constraints of the government, pointing to its very weak finances crippled by the pandemic. State-run banks are in bad shape despite getting Rs 2.6 lakh crore in fresh capital in the past few years alone. But the government could set aside only a paltry Rs 20,000 crore for recapitalisation this year as its finances are scuppered, as against what many analysts peg at $13 billion (around Rs 1 lakh crore). According to the latest RBI data, gross NPAs may scale past 12.5 per cent by March -- the highest in two decades -- as the pandemic has put a great strain on the financial sector. "In a way, fiscal problem spills over into banking and then financial sector problem with a feedback loop into the real economy," warns Reddy, who was the governor during 2003-08. "In brief, NPAs are not only a problem but a consequence of other problems," he explains and points to the unplanned and controversial decision note ban in November 2016 cancelling over 76 per cent of the currency in circulation overnight. "The continuance of real sector problems, partly policy-driven in the most recent period such as demonetisation, has aggravated the banking situation," says Rangarajan, who steered the RBI from December 1992 to November 1997. According to him, the note ban was "an economic crisis". Though these past governors differ on how the pile of bad loans came to be created and what needs to be done to prevent a recurrence, all of them are on the same page when it comes to consolidation, governance and government ownership of banks. All of them also agree that consolidation is no panacea for the banking sector's ills, and that governance is the elephant in the room and the government must pare down its stake in state-run banks. Rajan who steered the banking sector through the taper tantrums for three years from September 2013 and waged a pitched battle against NPAs, lists excessive investments by corporations and exuberance by banks, coupled with the slowdown as the prime cause of NPAs and says the inability to act fast also contributed to the pains. The solution, according to Rajan, is timely recognition of bad loans, recapitalisation and focus on governance. Subbarao traces NPA problem to high-growth years before the 2008 global financial crisis, continued through it and even afterwards. "At least one of the causes of the bad loan problem is the extraordinary liquidity infusion after the collapse of Lehman Brothers," says Subbarao and readily shares the blame for this and also liberally credits Rajan and Urjit Patel for arresting the problem and preventing it from exploding into a crisis. Reddy also blames the forced lending for the trouble. When the pressure on banks increased both for social banking and infrastructure banking, credit growth for working capital was choked. Bank credit has not been expanding after the 2015–16 asset quality review but the economy has been expanding. Someone was providing money to replace bank credit. In the first round, it was mutual funds; in the next round, the NBFCs. This way, the NPA problem spilled over from banks to mutual funds and, finally, the NBFCs, says Reddy but does not find any problem with the government ownership per se but he is concerned with behaviour of the owner. On the ownership of banks, Reddy says the problem is how the owner behaves and how much they own per se. "My limited point is that what ails the banking system does not lie only in the banking system; it is, to some extent, a reflection of the economic, political and social system, in particular, government departments and public enterprises," says Reddy. Rajan also says there was a strong incentive for them to kick the can down the road by evergreening the loans. The net result was bad loans festered, piled up and reached explosive proportions. "I think there are many reasons but what happened can really be attributed to quite a few things. One, what Alan Greenspan referred to as irrational exuberance. We were coming after a time in 2007–08 when lots of investments had been made and they had paid off. That is the time when generally banks make mistakes," he says. "It was basically a story of more lending as well as less equity. I think the promoters saw an opportunity to essentially reduce their equity stake by sometimes even borrowing the equity they were putting in. These were very thinly capitalised ventures. And, there was a lot of exuberance. "The second issue was the slowdown, both in terms of the economic slowdown (the years after 2007–08 were much worse in terms of economic growth) as well as the slowdown in government clearances. "Put all this together and you have the beginnings of the crisis," Rajan concludes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ex-rbi-governors-warn-of-npas-delaying-recovery/articleshow/79007502.cms||---
November 3, 2020||World||US presidential elections headed for a tight finish: Polls||WASHINGTON: The US presidential race is headed for a tight finish with the margin between US President Donald Trump and his Democratic rival Joe Biden shrinking, particularly in key battle ground states, latest opinion polls indicated on Monday on the eve of the elections. Biden, 77, was leading Trump, 74, in the key battle ground states by 2.9 percentage points, which comes within margin of error, according to Real Clear Politics which maintains an average of major opinion polls. Biden's lead has shrunk over the last few days, as Trump and his family have virtually carpet bombed the key battle ground states, including as many as 15 rallies by the president. The first family along with Vice President Mike Pence have collectively held more than 40 rallies in the last three days of the election. Biden, his running mate Senator Kamala Harris, along with the former president Barack Obama too have ramped up their public appearances in the last few days, but its no where matching to that of the Trump campaign. On the eve of the election, Biden was in Ohio, while Obama was campaigning in Florida. Harris was in Pennsylvania. Trump was holding five rallies in five key battleground States – North Carolina, Florida, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan. Nationally, Trump as per Real Clear Politics on an average was trailing by 6.5 percentage points against Biden. Till a few days ago, Biden's lead was around eight percentage points. On Monday both the Trump and Biden Campaigns exuded confidence of winning the race on Tuesday night. A majority of the mainstream media, however, said Monday that Trump has an uphill task to win the elections, given that he continues to trail in polls in key States like Pennsylvania, Florida, Michigan, Arizona and Wisconsin. A few outlets are saying that Texas, which has traditionally remained a GOP bastion is also in play this year. Trump supporters argue that poll do not reflect the ground realities and like the 2016, the president would win the election with much stronger mandate. Nate Silver from the important FiveThirtyEight.Com on Monday said that Trump has about 10 percent chance of winning the elections. Notably, he had gone wrong in 2016. “As in 2016, Trump could potentially benefit from the Electoral College. Projected margins in the tipping-point states are considerably tighter than the margins in the national popular vote. More specifically, Joe Biden's lead in Pennsylvania — the most likely tipping-point state, according to our forecast — is solid but not spectacular: about 5 points in our polling average,” Silver wrote. Nate Silver said that if Biden wins the popular vote by 2 to 3 percentage points, the Electoral College is roughly a toss-up. But if Biden wins the popular vote by less than 2 points, Trump is a fairly heavy favourite to win the election, he wrote. “Even popular vote margins of up to 6 points are not entirely safe for Biden if his votes are distributed in exactly the wrong way. So you can see why an 8- or 9-point lead in the popular vote shouldn't make Biden feel that secure; despite being a landslide margin, it's also only a few points removed from the inflection point where the Electoral College starts to become competitive,” he argued. According to The New York Times, if the polls are right, Joe Biden could post the most decisive victory in a presidential election in three and a half decades, surpassing Bill Clinton's win in 1996. “That's a big “if.”,” it said. “The indelible memory of 2016's polling misfire, when Donald J. Trump trailed in virtually every pre-election poll and yet swept the battleground states and won the Electoral College, has hovered over the 2020 campaign. Mr. Biden's unusually persistent lead has done little to dispel questions about whether the polls could be off again,” said the daily. “President Trump needs a very large polling error to have a hope of winning the White House. Joe Biden would win even if polls were off by as much as they were in 2016,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections-headed-for-a-tight-finish-polls/articleshow/79007526.cms||---
November 3, 2020||World||US presidential elections headed for a tight finish: Polls||WASHINGTON: The US presidential race is headed for a tight finish with the margin between US President Donald Trump and his Democratic rival Joe Biden shrinking, particularly in key battle ground states, latest opinion polls indicated on Monday on the eve of the elections. Biden, 77, was leading Trump, 74, in the key battle ground states by 2.9 percentage points, which comes within margin of error, according to Real Clear Politics which maintains an average of major opinion polls. Biden's lead has shrunk over the last few days, as Trump and his family have virtually carpet bombed the key battle ground states, including as many as 15 rallies by the president. The first family along with Vice President Mike Pence have collectively held more than 40 rallies in the last three days of the election. Biden, his running mate Senator Kamala Harris, along with the former president Barack Obama too have ramped up their public appearances in the last few days, but its no where matching to that of the Trump campaign. On the eve of the election, Biden was in Ohio, while Obama was campaigning in Florida. Harris was in Pennsylvania. Trump was holding five rallies in five key battleground States – North Carolina, Florida, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan. Nationally, Trump as per Real Clear Politics on an average was trailing by 6.5 percentage points against Biden. Till a few days ago, Biden's lead was around eight percentage points. On Monday both the Trump and Biden Campaigns exuded confidence of winning the race on Tuesday night. A majority of the mainstream media, however, said Monday that Trump has an uphill task to win the elections, given that he continues to trail in polls in key States like Pennsylvania, Florida, Michigan, Arizona and Wisconsin. A few outlets are saying that Texas, which has traditionally remained a GOP bastion is also in play this year. Trump supporters argue that poll do not reflect the ground realities and like the 2016, the president would win the election with much stronger mandate. Nate Silver from the important FiveThirtyEight.Com on Monday said that Trump has about 10 percent chance of winning the elections. Notably, he had gone wrong in 2016. “As in 2016, Trump could potentially benefit from the Electoral College. Projected margins in the tipping-point states are considerably tighter than the margins in the national popular vote. More specifically, Joe Biden's lead in Pennsylvania — the most likely tipping-point state, according to our forecast — is solid but not spectacular: about 5 points in our polling average,” Silver wrote. Nate Silver said that if Biden wins the popular vote by 2 to 3 percentage points, the Electoral College is roughly a toss-up. But if Biden wins the popular vote by less than 2 points, Trump is a fairly heavy favourite to win the election, he wrote. “Even popular vote margins of up to 6 points are not entirely safe for Biden if his votes are distributed in exactly the wrong way. So you can see why an 8- or 9-point lead in the popular vote shouldn't make Biden feel that secure; despite being a landslide margin, it's also only a few points removed from the inflection point where the Electoral College starts to become competitive,” he argued. According to The New York Times, if the polls are right, Joe Biden could post the most decisive victory in a presidential election in three and a half decades, surpassing Bill Clinton's win in 1996. “That's a big “if.”,” it said. “The indelible memory of 2016's polling misfire, when Donald J. Trump trailed in virtually every pre-election poll and yet swept the battleground states and won the Electoral College, has hovered over the 2020 campaign. Mr. Biden's unusually persistent lead has done little to dispel questions about whether the polls could be off again,” said the daily. “President Trump needs a very large polling error to have a hope of winning the White House. Joe Biden would win even if polls were off by as much as they were in 2016,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/us-presidential-elections-headed-for-a-tight-finish-polls/articleshow/79007306.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Business||Message from economic data steadily positive: Nirmala Sitharaman||NEW DELHI: A positive message is being conveyed by the spate of economic data pointing to a rebound, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday, but asserted that sustaining the numbers in the months ahead will lend certainty to the recovery. "All this gives the hope that it is sustaining, but, on a note of caution, I will still say I wish sooner we can get on firmer ground and talk with a lot more certainty," Sitharaman told TOI in an interview. Read AlsoIndustry is resetting to be competitive: Nirmala SitharamanAs a most unusual year comes to an end, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is confident that the government’s interventions to revive the economy are working and says reforms will continue with a strong focus on infrastructure.While the minister acknowledged that inflation is always a concern, she said the smallest of supply disruptions accentuates the problem. "Only systemic reforms, better storage, better preservation of perishable goods can help, on which we are working." Asked about her priorities for the next Budget, the FM said focus on infrastructure and reforms will be among the key issues. Sitharaman said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with top global investors on Thursday will serve as a major catalytic point. "Once money goes into infrastructure, it has a very strong multiplier in boosting the economy," Sitharaman said while detailing that investors can choose from 7,000 projects identified under the National Infrastructure Pipeline. Read AlsoSigns of rebound? Factory growth at decade-high; GST, auto, diesel sales riseIndia's manufacturing activity expanded at its fastest pace in over a decade in October, indicating recovery in economic activity, a survey showed on Monday. The reading was the highest since May 2010 &amp; above the 50-level separating growth from contraction for the third straight month. For the firstModi’s top advisers and experts have suggested that focus on ramping up infrastructure can spur economic activity. She also said that Indian businesses were resetting their business models amid the Covid-19 pandemic and have realised that competitiveness could help open more doors to global markets, where some companies had vacated space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/message-from-economic-data-steadily-positive-nirmala-sitharaman/articleshow/79008887.cms||---
November 3, 2020||India||Delhi 1 of only 2 states to show increase in cases in past 14 days||NEW DELHI: Delhi is one of only two states in the country, the other being Mizoram, where Covid-19 cases have shown an increase over the past two weeks as compared with the previous 14 days. During these two weeks (October 18-November 1), Kerala emerged as the Covid-19 capital of the country, logging the highest number of fresh infections, even though the pandemic actually showed a decline as compared with the previous 14 days in the state. Delhi recorded 59,199 new cases in the last two weeks (October 18-November 1), the third highest count in the country. More significantly, the capital bucked the nationwide trend of decreasing numbers. Cases rose by 45% in Delhi as compared with the previous two weeks when 40,611 infections were recorded. Nationally, cases fell by 30% between the two periods, falling from 9,11,758 during October 4-18, to 6,35,963. The only other state which saw a rise in numbers was Mizoram, where the difference in cases was just 370. Kerala became the only state, apart from Maharashtra, to log the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases during any two-week period since the pandemic's outbreak in March. The state recorded 93,249 in the past two weeks, higher than Maharashtra's count of 82,410. Interestingly, the case count in Kerala had actually fallen by 17% from 111,953 infections reported in the previous two weeks. However, Maharashtra saw a much steeper fall of 44% after having recorded 147,712 cases during October 4-18. Meanwhile, 37,374 fresh cases were recorded in the country on Monday. This represented a slight rise from the numbers recorded last Monday (October 26), when 36,604 infections were reported. The rise is significant because the count of new cases had been falling for the last six Mondays, in keeping with the decline trend of the pandemic in the country. This Monday’s numbers could be pointing to a flattening of the Covid-19 curve after a steady fall over the past seven weeks. Mondays are different from other days of the week because cases show a steep fall, due to lower testing and manpower shortage over the weekends. Case rose this Monday, as compared with the last, despite the number of tests conducted in the country on Sunday falling to a five-week low. The number of tests conducted were 8,55,800, as per the covid19india.org website, the lowest since September 27. Death from the virus on Monday stood at 502, a rise from the previous two days when the number was below 500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-1-of-only-2-states-to-show-increase-in-cases-in-past-14-days/articleshow/79009106.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
November 3, 2020||World||Chennai-born Keralite is NZ’s 1st desi minister||KOCHI: Priyanca Radhakrishnan, a first-generation immigrant, became New Zealand’s first-ever Indian-origin minister on Monday after Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern inducted five new ministers into her executive, two weeks after a landslide victory in the country's general election. “Today has been an incredibly special day. I’m feeling a lot of things including an overwhelming sense of privilege to become part of our government,” the 41-year-old Labour Party member said. Radhakrishnan was born in Chennai but her family is from Paravur in Kerala. She went to school in Singapore before moving to New Zealand to further her education. The new minister for diversity, inclusion and ethnic communities comes from an illustrious family in Kerala. Her Left-leaning great-grandfather C R Krishna Pillai, a doctor, had played a major role in shaping the literary and cultural sensibilities of the state. Radhakrishnan was brought up in Singapore, where her father Raman Radhakrishnan worked as an engineer before returning to India to set up his own engineering company and settle in Chennai. “I come from a politically active family; a family that is dedicated to doing their part to make the world a better place. My great-grandfather, Dr C R Krishna Pillai, was involved in Left-wing politics in India and was instrumental in the formation of Kerala, the state of origin of my family,” she had written in 2014. Radhakrishnan has spent her work life advocating on behalf of people whose voices are often unheard – women survivors of domestic violence and migrant workers who have been exploited. First elected to New Zealand’s parliament as a Labour Party representative in 2017, the new minister has also been given charge of the ministry for the community and voluntary sector, and been made associate minister for social development and employment. She had travelled to Kerala twice last year following the death of her mother Usha in February. “The second visit was in July for the final rites of her mother at Chelamattom,” said G K Nair, a grand uncle of Radhakrishnan. Nair, who resides in Chowara near Kalady, said Radhakrishnan owes her political genes to her maternal great-grandfather, who had once contested an election against former Union finance minister T T Krishnamachari. “Her grandfather Ramachandran Pillai was a noted cardiologist,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/chennai-born-keralite-is-nzs-1st-desi-minister/articleshow/79009192.cms||Binu Karunakaran
November 3, 2020||India||Chennai-born Keralite is NZ’s 1st desi minister||KOCHI: Priyanca Radhakrishnan, a first-generation immigrant, became New Zealand’s first-ever Indian-origin minister on Monday after Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern inducted five new ministers into her executive, two weeks after a landslide victory in the country's general election. “Today has been an incredibly special day. I’m feeling a lot of things including an overwhelming sense of privilege to become part of our government,” the 41-year-old Labour Party member said. Radhakrishnan was born in Chennai but her family is from Paravur in Kerala. She went to school in Singapore before moving to New Zealand to further her education. The new minister for diversity, inclusion and ethnic communities comes from an illustrious family in Kerala. Her Left-leaning great-grandfather C R Krishna Pillai, a doctor, had played a major role in shaping the literary and cultural sensibilities of the state. Radhakrishnan was brought up in Singapore, where her father Raman Radhakrishnan worked as an engineer before returning to India to set up his own engineering company and settle in Chennai. “I come from a politically active family; a family that is dedicated to doing their part to make the world a better place. My great-grandfather, Dr C R Krishna Pillai, was involved in Left-wing politics in India and was instrumental in the formation of Kerala, the state of origin of my family,” she had written in 2014. Radhakrishnan has spent her work life advocating on behalf of people whose voices are often unheard – women survivors of domestic violence and migrant workers who have been exploited. First elected to New Zealand’s parliament as a Labour Party representative in 2017, the new minister has also been given charge of the ministry for the community and voluntary sector, and been made associate minister for social development and employment. She had travelled to Kerala twice last year following the death of her mother Usha in February. “The second visit was in July for the final rites of her mother at Chelamattom,” said G K Nair, a grand uncle of Radhakrishnan. Nair, who resides in Chowara near Kalady, said Radhakrishnan owes her political genes to her maternal great-grandfather, who had once contested an election against former Union finance minister T T Krishnamachari. “Her grandfather Ramachandran Pillai was a noted cardiologist,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chennai-born-keralite-is-nzs-1st-desi-minister/articleshow/79009152.cms||Binu Karunakaran
November 3, 2020||India||Timing of Jagan letter against SC judge to CJI is ‘suspect’: AG||NEW DELHI: Attorney general for India K K Venugopal on Monday said Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy and his principal advisor, Ajeya Kallam, displayed “contumacious” conduct by writing a letter levelling allegations against Supreme Court’s most senior judge N V Ramana. India’s top law officer said the timing of the CM’s October 6 letter to the CJI was “suspect” since at that time, a Justice Ramana-led bench was dealing with a PIL seeking expeditious trial in criminal cases pending against elected representatives. Over two dozen criminal cases are pending trial against the CM. Venugopal expressed this opinion while responding to a letter written by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay seeking the AG’s consent to initiate contempt proceedings for criminal contempt against Reddy and Kallam. The CM’s advisor had on October 10 held a press conference and circulated the CM’s letter to the CJI among mediapersons. Citing that the CJI was seized of the matter, the AG declined to give consent for initiation of contempt but expressed deep dissatisfaction over the manner in which the letter was written and made public in a press conference. "I am of the opinion that the timing itself of the letter, as well as it being placed in public domain through a press conference, could certainly be said to be suspect, in the background of the order passed by Justice Ramana on September 16 directing pending prosecutions of elected representatives to be taken up and disposed of expeditiously. As you yourself have pointed out, there are 31 criminal cases pending against the chief minister," Venugopal said in his reply to Upadhyay. "In this background, prima facie, the conduct of the said persons (Reddy and Kallam) is contumacious. However, what has to be noted is that the entire case of contempt arises out of the October 6 letter written by the CM directly to the CJI and the subsequent press conference held by Kallam. The CJI is therefore seized of the matter. Hence, it would not be appropriate for me to deal with the matter," the AG added. A day before the Justice Ramana-led bench took steps to expedite long-pending trials in criminal cases against MPs and MLAs, both sitting and former, the Andhra Pradesh government decided to lodge an FIR on September 15 on land allegedly irregularly purchased by his daughters more than five years ago in Amaravati region. The bench comprising Justices Ramana, Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy on September 10 asked the Centre to respond to a new prayer seeking life-time ban on convicted politicians on the same lines as convicted bureaucrats are getting barred from government employment. The SC was informed by amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria that as many as 4,442 criminal cases were pending against former and sitting MPs and MLAs across states. The bench had fixed September 16 for further hearing on the matter. On October 6, the Justice Ramana-led bench sought additional information from high courts to enable passing substantive orders to put long-pending criminal trials back on track. This triggered further reaction in the form of the CM writing a letter to the CJI, followed by a press conference by his aide on the letter making allegations against Justice Ramana and the HC chief justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/timing-of-jagan-letter-against-sc-judge-to-cji-is-suspect-ag/articleshow/79009281.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 3, 2020||Goa||Inside Mollem, a biodiversity paradise fights for survival||MOLLEM: There are more freshwater streams crisscrossing the geographical area of these two villages than there are houses here. The endemic species found here outnumber the villages’ human population, of around 4,000. “The forest cover is so dense that sunlight does not even reach the forest floor in many places,” states the Goa Tourism Development Corporation website. But today, the villages of Mollem and Collem, sitting in Goa’s eastern-most corner, have become the subject of several national and international online petitions, short films, viral songs and memorandums. Read AlsoFears unfounded, projects will take 10-14 years: CabralPANAJI: Nilesh Cabral is fighting a difficult battle. As the power and environment minister, Cabral has taken the lead in trying to defend three contentious projects that have seen a groundswell of opposition across the state. Cabral told TOI that the three projects—double-tracking, four-laning andThe land here, a large part of which is protected as Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary since 1969 and the Mollem National Park from 1978, is making way for three Centre-funded infrastructure projects—two of which have received the National Board of Wildlife’s approval during the lockdown period. In August this year, engineering student Nilesh Suzare’s father returned home with their cattle taken for grazing. What he saw left him numbed. A private forest patch at Sangod had been cleared for construction of the substation for the 400KV Goa-Tanmar power transmission line. This is just the beginning. Over the next few months, Mollem’s protected area itself stands to lose over 20,000 trees. And if trees to be lost from non-protected forest areas in Mollem and Collem are taken into consideration, then the figure just doubles. Mollem’s forest cover is part of a near-contiguous stretch of Western Ghats—one of the eight hottest biodiversity spots in the world—which starts from Gujarat and goes up to Kanyakumari. “These forests of Western Ghats are older than the Himalayas. But when assessing their value during environment assessment, forest officials are only seen enumerating trees. What about the reptiles and so many other species, most of them endemic to the area?” says Mollem resident and botanist Swasha Khandeparkar. Goa State Wildlife Board member Parag Rangnekar is the only one among the board members who has raised objections to permissions granted to the projects, stating that the environment assessment had not truly reflected the impact on biodiversity. With no gram sabha held for sanctioning the project, locals question the state government’s hush-hush move. The construction licence issued by the Mollem panchayat (a copy of which is with TOI) makes no mention of the technical details of the substation at Sangod. Instead, the licence states that along with the power substation, residential units, a pump house and a badminton court will come up in the land. “Rather than ensuring that impact of the project of this ecologically sensitive area is minimised, the authorities have allowed a badminton court as part of the substation. Is this for the benefit of someone from the contractor’s company to come and enjoy here at our cost?” asks Sangod resident and aerospace engineer Krishna Zore. The 240sq km of Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park is full of life, counting among it tigers. The National Tiger Conservation Authority, in its report last year, has recommended that the entire protected area in Goa should be declared a tiger reserve, as it serves as a crucial corridor between Goa and Karnataka’s forests for the big cat. “It is being made to look like by the state officials that those opposing the projects are against development. We are not. We are only asking for sustainable development. We are asking if the project expansion can be considered by minimising the impact on the sensitive ecology at Mollem and Collem as much as possible. The projects will lead to fragmentation of the protected area here into three clean pieces,” says Swasha’s father and senior citizen Saraschandra Khandeparkar. The Mollem protected area also has a significant number of Indian Gaur—Goa’s state animal, the state bird—flame-throated Yellow Bulbul, and the state tree—the crocodile bark tree. So, it came as no surprise when close to 400 scientists, conservationists, academicians, artists and architects, among others, made their concerns known to the Union environment ministry over the past few months. In the absence of gram sabhas, the locals reckon their voices have been silenced. Nilesh says gram sabhas were not held citing the pandemic but a large public gathering was permitted to be held recently, where environment minister Nilesh Cabral and local MLA and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar visited the village seeking to calm the fear against the three projects passing through Mollem. “The fact is that before starting the process for the project, no one even bothered to come here to consult us. It is a joke that the gathering could be held during the pandemic, but the gram sabha cannot,” he says. A forest dwelling community of cowherds, known as dhangars locally, has played a significant part in preserving this ecosystem, says Khandeparkar. But the community now fears access to the streams, which provide safe drinking water to their cattle, will be cut off for them, with the power transmission substation coming in proximity to their settlement. The substation is coming up in a non-protected forest area, but equally dense. The transmission line will come from Dharwad into Goa to meet the state’s future power requirement, projected at 1,192KV by 2022. The freshwater streams in Mollem and Collem feed the rivers that provide water to the Opa water treatment plant, which meets drinking water needs of half of Goa’s population. The forests are also home to the famed three-tiered milky cascade, the Dudhsagar waterfalls. For several Collem locals, the visitors to the falls from October to March are a source of their livelihood. “If the forest is tampered with, the flow of the water may eventually reduce, and this will affect our livelihood. Under the guise of the pandemic, we were permitted by the authorities to operate the jeeps to take tourists to the falls only recently. We fear, if we raise our voice, we may be left without an income today, rather than tomorrow,” says a Collem resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/inside-mollem-a-biodiversity-paradise-fights-for-survival/articleshow/79009587.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 3, 2020||Goa||Fears unfounded, projects will take 10-14 years: Cabral||PANAJI: Nilesh Cabral is fighting a difficult battle. As the power and environment minister, Cabral has taken the lead in trying to defend three contentious projects that have seen a groundswell of opposition across the state. Cabral told TOI that the three projects—double-tracking, four-laning and the 400KV substation—will be developed over 10-14 years and “will not wipe out the tree cover in the protect area overnight”, and all necessary studies were carried out to ensure the environment impact was minimised. “The transmission line is being brought from around the national park,” he said. Cabral said his ministry is in the process of preparing a detailed video on the upcoming projects, which, he promises, will help put to rest any apprehensions about them. He said for the power substation at Sangod, 2,600 trees will be cut, but three times the trees will be planted by the forest department as compensation. But Mollem locals have also raised the issue of a badminton court by clearing a forest patch and Cabral said the plan was as per the norms. “At a substation, you need high-skilled technical persons who will be based there. For this you need residential units to station these persons. Also, the badminton court is as per what is normally provided even when government quarters are built. You need some recreation for them, if they are going to be stationed in an interior area,” said Cabral. Cabral also dismissed allegations that the substation and high transmission line project is coming up only to benefit certain commercial interests and there is no benefit for the local people. “The line will be coming to the Sangod substation and then one line will go to Xeldem and another to Tivim. We are creating a ring feeder mechanism. This is to avoid what happened in Mumbai recently when even the local trains came to a halt due to power disruption. At present, such a thing can happen in Goa as a ring feeding mechanism is not available,” said Cabral. Cabral said contrary to the narrative that locals in Mollem were kept in the dark over the projects coming up in their villages, process of acquiring 1.73 lakh sqm has been completed by paying due compensation for private and private forest land for the 400kv power transmission line and substation project itself. “Where are the Mollem residents getting their power from currently? They are getting it due to an existing line for which land was also acquired at Xeldem. And how many jobs were given there? None. These projects are for the benefit of everyone,” he said. “And nature is resilient. In places where trees were cut for the existing lines, you can now see that nature has blended with it,” said Cabral, who had earlier stated that not all trees are being cut permanently and that the EIAs for the projects also reflect trees whose branches will be pruned for the work. He said the fears are unfounded that the electro-magnetic field due to such a high-tension line and substation can reduce crop productivity or be cancer-causing for humans. “There are 54 substations at present in Goa, these lines too are going over someone’s fields for all these years. There are no reports of crop productivity being affected there or affecting any person. There may be studies about effects of the electro-magnetic field, but these are some studies done by some individuals. It does not mean the findings are accepted by a recognized body. There is no basis for such apprehensions,” said Cabral. He said that the environmental as well as financial costs will be much higher if the high-tension lines are to be laid underground instead of overhead. “Around the world, high tension power lines are coming up overhead itself. Even to lay a small portion underground will cost 40 times more. Besides this, the number of trees that we will need to cut for this will be much higher. Presently, we have diverted the line away from the national park to save the protected area of the national park,” said Cabral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fears-unfounded-projects-will-take-10-14-years-cabral/articleshow/79009653.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 3, 2020||India||Pinarayi: ED and CBI crossing boundaries||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who had initially welcomed the probe by central agencies in the gold case, came down heavily on the ED and the CBI for interfering in state projects like the Life Mission and K-FON. Vijayan on Monday said the agencies were “crossing boundaries”. “No investigating agency has the right to probe the policies and projects carried out by the state government. It is an intrusion into the federal structure of India,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pinarayi-ed-and-cbi-crossing-boundaries/articleshow/79009750.cms||---
November 3, 2020||India||BJP lets go of Rajya Sabha seat to cosy up to BSP, be seen as Dalit-friendly||NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: In what is seen as a shift from its "take-no-prisoners" approach, BJP decided to forego one Rajya Sabha berth it could have bagged in UP to facilitate the  of BSP's national coordinator, Ramji Lal Gautam to the upper House — a move which can help it resist being cast as "anti-Dalit" and can potentially change equations in the most populous state. The switch from the approach so far to maximise its returns has already fetched it dividends in the form of BSP chief Mayawati softening her stance towards the "secular" formation. Read AlsoHow BJP sacrificed a Rajya Sabha seat to throw opposition into disarray in UPBJP deliberately shut the window of opportunity to bag an additional seat in Rajya Sabha by not fielding its ninth candidate even as BSP managed to get its candidate, Ramji Gautam, sail through with support of 10 MLAs. And with this BJP deftly decimated any probability of a covert or overt electoralAlthough she emphasised BSP's ideological opposition to BJP, the former UP chief minister made it clear that for her, it is now SP which is the main opponent: a recalibration of threat perception which will ensure that BJP is not presented with an opposition phalanx in the next assembly polls. “As I have said earlier, BSP will vote in favour of BJP to ensure defeat of Samajwadi Party candidates,” Mayawati said soon after Rajya Sabha poll results were announced in which her party nominee Gautam was declared elected unopposed with nine others in UP. Read AlsoAt 92, BJP at its highest Rajya Sabha tally, Congress lowestWith nine of 11 Rajya Sabha MPs elected on Monday belonging to BJP, the party has touched a high of 92 MPs in the upper House, a major feat for the saffron party given the challenges it had to face in getting key legislations passed in its first term.Gautam was elected despite having the assured support of just nine MLAs because of BJP's surprise decision not to field a candidate for the seat despite having a surplus 22 votes, including nine belonging to its ally Apna Dal and three Independents. Watch Uttar Pradesh: Eye on 2022 state polls, BJP woos Mayawati's BSP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-lets-go-of-rajya-sabha-seat-to-cosy-up-to-bsp-be-seen-as-dalit-friendly/articleshow/79009754.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 3, 2020||World||2 dead, 15 wounded in Vienna terror attack, authorities say||VIENNA: Gunmen opened fire on people enjoying a last evening out in Vienna before a coronavirus lockdown Monday in a terror attack that left at least two dead - including one of the attackers - and 15 wounded, authorities said. "I am glad that our police were able to neutralize one of the attackers,'' Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said. "We will not never allow ourselves to be intimidated by terrorism and will fight these attacks with all means.'' Police said that several shots were fired shortly after 8 pm on a lively street in the city center and that there were six shooting locations. Austria's top security official said that authorities believe there were several gunmen involved and that a police operation was still going on hours later. "It appears to have been a terror attack,'' Interior Minister Karl Nehammer told public broadcaster ORF, adding that the assailants were armed with rifles. He said the army had been asked to guard key locations in the city to allow police officers to pursue the attackers. Vienna Mayor Michael Ludwig said 15 people were hospitalized, seven with serious injuries. Oskar Deutsch, the head of the Jewish community in Vienna, said that the shooting took place in the street outside the city's main synagogue but that it wasn't clear whether the house of worship had been targeted. The synagogue was closed at the time, Deutsch tweeted. Rabbi Schlomo Hofmeister said he saw at least one person shoot at people sitting outside at bars in the street below his window. "They were shooting at least 100 rounds just outside our building,'' Hofmeister said. "All these bars have tables outside. This evening is the last evening before the lockdown,'' he added. "As of midnight, all bars and restaurants will be closed in Austria for the next month, and a lot of people probably wanted to use that evening to be able to go out.'' Kurz said these were "difficult hours for our republic" and vowed: "Our police will act decisively against the culprits of this despicable terror attack.'' French President Emmanuel Macron tweeted that the French "share the shock and grief of the Austrian people hit by an attack tonight.'' "After France, this is a friendly country that has been attacked. This is our Europe ... We will not give in,'' he wrote. France has endured three attacks blamed on Muslim extremists in recent weeks: one by a Pakistani refugee that wounded two people outside satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo's old headquarters; the beheading of a schoolteacher who showed students caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad; and a deadly knife attack Thursday in a church in the Mediterranean city of Nice. France has gone on maximum security alert. Authorities in Vienna urged people to avoid all open spaces and public transportation. Police said trams and buses weren't stopping and urged social media users not to post videos of the police operation so as not to endanger officers. Watch Vienna terror attack: Gunmen open fire on people, several injured||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/several-likely-killed-in-suspected-vienna-terror-attack-says-interior-minister/articleshow/79009761.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling case: Money trail leads ED to CM Pinarayi Vijayan's office||NEW DELHI: The money trail in the Kerala-UAE gold smuggling case has brought Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office in focus with the Enforcement Directorate tracking alleged payoffs of Rs 4 crore in the CM’s Life Mission project — a housing scheme for flood displaced and landless citizens — to his former principal secretary M Sivasankar and associates. Sivasankar has been arrested and is presently in ED custody. He is being questioned on the alleged bribes received in the project and the contract awarded to Kochi-based Unitac builders, according to sources. The ED is tracking the IAS officer to a Rs 60 lakh recovery from SBI’s Thiruvananthapuram branch. The huge cash is alleged to be part of payoffs deposited in the bank account jointly operated by gold scam main accused Swapna Suresh and Sivasankar’s chartered accountant Venugopal. The questioning of other accused have revealed that Sivasankar had escorted Swapna Suresh to his CA Venugopal’s residence and office twice and operations to launder the “proceeds of crime” are being scrutinised. “On the day Unitac Builders got a contract for a housing project under the Life Mission, messages were exchanged between Sivasankar and Swapna Suresh over WhatsApp,” sources said. The ED has collected the evidence as part of its probe against the gold smuggling accused and the alleged involvement of the CM’s office in the bribery case. The probe has now been widened to other flagship schemes of Kerala government where Sivasankar’s involvement has been found, putting the Left Democratic Front government in a spot as opposition parties in the state have alleged corruption in Life Mission and other key projects. The agency is also probing the involvement of UAE’s Red Crescent in the funding of the project. Meanwhile, the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau has also arraigned Sivasankar as the fifth accused in the Wadakkanchery Life Mission project case in which it has reportedly found several irregularities. The prime gold smuggling accused — Swapna Suresh, PS Sarith, and Sandeep Nair — are also accused in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-money-trail-leads-ed-to-cm-pinarayi-vijayans-office/articleshow/79009802.cms||Pradeep Thakur
November 3, 2020||India||Violin maestro TN Krishnan dies at 92||CHENNAI: Tripunithura Narayanaiyer Krishnan, popularly known as TN Krishnan, considered one of the violin-trinity along with Lalgudi Jayaraman and MS Gopalakrishnan, passed away at his house in Chennai on Monday. He was 92. Born on October 6, 1928 in Tripunithura, Kerala, to A Narayana Iyer and Ammini Ammal, Krishnan learned music from his father, was mentored by Alleppy K Parthasarathy and later joined Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer. He came to the city in the 1940s. A recipient of the Padmashri (1973) and the Padma Bhushan (1992), Krishnan was also conferred the Sangeet Natak Akademi award (1974) and Sangeetha Kalanidhi (1980). Classical musician duo Ranjani-Gayathri in a tweet said the legend strode the world of violin and carnatic music like a colossus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/violin-maestro-tn-krishnan-dies-at-92/articleshow/79009830.cms||---
November 3, 2020||India||Rera no shield for builders from CPA||NEW DELHI: In a major decision affecting the real estate sector, the Supreme Court on Monday ruled that people who have booked flats in a housing project can move a consumer forum against builders seeking damages for deficiency in service and registration of the project under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, will not bar such action, Ten people had moved the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) against Imperia Structures Ltd, which had floated a housing project in Gurgaon, in 2011 and had failed to keep the promise of delivering the flats. The complainants had paid the major portion of the aggregate price of Rs 76 lakh per flat. The NCDRC directed the builder to pay back the deposited money with 9% interest. The builder challenged the NCDRC order on the ground that since the project was registered under Rera, the homebuyers could move the authorities under Rera and not invoke the jurisdiction of a forum under the Consumer Protection (CP) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rera-no-shield-for-builders-from-cpa/articleshow/79009843.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 3, 2020||India||Judges’ gender sensitisation must, says AG||NEW DELHI: Attorney general K K Venugopal on Monday told Supreme Court that a Madhya Pradesh HC judge’s decision to grant bail to a person accused of outraging the modesty of a woman on the condition that he gets a rakhi tied by her was nothing but a script straight out of a Bollywood film which had no sanctity in criminal law jurisprudence. Times ViewEvery modern and progressive state has certain key markers. Gender sensitivity is one of them. Lack of understanding on the subject could lead to gender biased decision-making. It is indeed true that there is a pressing need to sensitise the lower reaches of the judiciary to these issues. The recognition of this reality is welcome. Hopefully, the suggestion will be acted upon.“Judges, while dealing with crimes against women, need to restrict themselves to the confines of criminal laws and not resort to dramatic orders. Gender sensitisation of judges in HCs and trial courts are the need of the day.State judicial academies can be asked to regularly hold lectures on this issue to sensitise them. They must know what is permissible and what is not,” the AG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/judges-gender-sensitisation-must-says-ag/articleshow/79009846.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 3, 2020||Business||Centre gets 6 weeks to file Mallya report||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to file a status report in six weeks on extradition of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya so that he could be produced before it to face punishment for contempt of court for which he has been convicted. Appearing before a bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the court that certain issues were yet to be resolved and the UK authorities did not inform the government about some proceedings claiming it to be confidential. The bench thereafter deferred the hearing for January. At the outset, Mallya’s lawyer E C Agrawala sought discharge from the case but the bench refused the plea. On the last hearing on October 5, the court had asked Mallya’s lawyer to apprise it of the “secret proceedings” going on in UK. The court had also sought details on when Mallya would be able to appear before it. His counsel, however, failed to furnish any information and instead sought discharge from the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-gets-6-weeks-to-file-mallya-report/articleshow/79009855.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Business||Avg loan size of e-tailers doubles ahead of Diwali||Chennai: Growing working capital requirement has led to doubling of the average ticket size of e-commerce business loans. FlexiLoans officials said that the average ticket size of working capital loans has risen from Rs 3.5 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. Its co-founder Deepak Jain said, “We see higher demand from businesses with working capital requirements on e-commerce platforms. We do expect higher demand going forward and grow our supply chain and co-lending verticals which are witnessing significant growth and traction in the post Covid times.”Another private financier CredAble which has lent over Rs 300 crore in September and October has seen its average loan ticket size double at Rs 1.75-Rs 2 crore in the last three months. Its COO Ram Kewalramani said, “Demand for working capital loan has gone up by 1.75 times in the last three months, on the back of rising demand for consumer goods and e-tailers wanting to stock up those goods. We also lend against the invoice of merchants who sell on e-commerce platforms. Not just merchants, even logistics companies which have tied up with e-commerce companies have applied for additional working capital loan to meet the rising demand during the festive season.”CredAble lends in the range of minimum of Rs 20 lakh and a maximum of Rs 7-Rs 8 crore. Its interest rate stands between the range of 7% and 18%. From lending against an entrepreneur’s balance sheet, lenders say they have shifted towards milestone lending, invoice-based lending, etc. Most lending platforms say there is no hike or revision made on the interest rate charged this year.Non-banking finance company Finway has seen over 35% increase in the average ticket size of loans from Rs 4.5 lakh to Rs 6 lakh in the last few months. Its founder and CEO Rachit Chawla said,“In our loan book size stands at Rs 100 crore every month across the country, loans to unsecured online sellers account to 11%, which has now grown to 15%-16% (i.e) Rs 15 crore- Rs 16 crore in the last few months. We see this movement only moving upwards.Besides, the customer base (i.e) borrower base has seen a growth of 20%-25% in the last two months, driven by optimistic lenders who want to cash on the rising cash flow and faster expansion plans of e-Commerce companies. “We see this sector as the most profitable segment in the current market scenario. However, lenders have to be cautious as this is an unsecured segment which is not backed by any collateral or security,” Chawla added. On revising the rate of interest, lenders say no changes are made to borrowing rates, as retaining existing customers and acquiring new customers will be the focus in the current market situation. Rate of interest ranges between 6.5%-7% and 18%-20%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/avg-loan-size-of-e-tailers-doubles-ahead-of-diwali/articleshow/79007200.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 3, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi emerges leader out of Lalu’s shadow||PATNA: While the state is going to the second phase of polls on Tuesday, the campaigning strategy of different political parties and top leaders took politics to a completely new level in Bihar. The Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, managed to come out of the shadow of his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who was known for not making personal attacks on his rivals till earlier elections, makes vitriolic attacks on Lalu’s family in general and Tejashwi in particular. The 31-year-old Yadav scion not only broke the record of his father by holding as many as 19 rallies in a day, he also did not deviate from the agenda of unemployment throughout the campaign while promising ‘kamai, dawai, padhai and sinchai’, if voted to power. Political experts feel he has made the fight really tough for NDA, which was earlier considered set for a cakewalk against the Mahagathbandhan. Realizing the threat which Tejashwi is posing to his opponents, CM Nitish has started mocking him and his promise of providing 1 million job in his first cabinet meeting, if the Mahagathbandhan forms government in Bihar. Nitish also took a dig at Lalu for having nine children as he wanted sons because he did not believe in his seven daughters. In all his rallies, he reminded people of the 15 years of Lalu-Rabri regime as ‘jungle raj’ and warning them against the return of the lantern era. Political expert and Patna University’s former dean (faculty of social sciences) Nawal Kishore Choudhary said with every passing day, balance was shifting out of the NDA side and CM Nitish’s hand. “NDA is under pressure and it is reflected in the outbursts of CM and his aggressive behaviour,” said Choudhary, adding “But it will be too early to predict the downfall of Nitish. NDA still has some edge,” he said. He cited various reasons for the shift in balance, which included Chirag factor and economic agenda, especially the employment issue raised by the Mahagathbandhan. The campaigning for the second phase of polls also witnessed Prime Minister Narendra Modi training his gun at Tejashwi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. At a rally in Patna last on Wednesday, PM Modi for the first time hit out at Tejashwi and called him ‘jungle raj ka yuvraj’, which made headlines across the country. From the same dais, he praised Nitish for taking Bihar from darkness to light. He did not stop there. In another rally on Sunday, he once again attacked Tejashwi as well as Rahul and called the duo as double yuvraj (crown princess), who were trying to bring back jungle raj in Bihar. The PM left no stone unturned and addressed four back to back rallies in a day on Sunday, which was the last day for the second phase of campaigning. While party heads were trying to mobilize vote in favour of their candidates, LJP chief Chirag Paswan was busy attacking Nitish throughout. However, he seemed to be completely out of his ‘Ram’ NaMo’s favour. Initially, there was an impression that he would cut into JD(U) votes and help BJP. But, of late, PM Modi in his rallies, did not mention Chirag even once. In fact, he clearly stated that NDA meant BJP, JD(U), HAM (S) and VIP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-emerges-leader-out-of-lalus-shadow/articleshow/79007116.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 3, 2020||Patna||BJP and JD(U) go for damage control to iron out ‘differences’||PATNA: Moving to quell the speculation over widening chasm between the two major NDA allies, the BJP and JD(U) brass are working on enhancing pro-active coordination between the rank and file of the two parties down to the grassroots level. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal’s recent comment on “lack of coordination” in NDA, followed by BJP functionary and deputy CM Sushil Modi publicly warning a JDU MP for working against the official nominee on Saturday, had given rise to strong rumours of differences within the NDA allies over campaign coordination. “I will say that the coordination between the two parties has been restored down to the grassroots level in every assembly constituency where the polling is due. The candidate of a party – JD(U) or BJP, or any other party in the NDA – has to take the initiative to invite functionaries from the other parties,” state JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. “Both parties have realized they need each other, and going solo without taking the other party’s rank and file into confidence will be to their mutual disadvantage,” Prasad said, obliquely conceding that there were issues between the two allies. SuMo’s warning during a rally at Pirpainti assembly constituency in Bhagalpur district on Saturday triggered the need for coordination between the two parties. SuMo said Bhagalpur JD(U) MP Ajay Mandal has been working against not only the local BJP candidate Lalan Kumar Paswan but also against the interests of the NDA coalition. Pirpainti will vote on Tuesday (November 3). SuMo went to the extent of saying the BJP’s former MLA Aman Paswan, who was denied ticket this time, has been put up as an Independent candidate with money from the “opposition”. SuMo said publicly that he had discussed the matter with the JDU (MP) over the telephone on Friday, telling him that he might face the same music during his next election. Observers say it was a pointer that the BJP and JD(U) could part ways. The issue came to fore after an audio clip emerged of Mandal saying the BJP candidate had worked against him in 2019 parliamentary elections. “It (the differences between the workers of the two parties) is a serious matter. Senior BJP functionaries sent the message regarding this to the JD(U) brass, who, intervened,” a JD(U) source said, adding the intervention has occurred at the level of even CM Nitish Kumar, who issued the “necessary instructions” for mending the relationship between BJP and JD(U). Sources also said that the reality has dawned on the central and state BJP top brass that the RJD-led grand alliance had, indeed, emerged as a “formidable force”. “Earlier, BJP had underestimated them. They thought they could defeat the grand alliance without JD(U). Therefore, they allowed the LJP chief Chirag Paswan to field candidates against the JD(U) nominees,” a JD(U) source said. Observers felt even PM Modi, as evidenced by his passionate appeal to women to vote for NDA candidates, had realised that it was difficult for BJP to take on the grand alliance on its strength alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-and-jdu-go-for-damage-control-to-iron-out-differences/articleshow/79007057.cms||Abhay Singh
November 3, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi, Chirag lash out at Nitish for ‘cricketer & actor’ jibe||PATNA: A day after CM Nitish Kumar mocked Mahagathbandhan CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and LJP chief Chirag Paswan over their cricket and cinema stints respectively, both leaders hit back at Nitish slamming the personal attack on them. “Actors and cricketers are using me to garner publicity. But it doesn't matter, one was from the field of cricket, another from cinema, let them have their publicity,” Nitish had told a TV channel on Sunday, mocking them as “inexperienced”. “Is it wrong to come into politics from cricketing or film backgrounds? Then where should a person come from? According to this logic, a doctor or an engineer should not join politics,” said Tejashwi, referring to the CM, who has an engineering degree. Tejashwi further said, “What has happened to Nitish ji? He is a seasoned politician. He is making such low-level statements. Going by his statement, he doesn’t look like a chief minister. Cricket teaches discipline, teamwork and leadership. If this is Nitish Kumar’s style of talking then it is weird.” Reacting to the CM’s actor jibe, Chirag said, “I am amazed to see this man's (Nitish) recent behaviour. He is making personal attacks on opponents to divert the attention of the people from issues plaguing the state. Par Janta sab kuchh janti hai.” While Tejashwi played domestic cricket, including some IPL matches, Chirag was a Bollywood actor before stepping into politics guided by their fathers, Lalu Prasad and Ram Vilas Paswan. The RJD leader said he got the biggest exposure from cricket. “Sportsman spirit, leadership qualities and teamwork I learnt from cricket,” he said, adding Nitish Kumar can no longer govern Bihar and his farewell is “guaranteed” after the poll results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-chirag-lash-out-at-nitish-for-cricketer-actor-jibe/articleshow/79008492.cms||Ramashankar
November 3, 2020||Business||Used cars trail new car sales in October, retail up just 5%-7%||Chennai: As new car sales picked up speed this festival season and grew 18% Y-o-Y in October on the back of stellar deals for buyers , used retails were up just 5% to7%. “There are very good deals available now on new vehicles and people are avoiding visiting physical retail outlets. So for used cars the average duration of ownership has increased from 54 to 60 months,” said Sandeep Aggarwal, founder CEO, online portal Droom.Of course, the festive sprint is visible in used cars and sales have been picking up month on month. “Used car sales have been good in October and our numbers are up 10% over last October and 15% compared to September 20,” said Ashutosh Pandey, CEO, Mahindra First Choice Wheels. Part of the problem is supply. “There is not too much inventory with dealers and some of the cars that are coming to the used car pool are not retail worthy,” he added. Despite doing better than new cars during lockdown, the used market has not hit last October levels. Droom did business worth $61 million in September and $72 million in October but it is still down 20% from the $90 million of October 2019. The M-o-M increase though is clear. “The seller and buyer intent on our platform have been increased to roughly 3X compared to pre-lockdown. In October we saw more than 10% rise in sellers over September 20,” said Gajendra Jangid, co-founder & CMO, Cars24 said.So what’s selling best in used cars? With around 60% of first time buyers are opting for used cars, the “affordable hatchback has been the best performing category,” said Amit Kumar, head OLX Autos India. According to a just conducted survey by online platform OLX, 56% of those surveyed said they would want to buy a hatch (Alto, Kwid, Santro, Swift, Polo etc) while 44% said they wanted a bigger car and only 11% said they would buy an SUV. The reason: 63% of the respondents had a budget of just Rs 3 lakh to buy a car. As per industry data, the pre-owned car market outnumbers the new car market by 30% in volume. In FY19, the used car market crossed 4 million units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/used-cars-trail-new-car-sales-in-october-retail-up-just-5-7/articleshow/79007303.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
November 3, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: Barely 10% of candidates are women across all 3 phases||PATNA: This time, Bihar assembly election has seen the participation of 370 women out of 3,733 candidates contesting across all three phases. Most of are independents or locally registered political outfits. In the first phase, there were 114 women candidates in the fray and the leading parties fielded 36 candidates, which included 10 from RJD, LJP (8), five each from BJP and JD(U), RLSP (4), BSP (2) and one each from Congress, NCP. At least 44 candidates were independent while 34 from other local parties. Prominent women candidates in the first phase included ace shooter and gold medalist Shreyasi Singh, who is contesting on a BJP ticket from Jamui, RJD’s Divya Prakash and Vibha Devi from Tarapur in Munger and Nawada respectively, Manorma Devi of JD(U) from Atri in Gaya, Nawada’s Gobindpur candidate Purnima Yadav also from JD(U), BJP’s Aruna Devi from Warsaliganj in Nawada. Of the 1,463 candidates in the second phase, 146 of them are women, including Pushpam Priya Choudhary, who floated the Plurals Party and declared herself as a CM candidate. She is contesting from Bankipur constituency in Patna. On her campaign trails, she has bucked the trend of women candidates wearing traditional dresses by wearing a black shirt, pant and shoes. Other prominent and young faces are Sushumalata Kushwaha, who is contesting on a JD(U) ticket from Jagdishpur in Bhojpur. She was seen campaigning only a few days after she delivered a baby girl. She had earned a reputation in her area after she developed a panchayat into a model one. JD(U) has fielded maximum 9 women candidates in the second phase, while seven are from LJP, RJD (4), RLSP (3), two each from BSP, BJP, Congress, NCP and 70 from other political outfits and 45 contesting as Independent. RJD’s Ejya Yadav is an academician and well- known social worker Amita Bhushan is from Congress. In the third phase, as many as 110 women candidates are in the fray out of 1,204 candidates contesting the election. Some of the prominent candidates are former Vaishali MP Lovely Anand, who joined RJD and is contesting from Saharsa, JD(U)’s Bima Bharti, Veena Bharti, Nutan Paswan and Leshi Singh, LJP’s Urmila Sinha and BJP’s Kavita Devi and Nisha Singh. At least 499 candidates, including women, have declared their educational qualification to be between Class V and XII while 552 have declared having an educational qualification of graduate or above and 126 candidates are literate. Five candidates are illiterate and 12 candidates are diploma holders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/barely-10-of-candidates-are-women-across-all-3-phases/articleshow/79013468.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: Barely 10% of candidates are women across all 3 phases||PATNA: This time, Bihar assembly election has seen the participation of 370 women out of 3,733 candidates contesting across all three phases. Most of are independents or locally registered political outfits. In the first phase, there were 114 women candidates in the fray and the leading parties fielded 36 candidates, which included 10 from RJD, LJP (8), five each from BJP and JD(U), RLSP (4), BSP (2) and one each from Congress, NCP. At least 44 candidates were independent while 34 from other local parties. Prominent women candidates in the first phase included ace shooter and gold medalist Shreyasi Singh, who is contesting on a BJP ticket from Jamui, RJD’s Divya Prakash and Vibha Devi from Tarapur in Munger and Nawada respectively, Manorma Devi of JD(U) from Atri in Gaya, Nawada’s Gobindpur candidate Purnima Yadav also from JD(U), BJP’s Aruna Devi from Warsaliganj in Nawada. Of the 1,463 candidates in the second phase, 146 of them are women, including Pushpam Priya Choudhary, who floated the Plurals Party and declared herself as a CM candidate. She is contesting from Bankipur constituency in Patna. On her campaign trails, she has bucked the trend of women candidates wearing traditional dresses by wearing a black shirt, pant and shoes. Other prominent and young faces are Sushumalata Kushwaha, who is contesting on a JD(U) ticket from Jagdishpur in Bhojpur. She was seen campaigning only a few days after she delivered a baby girl. She had earned a reputation in her area after she developed a panchayat into a model one. JD(U) has fielded maximum 9 women candidates in the second phase, while seven are from LJP, RJD (4), RLSP (3), two each from BSP, BJP, Congress, NCP and 70 from other political outfits and 45 contesting as Independent. RJD’s Ejya Yadav is an academician and well- known social worker Amita Bhushan is from Congress. In the third phase, as many as 110 women candidates are in the fray out of 1,204 candidates contesting the election. Some of the prominent candidates are former Vaishali MP Lovely Anand, who joined RJD and is contesting from Saharsa, JD(U)’s Bima Bharti, Veena Bharti, Nutan Paswan and Leshi Singh, LJP’s Urmila Sinha and BJP’s Kavita Devi and Nisha Singh. At least 499 candidates, including women, have declared their educational qualification to be between Class V and XII while 552 have declared having an educational qualification of graduate or above and 126 candidates are literate. Five candidates are illiterate and 12 candidates are diploma holders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/barely-10-of-candidates-are-women-across-all-3-phases/articleshow/79008329.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 3, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar avoids speaking against Sharad Yadav||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday addressed an election rally in Madhepura district’s Bihariganj assembly constituency from where former Union minister and Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) chief Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Yadav is also in fray on Congress ticket. Nitish, however, avoided speaking anything against his former party colleague and friend-turned-foe. On Monday, the CM addressed a series of five election rallies in Madhepura and Supaul district. His first rally was in Alamnagar assembly constituency. After Alamnagar, he reached Udakishunganj and addressed a rally at the local SBJS High School ground under Bihariganj constituency where his party nominee and sitting MLA Niranjan Kumar Mehta is seeking re-election. Altogether 22 candidates including Subhashini Yadav are in the fray from Buhariganj, which is going to the polls in the last phase on November 7. As he has been doing at his all election rallies, Nitish listed achievements of his government during his speech at Udakishunganj. He also made a direct attack on the RJD on the issue of poor law and order during the Lalu-Rabri regime, but avoided saying ‘anything’ either against Sharad Yadav or his daughter. At the time of filing nomination papers from Bihariganj, Subhashini said she was entering the electoral battle to save her father's political legacy. Sharad Yadav, who won the Lok Sabha election from Madhepura four times in the past and also lost from there for an equal number of times, is currently sick and admitted to a hospital in Delhi for the past few months. Sharad had sided with Nitish after a split in the Janta Dal. He later served as the JD(U) president after George Fernandes till 2016 when Nitish took over from him as the JD(U) national president. In 2017, when Nitish rejoined hands with the BJP, Sharad spoke against his decision and later fell out from Nitish’s group of loyals. In 2019, Sharad contested the Lok Sabha election on the RJD ticket from Madhepura but lost it to JD(U) candidate Dinesh Chandra Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-avoids-speaking-against-sharad/articleshow/79008405.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||Many schools yet to announce revised fees||KOLKATA: A large number of city schools are yet to upload their revised fees on their website according to the Calcutta High Court order to do so by October 31. Private and unaided schools in the state have been asked by the court to give tuition and session fee relief of 20% for the pandemic months. A considerable number of schools have already complied. Some schools, like Modern High School for Girls and DPS Megacity, uploaded their revised fees on their websites on Monday. Those yet to comply with the order said since schools have not re-opened after the Puja break, accounts sections could not work out the changes. However, this will get done by the end of the week or by early next week. Some, like Heritage School, have sent a note to parents saying they were deferring payment for the second quarter — that had been extended till October — till the revised fee was uploaded. School spokesperson Devi Kar said, “We had given certain reductions from the second quarter and we had to re-work the figures keeping in view the HC’s directions. This took some time but we have uploaded the revised fee on our website on Monday evening.” According to the High Court order that came in on October 13, parents will have to start paying up the arrears and will have to clear their dues by November 30. Schools will have the right to bar kids from online classrooms and other facilities otherwise. Many schools had challenged this order in the Supreme Court, which upheld the part of the order that asks for 20% waiver of tuition and session fees. Parents sounded happy with the announcement of the revision in fees. South Point School has started getting e-mail inquiries. “We have told parents that our notice explains everything. We have put up a box where they have to deposit cheques or DDs,” said spokesperson Krishna Damani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/many-schools-yet-to-announce-revised-fees/articleshow/79007152.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||No docu check, colleges told to get students’ declaration on record||KOLKATA: In a bid to remove applicants blocking multiple seats, the higher education department on Monday asked colleges to collect a declaration from students who have taken admission in UG courses that they will retain their seat in only one college and cancel their admission in other colleges if they have taken admission in multiple colleges. The move comes at a time when college principals are facing a challenge to verify documents for registration. After the online admission process for undergraduate courses was conducted over 10 weeks, college authorities are reportedly clueless about how to go about the next step to complete the admission process — document verification. “I have already discussed the matter with the admissions committee member. We have decided to upload the government’s decision on the portal. Candidates who have taken admissions are likely to be given a week’s time within which they will have to inform us which colleges they have taken admission,” said principal of Lady Brabourne College, Siuli Sarkar. Another college principal added that this was necessary because in the absence of any physical verification of documents, several students had taken admissions in multiple colleges. The three most important things that college authorities insist on verifying are the candidates’ mark sheets, documents to verify age and caste certificates, if the candidates take admission under any of the reserved categories. This year, the entire admission process was online. “Now, we need to move on to the next stage of verifying the documents. But there has been no directive from the university or the higher education department on how to go about it,” said an official at Bethune College. Last week, Calcutta University issued a circular, stating if documents of any student was found to be false during verification, the admission would be cancelled with immediate effect without any clarification. “The notice, however, does not mention the procedure of verifying the documents,” said the principal of a north Kolkata college. One option which is being explored by the university is assigning specific time slots to students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-docu-check-colleges-told-to-get-students-declaration-on-record/articleshow/79007457.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 3, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav and Chirag Paswan lash out at Nitish Kumar for ‘cricketer & actor’ jibe||PATNA: A day after CM Nitish Kumar mocked Mahagathbandhan CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and LJP chief Chirag Paswan over their cricket and cinema stints respectively, both leaders hit back at Nitish slamming the personal attack on them. “Actors and cricketers are using me to garner publicity. But it doesn't matter, one was from the field of cricket, another from cinema, let them have their publicity,” Nitish had told a TV channel on Sunday, mocking them as “inexperienced”. “Is it wrong to come into politics from cricketing or film backgrounds? Then where should a person come from? According to this logic, a doctor or an engineer should not join politics,” said Tejashwi, referring to the CM, who has an engineering degree. Tejashwi further said, “What has happened to Nitish ji? He is a seasoned politician. He is making such low-level statements. Going by his statement, he doesn’t look like a chief minister. Cricket teaches discipline, teamwork and leadership. If this is Nitish Kumar’s style of talking then it is weird.” Reacting to the CM’s actor jibe, Chirag said, “I am amazed to see this man's (Nitish) recent behaviour. He is making personal attacks on opponents to divert the attention of the people. Par Janta sab kuchh janti hai.” While Tejashwi played domestic cricket, including some IPL matches, Chirag was a Bollywood actor before stepping into politics guided by their fathers, Lalu Prasad and Ram Vilas Paswan.The RJD leader said he got the biggest exposure from cricket. “Sportsman spirit, leadership qualities and teamwork I learnt from cricket,” he said, adding Nitish Kumar can no longer govern Bihar and his farewell is “guaranteed” after the poll results. A day after CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar's veiled attack on his political opponents saying 'cricketer and actor are using him for more publicity', opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and LJP chief Chirag Paswan lashed out at Nitish, who is seeking his fourth term to serve as the state's chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-and-chirag-lash-out-at-nitish-for-cricketer-actor-jibe/articleshow/79007214.cms||Ramashankar
November 3, 2020||---||Tejashwi Yadav and Chirag Paswan lash out at Nitish Kumar for ‘cricketer & actor’ jibe||PATNA: A day after CM Nitish Kumar mocked Mahagathbandhan CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and LJP chief Chirag Paswan over their cricket and cinema stints respectively, both leaders hit back at Nitish slamming the personal attack on them. “Actors and cricketers are using me to garner publicity. But it doesn't matter, one was from the field of cricket, another from cinema, let them have their publicity,” Nitish had told a TV channel on Sunday, mocking them as “inexperienced”. “Is it wrong to come into politics from cricketing or film backgrounds? Then where should a person come from? According to this logic, a doctor or an engineer should not join politics,” said Tejashwi, referring to the CM, who has an engineering degree. Tejashwi further said, “What has happened to Nitish ji? He is a seasoned politician. He is making such low-level statements. Going by his statement, he doesn’t look like a chief minister. Cricket teaches discipline, teamwork and leadership. If this is Nitish Kumar’s style of talking then it is weird.” Reacting to the CM’s actor jibe, Chirag said, “I am amazed to see this man's (Nitish) recent behaviour. He is making personal attacks on opponents to divert the attention of the people. Par Janta sab kuchh janti hai.” While Tejashwi played domestic cricket, including some IPL matches, Chirag was a Bollywood actor before stepping into politics guided by their fathers, Lalu Prasad and Ram Vilas Paswan.The RJD leader said he got the biggest exposure from cricket. “Sportsman spirit, leadership qualities and teamwork I learnt from cricket,” he said, adding Nitish Kumar can no longer govern Bihar and his farewell is “guaranteed” after the poll results. A day after CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar's veiled attack on his political opponents saying 'cricketer and actor are using him for more publicity', opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and LJP chief Chirag Paswan lashed out at Nitish, who is seeking his fourth term to serve as the state's chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/tejashwi-and-chirag-lash-out-at-nitish-for-cricketer-actor-jibe/articleshow/79018827.cms||Ramashankar
November 3, 2020||Patna||Opposition rakes up Munger issue||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan took a jibe at the Nitish Kumar government for delay in action against perpetrators of the incident. Chirag said, “Nitish Kumar has been wearing ‘Sushshan Babu’ tag for the past 15 years. However, he has not spoken a word about the Munger incident.” Talking to media persons before leaving for the third round of campaigning in favour of LJP candidates, Chirag said, “What can a bigger crime than your cops opening fire on innocent devotees during idol immersion procession of Goddess Durga?” Describing the state government as ‘Mahisasur’, the LJP national president said it was beyond imagination how the police opened fire on devotees without any provocation. RJD leader and opposition’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav went a step further and described the then Munger SP Lipi Singh as ‘General Dyer’ of the infamous Jalliawala Bagh massacre during the British regime. “ What was the chief minister doing? What was his deputy, Sushil Kumar Modi, who is a leader of the BJP, doing? They have a double-engine government in the state. Did they have information? Their inaction shows the role they have played in the incident,” Tejashwi said. Demanding a probe into the entire incident, the opposition leader said, “Who gave you (police) the order to become General Dyer? We want to know what the deputy CM is doing. What’s the reason behind his silence?” The Congress too joined the chorus over the issue. Party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said, “Why PM Narendra Modi is silent over the incident? Where are Union ministers like Giriraj Singh, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Nityanand Rai and R K Singh?. Why are they maintaining silence?”. The JD(U), however, defended the state government and said investigation into the incident was underway. “The Election Commission has ordered an inquiry by the divisional commissioner of Magadh division. He will submit his report to the commission,” a senior JD(U) leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-rakes-up-munger-issue/articleshow/79007544.cms||Ramashankar
November 3, 2020||Business||Ola plans to foray into electric scooter manufacturing||MUMBAI: Ola, founded by Bhavish Aggarwal and Ankit Bhati, plans to foray into electric scooter manufacturing, switching gears from being a taxi aggregator to a vehicle manufacturer. It is in talks with multiple state governments for 100 acres of unencumbered land on which it plans to build the world’s largest e-scooter facility. Currently, Japanese major Honda operates the world’s largest scooter manufacturing site in Gujarat, which turns out 1.2 million fossil fuel-powered vehicles a year. The move will pit the homegrown ride-hailing company, in which Hyundai has an investment, against Bajaj Auto, TVS and Hero MotoCorp-backed Ather Energy. Ola’s India manufacturing plan follows its recent purchase of Netherlands-based Etergo, owner of the App Scooter electric brand. Its senior management is in discussions with four Indian states — three from the southern region and another from the western belt — to build a 2-million electric scooter capacity plant, said people in the know. Ola, in response to an e-mailed query by TOI, said it was unable to comment at this time. The Centre as well as the states have been offering incentives to companies in the electric vehicle ecosystem and to customers (who can claim an income tax rebate of up to Rs 1.5 lakh on interest paid on an electric vehicle loan) to reduce the country’s dependence on oil and to cut down on pollution. But, despite these moves, the segment has been stymied by lack of investments in production (including battery pack manufacturing) and infrastructure, such as charging stations. Just 7,552 electric scooters were sold in the world’s second-most populous nation between April and September compared to 1.3 million conventional scooters sold in the same period. But companies hope the scenario will improve amid shifting customer tastes and the government increasingly promoting clean automotive technology. Ola plans to zero in on a manufacturing site soon as it aims to start production in 18 months, an aggressive timetable for a vehicle plant. The manufacturing site will embrace Industry 4.0, will run on solar power and will have test tracks, said the sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ola-plans-to-foray-into-electric-scooter-mfg/articleshow/79007989.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two killed as truck hits two cars, brings bus shelter crashing down||KOLKATA: Two persons were killed and two others injured — one of them seriously — after a truck hit two cars, climbed on to a pavement and hit two pillars of a concrete bus shelter bringing it crashing down on Vivekananda Road right opposite Maniktala main market in the wee hours of Monday. All four were waiting beside a tea stall right under the porch and got trapped under the debris. Later, the Kolkata Police Disaster Management Group (DMG) and fire brigade officers brought them out. Among the deceased are Rohit Jaiswal (31), a photographer from Raja Rammohan Sarani. The other victim, Samta Yadav (39), was a driver. While Jaiswal was having tea after returning from an assignment, Yadav had returned from Burdwan after dropping a passenger there. He too had parked his MUV there and ordered for tea when the accident took place around 4.50am. Originally from Bihar, Yadav, the father of five kids, was staying at Harinath Dey Road. The driver of the other car and the truck helper escaped with minor injuries. The truck driver fled from the spot after abandoning his vehicle. Fatal squad of traffic police has taken over the probe. The truck first hit two MUVs parked parallel to the bus stand. It then hit two pillars of the bus stand as they came crashing down. “Force from Burtolla PS rushed to the spot, along with the DMG team. Four ambulances, two fire tenders , PCR Van, HRFS team and reinforcement from police control room were also sent. DMG used special hacksaws and other equipment to cut through the concrete. While Yadav was declared brought dead at RG Kar Hospital, Jaiswal was declared dead on arrival at NRS hospital. While driver of a car, Ravi Das (55) of Maniktala Main Road, was admitted to RG Kar Hospital, truck helper Rajendra Prasad Jaiswara (54) was treated and discharged from NRS,” said police. “A mechanical test has shown that there were no issues with the brake. The truck driver had either momentarily lost control of the vehicle or tried to avert a collision with another vehicle. We are looking for the driver,” said an officer. The police are checking CCTV footages to ascertain the truck’s movement before the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-killed-as-truck-hits-two-cars-brings-bus-shelter-crashing-down/articleshow/79007125.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Schools begin possible last leg online classes||KOLKATA: Several city schools resumed regular online classes from Monday, flagging off what is likely to be the last month of virtual school for students of classes IX to XII. With the state giving the nod to resumption of physical classes in colleges and universities from December, a date for reopening of schools is likely to be announced soon following a discussion with chief minister Mamata Banerjee, said higher education minister Partha Chatterjee on Monday. Chatterjee said the primary concern was to ensure that students do not lose a year. “We will also keep in mind the health concerns of the students,” Chatterjee said. Ariana Sinha, a student of a CBSE-affiliated school in central Kolkata, said that though the staggered reopening may only allow seniors to attend classes, the authorities should also plan for the middle-section students to attend classes. “Though we have been continuously attending online classes, I would like to return to campus,” said the Class-VII student. Her mother added that the virtual classroom couldn’t make up for the face-to-face interactions. Several school principals pointed out that sanitization will begin a fortnight before physical classes. “If children are visiting restaurants following safety norms, why can’t they attend school in small groups?” asked the principal of a CISCE-affiliated school. “We need doubt-clearing sessions, practical classes and face-to-face interactions,” another principal said. South Point School has kept various options ready for revival of classes, according to spokesperson Krishna Damani and principal of Rammohan Mission School Sujoy Biswas said his school is waiting for the date to be confirmed. Colleges also returned to their regular online schedules on Monday. “We have a schedule which will help third- and fifth-semester students to adjust when they return to the regular schedule. The practical classes will be given preference,” said a college principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-begin-possible-last-leg-online-classes/articleshow/79007186.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 3, 2020||Patna||BSP chief Mayawati’s BJP comments give political spin in Bihar polls||PATNA: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati’s directive last week to its MLAs and supporters to defeat the Samajwadi Party (SP) candidate in the upcoming biennial Rajya Sabha election in UP or its assembly bypolls and even legislative council elections, has caused natural spin-off effect on the ongoing Bihar assembly elections.  Political pundits say it might even have impact on the government formation process after the Bihar poll results are out on November 10. Mayawati had said to ensure the defeat of SP candidates, her party will even vote for the BJP or any other party’s nominee. However, Mayawati at Lucknow said on Monday: “Whether it is (…polls in UP), or Madhya Pradesh bypolls and even elections in Bihar, BSP has not made an appeal to its supporters to vote for the BJP.” As RLSP circles felt party chief Upendra Kushwaha will not be averse to joining hands with BJP, if neither JD(U) national chief and CM Nitish Kumar nor RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is in a position to form the government. “The RLSP needs just 20 MLAs to play any decisive role in the government formation,” a party source said. BSP is contesting 80 assembly seats out of 243 in Bihar. It is part of the six-party Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF), that also has RLSP and AIMIM headed by Asaduddin Owaisi, besides three other relatively minor parties. “At the moment, our leaders are busy campaigning in the constituencies. We want to win as many seats as possible,” a BSP functionary at the party’s state headquarters here said, adding that as to the BSP’s role in possible government formation in Bihar is concerned, it is not on the mind of anyone in the party. The RLSP has fielded 104 candidates and AIMIM 26, including in eastern Bihar districts where it is also hoping to defeat the grand alliance or even the JD(U). The AIMIM today has one MLA in the outgoing House, but it might not join hands with the BJP to form government, as it would block its future in the state, it is felt. Yet, the RLSP has definitely begun to envision its possible role and stakes in the next government formation. “As for RLSP, we hope to win around 20 seats to give us credible strength,” a party source said. As per the reading of observers, the real role of the GDSF parties would come into the picture if the elections throw up a fractured mandate, giving no clear majority to any of the two major combines — the NDA comprising BJP, JD(U), HAM(S) and VIP and the grand alliance consisting of RJD, Congress and three Left parties. “We certainly envision our role in the government formation. Our party chief is the CM face from the GDSF. Either we will form the government with the support of other parties, or will extend support as per the conditions that our party chief puts forward,” RLSP state spokesman Bhola Sharma said. Incidentally, Kushwaha has come to nurse visceral hatred against RJD, as it did not accommodate the number of seats that he had demanded for his party. Kushwaha had to quit the grand alliance. On Sunday, Kushwaha said he suspected “some kind of underhand deal” between BJP and RJD’s Tejashwi, who would be content to have his father Lalu Prasad get out of the jail on November 9 with the support of the saffron brass in the central government. “How else can Tejashwi be sure about the release of Lalu from the jail on bail?” Kushwaha asked, suggesting that the results will throw up an open situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mayas-bjp-comments-give-political-spin-in-bihar-polls/articleshow/79008635.cms||Abhay Singh
November 3, 2020||Surat||NGT forms panel to monitor pollution near Vapi town||SURAT: The National Green Tribunal (NGT), New Delhi, has formed a committee to monitor compliance of its order with regard to checking pollution in Daman Ganga river near industrial town Vapi in Valsad. The committee will also oversee the implementation of recommendation of NGT-formed panel for supply of potable water to villages near Vapi town. The committee will comprise of a member of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), Valsad collector, Vapi Municipality, GUDC Gandhinagar, Notified Area Authority (NAA),Vapi. GPCB will be the nodal agency for coordination and compliance of NGT order. The environment watchdog on October 29, while disposing of the petition filed by Kirti Desai, a resident of Charvada village near Vapi town, has asked the monitoring committee to file a compliance report in one month. Desai has filed a petition with NGT in 2016 alleging violation of norms by the local administration in the disposal of solid and liquid waste in and around Vapi. He had also alleged deteriorating ground water quality and demanded action besides assurance on the supply of safe potable drinking water to four villages near Vapi town. In 2017 the NGT found merit in the petition and directed GPCB to survey of the four affected villages. Based on the GPCB’s survey report in September 2017, the tribunal directed immediate measures to supply potable water to the affected villages as a temporary measure. Later, the NGT constituted a joint committee of CPCB and the GPCB to furnish a factual and action required report on the management of solid and liquid waste in and around Vapi. The committee filed its report on October 26. “Remedial action should be taken as per observations and recommendations in the report. This is necessary to effectuate the fundamental right of the citizens for access to clean water and clean environment,” the NGT observed. The NGT also requested Justice B C Patel, former Chief Justice of Delhi High Court and former Judge of Gujarat High Court, now stationed at Ahmedabad, to oversee the execution of the action plan. Head: Findings & Recommendations There was no operational sewage treatment plant (STP) for the sewage generated in the Vapi municipality area. The sewage was being discharged in natural drains that opened in river Daman Ganga and river Kolak. The wet waste was being dumped in open dumpsite and total seven natural drains carrying wastewater were identified. Water in the seven natural drains was contaminated. Vapi municipality should expedite the installation work of STP and ensure that no domestic sewage is discharged in any water bodies. The notified area authority of GIDC to submit a time-bound action plan for the construction of two new STPs for GIDC Housing-I and Housing-II areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ngt-forms-panel-to-monitor-pollution-near-vapi-town/articleshow/79008644.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Surat||Pulled up for coming late, BCom student ends life||SURAT: A 19-year-old girl college girl committed suicide, allegedly after being reprimanded for staying out of the house for a long time, on Sunday night.The victim, Dharmishtha Movaliya, who was studying second-year BCom, consumed some poisonous substance at her house in Sachin area. She was taken to a private hospital early on Monday and later to the New Civil Hospital (NCH) where she died during treatment. Dharmishtha’s parents told police that she had not revealed where she was going to the family members . She returned late at around 9pm on Sunday after which her father scolded her for staying out till late night. Family members said he got very upset after being pulled up, but never imagined that she would take such an extreme step. Movaliya was studying in Amreli and had came to stay with her parents in the city during lockdown. Her father Ramesh is employed in a textile embroidery unit. Sachin police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pulled-up-for-coming-late-bcom-student-ends-life/articleshow/79008566.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Surat||Surat Hira Bourse sees 726% jump in exports||SURAT: While export of gems and jewellery from across India declined between April and October this year due to coronavirus induced lockdown, the Surat Hira Bourse (SHB) witnessed a record 726% jump in exports. SHB’s exports shot up to Rs 6,200 crore in April-October period compared to Rs 750 crore during the corresponding period last fiscal. Total export of gems and jewellery from SHB for the financial year 2019-20 was Rs 1,400 crore. This is mainly because during April-October Mumbai’s Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB), which is hub of gems and jewellery exports in India, remained closed due to pandemic and all exporters turned to SHB for business. Another reason was that the diamantaires having their manufacturing units in Surat and trading offices in Mumbai started exporting from SHB following the waiver of bank guarantee by the customs department and the grant of the Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) status in January this year. CEO of SHB, KK Sharma told TOI, “When BDB had shut down from March to May due to the lockdown, the export of diamonds and jewellery continued from SHB’s customs clearance centre from April. This is a record export for SHB.” Sharma said, “The trend of export from SHB is increasing. Not only this, the import of rough diamonds in Surat touched Rs 14,000 crore in April-October-20.” If the SHB officials are to be believed, the exports from SHB is expected to touch Rs 11,000 crore during 2020-21. Majority of the exports from Surat between April- October were bound to Hong Kong and US following the increased demand of jewellery and diamonds between April to August. About 70% of the exports from Surat were bound to Hong Kong, which is the export gateway to China, the world’s second largest diamond consumer country after US. Shreyans Dholakia, director of Shri Ramkrishna Exports (SRK) said, “We had to fulfil the online orders of diamonds in Hong Kong during the lockdown. Since the Bharat Diamond Bourse was closed, we took the services of Surat Hira Bourse to export consignment to Hong Kong.” According to the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council’s (GJEPC) report, the net exports from all the regions in India declined by 32% to 90% during the April-September period. But the exports from Gujarat region have witnessed a growth of 61%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-hira-bourse-sees-726-jump-in-exports/articleshow/79008859.cms||---
November 3, 2020||India||Test of NaMo magic on Nitish turf and Tejas sway in Rabri’s Raghopur today||Patna: The stage is set for the crucial second phase of state assembly elections on Tuesday. It will make or break either of the two main political groups — the ruling NDA and Mahagathbandhan — as over 2.86 crore voters will decide the fate of 1463 candidates, including the opposition’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, in the 94 constituencies out of the 243 assembly seats in Bihar. The Tuesday polls will also test the magic weaved by PM Narendra Modi in his election rallies so far and CM Nitish Kumar’s sway over his fortress Nalanda besides Tejashwi’s hold on his family stronghold Raghopur. Among the 94 segments, 31 seats are held by RJD, 30 by JD(U), 22 by BJP, seven by Congress and two by LJP. Two seats were won by independents in 2015. A total of 2,86,11,164 electors will exercise their franchise on 41,362 polling booths. According to the Election Commission, voting will begin as usual at 7am, but the period will be extended by one hour until 6pm, except in the LWE affected area, so that Covid-19 patients can vote in the last one hour. In 2015, BJP, JD(U) and RJD had all got a higher share of the votes in this area than in the state as a whole. This is also the most urbanized of the three-phase elections to decide the fate of candidates in Patna, Bhagalpur, Danapur, Chhapra, Begusarai and Barauni. BJP’s Satish Kumar is again pitted against Tejashwi in Raghopur. This phase will decide the fate of ministers Nand Kishore Yadav (Patna Sahib), Rana Randhir Singh (Madhuban), Ram Sevak Singh (Hathua), Shrawan Kumar (Nalanda) and Suresh Sharma (Muzaffarpur). Former social welfare minister Manju Verma is seeking re-election from Cheria Bariarpur seat. JD(U) had its strongest performance in the area in 2015 s it had won 30 seats with 17.3% vote share. At least seven ministers are in the fray in this phase and so are politically significant candidates like RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap in Hasanpur and his estranged father-in-law Chandrika Rai on a JD(U) ticket this time from Parsa. LJP candidates are also contesting many seats against JD(U). There is much at stake for Congress, too, as the party won seven of its 27 seats from this area in the 2015 polls. For the Left, this phase is crucial to restore its foothold in constituencies like Begusarai (CPI) and Siwan (CPI-ML).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/test-of-namo-magic-on-nitish-turf-and-tejas-sway-in-rabris-raghopur-today/articleshow/79007573.cms||Ramashankar
November 3, 2020||---||Will cut salaries of CM, ministers to pay staff: Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: Stressing on his 10 lakh government job promise if he formed the government, Mahagathbandhan chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said money would not be an issue and, if needed, the salary of ministers and legislators would be cut to pay the new employees. Tejashwi said loans up to Rs5 lakh taken for educational purposes will also be waived off. “Chief minister Nitish Kumar always says from where I will get the money to provide employment to 10 lakh youths. Let me tell you that Rs80,000 crore of the state budget remains unspent. Also, Rs24,000-25,000 given to Bihar under right to education is sent back. These are enough. Even if the need be, we will cut the salary of chief minister, other ministers and legislators and give jobs,” Tejashwi said in the second series of his Yuva Naukri Samvad organized digitally on Monday. Tejashwi said people, especially the youth, have bestowed faith in him. “Their anger against CM Nitish has converted into hate. Bihar has 46.6% unemployment, the highest in the country. I have seen how both the CM and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi have become tired and now cannot handle Bihar,” he said. The son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad also promised to set up a university in Begusarai in the honour of poet late Ramdhari Singh Dinkar and another one in Mithilanchal region in the name of socialist leader late Karpoori Thakur. He also promised the formation of commissions for youth, businessmen, farmers and sportspersons. Tejashwi said several incidents of murder and kidnapping of businessmen and traders have occurred in Bihar recently. “We will form business safety squad,” he said. Tejashwi, who is often mocked by the ruling NDA for being inexperienced and without any blueprint for his tall promises, said those who were posing questions on his ability should check his tenure of 18 months as the deputy chief minister of state. He repeated his promise of increasing the honorarium of self-help groups and making all contractual jobs permanent. Before this talk, Tejashwi held rallies in 11 constituencies which will go to the polls in the third phase on November 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/tejashwi-will-cut-salaries-of-cm-ministers-to-pay-staff/articleshow/79012244.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 3, 2020||---||Tejashwi Yadav emerges leader out of Lalu’s shadow||PATNA: While the state is going to the second phase of polls on Tuesday, the campaigning strategy of different political parties and top leaders took politics to a completely new level in Bihar. The Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, managed to come out of the shadow of his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who was known for not making personal attacks on his rivals till earlier elections, makes vitriolic attacks on Lalu’s family in general and Tejashwi in particular. The 31-year-old Yadav scion not only broke the record of his father by holding as many as 19 rallies in a day, he also did not deviate from the agenda of unemployment throughout the campaign while promising ‘kamai, dawai, padhai and sinchai’, if voted to power. Political experts feel he has made the fight really tough for NDA, which was earlier considered set for a cakewalk against the Mahagathbandhan. Realizing the threat which Tejashwi is posing to his opponents, CM Nitish has started mocking him and his promise of providing 1 million job in his first cabinet meeting, if the Mahagathbandhan forms government in Bihar. Nitish also took a dig at Lalu for having nine children as he wanted sons because he did not believe in his seven daughters. In all his rallies, he reminded people of the 15 years of Lalu-Rabri regime as ‘jungle raj’ and warning them against the return of the lantern era. Political expert and Patna University’s former dean (faculty of social sciences) Nawal Kishore Choudhary said with every passing day, balance was shifting out of the NDA side and CM Nitish’s hand. “NDA is under pressure and it is reflected in the outbursts of CM and his aggressive behaviour,” said Choudhary, adding “But it will be too early to predict the downfall of Nitish. NDA still has some edge,” he said. He cited various reasons for the shift in balance, which included Chirag factor and economic agenda, especially the employment issue raised by the Mahagathbandhan. The campaigning for the second phase of polls also witnessed Prime Minister Narendra Modi training his gun at Tejashwi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. At a rally in Patna last on Wednesday, PM Modi for the first time hit out at Tejashwi and called him ‘jungle raj ka yuvraj’, which made headlines across the country. From the same dais, he praised Nitish for taking Bihar from darkness to light. He did not stop there. In another rally on Sunday, he once again attacked Tejashwi as well as Rahul and called the duo as double yuvraj (crown princess), who were trying to bring back jungle raj in Bihar. The PM left no stone unturned and addressed four back to back rallies in a day on Sunday, which was the last day for the second phase of campaigning. While party heads were trying to mobilize vote in favour of their candidates, LJP chief Chirag Paswan was busy attacking Nitish throughout. However, he seemed to be completely out of his ‘Ram’ NaMo’s favour. Initially, there was an impression that he would cut into JD(U) votes and help BJP. But, of late, PM Modi in his rallies, did not mention Chirag even once. In fact, he clearly stated that NDA meant BJP, JD(U), HAM (S) and VIP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/tejas-emerges-leader-out-of-lalus-shadow/articleshow/79012322.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 3, 2020||Patna||Double whammy for NDA: Rebels and Tejashwi Yadav’s rising popularity||PATNA: With two-thirds of the assembly seats yet to go to the polls, the NDA in Bihar is facing the double whammy of rebel candidates as well as the strong perception that RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has emerged as a strong contender for the CM’s post. The second phase of polling for 94 seats is on Tuesday. However, CM Nitish Kumar dismissed the “popularity” of the Mahagathbandhan’s CM face, Tejashwi, who has been drawing huge crowds in his election meetings. “What happened in 2005 when Laluji (RJD chief) drew similar crowds. And don’t forget the 2010 election when both Lalu and Ram Vilas Paswan together drew huge crowds. The result is for everyone to see,” Nitish told a TV channel in an interview on Monday. The JD(U) chief also dismissed the young and aggressive crowd response in Tejashwi’s rallies. “Who are they? Who are excited and attending his (Tejashwi’s) meetings?” Nitish asked, hinting that the crowds comprise people from a “certain caste and section” only. Without taking any name, Nitish said he never took notice of the acerbic comments made against him by some leaders (Tejashwi and LJP chief Chirag Paswan). “They are from political families. What other credentials do they have? They only get publicity by making such comments,” Nitish said. A JD(U) leader, preferring anonymity, told TOI that the aggressive crowd responses in Tejashwi’s meetings were polarizing voters in favour of NDA as the EBCs have started fearing the same lawlessness as they had witnessed before 2005 when Nitish came to power. “The M-Y (Muslim-Yadav) aggression is similar to the pre-2000 period but the good women’s turnout is encouraging for JD(U),” he said, referring to the 50% reservation for women in panchayats and urban local bodies, and 35% quota in government jobs among others. The NDA is also banking on HAM (S) of Jitan Ram Manjhi and Mukesh Sahani VIP to garner a sizable number of votes from Musahar (Manjhi) and Mallah (fishermen) communities. But what is worrisome for NDA is not only LJP but also the rebel candidates of BJP and JD(U), who are in the fray against several of their official nominees. Even BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal said recently that unlike in previous elections, the NDA lacked coordination at the grassroots level this time. This got reinforced when senior BJP leader and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Saturday warned Bhagalpur JD(U) MP Ajay Mandal from a public platform against working for a party rebel and former MLA Aman Paswan in Pirpainty. BJP candidate Lalan Paswan agreed with SuMo on Mandal but told TOI on Monday that the JD(U) organization was working for him. Mandal, however, said someone misled SuMo. “He is a big leader and our guardian. I won’t say anything against him, but I am a committed NDA worker,” he told TOI. While former JD(U) MLA Manjit Singh and Shailendra Pratap, an office-bearer till recently, are rebel candidates against BJP in Baikunthpur (Gopalganj) and Taraiya (Saran), respectively, Maheshwar Prasad Singh is contesting against official nominee Shalini Mishra in Kesaria (Purvi Champaran). Similar is the case in Maner where former BJP man Shrikant Nirala is in the fray against official party nominee Nikhil Mandal. Similar is the case in Bakhtiarpur, Kanti, Lalganj and several other seats going to the polls on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/double-whammy-for-nda-rebels-tejashwis-rising-popularity/articleshow/79007702.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 3, 2020||Business||HDFC Q2 net falls 28% as bank can’t pay dividend||MUMBAI: HDFC reported a net profit of Rs 2,870 crore for the quarter ended September 2020, a drop of 28% compared to Rs 3,982 crore in the same period of the previous year. The decline was on account of a sharp drop in dividend income and profit from the sale of investments. Following the Covid-19 crisis, the Reserve Bank of India barred banks from paying out dividend, and so HDFC did not receive any payment from HDFC Bank this year. Also, last year HDFC had booked a profit consequent to the sale of GRUH Finance to enable the latter’s merger with Bandhan Bank. As a result, the dividend income and profit from investments dropped to Rs 323 crore from Rs 2,701 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. “In reality, profits are higher than what they were last year after adjusting for dividend income, profit on the sale of investment, and provisions for expected credit losses,” said vice-chairman and CEO Keki Mistry. The gross non-performing assets (NPAs) stood at 1.81% overall, while it was 0.84% for the individual home loan portfolio and 4.19% on non-individual loans. Had there been no order from the Supreme Court staying classification of loans as NPAs, the overall gross NPAs would have been 1.83%. According to Mistry there has been a strong rebound in business in the third quarter. “In terms of individual home loan disbursements, October 2020 has been the second-highest.” He added that in terms of markets, Mumbai saw the highest demand followed by Delhi and Bengaluru while Hyderabad and Chennai were a bit slow. “The demand that we are seeing is largely transactions that were initiated post-Covid and is not pent-up demand. We hope that this will be sustained,” said Mistry. During the quarter, individual loan applications rose 12%, while approvals grew by 9% compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. However, disbursement of individual loans was still only 95% of what was disbursed in the previous year. He added that the demand was a combination of many factors, including the reduction of the stamp duty in Maharashtra and interest rates being low. He added that demand was largely domestic, and the average loan size has actually declined to below Rs 27 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-q2-net-falls-28-as-bank-cant-pay-dividend/articleshow/79008077.cms||---
November 3, 2020||---||Opposition rakes up Munger issue||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan took a jibe at the Nitish Kumar government for delay in action against perpetrators of the incident. Chirag said, “Nitish Kumar has been wearing ‘Sushshan Babu’ tag for the past 15 years. However, he has not spoken a word about the Munger incident.” Talking to media persons before leaving for the third round of campaigning in favour of LJP candidates, Chirag said, “What can a bigger crime than your cops opening fire on innocent devotees during idol immersion procession of Goddess Durga?” Describing the state government as ‘Mahisasur’, the LJP national president said it was beyond imagination how the police opened fire on devotees without any provocation. RJD leader and opposition’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav went a step further and described the then Munger SP Lipi Singh as ‘General Dyer’ of the infamous Jalliawala Bagh massacre during the British regime. “ What was the chief minister doing? What was his deputy, Sushil Kumar Modi, who is a leader of the BJP, doing? They have a double-engine government in the state. Did they have information? Their inaction shows the role they have played in the incident,” Tejashwi said. Demanding a probe into the entire incident, the opposition leader said, “Who gave you (police) the order to become General Dyer? We want to know what the deputy CM is doing. What’s the reason behind his silence?” The Congress too joined the chorus over the issue. Party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said, “Why PM Narendra Modi is silent over the incident? Where are Union ministers like Giriraj Singh, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Nityanand Rai and R K Singh?. Why are they maintaining silence?”. The JD(U), however, defended the state government and said investigation into the incident was underway. “The Election Commission has ordered an inquiry by the divisional commissioner of Magadh division. He will submit his report to the commission,” a senior JD(U) leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/oppn-rakes-up-munger-issue/articleshow/79018959.cms||Ramashankar
November 3, 2020||Hubballi||Haveri: 75-foot gopura to promote Kanaka Dasa’s works||HAVERI: A 75-foot Kanaka Kavya Gopura (tower) has been built in Haveri district to celebrate the literary works of saint-poet Kanaka Dasa. The structure built by Kaginele Development Authority (KDA) at Kaginele Eco Park will soon be inaugurated. The saint-poet is popular for his keertanas (verses) and Ugabhoga compositions in Kannada. It is said his compositions are apt for adaptations in Carnatic music. The tower has five parts depicting the life and times of Kanaka Dasa, Keertana, Mohana Tarangini, Nala Charitre and Ramadhanya Charite. There is also a tamburi (music instrument) atop the gopura. Jagannath Genannavar, researcher at KDA, said the gopura has been designed on a unique concept, with the five steps explaining the life history of the saint-poet and his contribution to Kannada literature. “The portion explaining ‘Hari Bhakti Sara’ is important as it is the essence of life. By seeing the images on the tower, even the illiterate can get to know about the saint-poet. We hope Kanaka Kavya Goupura will be a big draw,” he said. “The 75-foot tower is visible from a distance. While the images on its steps speak about his lifestyle, literature and thoughts, the tamburi indicates that it had been an integral part of Kanaka Dasa,” said Mallesheppa Horapete, KDA commissioner. Sudha D S, teacher at a primary government school, said many students don’t know much about Kanaka Dasa. “ But one visit to the gopura can enlighten them on the saint-poet. Thanks to KDA for constructing such a beautiful and meaningful tower,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/75-foot-gopura-to-promote-kanaka-dasas-works/articleshow/79006618.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 3, 2020||---||Many netas contract Covid while campaigning in Bihar||PATNA: Covid-19 has claimed lives of some politicians and affected a few of them during elections in the state. The virus infection among politicians has raised question marks over adherence to Covid safety protocols in the state. Despite the guidelines of the Election Commission, social distancing norms, such as thermal screening, restricting number of people in meetings and rallies and wearing of mask are not followed by political parties. As a result, many politicians contracted the virus during the electioneering in the state. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi had tested positive for Covid on October 22. He was discharged from AIIMS-Patna on October 27 after recuperating from the virus. The deputy CM, however, started campaigning again after his health condition improved. BJP MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy and former MP Syed Shahnawaz Hussain were struck off the list of party’s star campaigners for the second phase after they contracted the virus. BJP’s sitting MLA from Kumhrar Arun Kumar Sinha had abandoned campaigning due to Covid. He self-isolated himself at home. However, he again started campaigning after recuperating from the virus. In his absence, his son Ashish Sinha campaigned in Kumhrar. Former agriculture minister Narendra Singh, who was admitted to AIIMS-Patna after testing positive for Covid, was discharged on Monday. Singh, party sources said, contracted the virus while campaigning in Jamui. JD(U) leader Supaul MP Dileshwar Kumait is still undergoing treatment for Covid at AIIMS-Patna. JD(U)’s Katihar MP Dulal Chandra Goswami was found Covid positive on October 24. He had accompanied BJP candidate Nisha Singh while she was filing her nomination papers from Pranpur October 20. Four-time Muzaffarpur MLA Vijendra Chaudhary, a Congress candidate from the same constituency, has also tested positive for Covid. His daughter Ankita Chaudhary is campaigning for him. Two former cabinet ministers – Vinod Singh and Kapildeo Kamat – had lost their lives due to Covid. They had contracted the virus while campaigning for the assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/many-netas-contract-covid-while-campaigning-in-state/articleshow/79017940.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 3, 2020||---||Bihar: Just 8 rallies by Rahul Gandhi baffle poll observers||PATNA: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who has so far addressed four election rallies in the state, will campaign in four more assembly constituencies on Tuesday and Wednesday. These four constituencies will go to the polls in the third and final phase on November 7. On Tuesday, Rahul will address election rallies in Korha (Katihar) and Kishanganj assembly constituencies. The next day, he will campaign in Bihariganj (Madhepura) and Araria assembly constituencies. If all rallies are put together, Rahul will be touching only eight constituencies in the state. His sister and Congress’s east Uttar Pradesh incharge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has so far not addressed any rally in the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is 70, has already addressed 10 rallies in the state. He is scheduled to address two more rallies for the third phase of polling in the state on Tuesday. Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav addresses 12 to 19 rallies per day in the state. “We are not into any competition with PM Modi. Over the next two days, Rahulji will hold four more rallies in the state. It’s not number of rallies, but the message that a political party delivers will work at the end of the day. Everyone knows what the PM has been doing,” Congress national spokesperson Pawan Khera said, adding many central working committee members of Congress are campaigning in the state. Congress MLC and party’s media coordination committee convener Prem Chandra Mishra said Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi, who leads the alliance, is campaigning for candidates across the state. Meanwhile, Congress national spokesperson Supriya Shrinate on Monday targeted the state government over unemployment and migration. “Every second youth in Bihar is unemployed. The condition is such that for 166 vacancies for group ‘D’ employees in secretariat, there are five lakh applicants,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/just-8-rallies-by-rahul-baffle-poll-observers/articleshow/79017704.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 3, 2020||Patna||Will cut salaries of CM, ministers to pay staff: Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: Stressing on his 10 lakh government job promise if he formed the government, Mahagathbandhan chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said money would not be an issue and, if needed, the salary of ministers and legislators would be cut to pay the new employees. Tejashwi said loans up to Rs5 lakh taken for educational purposes will also be waived off. “Chief minister Nitish Kumar always says from where I will get the money to provide employment to 10 lakh youths. Let me tell you that Rs80,000 crore of the state budget remains unspent. Also, Rs24,000-25,000 given to Bihar under right to education is sent back. These are enough. Even if the need be, we will cut the salary of chief minister, other ministers and legislators and give jobs,” Tejashwi said in the second series of his Yuva Naukri Samvad organized digitally on Monday. Tejashwi said people, especially the youth, have bestowed faith in him. “Their anger against CM Nitish has converted into hate. Bihar has 46.6% unemployment, the highest in the country. I have seen how both the CM and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi have become tired and now cannot handle Bihar,” he said. The son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad also promised to set up a university in Begusarai in the honour of poet late Ramdhari Singh Dinkar and another one in Mithilanchal region in the name of socialist leader late Karpoori Thakur. He also promised the formation of commissions for youth, businessmen, farmers and sportspersons. Tejashwi said several incidents of murder and kidnapping of businessmen and traders have occurred in Bihar recently. “We will form business safety squad,” he said. Tejashwi, who is often mocked by the ruling NDA for being inexperienced and without any blueprint for his tall promises, said those who were posing questions on his ability should check his tenure of 18 months as the deputy chief minister of state. He repeated his promise of increasing the honorarium of self-help groups and making all contractual jobs permanent. Before this talk, Tejashwi held rallies in 11 constituencies which will go to the polls in the third phase on November 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-will-cut-salaries-of-cm-ministers-to-pay-staff/articleshow/79008538.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 3, 2020||---||Bihar elections: BJP, JD(U) go for damage control to iron out ‘differences’||PATNA: Moving to quell the speculation over widening chasm between the two major NDA allies, the BJP and JD(U) brass are working on enhancing pro-active coordination between the rank and file of the two parties down to the grassroots level. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal’s recent comment on “lack of coordination” in NDA, followed by BJP functionary and deputy CM Sushil Modi publicly warning a JDU MP for working against the official nominee on Saturday, had given rise to strong rumours of differences within the NDA allies over campaign coordination. “I will say that the coordination between the two parties has been restored down to the grassroots level in every assembly constituency where the polling is due. The candidate of a party – JD(U) or BJP, or any other party in the NDA – has to take the initiative to invite functionaries from the other parties,” state JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. “Both parties have realized they need each other, and going solo without taking the other party’s rank and file into confidence will be to their mutual disadvantage,” Prasad said, obliquely conceding that there were issues between the two allies. SuMo’s warning during a rally at Pirpainti assembly constituency in Bhagalpur district on Saturday triggered the need for coordination between the two parties. SuMo said Bhagalpur JD(U) MP Ajay Mandal has been working against not only the local BJP candidate Lalan Kumar Paswan but also against the interests of the NDA coalition. Pirpainti will vote on Tuesday (November 3). SuMo went to the extent of saying the BJP’s former MLA Aman Paswan, who was denied ticket this time, has been put up as an Independent candidate with money from the “opposition”. SuMo said publicly that he had discussed the matter with the JDU (MP) over the telephone on Friday, telling him that he might face the same music during his next election. Observers say it was a pointer that the BJP and JD(U) could part ways. The issue came to fore after an audio clip emerged of Mandal saying the BJP candidate had worked against him in 2019 parliamentary elections. “It (the differences between the workers of the two parties) is a serious matter. Senior BJP functionaries sent the message regarding this to the JD(U) brass, who, intervened,” a JD(U) source said, adding the intervention has occurred at the level of even CM Nitish Kumar, who issued the “necessary instructions” for mending the relationship between BJP and JD(U). Sources also said that the reality has dawned on the central and state BJP top brass that the RJD-led grand alliance had, indeed, emerged as a “formidable force”. “Earlier, BJP had underestimated them. They thought they could defeat the grand alliance without JD(U). Therefore, they allowed the LJP chief Chirag Paswan to field candidates against the JD(U) nominees,” a JD(U) source said. Observers felt even PM Modi, as evidenced by his passionate appeal to women to vote for NDA candidates, had realised that it was difficult for BJP to take on the grand alliance on its strength alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-jdu-go-for-damage-control-to-iron-out-differences/articleshow/79012439.cms||Abhay Singh
November 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: BJP, JD(U) go for damage control to iron out ‘differences’||PATNA: Moving to quell the speculation over widening chasm between the two major NDA allies, the BJP and JD(U) brass are working on enhancing pro-active coordination between the rank and file of the two parties down to the grassroots level. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal’s recent comment on “lack of coordination” in NDA, followed by BJP functionary and deputy CM Sushil Modi publicly warning a JDU MP for working against the official nominee on Saturday, had given rise to strong rumours of differences within the NDA allies over campaign coordination. “I will say that the coordination between the two parties has been restored down to the grassroots level in every assembly constituency where the polling is due. The candidate of a party – JD(U) or BJP, or any other party in the NDA – has to take the initiative to invite functionaries from the other parties,” state JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. “Both parties have realized they need each other, and going solo without taking the other party’s rank and file into confidence will be to their mutual disadvantage,” Prasad said, obliquely conceding that there were issues between the two allies. SuMo’s warning during a rally at Pirpainti assembly constituency in Bhagalpur district on Saturday triggered the need for coordination between the two parties. SuMo said Bhagalpur JD(U) MP Ajay Mandal has been working against not only the local BJP candidate Lalan Kumar Paswan but also against the interests of the NDA coalition. Pirpainti will vote on Tuesday (November 3). SuMo went to the extent of saying the BJP’s former MLA Aman Paswan, who was denied ticket this time, has been put up as an Independent candidate with money from the “opposition”. SuMo said publicly that he had discussed the matter with the JDU (MP) over the telephone on Friday, telling him that he might face the same music during his next election. Observers say it was a pointer that the BJP and JD(U) could part ways. The issue came to fore after an audio clip emerged of Mandal saying the BJP candidate had worked against him in 2019 parliamentary elections. “It (the differences between the workers of the two parties) is a serious matter. Senior BJP functionaries sent the message regarding this to the JD(U) brass, who, intervened,” a JD(U) source said, adding the intervention has occurred at the level of even CM Nitish Kumar, who issued the “necessary instructions” for mending the relationship between BJP and JD(U). Sources also said that the reality has dawned on the central and state BJP top brass that the RJD-led grand alliance had, indeed, emerged as a “formidable force”. “Earlier, BJP had underestimated them. They thought they could defeat the grand alliance without JD(U). Therefore, they allowed the LJP chief Chirag Paswan to field candidates against the JD(U) nominees,” a JD(U) source said. Observers felt even PM Modi, as evidenced by his passionate appeal to women to vote for NDA candidates, had realised that it was difficult for BJP to take on the grand alliance on its strength alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-jdu-go-for-damage-control-to-iron-out-differences/articleshow/79008450.cms||Abhay Singh
November 3, 2020||---||BSP chief Mayawati’s BJP comments give political spin in Bihar polls||PATNA: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati’s directive last week to its MLAs and supporters to defeat the Samajwadi Party (SP) candidate in the upcoming biennial Rajya Sabha election in UP or its assembly bypolls and even legislative council elections, has caused natural spin-off effect on the ongoing Bihar assembly elections.  Political pundits say it might even have impact on the government formation process after the Bihar poll results are out on November 10. Mayawati had said to ensure the defeat of SP candidates, her party will even vote for the BJP or any other party’s nominee. However, Mayawati at Lucknow said on Monday: “Whether it is (…polls in UP), or Madhya Pradesh bypolls and even elections in Bihar, BSP has not made an appeal to its supporters to vote for the BJP.” As RLSP circles felt party chief Upendra Kushwaha will not be averse to joining hands with BJP, if neither JD(U) national chief and CM Nitish Kumar nor RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is in a position to form the government. “The RLSP needs just 20 MLAs to play any decisive role in the government formation,” a party source said. BSP is contesting 80 assembly seats out of 243 in Bihar. It is part of the six-party Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF), that also has RLSP and AIMIM headed by Asaduddin Owaisi, besides three other relatively minor parties. “At the moment, our leaders are busy campaigning in the constituencies. We want to win as many seats as possible,” a BSP functionary at the party’s state headquarters here said, adding that as to the BSP’s role in possible government formation in Bihar is concerned, it is not on the mind of anyone in the party. The RLSP has fielded 104 candidates and AIMIM 26, including in eastern Bihar districts where it is also hoping to defeat the grand alliance or even the JD(U). The AIMIM today has one MLA in the outgoing House, but it might not join hands with the BJP to form government, as it would block its future in the state, it is felt. Yet, the RLSP has definitely begun to envision its possible role and stakes in the next government formation. “As for RLSP, we hope to win around 20 seats to give us credible strength,” a party source said. As per the reading of observers, the real role of the GDSF parties would come into the picture if the elections throw up a fractured mandate, giving no clear majority to any of the two major combines — the NDA comprising BJP, JD(U), HAM(S) and VIP and the grand alliance consisting of RJD, Congress and three Left parties. “We certainly envision our role in the government formation. Our party chief is the CM face from the GDSF. Either we will form the government with the support of other parties, or will extend support as per the conditions that our party chief puts forward,” RLSP state spokesman Bhola Sharma said. Incidentally, Kushwaha has come to nurse visceral hatred against RJD, as it did not accommodate the number of seats that he had demanded for his party. Kushwaha had to quit the grand alliance. On Sunday, Kushwaha said he suspected “some kind of underhand deal” between BJP and RJD’s Tejashwi, who would be content to have his father Lalu Prasad get out of the jail on November 9 with the support of the saffron brass in the central government. “How else can Tejashwi be sure about the release of Lalu from the jail on bail?” Kushwaha asked, suggesting that the results will throw up an open situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/mayas-bjp-comments-give-political-spin-in-bihar-polls/articleshow/79013263.cms||Abhay Singh
November 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Lumpy skin disease not detected in dist: Animal husbandry dept||COIMBATORE: While an outbreak of lumpy skin disease, a viral infection that affects cattle, has been reported in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, officials of the animal husbandry department said that no cattle are infected in the district. The disease is caused by capripoxvirus and is transmitted on direct contact. Affected cattle would have high fever followed by development of stiff, round cutaneous nodules, fibrous tissue growth, lesions in mouth, reduction in milk production, infertility and abortion. “We collected samples on random basis and sent them for testing a few months ago. They had turned negative for the infection. Irrespective of that, we have alerted dairy farmers about the disease, especially those staying near the state border. Another meeting is scheduled on Tuesday to discuss the measures need to be taken to prevent it,” an animal husbandry department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lumpy-skin-disease-not-detected-in-dist-animal-husbandry-dept/articleshow/79007416.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Rajkot||Private firm manager robbed of SUV, laptop near Anjar||RAJKOT: Two unidentified highway robbers looted the manager of a private firm in Anjar of Kutch district of his SUV worth Rs 5 lakh, a laptop worth Rs 20,000 and Rs 15,000 cash near Varshamedi village on the outskirts of Anjar on Sunday. Police said the robbers stopped the SUV by waving at it. “Once the SUV stopped, the accused sprayed some liquid from a bottle into the eyes of the driver, Pratap Thakor. Then brandishing a country made pistol and a knife, the accused made Thakor and Shirish Shrivastav alight from the SUV, and drove it away,” said an official from Anjar police station. Shrivastav, the manager of an organization, originally hails from Uttar Pradesh. He stays in Adipur. “We have booked the accused, believed to be in their 30s, under robbery and Arms Act,” the official added. Meanwhile, the police have launched the investigation into the case by checking the footage of the CCTVs installed along the route of the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pvt-firm-manager-robbed-of-suv-laptop-near-anjar/articleshow/79008791.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Rajkot||Diphtheria raises its head in North Gujarat again, three kids die in Tharad||PALANPUR: In a worrying trend, North Gujarat has started recording diphtheria deaths for the second consecutive year. Since last month, at least three children have died due to diphtheria infection in Tharad taluka of Banaskantha district. Last year too Banaskantha had reported around six deaths of diphtheria suspects. Health authorities are on their toes as besides these three deaths, at least 34 diphtheria cases including 11 in Tharad alone have been reported. “Besides Tharad, we have received cases from villages like Nano, Dipda, Savpura, Urvela and Gahanna village,” said Dr Bharmal Patel, medical officer at the district health department at Palanpur. Apart from Tharad, cases have also been reported from Deesa and other talukas, said an official. Dr Manish Fancy, chief district health officer of Banaskantha informed that all the deceased were in the age group of five to eight years. “They were diagnosed with severe infection of diphtheria. The upper respiratory tract bacterial infection can be prevented with timely vaccination. But in some cases, our vaccination teams were driven out by the locals. We have now made it mandatory to vaccinate the kids,” he said. In line with the universal immunization programme, all children below one year get three doses of diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus (DPT) vaccine which is followed by booster doses. “Earlier, villagers were opposing such vaccination drive. Now, we are strict about vaccination,” said paediatrician P G Patel. POINTER: WHAT IS DIPHTHERIA? Diphtheria is an infectious disease caused by bacterium Corynebacterium diphtheria It primarily infects the throat and upper airways and produces a toxin affecting other organs Its symptoms are sore throat, low fever and swollen glands in the neck In severe cases, it may cause myocarditis or peripheral neuropathy It makes breathing and swallowing difficult The disease is spread through direct physical contact or from breathing in the aerosolized secretions from coughs or sneezes of infected individuals Vaccination against diphtheria has reduced the mortality and morbidity of diphtheria dramatically BOX: HOW DOES IT SPREAD? Diphtheria spreads when an infected person coughs or sneezes. Without treatment, the patient can spread the disease for around two weeks after infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/diphtheria-raises-its-head-in-north-gujarat-again-three-kids-die-in-tharad/articleshow/79008725.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||Four more accidents claim 2 lives||KOLKATA: Two persons lost their lives and three were injured in four separate accidents in the city. One of the two fatal accidents involved trucks. In the first incident, an unidentified woman aged around 45 died after a truck hit her on Park Circus-Gobinda Khatik Road in Topsia. The driver was arrested. In the other accident, 50-year-old Dasharath Turia died after being hit by a car on Goragachha Road in Taratala around 1.35pm on Sunday. Two bikers — Raja Bose and Shibu Kanu — were injured after a car hit the two-wheeler on KK Tagore Street near Baikuntha Debalaya in the Posta area around 4.30am on Monday. In yet another accident, traffic constable Raman Burman, 26, was injured after being hit by a truck at the Central Garden Reach Road-Coal Berth Road crossing at 2.20pm on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-more-accidents-claim-2-lives/articleshow/79007069.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Surat||School teacher suspended for posting obscene photos||SURAT: A teacher of a higher secondary private school in Ankleshwar town was suspended by the authorities for allegedly posting obscene photos in the whatsapp group of students meant for imparting online education, on Monday. Rakesh Kumar Chaubey, 28, a resident of Jantanagar in Ankleshwar town is working as a higher secondary teacher at the Saraswati Vidhya Mandir located at Padmavatinagar on the Rajpipla road. Chaubey, who teaches computer science to Class X students, posted an obscene photo in the group. The enraged students and their parents reached the school and roughed up the teacher for posting highly objectionable photos. Following the protests at the school premises, the Ankleshwar GIDC police arrived at the spot and detained the teacher. However, the police released the teacher without registering any complaint after he agreed to tender an apology in writing to the school authorities for his grave mistake. Sources said that Chaubey tendered an apology to the school authorities and the students stating that he accidentally posted the photo. The school authorities issued a letter stating that the teacher has been suspended from immediate effect from his service for posting the obscene photo. Chandra Prakash Mishra, father of a student at Saraswati Vidhya Mandir told TOI: Post lockdown, the education in all the schools is imparted through the online platform. I was shocked when my son showed me the obscene photo posted by the teacher in their group. However, we reached the school to take the teacher to task, said Chandra Prakash Mishra, father of a student with the school. “We did not manhandle the teacher, but all we wanted was an apology from him,” added Mishra. Despite repeated attempts the school authorities were not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/school-teacher-suspended-for-posting-obscene-photos/articleshow/79008604.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Surat||Sickle cell anemia treatment proves effective in Covid-19 too: Study||SURAT: A medicine being used for sickle cell anemia for the past 13 years has shown promising results in treatment of coronavirus patients with mild to moderate symptoms. The 21-day trial recently completed on a group of 30 Covid-19 home quarantined patients, all of them having various co-morbid conditions, in Vyara town of Tapi district, showed significant improvement in various key blood markers, oxygen saturation and fast return of the lost taste and smell. All patients had mild to moderate Covid infection. The study approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was done by Dr Atul Desai using T-AYU-HM Premium, the medicine used for the treatment of sickle cell anemia since 2007, in combination with onion steam vaporisation and nebulisation. Dr Desai was the principal investigator at Vyara-based Ayurveda Healthcare and Research Centre along with Dr Hemshree Desai and Dr Chirag Desai. Sickle-cell anemia is an inherited blood disorder, widely seen in the tribal population of Gujarat, wherein patients have severe deficiency of healthy red blood cells (RBC). Dr Desai explained that the the herbal medicine combined has shown positive results in sickle-cell anemia patients as it increases the red blood cells (RBC) whose function is to transport oxygen from lungs to othe body tissues. “We observed marked improvement in oxygen saturation, respiratory rate, CRP (inflamation marker) ESR (infection marker ) and LDH (which shows signs for damage to tissues). The elevated markers came within the normal range in five to seven days in all 30 patients,” said Dr Desai. Coronavirus mainly attacks the lungs and the millions of air sacs in them and the body’s immune system while fighting it out, results in water accumulation in the lungs. SUCCESSFUL CASE SPURRED TRIALS The clinical trials were encouraged after a successful case study report on a 48-year-old Covid-19 patient with lung infection between 20-30 %, fever, weakness and other symptoms. The patient was suggested home quarantine during which he followed onion steam vaporisation combined with T-AYU-HM tablet of 600 mg twice a day for 21 days. His blood reports were done on the first, fifth, 10th and 21st day. ICMR gave the nod for trials after this case was presented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sickle-cell-anemia-treatment-proves-effective-in-covid-19-too-study/articleshow/79008541.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
November 3, 2020||Varanasi||School teacher shot dead in Deoria||GORAKHPUR: A school teacher was shot dead on the side of Salempur-Bhatni road near Padri Tiwari village in Deoria district. On Monday morning, his body was spotted by some local residents who informed the police. Police reached the spot and sent the body for postmortem. A mobile phone, two spent cartridges and a motorcycle were recovered from the spot. As per reports, Ram Balak Chauhan, 28, son Jagesar Chauhan, was a resident of Padri Vanmali village under Khukhundu police station in Deoria district. He was unmarried and a teacher in a private school. On Sunday late evening when he was having dinner with his father, someone called him and after taking dinner he took the motorcycle of one of his relatives from Narouli Bheekham Tola and went out. SP Deoria, Sripati Mishra said that police have opened a probe and are investigating on each point who called him and if he had any animosity or love affair with anyone. However things will become clearer after investigation and soon the culprit will be under custody, he added. Ram Balak was living alone with his father as his mother died few years ago and younger brother is studying at Prayagraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/school-teacher-shot-dead-in-deoria/articleshow/79008627.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 3, 2020||Business||‘WFH pushed demand for leisurewear’||Avik.Das1@timesgroup.com Sports and leisurewear apparel seem to be on the path to a quick recovery as people take to fitness to build immunity and continue working from home, says Abhishek Ganguly, general manager (India & Southeast Asia) at Puma, one of the largest sportswear makers. Athletic leisurewear is seeing strong demand with work-from-home becoming a norm... How far has business returned to normal? Initial days of reopening stores had more sales than our expectation and footfalls have been growing steadily since. Our e-commerce business is ramping up very fast and there are clear signs of recovery. Many people have taken to fitness more than ever before, realising the importance of building immunity. So, there is a higher demand for fitness and training merchandise. Also, with work-from-home becoming a norm, athletic leisurewear has strong demand. I believe sportswear and athleisure would be one of the categories to see quick revival. What are the challenges you still face? With domestic and international travel still restricted, we’ve adopted virtual connects with team members, stakeholders and retail partners. However, technology cannot fully replace the advantages of having in-person interactions. We have always been a connected and engaged organisation. We miss that physical connection. Has Covid-19 impacted remuneration or resulted in downsizing? We have not let go of a single employee across our corporate and retail teams. What is the key learning from this crisis? A key takeaway from the experience is that you have to take each day as it comes. We need to keep evolving and adapting to changes and as a brand, we need to ensure business agility. Adoption of technology is not a choice, it is an extremely critical lever for businesses. What additional steps should government take? The government has done a lot to reduce the cost of borrowing during these difficult times. Liberalising LTA policies for central government employees is a step in the right direction. This policy should be extended to private sector employees. The government could also incentivise taxpayers by giving further income tax rebates. Sops to companies making capital investments would create a positive outlook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wfh-pushed-demand-for-leisurewear/articleshow/78999261.cms||Avik Das
November 3, 2020||Business||City Union Bank Q2 profit slips by 18%||Chennai: Private lender City Union Bank saw net profile decline by 18% to Rs 158 crore for the quarter-ended September 30, 2020, as compared to the same period last year. This decline in profit is at the back of a 65% spike in provisioning against bad debts to meet any future contingency arising out of Covid-19 pandemic and a marginal increase in bad loans. Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) of the bank has increased to Rs 1,220 crore in September, 2020, from Rs 1,136 crore in September, 2019. Net NPA has seen a marginal increase to Rs 631 crore from Rs 624 crore in the same period. Total income of the bank was flat at Rs 1,230 crore. Operating profit saw 12% growth at Rs 385 crore in this quarter on a yearly basis. Provision Coverage Ratio of the bank stands at 70% as on September 30, 2020. Shares of CUB ended 3% higher at Rs 152.5 apiece on BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/city-union-bank-q2-profit-slips-by-18/articleshow/79007208.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 3, 2020||Aurangabad||No evidence of Covid-19 virus in ovary or semen: CMAAO||Aurangabad: The Confederation of Medical Associations in Asia and Oceania (CMAAO), which was first to raise an alarm about Covid-19, has stated that there is no evidence of presence of the coronavirus in ovary, uterus, testes or semen. In a release issued on Monday, the organisation has also said that the Covid-19 virus is not present in follicular fluid or seminal plasma and also not associated with gametes or embryo.The CMAAO, which held a webinar on ‘Fertility and Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) Practice during Covid-19, has advised that high-risk patients should not opt for ART untill it is safe to do so. The husband or wife suffering from diabetes, hypertension or having lung or liver disease among other medical conditions are referred as ‘high risk’ patients. “All patients (of ART) should be given a choice to either proceed with their ART treatment or postpone it. The patient preference should be documented,” an official release by the CMAAO said. As regards to adaptation of the IVF during the current pandemic, the CMAAO has recommended replacing ACs with air-exchange machines and redesigning waiting rooms and working spaces to ensure appropriate distancing and ventilation. Among other dos and don’ts related to ART, the CMAAO has advised for the use of telemedicine as per feasibility, sending patients to sonologists near them and reducing the person consultation time to less than five minutes. The staff adaptation includes dividing team members into mini teams to reduce unnecessary exposure to Covid-19 and forming back-up teams. “The hospital staff should avoid public transport. The doctors should have emergency agreements between ART centres to guarantee continuity of treatment provision,” the CMAAO has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-evidence-of-covid-19-virus-in-ovary-or-semen-cmaao/articleshow/79009339.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Rajkot||Man arrested with firearm from Junagadh||Rajkot: A history-sheeter was arrested with two country made pistols and a cartridge, all worth Rs 30,100, from Manavadar in Junagadh district on Monday. Police said they arrested the accused, Sohil Qadri (26), on the basis of a tip-off. Qadri is a history-sheeter having been involved in 16 cases ranging from murder, physical assault and atrocity to bootlegging and arms dealing. During his interrogation, Qadri said he had obtained the arms and ammunition from one Ramu Pandit, an arms dealer from Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-arrested-with-firearm-from-junagadh/articleshow/79008767.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Business||RIL crashes 9%, m-cap down by Rs 1.2L cr in 1 day||MUMBAI: An 8.6% crash in the Reliance Industries (RIL) stock on Monday left its investors poorer by nearly Rs 1.2 lakh crore. Chairman Mukesh Ambani’s net worth also went down by Rs 59,100 crore, which pushed him three places down in the world’s rich list to the ninth spot. The day’s crash came on the back of a 7% drop in RIL’s net profit for the July-September quarter and also a sharp cut in its target price by one of the leading foreign brokerages Macquarie. This slide left RIL’s market cap at Rs 12.4 lakh crore — down by nearly Rs 1.2 lakh crore from Rs 13.5 lakh crore on Friday. With a 50.5% holding in India’s largest company, the net worth of Ambani is now a little over Rs 6.3 lakh crore. Monday’s 8.6% crash in RIL to Rs 1,877 also left the stock 21% off its all-time high of Rs 2,368, recorded on September 16, and it’s market cap down by about Rs 3 lakh crore. In intraday trades on the BSE, the stock was down 9.5% at one time to Rs 1,860. Analysts at brokerage house Macquarie, one of the top ranked among those covering RIL for years, have put in a 42% downside target for the stock, asking its customers to enter the counter at about Rs 1,200. With an ‘underperform’ rating on the stock, Macquarie said it was cutting RIL’s earnings per share for fiscal 2022-23 by 20% and put a one-year target price of Rs 1,320. CLSA, one of the most followed foreign brokerages in Indian market, however, has a target price of Rs 2,250 for RIL. It said that given the recent deal valuations for Jio and the proposed price for its deal with Saudi Aramco for its core business, the current price reflects the value of the stock. “Notwithstanding the long-term opportunity, near-term upside may be capped,” CLSA said. Sensex manages gain of 144 points Mumbai: Backed by strong results from banks and financials, the sensex on Monday closed 144 points higher at 39,758 points, despite the crash in RIL shares. The day’s upside in the benchmark was led by strong buying in HDFC, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-crashes-9-m-cap-down-by-rs-1-2l-cr-in-1-day/articleshow/79008159.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Business||Companies restore salaries, give Diwali bonuses||MUMBAI: The festival of lights has ushered joy into people’s lives with some companies doling out Diwali bonuses. Employers are also restoring salary levels wherever cuts were taken, and some others are advancing their appraisal cycles. Companies like Voltas and Vijay Sales have given Diwali bonuses to their employees, while Urban Company has advanced its appraisal cycle. Last week, in addition to reversing salary cuts taken in its hydrocarbon business with retrospective effect, Reliance Industries also paid the variable pay. The company further said that 30% of the variable pay will be disbursed as an advance against future payout of the same. With effect from October 1, Kotak Mahindra Bank rolled back pay reductions that were effected only for its top executives earning more than Rs 25 lakh per annum. Television broadcasters like Star, Zee and Viacom18 have also rolled back salary cuts. In addition, Zee is crediting 50% of pending bonus amounts into employees’ accounts prior to Diwali. At Kotak Bank, employees earning less than Rs 25 lakh per annum did not face any pay cuts. However, the recent salary restoration excludes the Kotak Mahindra Group leadership team’s voluntary pay cut. It also does not cover the Re-1 salary that Uday Kotak has voluntarily committed to take home in fiscal 2020-21. Kotak Bank president & group CHRO Sukhjit Pasricha said, “As the country slowly inches back with each step of ‘Unlock’, we are ‘Undoing’ the decision of a salary cut of employees earning more than Rs 25 lakh per annum that we took in May 2020. Employees earning less than that did not face any salary cut.” However, industries which have been badly bruised by the pandemic — like hotels, travel and some infrastructure companies — are yet to roll back salary cuts. But not all companies had resorted to pay reductions during the lockdown. Even during that tough period when stores were shut, Vijay Sales did not cut salaries of its staff. The company also did not resort to any layoffs. Now, with Diwali around the corner, the consumer electronics and durables retailer is giving bonuses to its employees. Vijay Sales managing partner Nilesh Gupta said, “Like every year, we are giving a one-month salary as a Diwali bonus to all our employees. We want to continue with this traditional practice, even when times are tough. Employees also have stuck with the company during these trying times.” Gupta said, barring some supply related constraints, consumer demand is back to pre-Covid levels and he expects Vijay Sales to clock 5-7% growth this Diwali, year-on-year. Tata Group company Voltas gave bonuses to its employees last month. Typically, employees get their bonuses in July/August. But this time, it was delayed and the company gave it in September to ensure that the payouts are in their hands before Diwali. Home services provider Urban Company (formerly UrbanClap) said all its employees are eligible to participate in the performance appraisal cycle, which has been advanced keeping in mind the upcoming festive season. “Over the past year, our employees have worked tirelessly in offering the best services to consumers across the country. Although we had to put our appraisal cycle on hold due to various constraints in 2020, we have now decided to advance it from April-May to January 2021. Advancement of the appraisal cycle ahead of the festival season will encourage and motivate our employees,” said Urban Company director (people excellence) Sana Nayyar. Industry sources said some companies are considering staggering the reinstatement in salaries based on people’s performance. Commenting on corporates loosening the purse strings for their employees, an industry observer said, “Now, that is like the private sector giving a stimulus.” Watch Diwali bonanza: Companies restore salaries, give bonuses||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-restore-salaries-give-bonuses/articleshow/79007934.cms||Namrata Singh
November 3, 2020||Hubballi||As rain abates, Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation all set to fill potholes in twin cities||HUBBALLI: The Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation will soon take up work to fill potholes in the twin cities. Roads in Hubballi – Dharwad were badly damaged due to incessant monsoon rains and various political parties and residents had protested just a few days ago condemning the bad condition of roads. People had made memes and circulated them on social media platforms to ridicule the sorry state of roads. HDMC had been planning to repair the roads but continuous rain did not allow the work to begin. As there has been no spell of rain in the recent days, the work of filling potholes will begin. According to HDMC sources, a survey of damaged roads has been conducted by all HDMC zonal offices. HDMC public relation officer SC Bevur said they will fill all potholes on priority and make roads motorable, adding the work orders have been given. “We have identified badly damaged roads and inspected potholes in all zones. Even during rainy days, potholes were filled immediately,” he said. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal told TOI, “We are ready to fill potholes and we are expecting a grant from National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF). We may get the funds once the model code of conduct in force due to MLC elections is lifted. Around Rs 3 crore will be spent from HDMC’s general grant to fill potholes.” “We have to rebuild some roads which are badly damaged and hence road work will be taken up by spending Rs 20 crore. Grants under 15th finance commission and Mahatma Gandhi Vikas scheme will be utilised for this,” he said. Itnal added that PWDand Smart City projects would be developed by their respective departments. Rajendra Kalawad, a senior citizen of Heggeri said the roads connecting Manjunath Nagar to Indi Pump is badly damaged. “Some portion of the road was concretised but the rest of it has remained as it is. It should developed immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/as-rain-abates-hdmc-all-set-to-fill-potholes-in-twin-cities/articleshow/79006811.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Just 8 rallies by Rahul Gandhi baffle poll observers||PATNA: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who has so far addressed four election rallies in the state, will campaign in four more assembly constituencies on Tuesday and Wednesday. These four constituencies will go to the polls in the third and final phase on November 7. On Tuesday, Rahul will address election rallies in Korha (Katihar) and Kishanganj assembly constituencies. The next day, he will campaign in Bihariganj (Madhepura) and Araria assembly constituencies. If all rallies are put together, Rahul will be touching only eight constituencies in the state. His sister and Congress’s east Uttar Pradesh incharge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has so far not addressed any rally in the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is 70, has already addressed 10 rallies in the state. He is scheduled to address two more rallies for the third phase of polling in the state on Tuesday. Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav addresses 12 to 19 rallies per day in the state. “We are not into any competition with PM Modi. Over the next two days, Rahulji will hold four more rallies in the state. It’s not number of rallies, but the message that a political party delivers will work at the end of the day. Everyone knows what the PM has been doing,” Congress national spokesperson Pawan Khera said, adding many central working committee members of Congress are campaigning in the state. Congress MLC and party’s media coordination committee convener Prem Chandra Mishra said Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi, who leads the alliance, is campaigning for candidates across the state. Meanwhile, Congress national spokesperson Supriya Shrinate on Monday targeted the state government over unemployment and migration. “Every second youth in Bihar is unemployed. The condition is such that for 166 vacancies for group ‘D’ employees in secretariat, there are five lakh applicants,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/just-8-rallies-by-rahul-baffle-poll-observers/articleshow/79007557.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 3, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar avoids speaking against Sharad Yadav||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday addressed an election rally in Madhepura district’s Bihariganj assembly constituency from where former Union minister and Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) chief Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Yadav is also in fray on Congress ticket. Nitish, however, avoided speaking anything against his former party colleague and friend-turned-foe. On Monday, the CM addressed a series of five election rallies in Madhepura and Supaul district. His first rally was in Alamnagar assembly constituency. After Alamnagar, he reached Udakishunganj and addressed a rally at the local SBJS High School ground under Bihariganj constituency where his party nominee and sitting MLA Niranjan Kumar Mehta is seeking re-election. Altogether 22 candidates including Subhashini Yadav are in the fray from Buhariganj, which is going to the polls in the last phase on November 7. As he has been doing at his all election rallies, Nitish listed achievements of his government during his speech at Udakishunganj. He also made a direct attack on the RJD on the issue of poor law and order during the Lalu-Rabri regime, but avoided saying ‘anything’ either against Sharad Yadav or his daughter. At the time of filing nomination papers from Bihariganj, Subhashini said she was entering the electoral battle to save her father's political legacy. Sharad Yadav, who won the Lok Sabha election from Madhepura four times in the past and also lost from there for an equal number of times, is currently sick and admitted to a hospital in Delhi for the past few months. Sharad had sided with Nitish after a split in the Janta Dal. He later served as the JD(U) president after George Fernandes till 2016 when Nitish took over from him as the JD(U) national president. In 2017, when Nitish rejoined hands with the BJP, Sharad spoke against his decision and later fell out from Nitish’s group of loyals. In 2019, Sharad contested the Lok Sabha election on the RJD ticket from Madhepura but lost it to JD(U) candidate Dinesh Chandra Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-avoids-speaking-against-sharad/articleshow/79017836.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Patna||Many netas contract Covid while campaigning in Bihar||PATNA: Covid-19 has claimed lives of some politicians and affected a few of them during elections in the state. The virus infection among politicians has raised question marks over adherence to Covid safety protocols in the state. Despite the guidelines of the Election Commission, social distancing norms, such as thermal screening, restricting number of people in meetings and rallies and wearing of mask are not followed by political parties. As a result, many politicians contracted the virus during the electioneering in the state. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi had tested positive for Covid on October 22. He was discharged from AIIMS-Patna on October 27 after recuperating from the virus. The deputy CM, however, started campaigning again after his health condition improved. BJP MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy and former MP Syed Shahnawaz Hussain were struck off the list of party’s star campaigners for the second phase after they contracted the virus. BJP’s sitting MLA from Kumhrar Arun Kumar Sinha had abandoned campaigning due to Covid. He self-isolated himself at home. However, he again started campaigning after recuperating from the virus. In his absence, his son Ashish Sinha campaigned in Kumhrar. Former agriculture minister Narendra Singh, who was admitted to AIIMS-Patna after testing positive for Covid, was discharged on Monday. Singh, party sources said, contracted the virus while campaigning in Jamui. JD(U) leader Supaul MP Dileshwar Kumait is still undergoing treatment for Covid at AIIMS-Patna. JD(U)’s Katihar MP Dulal Chandra Goswami was found Covid positive on October 24. He had accompanied BJP candidate Nisha Singh while she was filing her nomination papers from Pranpur October 20. Four-time Muzaffarpur MLA Vijendra Chaudhary, a Congress candidate from the same constituency, has also tested positive for Covid. His daughter Ankita Chaudhary is campaigning for him. Two former cabinet ministers – Vinod Singh and Kapildeo Kamat – had lost their lives due to Covid. They had contracted the virus while campaigning for the assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-netas-contract-covid-while-campaigning-in-state/articleshow/79007254.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||129 freshers attend e-classes at NUJS||KOLKATA: This is the first time that freshers started their classes at the NUJS, where the session opened in the virtual mode on Monday, without getting their documents verified physically and without meeting their teachers. Around 129 students made it to NUJS this time and they started attending classes online because of the pandemic. They have been given provisional admission like in all other 22 law schools this time while their documents will be verified once the campus re-opens. According to the schedule, classes started at 9:30am and went on till 5pm, with teachers trying their best to get introduced to their new batch of students through the virtual mode. “These are different times and we are adjusting accordingly. We started classes online for freshers on Monday. In the previous session, online teaching was on for the senior classes,” said registrar Shikha Sen. The online schedule includes tort law, political science, English, contract law and sociology. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/129-freshers-attend-e-classes-at-nujs/articleshow/79007204.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Surat||Bizman kidnapped outside police chowky||SURAT: A 32-year-old textile businessman was thrashed and kidnapped by some relatives of a 20-year-girl over suspicion that she had eloped with his younger brother. The victim, Manish Hadiya, was later released near Kamrej early on Monday and police booked two persons, Chirag Vaniya and Jayanti Vaniya, who were allegedly involved. Hadiya was assaulted and kidnapped outside Shanti Nagar police chowky in Limbayat area on Sunday evening. Hadiya’s younger brother Navneet (27) is suspected to have eloped with a girl from the Vaniya family on October 27. Both families were knowing about the affair. Her father had filed a missing person report at Limbayat police station the next day. Since Hadiya’s family was named in the report, he was called by the police to record his statement. When he was returning home after the formalities, the duo met him outside the police chowky and started thrashing him. Hadiya managed to give his wife Varsha a call for help and disconnected. When she tried to call him, the calls went unanswered after which she sought police’s help, said police. Hadiya is into saree business and runs a shop in the textile market area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizman-kidnapped-outside-police-chowky/articleshow/79008560.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Patna||All polling booths in Saran sanitised||CHHPARA: Altogether 46,840 senior citizens above 80 years and 488 citizens above 100 years will enjoy their voting rights in the second phase of polling on November 3 here. While 2,163 polling stations have been identified as sensitive in the district, all the assembly segments have been provided with one model booth. Sran district election officer-cum-DM Subrat Kumar Sen said senior citizens were approached through booth-level officers (BLOs) to apply for postal ballots. They also have the option to go to the polling booths allotted to them and there will be a separate queue for them in each booth. Sen also said that all the 4,239 polling stations will be sanitized before polling commences and polling officials have been directed to maintain the Covid protocol including circles for voters standing in a queue. Altogether 144 candidates are in the fray in 10 assembly segments of the district. “Separate control rooms for all the 10 segments would remain functional during the polling,” the DM said and added that paramilitary forces will be deployed at all the booths. Saran SP Dhurat Sayaali Sawalaram said that ‘micro patrolling parties’ have been constituted to check fake voters and each patrolling party has been given the responsibility of 4-5 polling booths. “Police have already started checking vehicles at 72 checkposts and borders of the district have been sealed till the polling hours on November 3,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-polling-booths-in-saran-sanitised/articleshow/79007066.cms||H K Verma
November 3, 2020||Business||Shares of Equitas list at 6% discount to issue price||Chennai: Shares of Equitas Small Finance Bank, on Monday, were listed at a 6% discount of Rs 31.1 over its issue price of Rs 33 apiece. The IPO, which was sold between October 20 and 22, was subscribed 1.95 times in the three-day bidding process, much less compared with the issues that hit the market prior to it. The HNI quota of shares in the IPO remained undersubscribed at 22%. The stock was valued at 1.3 times at the issue price. At present, the bank’s capital adequacy ratio has improved to 22% from the earlier 21%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shares-of-equitas-list-at-6-discount-to-issue-price/articleshow/79007272.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 3, 2020||Patna||Ex-CM Satish Prasad Singh dies||PATNA: The state’s shortest-serving former CM, Satish Prasad Singh (87), died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Delhi on Monday, just six days after his spouse’s demise. Singh’s wife Gyan Kala Devi (84) had passed away due to old-age ailments at another private hospital in Delhi on October 27, Singh’s youngest son and Congress leader Sushil Kumar told TOI over phone on Monday. Singh became Bihar’s sixth chief minister in 1968 for only five days. Despite being the first-time MLA, Singh headed a coalition government and served as the CM from January 28, 1968 to February 1, 1968. He was also the Bihar’s first non-upper caste chief minister. “My father was tested positive for Covid-19 on October 24 He breathed his last at 1.20 pm on Monday,” Sushil said. Singh became an MLA from Parbatta assembly constituency on the ticket of Sanyukta Socialist Party in 1967. During his first-term as MLA, he rose to the post of the CM. Singh was succeeded as CM by socialist leader B P Mandal who later headed the Mandal Commission. In 1980, Singh became a member of the Lok Sabha after winning the parliamentary election from Khagaria seat on a Congress ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-cm-satish-prasad-singh-dies/articleshow/79007596.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Patna||Ex-Bihar CM Satish Prasad Singh dies of Covid||PATNA: The state’s shortest-serving former CM, Satish Prasad Singh (87), died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Delhi on Monday, just six days after his spouse’s demise. Singh’s wife Gyan Kala Devi (84) had passed away due to old-age ailments at another private hospital in Delhi on October 27, Singh’s youngest son and Congress leader Sushil Kumar told TOI over phone on Monday. Singh became Bihar’s sixth chief minister in 1968 for only five days. Despite being the first-time MLA, Singh headed a coalition government and served as the CM from January 28, 1968 to February 1, 1968. He was also the Bihar’s first non-upper caste chief minister. “My father was tested positive for Covid-19 on October 24 He breathed his last at 1.20 pm on Monday,” Sushil said. Singh became an MLA from Parbatta assembly constituency on the ticket of Sanyukta Socialist Party in 1967. During his first-term as MLA, he rose to the post of the CM. Singh was succeeded as CM by socialist leader B P Mandal who later headed the Mandal Commission. In 1980, Singh became a member of the Lok Sabha after winning the parliamentary election from Khagaria seat on a Congress ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-bihar-cm-satish-prasad-singh-dies-of-covid/articleshow/79008620.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Varanasi||Deoria jail inmate ends life||Gorakhpur: A Deoria district jail inmate committed suicide inside jail on Monday afternoon. The deceased was a rape accused and hanged himself with a scarf (gamcha) behind barrack number 9. After getting information, ASP Shishyapal along with a heavy force reached the jail and sent the body for postmortem. Police force was deployed in the jail. As per reports, Babloo Yadav, 22, a resident of Chaura Khas village under Tarya Sujan police station limit in Kushinagar district was was accused of rape and was lodged in the jail for the past two months in barrack number 2 and was doing duty in kitchen of the jail. The ASP said police have opened a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/deoria-jail-inmate-ends-life/articleshow/79007929.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 3, 2020||Surat||Surat: General category students fly high with cheap loans||SURAT: Bhupendra Pandya, a municipal school teacher, always dreamt of sending his only son Kalpit to study medicine abroad, but arranging finances by taking bank loans too was tough. But Kalpit, whose mother is an anganwadi worker, is all set to become a doctor with an MBBS degree from Geomedi State University in Georgia. Pandya’s loan was facilitated from Gujarat Unreserved Educational and Economical Development Corporation (GUEEDC). GUEEDC or Bin Anaamat Nigam was set up in 2018 in the backdrop of the acrimonious Patidar quota stir led by Hardik Patel to demand reservation in education and jobs. The aim of this body was to financially help people from unreserved categories. Loans at 4% interest were offered to people, mostly students, under nine different categories, including foreign education. Interestingly, the GUEEDC data reveals that the largest chunk (around 60%) of the total Rs 572 crore disbursed to 62.216 people went to students wanting to study abroad. “We disbursed Rs 346 crore loan to 2,384 students from unreserved category who have flown overseas to accomplish their foreign study dream,” said Rupin Patchigar, immediate ex-director, GUEEDC told TOI. The term of the corporation's entire management body ended last month. The cost of medical education in foreign universities is anything between Rs 20 lakh to Rs 30 lakh. The general sentiment among the general category families was that their children were not able to make a career as doctors due to reservation. BH Ghodasara, immediate past chairman of GUEEDC, told TOI: “Most students going abroad are from lower and middle-class families. The government made a special exception in the scheme and disbursed loan to all students wanting to pursue medicine after Class XII. Graduation was mandatory for those wanting loans to study other disciplines.” This year too, around 1,182 applications for foreign studies are also under process. GUEEDC provides up to Rs 15 lakh loan at 4% simple interest and the beneficiaries have to repay one year after the completion of their study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/general-category-students-fly-high-with-cheap-loans/articleshow/79008844.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
November 3, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC refuses to close deputy speaker’s Rs 1 crore defamation suit||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has refused to reject a civil suit moved by Tamil Nadu assembly deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman against DMK chief M K Stalin’s son-in-law V Sabareesan, Kalaignar TV and Nakkheeran, seeking Rs 1 crore in damages for linking his name with the Pollachi sexual assault case. Dismissing applications to reject the plaint as being devoid of merits, Justice P T Asha directed those accused to file their written statements to the suit. Though the suit was filed against DMK chief M K Stalin and Junior Vikatan as well, only Sabareesan, Kalaignar TV and Nakkheeran moved the application to reject the plaint. Jayaraman wanted the court to direct Stalin and others to pay him Rs 1 crore jointly for having damaged his reputation. He accused Stalin of having made public speeches linking him with the crime, which were telecast on Kalaignar TV. He further added that the two Tamil magazines published false and defamatory news reports intended to tarnish his reputation. The deputy speaker also sought a permanent injunction restraining Stalin and others from making or publishing false and defamatory statements against him in any manner. Pointing out news reports published in the magazines, Jayaraman submitted that the reports made false claims of his son being involved in the Pollachi sexual assault case and that he attempted to bail him out from the case. Adding that he had been holding the post of deputy speaker of the Tamil Nadu legislative assembly since May 16, 2016, Jayaraman said he had come up in life by stint of hard work and was held in high esteem by friends, family, well-wishers and among right thinking sections of society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-refuses-to-close-deputy-speakers-rs-1cr-defamation-suit/articleshow/79007463.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav emerges leader out of Lalu’s shadow||PATNA: While the state is going to the second phase of polls on Tuesday, the campaigning strategy of different political parties and top leaders took politics to a completely new level in Bihar. The Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, managed to come out of the shadow of his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who was known for not making personal attacks on his rivals till earlier elections, makes vitriolic attacks on Lalu’s family in general and Tejashwi in particular. The 31-year-old Yadav scion not only broke the record of his father by holding as many as 19 rallies in a day, he also did not deviate from the agenda of unemployment throughout the campaign while promising ‘kamai, dawai, padhai and sinchai’, if voted to power. Political experts feel he has made the fight really tough for NDA, which was earlier considered set for a cakewalk against the Mahagathbandhan. Realizing the threat which Tejashwi is posing to his opponents, CM Nitish has started mocking him and his promise of providing 1 million job in his first cabinet meeting, if the Mahagathbandhan forms government in Bihar. Nitish also took a dig at Lalu for having nine children as he wanted sons because he did not believe in his seven daughters. In all his rallies, he reminded people of the 15 years of Lalu-Rabri regime as ‘jungle raj’ and warning them against the return of the lantern era. Political expert and Patna University’s former dean (faculty of social sciences) Nawal Kishore Choudhary said with every passing day, balance was shifting out of the NDA side and CM Nitish’s hand. “NDA is under pressure and it is reflected in the outbursts of CM and his aggressive behaviour,” said Choudhary, adding “But it will be too early to predict the downfall of Nitish. NDA still has some edge,” he said. He cited various reasons for the shift in balance, which included Chirag factor and economic agenda, especially the employment issue raised by the Mahagathbandhan. The campaigning for the second phase of polls also witnessed Prime Minister Narendra Modi training his gun at Tejashwi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. At a rally in Patna last on Wednesday, PM Modi for the first time hit out at Tejashwi and called him ‘jungle raj ka yuvraj’, which made headlines across the country. From the same dais, he praised Nitish for taking Bihar from darkness to light. He did not stop there. In another rally on Sunday, he once again attacked Tejashwi as well as Rahul and called the duo as double yuvraj (crown princess), who were trying to bring back jungle raj in Bihar. The PM left no stone unturned and addressed four back to back rallies in a day on Sunday, which was the last day for the second phase of campaigning. While party heads were trying to mobilize vote in favour of their candidates, LJP chief Chirag Paswan was busy attacking Nitish throughout. However, he seemed to be completely out of his ‘Ram’ NaMo’s favour. Initially, there was an impression that he would cut into JD(U) votes and help BJP. But, of late, PM Modi in his rallies, did not mention Chirag even once. In fact, he clearly stated that NDA meant BJP, JD(U), HAM (S) and VIP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-emerges-leader-out-of-lalus-shadow/articleshow/79008514.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 3, 2020||Rajkot||Man threatens Jamnagar gangster’s wife, booked||RAJKOT: A man was booked on Sunday night for allegedly threatening the wife of Jayesh Ranpariya, a dreaded extortionist and land mafia, in Jamnagar.Police said the accused, Dharmin Madam, allegedly threatened to kill Dhruti Ranpariya (36) on the night of October 27. “Dhruti said Madam accused her of writing against him in her newspaper, of which she is the editor and publisher, and threatened to kill her if she continued to defame him,” said R K Gosai, sub-inspector with Jamnagar A division police station. Gosai said that Madam had allegedly visited the house of Dhruti on the fifth floor of Dhaneshwer Residency on Digvijay Plot in Jamnagar. In her complaint, Dhruti further alleged that Madam also threatened to kill her father-in-law Mulji Ranpariya. “While Madam was hurling abuses, Dhruti's 11-year-old daughter recorded the incident on her cellphone, which Dhruti shared with us as an evidence,” said Gosai. Ranpariya, who faces several criminal cases, mostly land grabbing and extortion, is suspected to have fled to Dubai before his name figured in advocate Kirit Joshi murder case. Joshi was fighting several cases against Ranpariya. He was stabbed to death on April 28, 2018, allegedly on the instructions of Ranpariya. Earlier on Sunday, Ranpariya’s advocate Vasant Manseta (55) was arrested after being booked under the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GujCTOC) Act. Manseta was produced before a GujCTOC court in Rajkot with a plea of 12 days police custody on Monday. The court, however, sent him to four days remand. Manseta used to handle legal affairs of Ranpariya. Ranpariya would take advice from Manseta on land deals, filing objection applications in court on land deal advertisements published in newspapers, filing civil suits in court pertaining to land deals and filing court complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-threatens-jamnagar-gangsters-wife-booked/articleshow/79008660.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Salem||E-pass must to visit Yercaud||SALEM: District collector S A Raman has said e-pass is mandatory for people visiting Yercaud. Hundreds of people thronged the foothills of Yercaud on Sunday. Police officials stopped them at the checkpost asking them to produce e-passes. "Police officials asked us to produce e-pass when we reached the checkpost at the foothills," said V Yuvaraj, a resident of Salem city. Since he did not have an e-pass, police officials barred his family from continuing their journey to Yercaud. “People will not be allowed if they don’t have an e-pass,” he said, adding that local people (residing in Yercaud) can show their Aadhar cards within Yercaud limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/e-pass-must-to-visit-yercaud/articleshow/79007429.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Subsidised green fodder scheme likely to be launched before Feb||COIMBATORE: Within a few months, dairy farmers here would get fodder for cattle at a subsidized price, thanks to the animal husbandry department and the district rural development agency (DRDA), which have come together to cultivate fodder crops on grazing lands. “The state government has directed district-level officials of the animal husbandry department to identify lands classified as grazing land in the revenue records, which are suitable for cultivating fodder crops under the rejuvenation of grazing land scheme. At least 50 acres in each district will be earmarked for the scheme,” said a senior official. “We have identified 26 acres in areas like Kinathukadavu, Arasampalayam and Solavampalayam in the district and plan to identify more within a few weeks. Depending on factors such as land fertility and rainfall, fodder crop varieties would be selected for cultivation.” The state government roped in DRDA to provide workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) to plant and cultivate fodder crops. Fodder will be distributed to dairy farmers in the surrounding areas at subsidized prices. The scheme is likely to be launched before February. Meanwhile, farmers said that the scheme would be beneficial only if it is implemented properly. “Dairy farmers spend as much as Rs 150 a day on oil cake, green and dry fodder to feed a cow. They will benefit only if the price is less,” said district secretary of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) Su Palanisami. It will be very difficult to provide fodder round-the-year, said Mahalakshmi, a Thadagam-based dairy farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/subsidised-green-fodder-scheme-likely-to-be-launched-before-feb/articleshow/79007419.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 3, 2020||Patna||Number of Covid cases records sharp drop in Bihar||PATNA: In what could be a major relief, number of Covid cases in the state registered a sharp drop on Monday with just 577 people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. With this, the state’s Covid tally has risen to 2,18,118. Officially, four deaths were registered in the state on Monday. The state’s Covid toll, thus, has mounted 1,101. With 2,09,980 patients recovering from the virus, including 974 in the last 24 hours, active cases in the state stand at 7,035.\ बिहार में कोरोना जांच का आंकड़ा पहुंचा 1 करोड़ 11 लाख से ज्यादा ..पिछले 24 घंटे में 1 लाख 25 हजार 567 जांच की गई।… https://t.co/B9nRHHY0l8— Mangal Pandey (@mangalpandeybjp) 1604323362000At AIIMS-Patna, eight Covid patients have died in the last 24 hours. The victims included a 35-year-old woman from Koeri Tola in Dariyapur, a 48-year-old man from Rajeev Nagar and a 60-year-old woman from Boring Road in Patna. Other deceased includd a 15-year-old boy from Sapaha village in Saharsa, a 56-year-old man from D N Singh Road in Bhagalpur, a 65-year-old man from Babuara village in Siwan, a 67-year-old man from Mainatar village in East Champaran and an 80-year-old man from Sonepur. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 15 patients were admitted to the hospital and 14 discharged on Monday. The new patients included those from different localities of Patna like Anisabad, Khajpura, Rupaspur, Kankarbagh, Malsalami and Rajeev Nagar. At Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, five patients were admitted and three discharged on Monday. There was no report of any fresh casualty in the hospital. As per the health department, Patna, Banka, Munger and Siwan districts reported one death each on Monday. Of the total 577 Covid-19 cases recorded in the state on Monday, Patna accounted for 166. With this, the district’s Covid tally has jumped to 36,370. However, with 34,063 recoveries and 269 deaths, there are 2,038 active cases in the district. Among other other districts, Purnia registered 66 cases on Monday, Gaya 31, Aurangabad 29 and Kishanganj 25. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that the state’s recovery rate has gone up to 96.27%. “Altogether 1,25,567 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours. So far, 1.11 crore samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/number-of-covid-cases-records-sharp-drop-in-bihar/articleshow/79008569.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 3, 2020||Coimbatore||E-pass scrapped, tourists flock to hills||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Scrapping of the e-pass system to enter the Nilgiris has paved the way for more tourists to flock to the hills. After months, the Government Botanical Garden (GBG) in Ooty witnessed over 2,500 visitors over the last weekend. E-registration is mandatory for people from other districts and states to enter the Nilgiris. A complete ban on tourist entry was imposed in the third week of March till early September. After the introduction of relaxation in e-pass by the government, the tourist retreat witnessed a gradual inflow of people during weekends. The administration stepped in and allowed 150 tourist e-passes per day considering the pandemic situation. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “There is no restriction now for tourists to enter the district. However, they need to e-register with a valid ID before entering the district”. While 1,358 visitors visited the botanical garden on Saturday, 1,231 tourists dropped in on Sunday. Before scrapping the e-pass rule, the GBG recorded only 100-200 visitors a day. Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director, horticulture department said, “We saw more crowds during the weekend due to scrapping of e-pass system. We expect more crowds in the coming days”. According to him, strict standard operating procedures (SOP) are being followed in the GBG and the Government Rose Garden starting right from the ticket counter to the exit point. “Sanitizer is provided at the entrance to all the visitors and a face mask is compulsory,” said Samraj. Except for the gardens, other tourist spots such as Doddabetta and Ooty Lake are not open to the public. According to the Nilgiris hoteliers’ association, it is a gradual move for the hill district to regain its lost economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/e-pass-scrapped-tourists-flock-to-hills/articleshow/79007469.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jaggery trader lured with sex, blackmailed||AHMEDABAD: A jaggery trader from the Shantipura area of Ahmedabad was first lured by a woman, 30, his Facebook friend, who had sex with him at one of his houses in Viramgam town and shot a video of their act. As soon as they were done, six men barged into the house, threatened the man to book him in a rape case and later extorted Rs 2.45 lakh from him. The special operation group (SOG) of Ahmedabad rural police nabbed one of the accused, Irfan Malani, from Vadhwan town of Surendranagar. Six other accused including the woman identified as Pooja Prajapati are still on run. According to the FIR filed by Alpesh Shah, 48, resident of Orchid House on SP Ring Road in Shantipura, he received a friend request from Prajpati around a year ago. They became friends on Facebook, and began chatting about their personal life. But she had suddenly went incommunicado for around four months. On October 17, she contacted Shah again expressing her wish to meet him. On October 19, Shah told her that he was going to his house in Viramgam and she could meet him there. When he reached there on October 19 afternoon, Prajapati sent him a message asking for directions to his house and if he was there. After a while, she came there and asked Shah what he wanted to do in a suggestive manner. He told her she was free to do whatever she wanted with him. The woman then undressed Shah and also took off her clothes, then suddenly asked for water. When Shah went to get water, she turned on video recording on her cellphone and placed it from where their act could be recorded. When they were having sex, some unknown persons knocked on the door and as Shah opened it, they barged into the house and began beating him. Meanwhile, Prajapati fled and the six men took Shah to a secluded place near Munsar lake in Viramgam and sought Rs 20 lakh. Shah managed to give them Rs 2.45 lakh which he took from his friend and father. He also gave them a cheque of Rs 3.50 lakh and promised that he would give them Rs 2.50 lakh cash more in a couple of days. The six men threatened that if he failed to pay up they would make his video viral and implicate him in a rape case. Shah went to his house and told his family and friends what happened, and they told him to go to cops. He approached Viramgam town police and filed a complaint of breach of trust and extortion against seven persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jaggery-trader-lured-with-sex-blackmailed/articleshow/79007512.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie: Women dies after falling into deep gorge, two hurt during rescue||MUSSOORIE: A woman from Bhatta village near Mussoorie died after she slipped and fell into a deep gorge while collecting fodder on Sunday. Later, two locals sustained injuries after they also slipped into the gorge while searching for the woman late on Sunday evening. The deceased Meenu Jadwan (50) was out to collect fodder on Sunday afternoon when she slipped and fell into a gorge. When she did not reach home even after several hours, the villagers and her family members started a search for her in the evening. During this search, two locals — 48-year-old Rakesh Badoni and 40-year-old Neeraj Thapli — slipped down the hillside and fell into the gorge. On being informed, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the local police, and the fire department launched a rescue operation. The teams successfully rescued the two injured persons late in the night and retrieved the body of woman. The injured were rushed to Dehradun for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/women-dies-after-falling-into-deep-gorge-two-hurt-during-rescue/articleshow/79006220.cms||Anmol Jain
November 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Shetti demands addl Rs 200/tonne for sugar farmers||Kolhapur: Farmers will not allow factories to sell sugar unless they pay fair and remunerative price (FRP) and additional Rs 200 per tonne to compensate for the losses incurred due to increase in harvesting charges of sugar cane cutters, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) leader Raju Shetti said on Monday. Over, the new farm bills passed by Parliament recently, Shetti said the farmers demand mention of compulsory payment to farmers as per the MSP and this should be included in the new law. The outfit held its annual ‘Us Parishad’ (sugar council) meeting of farmers online for the first time to push their demand. The meeting was live-streamed across various social media platforms and hundreds of farmers participated in it from far away places. “The farmers will hit the streets on November 5 against the new farm laws, which do not make it mandatory for corporates to pay MSP for their produce. Our outfit will be participating in the protest. We will block roads and highways across the region for at least two hours,” said Shetti. Spelling out his organisation’s demands, the former MP said, “We want payment to the farmers not less than FRP fixed by the central government and that too in one instalment. We also demand additional Rs 200 per tonne to compensate the loss of farmers towards payment of labour cost to the cutters.” Shetti said the additional money can be paid after the sugar cane harvesting season ends in March. “If the factories fail to pay, we will not let them sell sugar. We will block movement of sugar from godowns.” Shetti demanded that the price of sugar in the open market should be increased from Rs 31 per kg to Rs 35, saying that it will ensure factories get good returns and help them pay farmers as per FRP rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shetti-demands-addl-rs-200/tonne-for-sugar-farmers/articleshow/79009341.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Revenge shopping not enough to boost stale textile business||COIMBATORE: While the huge crowd on Big Bazaar Road and Raja Street on Sunday may hint that people are resorting to revenge shopping, textile shop owners say the Diwali business is still 50% or lesser compared to the last year. The diminished spending power is evident among shoppers, who are buying fewer clothes and are choosing daily wear rather than partywear, said textile shop owners. Most people are window shoppers. Pictures and videos of the crowded Town Hall area, which went viral, left many wondering how people were shopping when most industries and organizations were negotiating bonus amounts. On Monday also, the roads were packed with shoppers. But shop owners said it is not converting to sales. “Business last weekend was good and better than any other weekend since the lockdown began,” said Shakthi Narayanan, manager of Pothys. “People are buying after six months. However, business is still 50% of what we saw two weekends before Diwali last year.” Smaller textile showrooms in textile streets like Uppukinar, said the Diwali business has been a huge letdown. “There is a lot of crowd, but they just keep walking up and down without buying. We often tell families that only one member can enter at a time. But people like to try on clothes and get their family’s opinion. With us destroying that experience, people are not shopping,” said Ramdas, owner of Saravana Textile. People are also focusing on buying clothes just for Diwali, which are less expensive. “Earlier, people would buy several sets for each family member. That has stopped. With weddings becoming smaller, people are shopping lesser for wedding wear,” said Narayanan. Fines levied by the city corporation, ranging from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 on smaller shops, are also a source of stress, said the shopkeepers. “Are we to focus on canvassing customers and pushing our products or ensure customers follow precautions? We are not big brands, where people will wait in a queue to enter,” said Abdul Satthar, owner of Anandha Textile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/revenge-shopping-not-enough-to-boost-stale-textile-business/articleshow/79007487.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Sr cops from Nanded range to look into plaints of extortion||Aurangabad: Taking serious cognizance of the increasing number of extortion calls in and around Nanded, authorities have decided that only senior police officers will personally interact with the victims of extortion or those receiving such calls. To begin with, Nanded range special IGP Nisar Tamboli and district superintendent of police Pramod Shewale held a ‘one-to-one’ meeting with about two dozen such victims. Some of them were the ones on whom rounds were fired for not accepting the extortion demand.To win the trust of victims and make them come forward, Tamboli has directed that only senior police officers would be directly handling the complaints related to extortion calls.In the past four years, many people in Nanded have received extortion calls and there has been a bid on the lives of those who have refused the demand. In most of the cases, police have found that the calls were either made by Rindha—a notorious criminal having dozens of cases in multiple states—or by members of his gang.The move of senior officers handling complaints of extortion calls will also ensure secrecy in the counter operation against the extortion rackets that have become one of the biggest concerns for Nanded police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sr-cops-from-nanded-range-to-look-into-plaints-of-extortion/articleshow/79009343.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 3, 2020||Chennai||Nod needed to erect statues on pvt land too, government tells court||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government, which denied permission for installing former chief minister M Karunanidhi’s statue on a private property, told the Madras high court that prior permission had to be obtained for erecting statues on private land as well. Recording the submission on Monday, Justice Puspha Sathyanarayana directed the state to file the relevant government order and adjourned the plea to November 26 for further hearing. M Narayanan, a member of DMK’s general body, said in his petition that as a token of his love and gratitude towards the late DMK patriarch, he erected the leader’s statue inside the 1190sqft land he owns in Kosambur village, Madhavaram. Since he wished to unveil the state by conducting a public function presided by party president and Karunanidhi’s son M K Stalin, he made a representation to the Madhavaram Milk Colony police station on August 27 seeking permission for a public event. He gave an undertaking to follow all Covid-19 safety protocol, he added. Since police have not granted permission for the event yet, he has moved the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nod-needed-to-erect-statues-on-pvt-land-too-govt-tells-court/articleshow/79007534.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||Doctors HELLP woman return from jaws of death in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 26-year-old pregnant woman, who developed a rare and life-threatening condition—HELLP syndrome (haemolysis, elevated liver enzyme, low platelet count)—was treated at R G Kar Medical College and Hospital for about two months and finally sent home, cured though she lost her child. Pooja Singh from Rishra had to spend 25 days in the critical care unit for the condition that affects only 0.5%-0.9% pregnancies. In her 35th week of pregnancy, the homemaker was referred to RG Kar on August 12 with severe pregnancy-induced hypertension. She was admitted under the care of gynaecology head Arup Majhi and gynaecologist Rupali Modak. Singh was in shock with un-recordable BP, severe anaemia and renal shutdown. The foetus was found without cardiac activity. The two doctors, along with anaesthetist Mandira Goho took the dead foetus out. Singh was shifted to CCU, where a team under critical care medicine physician Sugata Dasgupta took over. Diagnosed with HELLP syndrome, Singh’s organs had started failing and she developed pneumonia and surgical-wound infection, due to which she went into septic shock several times. Aggressive critical care, including 15 days of invasive mechanical ventilation, blood product transfusions and 23 sessions of haemodialysis, brought her back from the brink. Dasgupta had deployed a team comprising doctors Pradip Dey, Soujanya Das, Dipanjan Dawn, Tathagata Mondal, Partha Sardar, Biswajit Biswas, Debomita Das, Avisek Pal and Indradip Sanyal. “We are happy we could send her home,” said Dasgupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doctors-hellp-woman-return-from-jaws-of-death/articleshow/79007542.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Wife says man not sired by father-in-law||AHMEDABAD: In a complaint under Sections 498(A), 294(B) 323 and 114 of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) at Women’s police station (East) on Sunday, a 25-year-old woman alleged that her husband was conceived as a result of her mother-in-law’s affair with a friend of her father-in-law. The woman has named six persons as accused in the complaint, including her husband, her mother-in-law and her alleged lover. According to the FIR, the complainant married her husband in January 2018 and her mother-in-law had herself told her that her son was born out of the alleged illicit relationship. The complainant claimed her mother-in-law had an affair with a friend of her father-in-law who used to frequent their house even before her wedding. “The complainant alleged her mother-in-law and her lover drink liquor and frequently hosted parties at their house,” said a police official. The complainant alleged the trouble in her marriage started soon after her wedding, as her sister-in-law started coming to their house and taunting her saying she had brought no dowry. According to the complaint, her husband also used to pressure her to tell her parents to transfer ownership of their house to him. “The complainant alleged that after she became pregnant, her in-laws tried to force her to undergo pre-natal gender testing and because she refused she was beaten up. The complainant later gave birth to a baby girl. The complainant also stated that her mother-in-law’s lover used to tell her that she need not maintain a relationship with her parents as they had given her nothing in dowry,” a police source said. The complainant stated that in January, her husband took her daughter to where her mother-in-law and her lover were having a liquor party and when they returned his daughter was smelling of cigarettes and liquor. When she protested about this, her husband beat her and drove her out of the house. She has been living with her parents ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-says-man-not-sired-by-father-in-law/articleshow/79007548.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Naib tehsildar among 11 held for illegal land mutation||MOHALI: The state vigilance bureau on Monday arrested a naib tehsildar, a kanoongo, a patwari and eight other private persons on charges of being party to a wrongful mutation of land. Serving Zirakpur naib tehsildar Varinder Pal Singh Dhoot, kanungo Raghubir Singh and patwari Iqbal Singh have been arrested, said vigilance bureau director IG L K Yadav. Others arrested are nambardar Gurnam Singh, property dealer Shamlal, Balbir Singh (of Chandigarh), Tarsem Lal of (Gudamajri, Kharar), Jaswinder Singh of Paindpur village, Gurpreet Singh of Mastgarh village, and Manbir Singh and Kabal Singh, both residents of Sri Muktsar Sahib. According to vigilance officials, the case pertains to the order of partition of a land on May 17, 2017 by then assistant collector-cum-naib tehsildar, Majri, Varinder Pal Singh Dhoot. The court of SDM-cum-collector Himashu Jain found Dhoot and his revenue officers guilty of wrongly registering land mutation at Majri Kharar. Dhoot is accused of hurriedly deciding the land mutation without summoning all the shareholders. The case was investigated by Shakshi Sahni, additional deputy commissioner, Mohali. The inquiry report stated that the inspection about this mutation was done by the halqa kanungo on December 25, 2017, despite it being a Christmas holiday, and Dhoot accepted the mutation on December 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/naib-tehsildar-among-11-held-for-illegal-land-mutation/articleshow/79008628.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Shiv Sena demands equal seat share in KMC election||Kolhapur: Shiv Sena has started to make its presence felt in the elections for Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) that is most likely to be postponed. Uday Samant, minister in the state government, has been given the task to lead the party in Kolhapur district. He held a meeting with Sena leaders from the district on Sunday and assured them that the party cadre will not be neglected in the local body elections. The KMC election is most likely to be contested as Mahavikas Aghadi — alliance of Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party. In KMC, Sena has minuscule presence with just four corporators, but it contests on over 50 seats every time owing to the demand from the local leaders. This time as well the local satraps are likely to be in favour of Sena after Congress which is the single largest party in the KMC. “My job is to keep the flock together. We have now good prospects of winning the local elections. We will announce about the alliance at a proper time. However, we will keep the interests of our local cadre as our priority,” Samant said. During the meeting, local Sena leaders like Member of Parliament Dhairyasheel Mane and district head Vijay Devane fiercely demanded that the party should whole-heartedly get involved in the local body election. “We have better chances to spread party’s presence in the city and district. We should be treated as equal in the elections and our elected members should be considered for various posts in the local bodies. The KMC elections will test our new chapter of alliances,” Sena leader Vijay Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shiv-sena-demands-equal-seat-share-in-kmc-election/articleshow/79009345.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Posting family pictures? Beware of extortion rings||BHOPAL: Beware if you upload your family photographs or your own photos on social media platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp etc without using privacy settings. Chances are that online criminals may download and misuse them. In a new modus operandi used by online criminals to extort money from people online, the accused steal photographs from a person’s social media account, share them on various websites introducing the women in photographs as call girls and mention the mobile number of their male family number. When the male member starts getting obscene calls, the accused threaten him to pay extortion money to get the ‘online advertisement’ removed. There are many websites on the Internet, which do not even verify the mobile number of the advertiser mentioned in the content and online criminals take the advantage of this. They post the numbers of the victim in the advertisement describing them as agents or pimps of the women shown in the photograph and the victims starts getting obscene calls from unknown numbers. Such developments land the victims in mental trauma. Many such cases were reported in the city and the victim people had to face mental and financial harassment due to these incidents. The fraudsters demand extortion money starting from Rs 1000 to Rs 5000 or more, depending on the financial profile of the victim. In many cases, the victims either paid the extortion money or blocked their SIM cards to avoid obscene calls. But they had to face a lot of agony, living in constant fear of their social image being maligned. State cyber cell has received many such complaints in the recent past. Recalling a recent such case reported at State Cyber Cell around four days ago, a police officer requesting anonymity, said, “A 24-year-old Bhopal-based youth, who is currently studying in Rajasthan, had the worst experience of his life after a cyber-criminal stole photographs of his sister, cousins and bhabhi from his Facebook account and then uploaded them on an online escort service advertisement website. The accused mentioned the victim student’s number on the advertisement. A couple of hours later, the youth started getting obscene calls from unknown numbers. The cop said, a few hours later the victim received messages and calls from the online criminal; he demanded Rs 2000 for removing the advertisement from the Internet. The victim made all efforts possible to remove the advertisement from the online website himself, but it wasn’t removed. The victim then contacted cyber cell and even thought of paying money to the online criminal just to save his family from social defamation. Cyber cops helped him get the advertisement removed but it will take much a lot of time for the police to nab the online criminal. Inspector Abhishek Sonekar, posted at state cyber cell Bhopal, said, online criminals are always on the prowl for private content of people on the Internet and misuse their photographs and videos to extort money. These criminals also make fake social media accounts using the victim’s photographs on Facebook, Instagram or dating apps and demand money to remove it. He said, after lockdown there is a surge in online crimes; online criminals have gone to such extent that they even take Rs 200 from the victims. The only way people can avoid such misuse is by using strict privacy settings on their social media accounts and treading cautiously on these online platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/posting-family-pics-on-social-media-beware-of-extorters/articleshow/79007546.cms||Sudeept Mishra
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||Beniapukur OC beats Covid, back on duty after 2 months||KOLKATA: Aloke Kumar Sarker, OC Beniapukur, who had undergone treatment at two private hospitals off EM Bypass after being diagnosed with Covid-19 for more than a month before spending another month in complete rest at home, finally rejoined duty on Monday. Sarker was on Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) ventilation for close to two-and-a-half weeks and had returned home on September 29. Some of his close friends — officers of the force — were in attendance to see him resume charge. On his part, Sarker thanked his colleagues and his team of doctors for what he called was a “second life”. Earlier, several ACPs and OCs visited the hospital on the day he was released. A felicitation on behalf of the top brass was also organized for the doctors who treated him. Senior officers at Lalbazar said Sarker’s recovery and his willingness to get back to work will serve as an inspiration for the force. Sarker, one of the most popular officers in the force from the 1996 batch, was admitted on August 25 at a private hospital off Bypass. When his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to another private hospital off EM Bypass on the evening of August 29. He was put on ECMO ventilation a few hours later and kept in it for 20 days. For the next seven days, Sarker was kept in normal ventilation. Within three days of getting off ventilation, he began his strict rehab process from home. Over 10,000 cops have been infected in the state. Close to 2,900 have recovered too, with about 120-150-odd active cases in past two weeks. Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma and four other senior IPS officers have so far recovered from Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oc-beats-covid-back-on-duty-after-2-months/articleshow/79007551.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 3, 2020||Kanpur||Minor boy rapes married woman, films act||KANPUR: A 17-year-old minor boy allegedly raped a woman in her thirties and made a video of the act and later circulated it on social media. Woman’s ordeal did’nt end here. What was even more shocking that her in-laws allegedly threw her out of the house after coming across the viral video. The incident, which took place five months ago, came to light after the survivor approached Sadar Kotwali police and gave a written complaint on Sunday. The woman, alleged that the boy, who had then raped her, also created a video of the incident and recently made it viral by posting it on the social media platforms. Police said that they have received a complaint in this regard from survivor on Sunday and are investigating the matter further. Inspector Sadar Kotwali Dinesh Singh said, “A 17-year-old boy hailing from a locality in Sadar Kotwali police station limits, had allegedly raped a 30-year-old married woman and shot a video of the act and further made it viral on social media.” As per the woman, the incident is five-month-old and she did not speak out in fear of the incident to her-in-laws, but now after coming across the video, when they humiliated and throw her away from the house, she sought police help, the Inspector said. The woman is now living with her parents, he further said, adding investigation is on and we will seize the mobile phone once the accused is nabbed and conduct a thorough investigation and lodge an FIR under relevant sections of IPC against him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/minor-boy-rapes-married-woman-films-act/articleshow/79008784.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Woman kills self, husband & in-laws booked for abetment to suicide||DEHRADUN: Days after a woman, in her mid thirties, was found hanging from the celing fan of her room in her marital home, five persons, including the husband and the in-laws of the victim, have been booked under the charge of abetment to suicide. The alleged suicide took place in Phase-II of Maharani Bagh colony under Vasant Vihar police station limits on October 27. Upon receiving information of the death, police had taken the woman to a nearby hospital where she was declared brought dead. Meanwhile, on the basis of the complaint filed by the parents of the victim, police have registered a case under section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The parents of the woman have claimed that their daughter was being harassed by her husband and in-laws. In the FIR, police have named the victim’s husband Sanod, her father-in-law Sohanveer, and her mother-in-law Suresho. Police said that Sanod works as an employee state insurance (ESI) doctor at Selaqui. “They got married in 2012 and have two children — their youngest being a 3-year-old. The family of the woman has accused the husband and his family of continuous harassment. Investigation in the matter is underway,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-kills-self-husband-in-laws-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide/articleshow/79006252.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 3, 2020||Varanasi||Herd of elephants wreaks havoc in Sonbhadra village, kills 10-year-old girl||VARANASI: A herd of around 15 jumbos wreaked havoc in Nemna village under the limits of Bijpur police station area of Sonbhadra district on Sunday late night. The jumbos not only damaged houses in the village to eat corn and paddy stocks but also crushed a 10-year-old girl Sunaina to death. Forest officials were trying to send back this herd of elephants to sanctuary area of Chhattisgarh. This was the second incursion of elephant herds from Chhattisgarh in a fortnight while in November 2019 jumbo herds had stayed for over a month in Sonbhadra. Talking to TOI on Monday, divisional forest officer Renukoot MP Singh said, “It was a herd of around 15 elephants, which attacked Nemna village in Jarha forest range under Bijpur police station area around midnight. Most unfortunate aspect of this attack of jumbo herd was killing of a minor girl. The body of girl has been handed over to her family after postmortem examination and measures are being initiated to provide financial assistance to her family under natural calamity scheme.” According to Nemna natives, at around midnight the jumbo herd raided the village after damaging paddy crops in the fields of Sugriv Prasad, Kishun Dev, Arjun Prasad, Siyaram, Radhakrishna, Ramji and Shivprasad. The elephants broke the wall of the house of Jagjivan Ram and started throwing the gunny bags full of corn and paddy. Later, they ate the same corn and paddy. On becoming aware of the attack of wild elephants, Ram’s family and other villagers started running helter skelter for safe shelter. During the same chaos, Sunaina of Ram’s family was crushed by jumbos, although other family members managed to escape. Villagers alerted Bijpur police after which they reached the village and rushed Sunaina to the nearest hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead. Later, the police sent her body for postmortem. Apart from police the team of forest officials and staff led by ranger Mohd Zaheer Mirza camped the area. Mirza said that team of his department was monitoring the area in view of the possibility of jumbos attack but the herd managed to enter the village by taking advantage of dense forest and dark they. The operation to drive the elephants away into the sanctuary area of Chhattisgarh could be started on Monday morning. Singh said that till 2018, the jumbo herds incursion was noticed rarely in Sonbhadra but in November 2019 a herd of elephants had stayed for over a month. About a fortnight back a herd of elephants had entered from Chhattigarh but it was sent back, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/herd-of-elephants-wreaks-havoc-in-sonbhadra-village-kills-10-year-old-girl/articleshow/79008638.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Will jail Dharamsot, probe scholarship scam once SAD forms govt, says Sukhbir Singh Badal||PATIALA: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday said once his party forms the government in Punjab, it will order a probe into the multi-crore scheduled castes (SC) scholarship scam allegedly done by cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and put him behind bars within three months. Sukhbir, who led a march to Dharamsot’s residence in Nabha town of Patiala district, staged a protest near it when stopped by the police. He said now the chief minister could save Dharamsot for only one year of his remaining term, and the day the government is changed, the scam would be inquired into and entire embezzled money would be recovered from the minister. Addressing a rally to protest against the alleged injustice done to the Dalit students by Dharamsot and demanding that he be sacked, arrested and jailed for the embezzlement of Rs 64 crore from the SC scholarship scheme, Sukhbir asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to disclose why he is shielding a corrupt minister. “Punjabis want to know why you have given clean chit to a minister who has destroyed the future of lakhs of Dalit students,” Sukhbir said, adding that it appears that the Congress high command and Rahul Gandhi have also been compromised by the scamsters. He said Dharamsot’s co-conspirator and welfare department director-turned-Congress legislator Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal was successful in securing a Congress ticket for himself immediately after taking premature retirement last year, bypassing other contenders from Phagwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-jail-dharamsot-once-sad-forms-govt-says-sukhbir/articleshow/79008639.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Sanctuaries in west Maha ready for tourists||Kolhapur: Sanctuaries in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts, which were closed for the last seven months on account of the lockdown that was imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19, have now opened their gates to welcome tourists. The forest department has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) that have to be followed while conducting the jungle safaris. The Radhanagari and Dajipur sanctuary in Kolhapur district, Koyna in Satara and Sagreshwar and Chandoli in Sangli district, which all form part of Sahyadri ranges, are major attractions which has tourists throughout the year apart from the couple of months when monsoon is in place. Samadhan Chavan of Sahyadri Tiger Reserve said, “We have opened all the wildlife sanctuaries in the region. Tourists will not be allowed to take their private vehicles inside the sanctuary. Instead, they will be provided with the vehicles of the locals. The locals have been assigned the task of guiding the tourists. The tourists have to pay for the service. Both tourists and guides have to follow SOPs while enjoying the jungle afari.” All these sanctuaries attract large number of tourists every year even from outside the district. Chavan said the homestay facilities have been started in major sanctuaries. “We are also going to regulate the number of tourists arriving for jungle safari as currently we have limited number of vehicles and crowds may disturb the animals in the sanctuaries. We have made provisions for safe parking lots,” he said. Sagreshwar is famous for deers, Dajipur and Radhanagari for Indian bison. Along with these animals, there are large number of wild birds in these sanctuaries. Unlike other sanctuaries, Sagreshwar in Sangli district is manmade. Chavan said allowing the local vehicles for jungle safari would also help the locals earn some revenue.  The charges for Jungle Safari varies from sanctuary to sanctuary. For Dajipur, around Rs 1,800 is charged from the tourists per vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sanctuaries-in-west-maha-ready-for-tourists/articleshow/79009346.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kanpur||Ghatampur bypoll today; 3,19,148 voters to cast votes||KANPUR: An interesting fight between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) is on the cards in the Dalit-dominated Ghatampur assembly seat where bypoll will be held on Tuesday. Around 3,19,148 voters of Ghatampur tehsil will cast their votes in the bypoll.. The district administration has made elaborate arrangements for peaceful voting. Almost all polling parties along with EVMs, election kits and control units have reached their respective booths on Monday. The administration has divided the assembly constituency in 48 sectors and eight zones. The responsibilities of zonal magistrates and sector magistrates too have been fixed.The administration has set up a control room at Ghatampur tehsil and released its contact number at which the voters can lodge complaints and give any information. On Monday, the sector magistrates and zone magistrates inspected booths in their respective areas. Besides being responsible for conducting timely polling in their zones, they will keep on informing the election commission of any development. The administration has also deputed a master trainer with a team of sector magistrate zonal magistrates to fix or change a defective EVM. Around 4000 CRPF jawans have been deployed at 26 critical polling centres along with women constables and homeguards to help women voters. According to SP (crime) Surendra Pratap Singh, the CRPF and armed jawans would also be deputed at 40 other centres. As many as 40 Quick Response Teams have been pressed into service to maintain law and order. Of these teams, 20 teams have been deployed in Ghatampur, 16 at Sajeti and 4 teams in Saadh. Meanwhile, the candidates have deputed their teams which will sit outside polling centres to help voters in searching their serial number in the electoral list. The administration had already declared a public holiday on Tuesday and Kanpur court will also remain closed on account of the byelection in compliance with the high court order. The contest is mainly between the BJP and the SP. BJP has fielded Upendra Paswan while Inderjeet Kori is Samajwadi Party candidate. Dr Kripa Shankar Sankhwar is contesting on the Congress ticket and Kuldeep Sankhwar is a BSP candidate. Apart from them, Ashok Paswan of Sabhijan Party and Vipin Kumar Arjak of Adhikar Dal are also in the fray. The administration has appealed to voters to wear masks or tie scarves at the time of casting their votes. Women voters may also use their `dupattas' or stole. Dist Court closed today: Kanpur Nagar district court will remain closed on Tuesda on account of Ghatampur assembly poll. Allahabad high court vide its letter dated November 2 had declared November 3 as a public holiday. According to district judge, Kanpur Nagar Ashok Kumar Singh (III), in compliance of the high court’s order, the district court will remain closed on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ghatampur-bypoll-today-319148-voters-to-cast-votes/articleshow/79008760.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
November 3, 2020||Vadodara||Contaminated water raises stink in old city||VADODARA: The city is well past the wet season and one would expect complaints of contaminated water to end. But for several areas in the walled city, supply of contaminated or dirty water is still a reality. Every day some or the other pocket of the city, particularly the old city, gets contaminated water. And in several areas, the problem is a recurring one and people are left frustrated complaining repeatedly about the situation. Areas like Wadi, Navapura, Baranpura, Panitage, Fatehpura, Yakutpura and others periodically face the issue of stinking and dark coloured water supply. If the local representatives and residents are to be believed, it is the ageing network of water supply and drainage lines in the area that has led to the situation. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has in the past stated that it would get the water supply and drainage network in the old city replaced, but this has not materialised so far. “We have placed a detailed project report for the replacement of old water supply pipelines before the state government,” said an official. But work on the ground is yet to take off. “Every day, many areas receive contaminated water for the first 10 to 15 minutes. In some other areas like Navapura, some locality faces water contamination issue every day. The workers also don’t attend such issues on a priority and the problem gets aggravated,” said Balasaheb Surve, VMC opposition Congress corporator from ward 13. Surve and other corporators, including those from the ruling BJP, have been raising the issue repeatedly in the civic body. Ruling BJP’s corporator Vijay Pawar from ward 14 said that the problem was not of a very high magnitude. “It is largely because of clogged drains or damaged manholes and sewage lines. The complaints are taken care of on a regular basis,” said Pawar. He added that digging or laying of cables by various agencies in the congested walled city also led to the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/contaminated-water-raises-stink-in-old-city/articleshow/79005277.cms||Sachin Sharma
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||331 new cases, two more deaths in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With the death of a 74-year-old woman and a 69-year-old man at Dehradun’s Max hospital and AIIMS Rishikesh respectively, the death toll of Covid-19 reached a grim 1,029 in Uttarakhand on Monday. Both patients suffered from co-morbidities, according to authorities. A total of 331 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus were reported from the hill state on Monday, taking the tally to 62,881. The health department finds this worrying, as more than 100 of the positive cases have been reported from hill districts (which, as compared to the plain districts, had till now managed to keep the infection at bay). With 84 fresh cases, Dehradun continued its streak of reporting the highest number of cases. The state capital was followed by Rudraprayag (53), Chamoli (52), Pauri (29) and Haridwar and Pithoragarh with 19 cases each. Meanwhile, 441 people recovered. With a total of 57,542 recovered patients now, the state’s recovery rate stands at 91.51%. As of Monday, the state awaits sample results of 13,433 people, with 11 containment zones spread across Dehradun (8), Haridwar (2) and Champawat (1). It’s important to note that the state continues to appeal to all patients who have recovered from Covid-19 to sign up for voluntary plasma donation at the nearest government blood bank. To arrest the number of cases, residents have been asked to adhere to Unlock 6 guidelines and wear masks, ensure physical distancing and avoid crowds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-more-deaths-take-uttarakhands-death-toll-to-1029-331-fresh-cases-reported/articleshow/79006275.cms||Shivani Azad
November 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Professor Buta Singh selected as new Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University vice-chancellor||BATHINDA: Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU) registrar Prof Buta Singh has been elevated to the vice-chancellor (VC) post. He will soon be taking charge from the present incumbent Prof Mohan Paul Singh Ishar, who was on extension after his term ended one-and-half years ago. The search and selection committee, headed by Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan, in its last meeting held on October 29, had shortlisted three candidates out of panel of seven aspirants. On Monday, the university’s board of governors (BoG) finally selected Prof Buta Singh. It is only three months ago that he had got the charge as the university registrar. The appointment was hanging fire for long due to litigation and postponement of the meetings a number of times. A total of 24 candidates had applied for the post. Earlier, the university has faced complaints of embezzlement of funds in the construction of the campus building, where more than sanctioned amount was spent. MRSPTU had also got less interest by meritorious students in getting admission in various courses offered by it. After the news of his appointment came out on Tuesday, Prof Buta Singh said: “My first priority will be to ensure that the university is ‘well-establish’ as there are many challenges confronting the institution. In addition, the financial sustainability too will be the foremost priority as the university has spent a lot of money on the construction of its own building. I will also be emphasising on promoting the online education and to set up an online wing from which regular students too could benefit. Strengthening the research & development and getting more UGC-sponsored project for the university will also be in focus.” Former dean of Punjab Technical University, Jalandhar, Narinder Paul Singh, who was one of the aspirants, had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court over the composition of the selection committee. Recently a double bench of the high court dismissed the letter patents appeal (LPA), which he had filed against a single bench order dismissing his plea. This cleared the way for the VC appointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/prof-buta-singh-selected-as-new-mrsptu-vice-chancellor/articleshow/79008650.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Brawl on Sindhu Bhavan Road||Ahmedabad: A man from the Sanand town of Ahmedabad district on Sunday filed a complaint with Vastrapur police alleging that he and his brother were assaulted on Sindhu Bhavan Road by six persons including his brother’s brother-in-law over a dispute of marriage.Kishan Patel, 23, resident of Pipan village in Sanand, said that his brother Vishal had fallen in love with a woman from Nikol named Mansi Patel. They had married in June. Mansi’s family members were not happy with their marriage. After two months of their marriage, Vishal and Mansi began developing a rift and used to quarrel over petty issues. Around a month ago, Mansi left Vishal’s home and filed a complaint of criminal intimidation against him. Since then, she was staying at her parents’ home in Nikol. On Sunday night, when Kishan and Vishal were travelling in a car, some unknown persons chased and forced them to stop their vehicle by overtaking it suddenly. At that time, Kishan identified one of the six men as Mansi’s brother Abhishek who was holding a stick. Later, five others began attacking Vishal and Kishan until they fainted. Some locals called up 108 ambulance and took them to a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brawl-on-sindhu-bhavan-road/articleshow/79007559.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Chennai||TNRERA says developer, promoter both liable, orders refund||CHENNAI: In a significant order, the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority has faulted the construction agreement that favours only the developer and said homebuyers cannot be expected to bring in new customers to exit a project. A promoter marketing a project for another developer cannot disown responsibility as homebuyers invest based on the reputation, it added. It also imposed a penalty of Rs 5 lakh for causing mental agony to the buyer, refund payment of Rs 1.8 crore with 10% interest and registration fees of nearly Rs 5 lakh. Pointing to a clause in the agreement which says a promoter shall reimburse the amount to a homebuyer only after the latter identifies another customer, TNRERA adjudicating officer G Saravana said it was onerous, unfair and one-sided. The case pertains to ‘Bay Influence’, a villa project developed at Thiruvidanthai on ECR by Influence Infrastructure and Influence Enterprises (India) Pvt. Ltd., and promoted by Vijay Shanthi Builders Ltd. A homebuyer, who paid about 72% of the cost, moved TNRERA saying the villa that was to be completed in 2013 was not delivered and sought to withdraw from it. The developers sought to dismiss the complaint saying it was not maintainable. Counsel for Vijay Shanthi Builders Ltd. said an advertisement was issued (regarding the project) in the media for a demand survey. Noting that the promoter can’t be made liable for any relief sought by the complainant, counsel said there was no evidence to establish any nexus between first and second developer and them. TNRERA said the advertisement didn’t mention it was for a demand survey and not sale. This was material evidence, it said, adding that the buyer booked the villa based on the promoter’s reputation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tnrera-says-developer-promoter-both-liable-orders-refund/articleshow/79007554.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
November 3, 2020||Bhopal||Medical colleges in Bhopal account for 30% of MBBS seats in state||BHOPAL: In the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic and medical services being stretched to their limits, here is some good news for the state capital. Another medical college was approved for MBBS course on Monday. Bhopal now has around 30% of all MBBS seats in Madhya Pradesh. It has been made possible by the efforts of the state government, Union government and National Medical Commission (NMC), said MP Directorate of Medical Education (DME) commissioner, Nishant Warwade. DME minister Vishwas Sarang has also been actively working to increase MBBS seats in MP. Madhya Pradesh has 23 medical colleges — 13 are government-run and nine are private medical colleges approved to undertake MBBS admissions in 2020-21 (Mahaveer medical college was barred by MCI). MP has about 3,500 of the 80,000 MBBS seats in the country. Bhopal first got a medical college in 1955. It took five decades for another medical to be established. In the last few years, the state capital has had eight new medical colleges. One was disapproved to hold MBBS education by the MCI in 2018-19. AIIMS Bhopal is administered by a statutory autonomous body of the institute. The latest to offer MBBS course is a private medical college in Bhopal which, on Wednesday, became the seventh medical college to be granted permission for admission. Earlier, MBBS seats in Gandhi Medical College (GMC) were increased from 180 to 250. On Wednesday, the DME also issued notice regarding edit facility in registration form and profile for MP State Combined UG Counselling (NEET UG -2020). Online registration by eligible candidates of NEET UG 2020 on the MPOnline portal will be accepted till November 10. 4 Publication of the state merit list of registered candidates will be on November 11. College level admission against stray vacancies in MBBS/BDS course will end on December 31, according to DME’s tentative schedule. Earlier in 2019, the ministry of health and family welfare started a centrally sponsored scheme for ‘Establishment of new Medical Colleges attached with existing district/referral hospitals’. Phase-III of the scheme has been approved by the Union cabinet. The state government has sent proposals under this scheme along with detailed project report as per scheme guidelines for consideration. Madhya Pradesh has proposed medical colleges in Rajgarh, Mandla, Neemuch, Mandsaur, Sheopur, Maheshwar, Khargone, Singrauli, Guna, Betul, Balaghat and Chhatarpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/one-more-pvt-medical-college-gets-nod-to-start-mbbs-course/articleshow/79007556.cms||Jamal Ayub
November 3, 2020||Aurangabad||App to help track smart city buses||Aurangabad: While the city bus service under the Smart City Mission is set to begin soon, citizens will now be able track the movement of the buses using a dedicated mobile application. The Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASCDCL) is scheduled to launch the bus-tracking application on November 9, the day when the city bus services will be resumed. “The mobile application will share updates on expected time of arrival of city buses, real-time updates about location of buses along with the time-table,” Ahmed Tauseef, public relations officer of the civic body, said. The bus service under the Smart City Mission, which is getting reintroduced after a gap of six months, will also cover some additional routes to aid people from fringe areas of the city. “In the first phase, 30 buses will run on nine routes. We have also introduced four new routes which will ferry passengers to areas outside the city limits — till Verul and Karmad. In the second phase, 26 buses, while in the third 28 buses will be introduced. The first bus will start at 5 am and the last bus of the day will be at 11pm,” Prashant Bhusari, chief operations manager of Smart City Bus Division, said. In the modernised avatar, the e-ticketing system will also be in place for the city bus service in order to ensure fast, contact-less and hassle-free ticketing. Besides, the ASCDCL will be also facilitating Smart Travel Cards for passengers to avail various concessions. “In the backdrop of Covid-19, the city buses will play audio announcements on Covid preventive measures and display Covid preventive messages on digital display boards inside the bus. The buses will be sanitised regularly and undergo deep cleaning on a daily basis,” Bhusari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/app-to-help-track-smart-city-buses/articleshow/79009349.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 3 held for gang rape, survivor in Civil||AHMEDABAD: A 30-year-old woman of Dehgam Road lodged a complaint with Sardarnagar police alleging that her lover Mahesh Rajpal, 26, of Kubernagar, and two of his friends, Hardik Pandya, 34, of Naroda, and Sumeet Thakor, 25, of Sajipur, had gang-raped her. The crime was committed at Rajpal’s house on the night of October 31, Saturday. While Sardanagar police registered a case of gang rape on Sunday, city crime branch nabbed all three accused and handed them over to Sardarnagar cops by Sunday evening. FIR details show that complainant, who used to work in a private factory in Danilimda, came in touch of Rajpal about a month ago and fell in love. Police officials said during last month, the woman had gone twice to Rajpal’s house in Kubernagar. “On the morning of October 31, when the victim was going to work, Rajpal called her up to come to his house. He sent an auto driver to pick her up from Naroda Patiya,” said a police source. Police sources said the woman stayed the whole day at Rajpal’s house and at night, when she asked Rajpal to drop her home, Rajpal objected and closed the door of the house. Rajpal then sedated her with something mixed in a glass of soda and raped her. “Later Rajpal’s friends, Pandya and Thakor, also raped her. In the morning, Rajpal asked an auto driver to drop her near Noblenagar. However, as the victim was feeling pain in her stomach and private parts she called up one of her relatives who took her to Civil Hospital from where she lodged a complaint against the three accused,” said a police source. Crime branch sources said, all three accused have criminal records. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-held-for-gang-rape-survivor-in-civil/articleshow/79007593.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bhopal||868 recoveries in Madhya Pradesh, no new Covid-19 infections in four districts||BHOPAL: A total 635 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday, taking the total count of positive cases in the state to 1,72,717. People recovering from Covid-19 in a single day yet again outnumbered the total number of people testing positive for the 33rd consecutive day on Monday. While 868 people recovered on Monday, only 635 new cases were reported. With these new recoveries, the total count of people who had recovered from the disease reached 1,61,454. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients, as on November 2, stood at 93.4%. It is a marked improvement from the 76% on August 31 and 81.7% on September 30. Apart from the new cases, 7 deaths were reported in the state, says the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 2,965. On Monday, fresh cases were reported from 48 of the 52 districts of the state. No fresh cases were reported from Agar Malwa, Guna, Niwari and Burhanpur districts. Among the districts where fresh cases were reported, the maximum cases were reported from Bhopal where 188 people tested positive, followed by Indore where 76 people tested positive, Gwalior (30) and Jabalpur (30). In Indore, sample testing has increased around 22% in October as compared to September. According to records, sample testing in district has increased to over 1,04,789 in October in comparison to 85742 in September. Of the total 24,161 samples that were tested on Monday, a total 635 people were found positive. Thus the positivity rate—number of people testing positive per 100 samples tested –for Monday stood at 2.6%. The cumulative positivity rate, as on November 2, in the state was 5.7%. This has increased in the past few months as it was only 4.6% on August 31. As on November 2, there were a total of 8,298 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/868-recoveries-in-mp-no-new-covid-infections-in-four-dists/articleshow/79007562.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Chennai||Reopening of schools: Students excited, but parents cautious||CHENNAI: Fourteen-year-old S Nithya is excited after hearing the news of schools reopening this month as she has been longing to meet her friends. However, her mother Prathiba Selvaraj is worried. “It is not safe. We are sure that children won’t be able to wear masks for such a long time and teachers cannot focus on their safety. If the schools ask us our consent, we will say no but if left with no option, we will send them,” she said. Epidemiologist Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, mother of a teenager, said continued enforcement of protocols will be the key. “The number of cases has reduced and this is the right time to run a trial by opening schools and give children the opportunity to have lessons with teachers. But the government should ensure that standard operating procedures are followed at schools. Outdoor classes should be an option, hours should be fewer. And if cases rise, schools can be closed,” she said. Corporation and government school teachers said about 75% of the students were willing to attend school. “We are happy as we haven’t been able to reach every student. We have begun preparations to reopen schools. We are awaiting government confirmation on guidelines. We were given one set of SOPs in September and are following it. We will provide mid-day meal as well and ensure children are nourished,” said assistant education officer of Greater Chennai Corporation V Munian. Online classes may be more convenient for students in private schools, but those in rural areas and slums have little or no access to them, said V Sridhar, a former corporation school teacher. “However, constant vigil is required as government and corporation schools lack facilities,” he said. He said facilities of government schools should be audited before reopening and many don’t have functional fans and proper ventilation. Experts said non-ventilated spaces spread the virus faster and teachers could turn spreaders if schools reopen. Anuradha Prasad, a parent, said studies have revealed that children harbour more Sars Cov 2 virus than adults. “Even if it doesn’t affect them, they will become carriers and infect the elderly at home. And in winter other viral infections, dengue cases and respiratory illness are common. So the timing may not be right,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/reopening-of-schools-students-excited-but-parents-cautious/articleshow/79007563.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Trekker falls into gorge at Kamshet as rope snaps, dies||PUNE: A 32-year-old trekker from Sant Tukaramnagar in Pimpri died falling into a 200-foot-deep gorge on Sunday morning while descending from Dhak Bahiri caves near Kamshet, about 60km away from the city. The victim, Prachiket Kale, worked with the water supply department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. He fell into the gorge after the rope he had held while descending snapped. A case of accidental death has been registered at the Karjat police station under the Raigad police. Investigating officer Y A Salunke said, “Prima facie probe has revealed that the accident occurred after the rope snapped. Kale died of multiple injuries. His body was handed over to his family after performing the post-mortem.” The caves, close to Jambhavi village, is a popular destination among trekkers — 15 people can stay overnight there. Trekker Sachin Shah, who was with Kale when the accident occurred, said they had gone to Dhak Bahiri with three others — Amrut Dhangar, Omkar Jadhav and Hemant Finale — on Saturday evening. “We stayed in the caves at night. We had planned to come down early in the morning before other trekkers started climbing towards the caves on Sunday,” he said. “Around 7am on Sunday, we started climbing down. I was the first to come down with the help of a rope. We did not use our rope as the locals had tied a rope for the trekkers,” he said, adding Kale was carrying a 20kg backpack. “When he started climbing down, the rope snapped. He fell into the gorge and died on the spot,” Shah said. “Three of our friends got stuck as there was no alternative route to come down. Two trekkers of Shivdurga Mitra Pratishthan — Aniket Bokil and Deepak Pawar — practising in the area for climbing the Kalakrai pinnacle, and other trekkers came to our rescue. They first tied a rope and brought down Dhangar, Jadhav and Finale. We then went into the gorge and brought Kale’s body up,” Shah said. Rescue operationsSunil Gaikwad of Shivdurga Mitra Pratishthan told TOI that Bokil and Pawar immediately reached the spot. He said Kale’s three friends were first rescued. “Kale’s body was brought up around 3pm,” he said.  “A team from Pimpri Chinchwad Mountaineering Association also joined the operation,” Shah said. An avid trekkerA friend of the victim from Pimpri, who refused to be named, said Kale was interested in trekking from his school days. “He got a diploma from the Mountaineering Institute in Himachal Pradesh,” he said. The 32-year-old Kale is survived by his wife and son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trekker-falls-into-gorge-at-kamshet-as-rope-snaps-dies/articleshow/79007560.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University students to get insurance cover||PRAYAGRAJ: Authorities of Allahabad University have decided to provide a comprehensive accidental group insurance scheme to all the students pursuing different courses on its campus. Under the insurance scheme an amount upto Rs one lakh would be given to the student in case of his or her hospitalised and an amount of Rs four lakhs, in case of causality. Each student would be paying a nominal premium of Rs 52 per academic session to be covered under the insurance cover. The premium amount would be included in the sessional fee of all the students following which each student is automatically covered under the insurance as soon as he or she deposits the fee of the respective course. Last year, after a wait of Six long years, varsity authorities had implemented the accidental scheme for the students pursuing different courses on its campus. However, prior to the present scheme, students of just the first year was covered and that too after paying an amount of Rs 78. Against this, the student would be covered under Rs Five lakhs of insurance cover. “This year we have made certain changes in the last year’s scheme and decided to bring down the premium and have also designed a process following which the premium would be collected at the time of depositing the fee of any course”, said dean student welfare, Prof K P Singh. The DSW added that under the scheme, if any student meets with any accident etc and has to be hospitalised, he or she would be given the cost of treatment with the maximum limit of Rs One lakhs. However, for availing the benefit, the student has to be hospitalised for minimum of 24 hours, said the DSW. In case of unfortunate death or an injury making him or her permanently disable, an amount of Rs four lakhs would be given to the student. The office of the DSW has been made the center at AU wherein the student can deposit their claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-students-to-get-insurance-cover/articleshow/79008814.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-K celebrates 61st Foundation Day, 22 awards given to alumni||Kanpur: IIT-Kanpur on Monday evening celebrated its 61st Foundation Day on a virtual platform due to Covid-19 pandemic. Over 2,000 alumni from across the world participated in the event. On the occasion, 22 awards were bestowed upon the selected alumni for their outstanding achievements in their respective fields. Among the awardees were eminent scientists, industry experts, technocrats, and social activists. Principal scientific advisor, Prof K Vijay Raghavan was the chief guest on the occasion while chairman, board of governors, IIT-Kanpur, Dr Koppillil Radhakrishnan presided over the function. The IIT-Kanpur prestigious Satyendra K Dubey memorial award was presented to Ravi Kumar (IIT-K 2001 batch), district magistrate Patna, in recognition of his exemplary service to humanity. RK Mathur (IIT-K 1975), former bureaucrat from Tripura cadre and the first Lieutenant Governor of the Union Territory of Laddakh and Prof Meenakshi Narain (IIT-K 1982) of the Brown University, US who led the collaboration board for US institutions participating in the CMS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider were amongst those awarded in the distinguished alumnus category. Director, IIT-K Prof Abhay Karandikar said, “Foundation Day is a time to reflect on our achievements of the past year and our ambitions and challenges for the future. We celebrate this day with our extended family of alumni and other stakeholders and recognize their contributions and achievements through awards in different categories. The past one year has been a tumultuous one and I am deeply saddened that we have to host this event virtually. During these difficult times, IIT-K family rose up to the occasion to provide solutions and services that are serving the entire nation and also the world” Other distinguished alumnus awardees included Air Marshal Raj Karan Singh Shera (Retired), Air Marshal, Air Officer Commanding in Chief Maintenance Command (Retired), Neelkanth Mishra, MD, India Strategist and co-head of Equity Strategy, Asia Pacific, for Credit Suisse, Dr Anand Jagannathan, founder, CEO at Engage, Social Founder, CEO at Newz Social Dr Rajeev Gautam, President and CEO, Performance Materials & Technologies at Honeywell, Ved Arya founder at SRIJAN Infratech & Development Services (SIDS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-k-celebrates-61st-foundation-day-22-awards-given-to-alumni/articleshow/79008677.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
November 3, 2020||Kanpur||Lockdown brings new lease of life to govt schools in Jhansi||JHANSI: In a major initiative, the district administration and the basic education department have refurbished 700 primary and junior government schools of which 109 primary schools have undergone complete change looking no less than private schools during this long phase of closure of schools in the lockdown. As all these schools are situated in rural areas, they will be a boon boon for children here to study in a good environment. The details of these schools were released by district magistrate Jhansi Andra Vamsi on Friday. The newly refurbished schools have been equipped with the latest furniture, computers, study materials, CCTV cameras, apex flooring, boundary walls, ramps for the disabled, proper kitchen for mid-day meals, and fire extinguishers. Some of the schools even have smart classes. Apart from this, all the schools have been floored with tiles and have new wash rooms and drinking water facilities. To make it more attractive, the walls have been painted with attractive cartoons drawn from fables. DM Andra Vamsi said the funds have been sourced through gram panchayats, school composite grants, CSR funding by private bodies and funds provided by the mining department. “Out of 1454 primary schools, 700 schools have been refurbished as per their requirements, and out of 700 schools, 109 have been fully renovated. We will be taking up the other schools also in phases. Since the schools are closed, we utilised this period for this purpose”, the DM further said. Of 109 schools, 22 are in Gursarai block, 20 in Baragaon block, 11 in Chirgaon block, 10 in Bamore block, 17 in Babina block, 12 in Moth block, 9 in Bangra block and 8 in Mauranipur block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/lockdown-brings-new-lease-of-life-to-govt-schools-in-jhansi/articleshow/79008790.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Allahabad||Sweet shops bank on sugar-free confectionery this Diwali||PRAYAGRAJ: With less than two weeks left for Diwali and preparations for the festival underway, city-based confectionary stores and bakeries have started stocking delicacies like dry fruits, chocolates, cookies and sweets. The sellers claimed that the sale of dry fruits, chocolates and cookies registered a better growth in the past three years compared to traditional sweets. The sweet shops and bakeries have planned to stock on exotic delicacies this year to attract customers, boost sales and fight slowdown in business due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Sugar-free sweets are in particular focus this year, production of which is being ramped up keeping in mind health-conscious customers and the demand for such sweets. Vijay Arora, president of Prayag Vyapaar Mandal, told TOI that, “On this Diwali, the markets will be inundated with a variety of dry fruits, cookies, sweets including sugar-free and low-fat sweets. He added that citizens of Sangam city had been fast switching over to low-fat, low-sugar and sugar-free sweets, dry fruits, and chocolates instead of traditional sweets for the past two or three years. Prominent confectioners have moved to offer a wide range of sugar-free or low-fat cookies and sweets drifting from the tradition of offering and exchanging sweets to friends and guests. Owner of a prominent confectionery in the city said, “We have customers who seek both traditional sweets and sugar-free or low-sugar sweetmeat products. Demand for dry fruits and chocolates have gone up despite their soaring prices,” he said. He added that a wide variety of dry fruits, chocolates etc. have been introduced in the markets ahead of Diwali and this would be available in prices ranging from Rs 500 to Rs 3,500 per kg. Another dealer Nitin Mehrotra said, “We hope that sale would go up by 20-30 percent compared to previous years and dry fruits, chocolates and sugar-free sweets have a huge role to play in the increased demand expected this year." Shop keepers have also started stocking gift articles ahead of the festival. “Every Diwali, both companies and individuals book orders for gift items ranging from packed sweets to dry fruits and chocolates. This year too, such products will be available for affordable prices” said a shopkeeper. There has been a significant section of customers, especially people aged between 35 to 55 years who ask for packed low-fat sweets boxes and packets of dry fruits and chocolates. “I order sugar-free and low-fat sweets for my friends, relatives and families,” said Kunal Sharma, an entrepreneur. “People like branded chocolate packets and sweet items as chances of adulteration are lower than in the tradition mithai and sweetmeats,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sweet-shops-bank-on-sugar-free-confectionery-this-diwali/articleshow/79008839.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarkashi: Two held for transporting illicit foreign liquor||UTTARKASHI: Two persons were arrested by Uttarkashi police on Sunday night for allegedly transporting one dozen boxes of illicit foreign liquor. Both the accused persons have been booked under the Excise Act. According to TOI sources, a police team was conducting routine checking in the Renuka Temple region of Dunda block when the accused duo were found with 12 boxes of illicit foreign liquor. They have been identified as Angrez Singh and Puran Chand Ramola. Police also seized the pick-up vehicle used for transporting the liquor. Sub-inspector Raman Bisht, in-charge of Dunda outpost, said, “We have booked both the accused under relevant sections of the Excise Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-held-for-transporting-illicit-foreign-liquor/articleshow/79006310.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
November 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Cops look other way after issuing notices for encroachments||LUDHIANA: With ongoing festival season and hosiery season, the old city is crying for attention and intensified anti-encroachment drive. On the one hand, the residents are rushing to the markets due to festival season and on the other, traders are coming to the city to purchase hosiery goods. As a result the old city areas like Shahpur road, Khwaja Kothi chowk, Gaushala road, Zip market at circular road, Gaughat road, Shingar road, Chaudi Sadak etc area can be overcrowded. Amid this, the encroachment done by the shopkeepers outside their shops is adding to the woes. On October 13, the Ludhiana traffic police had announced revival of the anti-encroachment drive in the old city and notices were also issued to the shopkeepers asking them to remove encroachment. However, after serving notices the traffic police failed to do anything further. The encroachments are still there outside the shops, making commuters lives difficult. While Gaushala Road, Zip market of Circular Road are famous hosiery markets, Gaughat Road, Shingar Road, Shahpur Road, Chaudi Sadak areas are for the shopping of other stuff of daily use. At Gaushala Road and Zip market, there is a lot of chaos of hosiery stuff kept outside the shops by the shopkeepers. Moreover, the mismanagement of vehicles certainly creates traffic chaos there. Javneet Babbar, a resident of Model Town, said, “I prefer going to the market on a two-wheeler as there is no parking space there in the market. However, the encroachment done by the shopkeepers makes it even worse. I was crossing by the circular road and got stuck in traffic. The shopkeepers have kept their stuff on the road, then have parked their vehicles and in addition were loading and unloading the parcels on road. So much space every shopkeeper has encroached and authorities are doing nothing.” Bharat Bhushan, a resident of Gaushala road said, “Last year in November the Ludhiana police had started this unique initiative of removing encroachments outside all shops. That drive was really good. There was no traffic congestion. But this time, the Ludhiana traffic police have only served notice to the shopkeepers but did not get the encroachments removed.” Further, the areas like Shahpur road, Chaudi Sadak, Shingar road always remain crowded with people as there are all different shops in these areas. Here too, the shopkeepers have kept their stuff outside on the road without any fear. Besides, in Transport Nagar, road blockages are caused by loading and unloading vehicles. “All the transporters in Khwaja Kothi chowk pack their goods on the road and not inside their offices. The situation was so good last year when police started an anti-encroachment drive but now is back to the same again,” said a resident of Madhopuri, Rivesh Mahindru. When contacted, commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “Last year, after serving notices we had also booked shopkeepers for not removing encroachment. This year, we have realised that the shopkeepers are already upset due to the loss faced during lockdown. Therefore, we will not lodge FIR against them but will make them remove encroachment within next 15 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-look-other-way-after-issuing-notices-for-encroachments/articleshow/79008680.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 3, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar’s wife writes to President, expresses threat to don’s life||VARANASI: Jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s wife Afsha Ansari has written a letter to the President of India, expressing threat to her husband’s life and urging him to ensure that his trial is conducted via video conferencing. She said there is a threat to Mukhtar from his arch rival jailed mafia don and MLC Brijesh Singh. In her letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Afsha said Mukhtar hails from the family of former vice-president Hamid Ansari, Brig Mohammad Usman and freedom fighter Shaukatullah, and alleged that action was being taken against her family due to political vendetta and shared details of how Mukhtar has been on Brijesh’s target. “Brijesh’s gang had attacked my husband at Usarichatti on July 15, 2001 when he was returning from Mau. He survived, but two persons, including a police head constable deployed in his security, died while eight were injured. All of them are witnesses against Brijesh. There is no progress in trial of that case while witnesses are being threatened and their arms licences have been cancelled,” she said while also referring to Munna Bajrangi’s murder in Baghpat jail. She said chief minister Yogi Adityanath, additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi and top police brass were targeting her family and her son, a national level shooter, was booked in a false case while their ancestral properties were demolished in violation of norms. The MLA’s brother BSP MP Afzal Ansari confirmed Afsha has sent a letter and said the attempt to bring Mukhtar from Punjab for producing him before court despite the Supreme Court’s directive to conduct trials through video conferencing is a well-planned conspiracy to kill him. Afzal said his family is being targeted due to political vendetta as he had defeated BJP candidate from Ghazipur seat in 2019 Lok Sabha election. “Action is being taken against Mukhtar, our family and aides to divert attention from failures of the government. The letter written by BJP MLA Alka Rai to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra recently is also part of conspiracy to kill Mukhtar,” Afzal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtars-wife-writes-to-prez-expresses-threat-to-dons-life/articleshow/79008652.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Accused was ‘fed up’ with lockdown||AHMEDABAD: Nearly a week after she killed her mother-in-law in a Gota flat, the woman revealed various facets of the case. She told police that she was ‘fed up’ with the lockdown and the victim’s diktats of taking bath every time she went out and also to remain indoors. A Sola police station official said that the accused, Nikita Agrawal (30), who is one-month-pregnant, stated that she was frustrated with her mother-in-law and deceased Rekha Agarwal’s instructions of not crossing the boundary walls of her house. “She told us that she had barely gone outside from their house around five to six times as her mother-in-law ordered her to stay indoors. Besides, whenever she went out or met anyone, her mother-in-law would force her to take bath,” said an official from Sola police station. The official said that the elderly woman was suffering with obsessive compulsive disorder for which she was taking treatment from a city-based psychiatrist. Due to her mental illness, she could not mix up with her daughter-in-law. Nikita, who is originally from Beawar in Rajasthan, killed Rekha as the latter suspected that Nikita’s pregnancy was the result of her illicit relationship with her father-in-law Ramniwas Agrawal. She said that her mother-in-law tried to hit her with an iron rod which she snatched from her hand and hit on her head, resulting in her death. Nikita was sent to judicial custody after her remand was over on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/accused-was-fed-up-with-lockdown/articleshow/79007603.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bhopal||Enjoy Pachmarhi-like climes in Bhopal, nights may get even colder this week||BHOPAL : November has just begun and Bhopal is already on a cool trip of its own. Exactly a day after registering a colder night than Pachmarhi, Bhopal on Monday remained almost as cool as the hill station. Both registered a minimum temperature of 14.5 degrees and 14.6 degrees Celsius, respectively. Met officials said, the temperature is likely to slide further in the coming week. “The wind direction is north westerly and once it becomes northerly, more chill will be added in the atmosphere”, the weatherman said. There has been a decline of more than 4 degrees since the last week of October. “From 20 degrees Celsius on October 23 to 14.5 on November 2, it is a drop of 5.5 degrees Celsius”, met office stated. On Sunday, Bhopal recorded a minimum temperature of 13.5 degrees Celsius while Pachmarhi recorded 15.2 degrees Celsius. On Monday Datia was the coldest place in MP with 10 degrees Celsius while the neighbouring Gwalior recorded 10.7 degrees Celsius. Met office stated, “This year the chill in the atmosphere is experienced early on, and the minimum temperature has dropped 2 degrees-3 degrees Celsius.” There is a yawning gap between minimum and maximum temperature in Bhopal as the afternoon temperature still remains at 30 degrees Celsius, almost double of the minimum temperature of 14.6 degrees Celsius recorded in the city on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hill-station-bhopal-city-nights-as-nippy-as-pachmarhi-brace-for-further-dip-says-met/articleshow/79007594.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bhopal||Govt formed through deals will fall soon: Kamal Nath||Bhopal: Around 6pm on Monday, former chief minister and state Congress president Kamal Nath reached the party office here for an urgent meeting with organizational heads.Nath asked PCC organizational vice-president Chandra Prabhash Sekhar and state general secretary (administration) Rajeev Singh to keep in touch with booth-level workers.Since morning, Nath had received complaints from workers of several constituencies in Gwalior-Chambal going for bypolls.Around 11am, Nath alleged: “In the past 12 hours, I have been getting information that these people (BJP) have started using money and liquor. Money and liquor is being distributed openly. Administration and police are also being utilized. All this shows that BJP is getting routed.” Party legal cell was asked to stay alert till the bypoll was over. With every complaint from candidates and workers that reached PCC chief Kamal Nath and the party, legal cell was asked to take immediate action and report in writing to the returning officers and the EC.“When history of the Indian democracy is written, then one page will be dedicated to the bypolls in Madhya Pradesh and names of traitors will be written in black alphabets,” Nath said on Monday morning.“The end is near for the government formed through deals and bargains. This election has also proved that people no longer need the palace, but the palace needs the support of people,” he said, launching an attack on Jyotiraditya Scindia, who is the present maharaja of Gwalior.“This election is between truth and untruth, honesty and dishonesty. I have full faith in the people of Madhya Pradesh, especially of the 28 assembly constituencies going for bypoll that they will recognize the truth and support it keeping the betterment of Madhya Pradesh in view,” Nath said.“I am pained and amazed that Shivraj Singh Chouhan claimed I called him kameena (rascal) and Jyotiraditya Scindia said I called him a dog. If they have any evidence, any recording of it, then they should show it to me. I have never used such words,” Nath said.“Shivraj Singh Chouhan has crossed the limits of speaking lies. Even a day before the elections he has not stopped speaking untruth,” he said.“Chouhan said that Kamal Nath is a sinner. I asked, what sin did I commit? He claimed that farm loans were not waived and yet his government admitted in the state assembly that 27 lakh farmers benefited from the scheme in the first and second phase and third phase was about to commence,” the senior Congress leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-formed-through-deals-will-fall-soon-kamal-nath/articleshow/79007604.cms||Suchandana Gupta
November 3, 2020||Pune||BP booster, anti-leprosy drug lifesavers in Covid care||PUNE: Methylene blue, a century-old blood-pressure booster and a precursor to anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, and anti-leprosy cure Mycobacterium w have emerged as potential supportive (adjuvants) treatment for patients with Covid-19, say several doctors from across the country. While methelyne blue promotes oxygen saturation in the blood, mycobacterium w is being found effective in suppressing the release of inflammatory blood markers (particularly interleukin-6 or IL-6) and preventing multi-organ damage. Doctors said the drugs, used as intravenous injections, have helped reduce hospitalization periods and significantly improved recovery rates. Encouraged by the outcome, doctors have started using these drugs as potential therapeutics to counter hypoxia (oxygen deficiency in blood) and cytokine storm (abnormal immune response) — two main complications that Sars-CoV-2 has been causing in the human body. Mumbai-based critical care expert Ujwala Mhatre of Nanavati hospital said, “We have used methylene blue in intravenous and nebulized form as a rescue measure in patients with persistent low oxygen saturation. Also, it is easily available and cost-effective.” The drug helps prevent the effects of bradykinin and improves oxygen saturation. “Bradykinin is a peptide that promotes inflammation in the blood,” she added. Rajesh Mishra, Ahmedabad-based intensivist and president (elect) of the Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine, said, “Methylene blue as nebulizer has the potential to reduce lung fibrosis and improve outcome. Mycobacterium w is useful in managing early mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 infection by activating T helper cell. It should be used early.” In the fight against Covid-19, doctors have been using an algorithmic approach to employ antivirals, immunomodulatory agents and anti-coagulation to counter the triple menace of rapid viral replication, organ dysfunction and thrombosis (blood clotting) seen in the infected patients. “Our therapy is guided by the clinical, biochemical and radiological evolution of the disease process,” said Mumbai-based critical care expert Abdul Ansari, who is associated with Nanavati hospital. Both drugs are being mainly used in patients with persistently low levels of white blood cells (lymphopenia or lymphocytopenia), rising inflammatory levels of interleukin 6 (IL-6), poor immune response, multiple co-morbidities and needed for life support. “Mycobacterium w is like a TB vaccine that modulates the body’s own immunity to overcome the bad life-threatening effect of the infection like sepsis. I have been using it with quite impressive results in patients with Covid-19,” said Gurgaon-based intensivist Yatin Mehta, chairman of Medanta Institute of Critical Care and Anesthesiology Mycobacterium w has been used successfully in moderate to severe patients with Covid-19 in Karnataka. The drug has been included as part of the state’s Covid management protocol in patients falling in the severe category. “The outcome in patients for whom the drug has been administered is being collated to publish our data in a scientific journal,” said Bengaluru-based critical care expert Pradeep Rangappa, who is part of the Karnataka government’s task force on Covid-19. Ruby Hall Clinic’s chief intensivist Kapil Zirpe said, “Early use of mycobacterium w can be considered as an add-on therapy in hypoxic Covid patients. Key to success is the timing of initiating the drug.” The timing is crucial along with the selection of patients. “We found benefits of using methylene blue in nebulized patients, especially in those needing non-invasive ventilation. As adjuvants, they do the trick when used in combination with the standard antiviral and steroid medications,” said Sanjeevan hospital’s chief intensivist Subhal Dixit. “The early use of mycobacterium w has been found beneficial in reducing hospital stay, secondary infection rate, and days on vasopressors (drugs meant for raising blood pressure),” said Dixit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bp-booster-anti-leprosy-drug-lifesavers-in-covid-care/articleshow/79008698.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana Improvement Trust plans to create software to digitalise its records of properties||LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) is developing a software to digitise all the records of the department and make them available to the public at one click. Already, scanning of documents is going on, but without the software, the records cannot be made digital. Chairman of LIT, Raman Balasubramanium, said local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra has selected LIT to digitise records. The main aim of this action is to map all properties of the LIT, whether available or sold out. The officials claimed that since there are so many properties with LIT there is no ready record of these properties and sometimes even they are not aware from whom they are to recover pending dues. Once the new software will be developed, it will be a boon for the residents as well. The residents can check their property details, pay water supply and sewage dues, online building plan approval and payment of non construction charges. There is a plan to computerise records of branches like land acquisition branch, sales branch, technical branch, legal branch, drawing branch and water and sewerage branch. Balasubramanium said, “Though we are getting the records of various properties scanned, it is taking long time. So, now we have decided to get the software developed that expedite the process.” He said they have already held a meeting with representatives of a company. He said local bodies minister has also given thrust on digitisation of LIT so that it could become an example for other such trusts in the state. Meanwhile, the residents too claimed that in this age of computer, public departments must update their age-old system. A resident of SBS Nagar, Inderjit Singh said LIT has so many properties in its name and in the absence of proper records even they are unaware of their properties. “At least, water supply and sewerage dues should be paid online,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lit-plans-to-create-software-to-digitalise-its-records-of-properties/articleshow/79008738.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Gamblers used special device to cheat, says cops||LUDHIANA: According to Sadar police, Harish Kumar, who was arrested while busting the gambling racket on October 30, had purchased a sensor device from Delhi, to cheat opponents in gambling. The police have recovered both parts of the device from the accused, of which one is a kind of a sensor and another one looks like a car key. Police said the sensor captures the cards of the opponent and shows it on the other device. On October 30, Sadar police had busted a gambling racket, being run at a club in Lalton Kalan village. The arrested accused were Naveen Kumar of Sunil Park of Haibowal, Satpal Singh of Janakpuri, Surinder of Model Gram, Harish Kumar of Bajwa Nagar, Dipansh Kalra old vegetable market of Daresi. Besides, one accused Bhupinder Singh of College Road, owner of famous Gurmail Medical stores, and club owner Rajan Singh of Kitchlu Nagar, managed to flee from the spot. The police have also recovered Rs 1.5 Lakh in cash, one electronic device, 6 sets of cards, two cars and one scooter from the spot. Inspector Jagdev Singh, station house officer (SHO) at police station Sadar said the device was purchased by Harish for Rs 10,000. “This is a special device used to pay cards. While one device, fixed on the wall/ roof captures the cards of the opponent and shows at the other device. Such devices are famous in other states and are used to gamblers,” he added. Sadar police got a tip-off that a gambling racket is being run at Kashish Club in Lalton Kalan area. The police conducted a raid there and managed to arrest the five accused. While one gambling accused Bhupinder and the club owner escaped from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gamblers-used-special-device-to-cheat-cops/articleshow/79008712.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 3, 2020||Chennai||Corporation reclaims Chennai water ways, 90% encroachers along Cooum relocated||CHENNAI: Close to 90% of the families living on the banks of Cooum river and almost half the families encroaching upon Adyar river banks inside city corporation limits have been relocated, Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash has said. The evictions were part monsoon preparedness plans of the civic body. According to Prakash and officials of the Chennai River Restoration Trust (CRRT), the remaining 10% along Cooum will be relocated within six months. The CRRT will then fence off the river banks to prevent further encroachments, a CRRT official said. “There are some commercial encroachments to be removed and the public works department will do it,” a CRRT official said. The remaining families to be relocated are in Sathyavani Muthu Nagar and outside GCC limits, in Tiruverkadu municipality north-west of Chennai. Close to 50% of families encroaching Adyar river banks have been relocated as well, Prakash said. The process to relocate families from the banks of Buckingham Canal, which forms the biggest cluster of informal settlements along a water body in the city, is however yet to begin. GCC and CRRT officials said the state government has to come up with a policy for this issue. The city corporation’s estimates puts around 24,000 families living on the canal’s banks. According to latest GCC records, 17,768 families have been relocated from the banks of various water bodies in the city in the past five years. GCC officials say this process has been done with dignity and that the TN Slum clearance Board (TNSCB) homes allotted to them are of better quality than the houses they were living in. Vanessa Peter, policy researcher at the Information and Resource Centre for Deprived Urban communities (IRCDUC) said a social impact assessment was necessary before carrying out such relocations. “Majority of the relocated families have been unable to recover their livelihood,” she said. Before coming up with a plan for the slums along Buckingham Canal, the government should consider in-situ redevelopment, Vanessa said. “For instance, the Sivarajapuram locality in Triplicane is spread across a huge area and could be planned well for in-situ redevelopment,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-reclaims-city-water-ways-90-encroachers-along-cooum-relocated/articleshow/79007606.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Student in Ranikhet school tests Covid-19 positive||NAINITAL: A student of a private school in Ranikhet tested positive for novel coronavirus on Monday – when schools in the state reopened for Classes X and XII after a long gap due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The private school has now been shut down for three days and the students who came in contact with the infected student have also been isolated. According to the school officials, the student was thermally scanned before entering the school. His parents have also tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/student-in-ranikhet-school-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/79006323.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kanpur||Ex-MP booked for poll code violation||Kanpur:A case has been booked against former MP and Congress leader Rakesh Sachan and zila panchayat member Kukku Sachan for allegedly violating the model code of conduct which is in place in the ensuing Assembly bye-election in Ghatampur. “An FIR has been registered against former MP and Congress party leader Rakesh Sachan and Zila Panchayat member Kukku Sachan for allegedly canvassing in the constituency despite election campaigning for the byepoll ended,” said Inspector Ghatampur Ravendra Singh, adding publicity material was also seized from their SUV. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ex-mp-booked-for-poll-code-violation/articleshow/79008735.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Agra||Four-yr-old girl killed, 2 other minors hurt after being hit by tractor||AGRA: A 4-year-old girl was killed and her two sisters were severely injured after a speeding tractor allegedly hit the three girls while they were returning home in Mathura’s Neenvgaon village on Monday. Though an FIR has been registered, the accused is still absconding. The deceased was identified as Bindu (4) and the injured girls have been identified as Bhoomi (8) and Dolly (3). They were rushed to the hospital for treatment, said police. The accused, Yogendra, lost control over the tractor and hit the girls. After hitting the girls, the tractor rammed into an electric pole and stopped after falling in a roadside pit. Raya station house officer Suraj Prakash Sharma said that Yogendra has been booked for rash driving, causing death by negligence and causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others. His tractor has been taken into police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/four-yr-old-girl-killed-2-other-minors-hurt-after-being-hit-by-tractor/articleshow/79005298.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Projects worth Rs 300 cr approved for Kumbh 2021||DEHRADUN: In a state-level meeting presided over by Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash, projects worth Rs 300 crore were approved for Kumbh 2021, which is scheduled to be held in the early part of the next year. The approved projects include — a 150-bed hospital, 1,000-bed Covid-19 Care centre, medical equipment, repair of PWD guest house on by-pass road, water barricading, and tents. A mobile app for police surveillance during Kumbh Mela was also approved in the meeting. With just a few months left for the preparations of the Kumbh 2021, CS Om Prakash directed officials to speed up the pace of works and complete projects within the stipulated time span. He also asked the authorities to ensure that the police surveillance system is in place and is operational by February end. Centralised tender would be issued for key projects and the senior officials of the departments concerned would be members of the tender committee. In the meeting, it was decided that the repair work of a six-kilometre central route would be carried out by the Public Works Department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/projects-worth-rs-300-cr-approved-for-kumbh-2021/articleshow/79006340.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Fire breaks out in chemical factory in Dugri||LUDHIANA: Panic gripped Dugri village of Payal after fire broke out in a chemical factory around afternoon. However, there was no loss to human life in the incident. Giving details, fire officer Yashpal Rai said around afternoon they got a call about a fire incident in a glue making factory near Solar plant close to Doraha. He added that after that a team of five fire department officials led by him reached the spot and four fire tenders were put into service to douse off fire. Fire officer said it took them eight vehicles of water filled fire tenders to douse off blaze. He added that they could control the fire in about an hour and they used mechanical foam to out off flames. Fire officials said as there were blasts in the chemical containers during the fire the owner and workers ran away from the spot. They added that the exact cause of fire is being ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fire-breaks-out-in-chemical-factory-in-dugri/articleshow/79008748.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Run projects of employment, self employment on mission mode, Trivendra Singh Rawat to officials||DEHRADUN: In a meeting held on Monday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat directed the state officials to ensure that people who returned to the state during Covid-19 lockdown are provided the due assistance in finding employment or getting self-employed in the state. The CM said that works related to employment and self employment of the returnees should be taken up on a mission mode. The secretaries of different departments have been given the responsibility to keep an eye on the updates and take the timely decision to encourage self-employment. On the occasion, he released a book on the analysis of main sources of livelihood for those who have returned to Uttarakhand. The CM instructed the officials of the skill development and the employment department to prepare their plans according to the needs of the future as it would help youths find employment opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/run-projects-of-employment-self-employment-on-mission-mode-cm-to-officials/articleshow/79006333.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana seeks study on Polavaram impact||HYDERABAD: Telangana government has asked the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) to conduct a detailed study on the water spread area while expressing concern over Polavaram backwater, which is likely to submerge the famed Sri Rama temple, Bhadrachalam town, Manuguru heavy water plant and nearby 100 villages. While making it clear that it is not against the Polavaram project being taken up by neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the state government said the PPA will have to address the issues raised by it. Water resources department engineer-in-chief C Muralidhar wrote a letter to the PPA a couple of days ago. At a PPA meeting held here on Monday the issue was raised, sources said. “We explained our concerns during the PPA meeting and shared the IIT-Hyderabad study on possible submergence of Telangana areas due to Polavaram project backwaters. During the study and designing, contours of the project have to be marked on the ground to know the exact submergence area. The PPA has asked AP to reply to our fears,” B Nagendra Rao, water resources ENC (inter- state projects), told TOI. Rao was at Monday’s PPA meeting. Muralidhar said, “It it a a big threat and hence all the possible impacts will need to be throughly examined by the PPA. The backwaters will also afffect Sri Seetharama Swamy temple and Bhadrachalam town due to 36 lakh cusecs of flood at Dummugudem, which is 30 km upstream of Bhadrachalam.” The ENC said the Manuguru plant and ITC Bhadrachalam have written to the government expressing worry about the Polavaram backwater. Quoting the IIT-H study, the government further said 45,000 acres would face submergence as against 200 acres quoted by AP. The government, in its letter, said: “There is a nothing wrong in conducting a study and removing apprehensions of the upper riparian states like Telangana. If the study proves that the apprehensions are correct, the PPA needs to ensure proper protective measures as per Godavari Water Disputes Tribunal (GWDT). The PPA cannot ignore the fears of other states which are likely to be directly affected by the major project.” Irrigation officials said the project was designed to meet demands of 450 tmcft apart from diverting additional water during floods from Polavaram. For this, it has to maintain the full reservoir level (FRL) conditions for a longer period for facilitating the drawals which would cause inundation and submergence problems in the upstream and in and around Bhadrachalam and Dummugudem. Upping the ante, Telangana said the project, constructed at a cost of Rs 50,000 crore, must be executed in transparency. “Neither the PPA nor the Central Water Commission (CWC) considered this aspect during the earlier meeting. They have completely ignored our concerns,” government officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-seeks-study-on-polavaram-impact/articleshow/79008777.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Anti-encroachment drive over but problem persists||DEHRADUN: The anti-encroachment and demolition drive in the city has come to an end, with over 1,300 demolitions across Dehradun. However, the problem of encroachment still exists in many areas, especially the Haridwar bypass road, where garages and vehicle service centres have extended their establishments by several feet on the main highway. On this road, one can see shopkeepers displaying their wares on the road, posing a threat to motorists and pedestrians, say residents. Avnish Kotiyal, a resident of Mothrowala area, said, “I travel to Saharanpur at least twice a week for business-related work and pass through the Haridwar bypass road every time. The shopkeepers along the road have extended their temporary setups and on to the main road. Since there is no divider at several stretches, the possibility of accident is high.” Residents living in localities along the road claimed that the road is not sufficiently wide and it is not in the best of condition. Moreover, encroachments on the roadsides have narrowed the road space further. Parveen Maheshwari, a shopkeeper at ISBT, said, “The road remains busy with heavy traffic movement throughout the day and rush of shoppers. Since there are shops on both the sides of the road, the road space has narrowed due to encroachment, leading to traffic jams and chaos. Officials from the anti-encroachment task force said a team would soon visit the area and action would be taken against the encroachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/anti-encroachment-drive-over-but-problem-persists-in-many-doon-areas/articleshow/79006363.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ludhiana||79-yr-old Nepali man hangs self||Ludhiana: An elderly man has allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself on the ceiling fan in New Deep Nagar of Haibowal area on in the wee hours of Monday. The elderly man was a gate man at a factory and used to live in one room accommodation inside the factory. The matter came to the light when the man did not open the gate of the factory on Monday morning. The deceased has been identified as Ram Bahadur, 79, who hailed from Nepal. He was working in the factory for years and used to live inside it. Investigating officer from police post Kailash Chowki, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Damanpreet Singh said on Monday morning, the factory owner reached the factory at around 8.30am. However, Ram did not open the gate. Thereafter, the owner called the police. After entering the factory, they reached the one-room accommodation of the gate man and found him hanging on the ceiling fan. ASI added, the police had not found any suicide note from the spot. Ram’s wife died about four years ago. Besides, his children live in Nepal and would come at times to meet him. After the death of his wife, Ram was alone and little depressed. The official said, the police have contacted the family of Ram in Nepal. Further proceedings will depend on their statements. Meanwhile, the body of Ram has been kept in the mortuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/79-yr-old-nepali-man-hangs-self/articleshow/79008771.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 3, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Lakshman Singh tests Covid-19 positive||BHOPAL: Congress MLA from Chachoura Lakshman Singh tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. Lakshman Singh, brother of senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh, tweeted: “I had taken my Covid test today and it came positive. Those friends, who come in contact with me, should get their tests done. I will get well soon and meet again.” State Congress office said that the MLA was asymptomatic. However, he was feeling unusually tired and went in for a test. Former chief minister and PCC chief Kamal Nath tweeted: “Received information about senior Congress MLA Lakshman Singh being unwell. I pray to God for his speedy recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lakshman-singh-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/79007626.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Christian Medical College conducts week-long course medical faculty||LUDHIANA: As part of national faculty development programme of National Medical Commission (NMC), Christian Medical College (CMC), Ludhiana is conducting tenth advance course in medical education (ACME). The course will conclude on November 7. The seven-day course is being conducted online by nodal centre for faculty development. On Monday, 51 faculty of various medical colleges of India from as far as West Bengal, Assam, Mizoram and Jammu and Kashmir attended the poster session. The faculty presented 21 research posters in medical education. The various research projects were conducted using online methods too due to Covid-19. Dr William Bhatti, director of CMC, inaugurated the programme and highlighted the efforts of department of medical education in continuously training the doctors of various medical colleges virtually during the Covid-19 period. Dr Jeyaraj D Pandian, principal of CMC, welcome the participants and informed that the training in advance course is mandatory for the faculty who are training the faculty in their respective medical colleges. Dr Dinesh Badyal, convener of the nodal centre said the course required many innovations as the contact session of the course is being conducted online. This included full day trainings online. He added that the total duration of the course is one year and monthly online modules are being used for the course. Poster session is being conducted in a thematic manner. Nodal centre is training facility in components of new curriculum of MBBS. The training is in alignment for new curriculum for MBBS in India. The new curriculum for MBBS has been implemented from academic year 2019 throughout India. He added that CMC is one of the 10 nodal centres for faculty development in India. Dr Monika Sharma, co-convener of nodal centre and in-charge ACME informed that advance course trains doctors in skills training, skills assessment, innovative teaching learning and assessment methods, leadership skills, mentorship practices, scholarship and curriculum planning. The course also trains doctors in attitude, ethics and communication aspects. She added that in this course medical doctors are trained to adopt a student centred approach in teaching the MBBS students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cmc-conducts-week-long-course-medical-faculty/articleshow/79008787.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Meerut||Over 3 lakh voters to decide fate of 14 candidates in Naugawan Sadat assembly by-election today||BIJNOR: More than 3 lakh electorates will exercise their franchise in Naugawan Sadat assembly constituency bypoll on Tuesday to decide the fate of 14 candidates in the fray. The seat has been lying vacant since the demise of Chetan Chauhan. According to officials, all preparations for the bypoll have been made to ensure free and fair polling. There are around 489 polling booths for over 3.25 lakh voters, including 20,000 new voters, to cast their votes in the constituency. Amroha SP Vipin Tada said, “Heavy police force was deployed in the constituency to conduct a free and fair poll. The paramilitary force was deployed at 43 polling booths. All preparations have been made for the polling that will start at 7 am.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-3-lakh-voters-to-decide-fate-of-14-candidates-in-naugawan-sadat-assembly-by-election-today/articleshow/79006377.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 3, 2020||Hubballi||Bureaucrat showcases his other talent - bird photography||DHARWAD: Sadashiv Marji, is a 1997 batch KAS officer currently posted as joint director with food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department. However, his hobby of photography makes him different among bureaucrats. He is showcasing his talent in a three-day solo exhibition at RH Deshpande Hall, Karnataka Vidyavardhak Sangh, which was inaugurated on Monday. Marji told TOI he has been an amateur photographer since 2005 but turned a wildlife photographer in 2015. “I leave home by 6.30am to capture birds in and around Dharwad on a daily basis,” he added. He has captured a variety of birds at Dandeli, Almatti, Magadi, Hosapete, Ranganatittu, Gudavi and other bird sanctuaries of Karnataka. He is exhibiting his pictures in the exhibition. He has also taken pictures at the botanical garden, jungles around Uday Hostel, Gouri Shankar Hostel, Amargol, and villages like Mugad, Kyarakoppa, Ambalikoppa, Narendra, Halligeri which have been a home for birds like oriental white eye, Indian robin, grey horn bill, common hoopi, Karnataka state bird Indian roller, copper smith barbet, jungle doddlers, Asian paradise fly catcher, malabar pide horn bill, and many more. Marji said, “My hobby of photography started with a DE 50 camera and I am now using a Nikon D 750 and D 850 with Nikkor 200/500 mm lenses. Apart from Dharwad, I have also taken wildlife pictures at Bharatpur bird sanctuary Rajasthan, Daroji sloth bear sanctuary, Tunga Bhadra reserviors, etc. Before turning to wildlife, my photography was focused on historical places, handicrafts, Kinnal art and architecture.” “Currently, my collection includes 2,500 photos of animals and birds. Only 30 out of them have been selected for this exhibition. I have not done any cropping and put them with natural color in seven-color printing,” he added Veteran photographer Shashi Sali, who saw Marji’s photos, said photography involves three main components - art sense, timing and light and image capturing skill. Keeping these components in the mind, Marji has captured good pictures with excellent frames, He added. The photography exhibition is open from 10am to 6.30pm till Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bureaucrat-showcases-his-other-talent-bird-photography/articleshow/79006448.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 3, 2020||Meerut||Afghan woman on way to Delhi thrown out of car near Meerut||MEERUT: An Afghan woman was allegedly thrown out of a vehicle following an argument with friends on Sunday. The incident occurred when four friends, including two women, were returning to Delhi from Rishikesh. They reportedly had a verbal spat over an issue and Elda, in her mid-40s, was pushed out of the car near Siwaya village in UP's Meerut. The woman was later rescued by the local police and sent to Delhi on her request. According to police sources, all four were Afghan nationals living in Bhogal area of Delhi. "The woman had alleged that her co-passengers had even taken away her luggage. An FIR has been filed under IPC sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) against Siddiqui, Mustafa and Tabassum," Sanjeev Dixit, Daurala circle officer, said. Despite repeated attempts, Elda could not be reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/afghan-woman-on-way-to-delhi-thrown-out-of-car-near-meerut/articleshow/79006384.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: BJP’s Naresh Bansal elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha||DEHRADUN: BJP’s Naresh Bansal was elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from Uttarakhand on Monday as opposition Congress decided not to field any candidate for the seat. He will replace Congress’ Raj Babbar, who is set to retire on November 25. A BJP veteran, Bansal filed his nomination on October 27 and polling scheduled for November 9 was not held as he was the sole candidate in the fray. He was declared elected after the time for withdrawal of nominations ended at 3pm on Monday. Uttarakhand assembly secretary Mukesh Singhal handed over the certificate of election to the candidate. With 57 BJP MLAs in the house, Bansal’s victory was certain as the Congress, which has only 11 legislators in the 70-member assembly, decided not to contest the election. Soon after being elected to the RS, Bansal said, “I promise people that I will do my best to raise the state’s issues with the national leadership and work for the welfare of Uttarakhand. I also thank the party’s top leadership and everyone who stood by my side.” Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, state BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat, ministers and a number of party MLAs were present on the assembly premises to mark the occasion. BJP workers also took out a rally from the assembly building to the party headquarters at Balbir Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjps-naresh-bansal-elected-unopposed-to-rajya-sabha/articleshow/79006380.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: DMCH holds clinic for gluten-allergic kids on Mondays||LUDHIANA: Celiac disease or ‘wheat allergy’ is quite common among children, who are diagnosed to have autoimmune disorder caused by intolerance to gluten, said Dr Deepak Bhat, professor of pediatrics in DMCH. Gluten is the general name of the proteins found in wheat, rye and barley and other grains derived from them. Department of pediatrics under the headship of Dr Puneet Alakh Pooni has been continuously conducting awareness sessions for parents and children with celiac disease. DMCH has all the facilities to manage children with celiac disease by conducting an exclusive celiac diseases clinic on every Monday in Pediatrics OPD of the hospital. Adapting to gluten-free diet can be quite challenging for child and his parents but over the time, it becomes routine for both of them, said Dr Pooni. The disease can lead to a wide variety of symptoms. Children may not gain weight and height as expected for their ages. Some children can have diarrhoea, abdominal pain, bloating, fatigue and unexplained anaemia (low haemoglobin). According to Dr Deepak Bhat, symptoms of celiac disease can happen at any time in a child's life. Some children may develop symptoms in the very first year of life when they are exposed to gluten, while others may develop symptoms after consuming gluten products for years. Diagnosing celiac disease usually begins with a simple blood test that measures the level of antibodies to gluten and other proteins in the lining of the intestine. If high levels of these antibodies are found, the doctor is likely to order for a small intestine and for more tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dmch-holds-clinic-for-gluten-allergic-kids-on-mondays/articleshow/79008792.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||France killings: Munawwar Rana says he is ready to go to jail||LUCKNOW: UP Police registered an FIR against Urdu poet Munawwar Rana for his controversial remarks on the recent killings in France in the row over the caricatures of Prophet Mohammad. The FIR was lodged by sub-inspector Deepak Kumar Pandey with Hazratganj police. Pandey said Rana’s remarks promote enmity between religious groups, hurt sentiments and disturb peace and tranquillity. The 67-year-old poet has been booked under IPC Sections 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion), 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion), 298 (Uttering, words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person), 505(1)(b) (Punishes those who intent to cause or likely to cause fear or alarm among the public, or any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquillity, 505(2) (Whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report, with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community) and the IT Act 67 and 66. The charges levied against the poet are non-bailable. The FIR was lodged on Sunday afternoon. Rana told TOI he is not scared of FIR and was ready to face the consequences. “I’m a worshipper of Ma Saraswati and not scared of an FIR. I am ready to face the consequences and go to jail if speaking truth is a sin. Let the government do what it wants to do,” the recipient of Sahitya Akademi Award for Urdu Literature told TOI. He shot to limelight in October 2015, when he returned his Sahitya Akademi award in the middle of a TV interview during ‘intolerance’ movement launched by the civil society. DCP, central, Somen Verma said Rana’s statement on France killings in a TV interview was found controversial and hence the FIR was lodged against him. Speaking to TOI last week, Rana had said that drawing cartoons of Prophet Mohammad and killings over it, both are wrong but he “would also have done the same” as insulting a religious figure is unacceptable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rana-booked-for-contentious-statements-on-france-killings/articleshow/79009418.cms||Arvind Chauhan
November 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Techie hangs self, police book wife, father-in-law||PUNE: A techie (38) working with a leading software company at the Hinjewadi IT Park was found hanging on Sunday afternoon from a ceiling fan in his flat in an upscale society at Marunji near Hinjewadi. Police found a suicide note at the spot, purportedly written by the techie, alleging his wife, her father and her maternal uncle were harassing him for money. Assistant inspector Shashikant Dhendge of Hinjewadi police said, “The suicide note describes how the techie’s wife, who lodged complaints of domestic violence against him, her father and her maternal uncle allegedly troubled him for money. It stated that harassed by the trio, he took decision to end his life.” The techie’s mother (65), a resident of Nasik, lodged a complaint with the Hinjewadi police on Sunday evening. Police have registered a case of abetment to suicide against the techie’s wife, his father-in-law and his wife’s maternal uncle. According to the complaint, the techie’s wife had filed several complaints of domestic violence, including a case under Section 498 (A) [husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty] of the Indian Penal Code, against the techie. Dhendge said the techie’s wife, her father and her maternal uncle allegedly demanded Rs50 lakh from the techie to settle these cases. “The techie had paid Rs20 lakh to them. The trio kept harassing him for the remaining amount of Rs30 lakh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-hangs-self-police-book-wife-father-in-law/articleshow/79007672.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: It takes 1 Lakh litre sanitiser, 56,000 PPE kits for bypolls in Coronavirus times||BHOPAL: Over 1 lakh litres of sanitizer, 63.38 lakh gloves, 56,000 PPE kits are part of the election essentials for the to be held in the state after Covid-19 pandemic broke. All the 9361 polling booths in 28 constituencies across 19 districts were sanitized 24 hours before the byelections on November 2. For every voter, a disposable hand glove has been provided at each these polling booths. The gloves will be used by voters while signing, before casting vote and also for pressing the EVM button, said sources. If any polling booth has 500 voters, then 500 (one hand piece) of these gloves have been made available at each of these booths, added sources. Similarly, in case of masks, disposable masks equivalent to 75% of the number of voters in the polling booths are being provided, added sources. It is been done by considering that if 100% voter turnout is reported, at least 25% of the voters will be wearing their own masks, added sources. At least 6 poll officials are being deployed at each booth, one for thermal scanning at gate, other for sprinkling sanitizers, apart from the four others who will be making entries and verifying the voters, and each of these 6 personnel are being provided with PPE kits. Thus, more than 56,000 PPE kits are being used, added sources. Thermal scanners have also been provided at each of the polling booths, besides the marking for maintaining social distancing, while standing in queues is also being done, sources said. Byelections will be held at 28 constituencies across 19 districts from 7 am to 6 pm on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/it-takes-1l-litre-sanitiser-56k-ppe-kits-for-bypolls-in-corona-times/articleshow/79007681.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Meerut||BKU activists launch indefinite dharna against farm bill, pending cane dues||BIJNOR & RAMPUR: Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Monday launched a state-level agitation against the new farm bills and to demand clearance of cane dues, with hundreds of activists setting up an indefinite dharna at the collectorate premises across the state. If their demands are not met, the agitators threatened they will celebrate all festivals inside the premises, disrupting regular work. In Rampur, hundreds of farmers on bullock carts and tractor trolleys gathered at the collectorate under BKU’s banner to protest against the three farm reform bills — The Farmers’ Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill — passed by the Parliament. Rampur BKU district president Haseeb Ahmad said, “Farmers have been in financial distress since the pandemic outbreak and lockdown. Now, on top of the sugarcane dues, Parliament has passed bills that will ruin their lives,” adding, “The dharna will continue till the Union government withdraws these anti-farmer bills.” Across the state, sugarcane crushing season has begun, with 35 sugar mills out of 119 having started operations. But according to an official, though the mills have paid off around Rs 29,000 crore dues from last season, they still collectively owe Rs 66,000 crore to 40 lakh sugarcane growers in UP, which has pushed many of the latter to the brink of poverty. Some farmers have even been forced to take loans on Kisan Credit Cards to make both ends meet. Across the state in Bijnor, scores of cane farmers led by state president of BKU’s youth wing, Digambar Singh, marched towards the Bijnor collectorate and pitched tent inside its premises on Monday. Singh said, “The government has failed to get mills to clear cane dues on time, pushing farmers into financial distress. They need money to pay labourers for harvesting cane, but are being forced to take banks loans to run their families instead. Farmers co-operated with the government during the lockdown by not demanding their dues. But, although the lockdown is over, mills are still not paying up.” “Many farmers are being unable to pay school fees of their children. On top of that, festive season has arrived. But the government is not feeling their pain,” Singh added. Some farmers said, “Crushing season has begun, but the state advised price (SAP) is yet to be cleared. We’ve demanded that the new SAP be hiked from Rs 325 to Rs 450 per quintal. We’re also against the new ‘anti farmer’ farm bills. We’ve told the administration that if our demands are not met, we’ll celebrate all our festivals inside the collectorate premises.” A state-level cane officer, on condition of anonymity, told TOI a meeting to decide the new SAP will be held soon, and that the state government is taking steps to get mills to clear their dues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bku-activists-launch-indefinite-dharna-against-farm-bill-pending-cane-dues/articleshow/79006404.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||With strict Covid-19 norms in place, schools reopen in U’khand after 8 months||Dehradun: After a gap of almost eight months due to Covid-19 pandemic, several schools reopened in Uttarakhand on Monday for students of Classes X and XII. Almost all schools run by the state government and a few private schools reopened on Monday while strictly maintaining Covid-19 protocols like distancing, hand sanitisation before entry into classrooms, and thermal scanning, among others. The morning prayers in the schools were also held in classrooms while maintaining social distancing. According to the data provided by the district education office, 156 government high schools or government inter colleges, 52 government-aided schools, 58 private schools, 48 Kendriya Vidyalayas, and 16 residential schools reopened in Dehradun on Monday. Only two private residential schools in Dehradun — Welham Boys’ and Himjyoti School — reopened on Monday, according to the district education department. “The state government schools recorded a decent student turnout. However, we expect the number of students to increase in the coming days,” said Asha Rani Painuly, chief education officer of Dehradun. Premlata Bourai, principal of Government Girls Inter College Rajpur Road, told TOI, “We have started operating in two shifts — morning and afternoon. On Monday, we recorded the overall student turnout at around 20%.” A majority of the private schools could not reopen because they have either not been inspected by government officials or have not yet implemented the SOPs issued by the state government for school reopening. Besides, several parents are still hesitant to send their wards to schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-strict-covid-19-norms-in-place-schools-reopen-in-ukhand-after-8-months/articleshow/79006429.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 3, 2020||Pune||Truck rams 3 cars, bike on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass||Pune: A truck rammed three cars, including a sports utility vehicle, an autorickshaw and a motorcycle on the service lane of Katraj-Dehu Road bypass near Navale Bridge on Monday morning, leaving the motorcyclist injured. According to the Sinhagad road police, the biker suffered minor injuries. He left the spot after the accident. Senior inspector Nandkishor Shelke of the Sinhagad Road police said, “The truck was heading towards Panvel from Sangli with sacks of sugar. While coming down the Navale bridge on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, its engine developed a technical snag. The driver lost control over the wheel and the truck veered on to the service lane around 8.30am.” The police said the truck first rammed the sports utility vehicle (SUV). It then hit two cars and then rammed the autorickshaw. It almost came to a halt when it hit the motorcycle. “None of the cars’ occupants were injured in the accident,” Shelke said. The SUV driver, Prasad Prabhakar Pawar (34) of Chinchwad, lodged a complaint with the police, following which a case of rash and negligent driving was lodged against the truck driver, Chitrapal Singh (29) of Madhya Pradesh. Singh was later arrested. The police have called the officials of Regional Transport Office (RTO) to inspect the truck and find out how it developed the technical snag, besides checking its maintenance standard. On October 6, a motorcycle rider was killed and eight others suffered injuries after a speeding truck rammed seven two-wheelers and an equal number of cars on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/truck-rams-3-cars-bike-on-katraj-dehu-road-bypass/articleshow/79007688.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Agra||UP cops book 4 for offering namaz at Mathura temple||AGRA: Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday arrested Faisal Khan, founder ofDelhi-based Khudai Khidmatgar that works to promote communal harmony, after anFIR was registered against him and three others for allegedly offering namaz without permission at Nand Baba temple in Mathura. Khan was arrested from Delhi’s Okhla on Monday evening and was being brought to Mathura, confirmed Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Faisal Khan and Chand Mohammad offered namaz on the temple premises while two others— Alok Ratan and Nilesh Gupta – clicked their pictures. All four have been booked under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion and injuring), 295 (defiling a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) along with section 505 (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report) of IPC. The complaint against them was filed by Nandgaon temple’s priest Kanha Goswami, who told TOI that these people had told him that they had been on tour for the past four days and they wanted to do the ‘84 kos parikrama’. He said, “Faizal has knowledge of our religion. He was aware of the Ramayana and Ramcharitmanas. After speaking to them for a few minutes, I had given them prasad and then they went off. After seeing the photographs of their namaz on the temple premises on social media, I filed the police complaint.” In a video of the conversation between Faizal Khan and the temple priest and others (in possession of TOI), Khan can purportedly be heard saying that everyone makes the ‘84 kos parikrama’ with some desire. “Our desire is of harmony…. There is no difference between the Hindu and Muslim religion… both spread the same message,” he can be heard saying, and adds that the “land of Braj is filled with love and he feels that”. Meanwhile, soon after Khan’s arrest, UP cabinet minister Shrikant Sharma said those who offered namaz on the temple premises will not be spared. “The way they offered namaz and then made their act viral on social media shows their evil design,” the state power minister told reporters in a virtual conference. Another temple priest Sushil Goswami said, “The sanctity of the temple will be revived by cleaning it with the water from the holy Ganga and Yamuna.” It will be followed by a “yajna” amid chanting of Vedic hymns, he added. Watch Namaz offered at Mathura temple, four men booked||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-booked-1-held-for-offering-namaz-in-mathura-temple-minister-says-accused-wont-be-spared/articleshow/79005393.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 3, 2020||Meerut||No uniform guidelines, DoT tells Meerut cops on 'unique' IMEI active on 13,000 phones||MEERUT: In a reply to a letter by Meerut police seeking to block the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) active on over 13,000 phones across the country, the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) stated that there is no uniform guidelines to deal with such cases. After a five-month long investigation, the local police recently filed a final report in the IMEI "cloning" case and had reportedly given a "clean chit" to a Chinese mobile firm. Investigators concluded that the findings do not amount to any criminal offence and hence the charges of cheating and violation of IT Act doesn't arise. They had even called it a "technical glitch". "As the matter relates to use of such mobile sets - with the same IMEI number - spread over the entire country, a uniform policy/guideline to handle/curb this/such case(s) is awaited from DoT headquarters. In absence of any uniform policy/guideline from DoT this office is unable to take any further action in the matter," office of the senior deputy director general (DDG) UP (west) under DoT in Meerut stated in a letter dated October 20 addressed to the senior superintendent of police. Notably, an FIR in the case was registered earlier in June after a preliminary probe by the cyber cell unit on the complaint of a UP sub-inspector alleging a duplicate IMEI number on his cell phone showed his IMEI was active on at least 13,000 phones across the country in a time span of 30 minutes. Every mobile phone carries a unique identification — a 15-digit number called IMEI. And no two phones can have the same IMEI. The IMEI allows mobile service providers to identify devices on a network — it is what is tracked when a phone is lost or stolen. Cloning IMEI means a phone can become virtually untraceable, lost in the volumes of same IDs. The investigating officer in the case had initially complained that the company officials were not cooperating and a notice was sent to the chief executive officer to join the probe in July. However, senior officials confirmed on Sunday that the final report was filed last month, and they found the case did not amount to any "criminal misconduct".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-uniform-guidelines-dot-tells-meerut-cops-on-unique-imei-active-on-13k-phones/articleshow/79006441.cms||Piyush Rai
November 3, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh registers 17% growth in GST collection in October||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh has seen a 17.09% growth in Goods and Services Tax (GST ) collection in October this year, a positive sign suggesting an improvement in the economy of the state. However, many other states including the neighbouring Chattisgarh with 26% growth have fared better than Madhya Pradesh. In fact, it was a nationwide phenomenon as revenues surpassed Rs 1.05 lakh crore in October, up 10% from a year ago, and the highest recorded since February 2020. The GST collected last year in October was Rs 2,053 Cr which has gone up by Rs 2,403 Cr in October this year, government sources said. The CGST for this period was Rs 547 Cr while the SGST was Rs 754,35 cr. The IGST and Cess were Rs 642,06 Cr and Rs 459.89 Cr respectively, government sources said. After over 17% growth, an amount of Rs 1,734.30 Cr accrued in the state’s coffer, a handsome 35.60 % rise as compared to 1,279Cr in 2019, sources said.” This includes the SGST and the provisional settlement of the IGST (integrated GST),” sources said. This is a consumption based tax and several economic activities are still not taking place like they used to be in pro Covid days leading to a less revenue. But, it has improved a lot, sources claimed. “Though the automobile industry has grown a little, its two-wheeler segment has still not picked up. There is hardly any growth in the tourism, hotel and restaurant industry. However, FMCG and pharma industries were doing well," sources said. “We hope to have some improvement in the GST figures of November because of the continuing festivities and the economic activities related to them,” they said. Among the States, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh recorded the highest 26% growth in GST collections in October year-on-year, followed by Jharkhand (23%) and Rajasthan (22%). Odisha clocked 21% growth. In fact, this is good news for the country as the economy is showing an upward trend. Whether it can be sustained remains to be seen, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-registers-17-growth-in-gst-collection-in-oct/articleshow/79007683.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
November 3, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra signs MoUs, minister says will create 1 lakh jobs indirectly||MUMBAI: The state signed MoUs with 15 companies on Monday to bring in an investment of nearly Rs 35,000 crore. Most of the companies are from India and the move is expected to create over 23,000 direct jobs. The investments will be in the electronics, data centre and logistics sectors. The largest investment is of Rs 10,555 crore, for a data centre to be set up by Net Magic IT Services. CM Thackeray said they would strive to mobilise over Rs 1 lakh crore investments in the current financial year. “The state attracting investments at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic gives hope,” Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said. Thackeray said the state had delivered on the faith reposed in its government as most of the requirements of the earlier MoUs signed in June during the Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 conference had been fulfilled in fewer than six months. He said land had been allotted to 60% of the companies and for the rest it was in the final stages of completion. Lavishing praise on the industry department, Thackeray said he was proud of it. “We must have over Rs 1 lakh crore in investments and I have full faith the department will deliver,” he said. He said the investments showed that the state signified justice and stability. “The world is facing a crisis it has never seen before. Leaders are faced with tough choices between life and economy, safety and unemployment. The state government has been completely transparent on the Covid-19 figures,” he said. Bureaucrat Bhushan Gagarani said the government took the help of Indian embassies and Indians abroad to attract investments in the state. Industry minister Subhash Desai claimed the investments would in reality create even more jobs than projected now, saying there was potential for generating around 35,000 direct jobs and at least a lakh jobs indirectly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-35000cr-mous-with-15-firms-to-create-23k-jobs/articleshow/79009467.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Meerut||Heavy security deployed in UP's Kairanaafter SP MLA launches ‘jail bharo andolan’||MEERUT: Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA Nahid Hasan’s call for a massive ‘jail bharo andolan’ against alleged police excesses turned the politically sensitive UP town of Kairana into a fortress on Monday. A large number of paramilitary forces along with personnel of several police stations have been deployed. Hundreds of Hasan’s supporters had started assembling at his residence since Sunday night. Hasan had earlier declared that the protest will be "peaceful". On Monday, he along with his mother and former MP Tabassum Hasan, submitted a memorandum to the sub-divisional officer that primarily contained a set of complaints against the local police. Speaking to TOI, Hasan alleged, “There have been too many incidents. I have mentioned them in the memorandum addressed to the state Governor. We want an inquiry against the police officers and suspension or transfer of all those responsible." All this while senior police officers, including Shamli SP and DM Jasjeet Kaur, were also camping in Kairana. Besides, heavy force comprising several companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary and Rapid Action Force, apart from hundreds of UP police personnel were deployed as a precaution. Mock drills and flag marches were conducted and drones were being used. Kairana's sub-divisional magistrate Udbhav Tripathi told TOI, "I have received the complaint-cum-memorandum addressed to the Governor. Basically, the set of complaints is against the Kairana SHO and we will look into the matter." Notably, Hasan had earlier sought permission for the assembly of 50,000 supporters for the agitation, but it was not granted. This comes days after Hasan was booked by police when he along with five supporters had confronted police at a local thana over the alleged excesses, following which, he had announced the November 2 agitation. Hasan's run-in with the local administration is not new. In October last year after evading arrest for over a month, the Kairana MLA had got a respite from the Allahabad high court which granted him anticipatory bail. Hasan’s trouble had started on September 9 when he had a public spat with the then Kairana SDM Amit Pal Sharma. The officer had stopped his SUV and asked for its papers. Later, during a probe, it turned out that the vehicle was not registered at all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/heavy-security-deployed-in-ups-kairanaafter-sp-mla-launches-jail-bharo-andolan/articleshow/79006436.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Where do Amdavadis work?||AHMEDABAD: Where do Amdavadis travel for jobs in this city ? It should not surprise you, but the ‘Kot vistaar’ or the Unesco inscribed world heritage zone of the Walled City dominates even till this day when it comes to job density, followed by the west zone, mainly centred around Ashram Road, CG Road and allied areas and then Prahladnagar towards SG Road. The number of jobs in the 28 job clusters in the city ranged from 10,615, to a maximum of jobs of 1.9 lakh in a cluster. The job clusters ranged from 1.25 sqkm to 5 sq km in area in the city. This roughly translates to a minimum of more than 300 jobs per 0.75 sq km which was the highest in the Walled City area. The travel-job density data for Ahmedabad was presented recently at the third International Conference of Contemporary Affairs in Architecture and Urbanism by a city-based urban planner and a researcher from Arizona State University. The city’s peripheral areas have at least 16 job clusters mainly influenced by surrounding industrial zones and allied industries. “This is mainly seen in the eastern part of city where the surrounding industrial clusters are mainly responsible for the job clusters. These clusters have anywhere between 100 to 210 jobs per square kilometre,” says a senior AUDA official. The official also suggested that a closer analysis of job concentration would reveal how in a majority of instances job locations were largely closer to citizens’ homes. “This is because main business areas also have denser residential zones which keep the city compact,” explains the AUDA official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/where-do-amdavadis-work/articleshow/79008943.cms||Paul John
November 3, 2020||Coimbatore||2 held with panchaloha idol, hunt on for prime accused||COIMBATORE: Two people were arrested on Sunday for trying to sell a panchaloha idol. The accused were identified as U Jayachandran alias Hari, 36, of Sullivan Street, and M Balavenkatesh alias Venkatesh, 36, of Selvapuram. Thirunavukkarasu, the main accused, is absconding. Police said Thirunavukkarasu from Oddanchatram in Dindigul district had given a portion of the idol to the duo and asked them to identify a buyer in Coimbatore. They had planned to sell the idol for Rs 1 crore. The duo was booked under sections IPC sections 380 (2) (idol theft) read with 411 (receiving stolen property). A police team led by Parveen Banu got a tip-off that two persons from the city were looking for a buyer for a Panchaloha idol. Police sent an official to approach the two accused as a buyer. The official was asked to visit Telungu Street – Edaiyar Street junction where police picked up Jayachandran and Balavenkatesh, along with a portion of the idol. A special team has been camping in Dindigul district to nab Thirunavukkarasu. “We have information that Thirunavukkarasu has two panchaloha idols. After his arrest only we can get more details about the idols," the officer said. The portion of the idol will be sent to the department of archeology to ascertain its antique value, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-held-with-panchaloha-idol-hunt-on-for-prime-accused/articleshow/79007684.cms||A Subburaj
November 3, 2020||Goa||Goa govt denies housing for Covid docs, relents after they pull out||PANAJI: Hours after junior and senior resident doctors of GMC withdrew their services from two Covid hospitals in Margao over lack of accommodation, the government was forced to retract its stand and on Monday night belatedly issued a communication permitting them to continue in their accommodation. “Resident doctors are allowed to continue with the hotel accommodation as per the existing arrangement without any change. The present system will continue till further orders,” states the communique issued by collector Ajit Roy, also chairperson of the South Goa district disaster management authority, to the GMC dean. The letter was sent following a telephonic meeting that Roy had with the GMC dean and the Goa association of resident doctors, who withdrew their services after they refused to accept the verbal and vague written assurances earlier. “We have decided to resume duties in ESI and South Goa district hospital. We are satisfied with the order and don’t want patient care to suffer,” GARD president Dr Pratik Savant said on Monday night following the collector’s order. Earlier in the day, the association expressed “great regret” over the “indifference” and “apathy” shown by the administration to the plight of resident doctors “once hailed as ‘Covid warriors’”, and announced they would be withdrawing their services from the Covid hospitals by 2 pm. The government failed to intervene in time despite the association appealing to the government and threatening to withdraw their services on two occasions, on October 17 and 31, when the doctors were asked to vacate their accommodation or pay for it. Despite the health minister assuring them the issue would be resolved on these two occasions, the doctors began receiving phone calls yet again on Monday from Colva residency asking them to vacate or begin paying for accommodation based on verbal communication from the collector’s office. One doctor said they have been working for months without expecting anything. “Both junior and senior residents don’t receive salaries in time,” a doctor told TOI on Monday afternoon. “Some are awaiting the salaries of June, and others of August. These haven’t been grounds for us to discontinue our services, but the accommodation issue is just unacceptable. We cannot be spending two hours in travel between shifts. It’s exhausting and not safe, especially when women doctors finish shifts at 2am.” Savant said that the doctors only withdrew services from the two Covid hospitals in Margao, and insisted it was not a strike, as the doctors reported back to their parent departments at GMC and continued work. The association has repeatedly been fighting the issue, and wanted a written assurance once for all, he said. “We cannot depend on verbal assurances,” he said. “We want clarity on the issue so that there won’t be any further issues as far as accommodation of doctors is concerned. We cannot be fighting Covid and repeatedly fighting these issues. The travel from GMC to Margao after every shift will drain our doctors out. Many have been infected and re-infected, and cannot afford to take any more risks.” “GARD is indignant at the apathy and lack of concern shown by the authorities towards our hard-working and dedicated resident doctors even with irregularities in salaries paid to us over the last five months,” GARD had said in the afternoon. “We are hoping that the authorities will find a permanent solution to this problem faced by us, and we will go back to serving the people of Goa with the same eagerness and enthusiasm.” “We have been asked by the hotel staff to pay up from today afternoon or vacate our rooms as per the verbal orders received from the collector’s office,” the association stated on Monday afternoon announcing they would be withdrawing services by 2 pm. BOX South Goa Collector and chairperson of the South Goa District disaster management authority, Margao, Ajit Roy on Monday night stated that patients didn’t suffer. “Senior consultants and DHS doctors attended to all the patients during this hours without any inconvenience to any patient,” he stated. “Some disruption in the services at Covid hospitals was reported today in the afternoon. Resident doctors had withdrawn their services demanding separate accommodation. These doctors joined their duties by the evening hours,” he stated, adding that the health department and district administration are committed to the best healthcare services in the times of Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-denies-housing-for-covid-docs-relents-after-they-pull-out/articleshow/79008838.cms||Lisa Monteiro
November 3, 2020||Pune||Vehicle registrations at RTOs hit 7-month high||Pune: Last month, the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad regional transport offices (RTOs) registered the highest number of vehicles since March. According to official data, the Pune RTO recorded a 55% month-on-month increase in registrations of all vehicles in October, while its Pimpri Chinchwad counterpart witnessed a 35% increase in the same period. “Though the current festive season has been slow when compared to the previous years, vehicle registrations were close to pre-Covid levels after a seven-month gap,” a Pune RTO official said. All RTO offices were shut when the first phase of the nationwide lockdown was imposed the end of March and had resumed work from mid-May. “We are close to the March registration figures,” the official said, adding that they expect a further uptick in numbers, provided there is no further lockdown, “People bought more cars on Dasara than last year, but the registration of other vehicles, especially public transport vehicles, needs to improve. The market has shown slow signs of revival and the only cause of concern, apart from low sales of autorickshaws and cabs, is two-wheelers,” the official added. Pune RTO figures show that around 92,000 two wheelers were registered from April to October last year, but just over 30,000 were registered during the same period this year. Representatives of two-wheeler showrooms, meanwhile, said sales have been picking up. “We see the maximum enquiries from doctors and those working in essential services, who had hitherto travelled in buses. We sold around 100 two-wheelers during Dasara, which is a good number considering the recent slowdown. The sales will pick up more once educational institutions reopen,” a senior executive of a showroom in Hadapsar said. The executive reasoned that the primary reason for poor sales was the combination of high prices and job losses/pay cuts. “We estimate a 25% drop in sales this year compared to last year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vehicle-registrations-at-rtos-hit-7-month-high/articleshow/79007689.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 3, 2020||Goa||Two decades later, a happy harvest brings smiles to Dongorim farmers||Panaji: A local initiative to revive agriculture in one of Goa’s biggest khazan tract in Dongorim bore fruit as the paddy crop sown by local farmers after a two decades gap could be harvested. “We have just harvested our fields and feel satisfied to go back to our traditions after many years,” said Milinath Shirgaonkar a local farmer from the scenic village in Azossim-Mandur panchayat. Dongorim is part of one of the state’s biggest khazan tracts with a cultivable area of about 2,000 hectares across half a dozen villages from Agasaim to Gandaulim. But a drive along the Pilar-Old Goa road on its border reveals only barren fields that once produced tonnes of rice, vegetables and other local produce. “These fields have fertile soil and we would grow chillies, onions, lady fingers, some varieties of flowers in the past, but stray animals and saline water incursion are challenges we have to face,” Janardan Nachinolkar, a local farmer said. The initiative in Dhamda khazan involving about eight farmers took shape after local politician, Ramrao Wagh; principal of Don Bosco college of agriculture, Suresh Kuncolikar and a local youth, Mahendra Shirodkar backed the efforts of these farmers with workshops and technical support. Kuncolikar submitted a report to the government where he assessed the potential to revive khazan agronomy in the form of cultivation and eco-tourism. “We can grow all traditional crops if the government supports us by fencing the area and preventing flooding of fields,” Nachinolkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-decades-later-a-happy-harvest-brings-smiles-to-dongorim-farmers/articleshow/79008843.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Goa||In Chicalim, a different kind of turtle love||PANAJI: Most animal lovers in Goa are familiar with the forest department’s conservation of Olive Ridley turtle eggs on four designated nesting sites. Now here’s a story of another smaller turtle species that will warm your heart. A local animal rescuer, Stephen Johnson, is attempting to incubate seven eggs of the Indian flap shell turtle that were found on a farm at Chicalim. “We were pleasantly surprised to see seven eggs in the water tank on the farm recently,” farm owner Rui M Costa Araujo said. Interestingly, the turtle had been rescued just over a month ago, and was being protected in the tank. “There were seven white eggs, exactly the colour, shape and size of marbles we used to play with in the past,” he said. The population of Indian flap shell turtles has shown a decline due to poaching for its meat. The handling of reptile eggs is a tricky task, as they can be easily damaged if their position or direction is changed. Araujo, who is also the chairman of Chicalim Village Biodiversity Management Committee immediately called Johnson for help. “The eggs have to be carefully picked, one at a time, and placed exactly as picked,” Johnson said. He is hopeful that they will be healthy. “It will be a challenge to handle turtle eggs, as this is my first attempt at it,” said Johnson, who has successfully incubated python, checkered keelback and common garden lizard eggs before. Villagers in Chicalim and others who know about it have lauded the animal rescuer’s effort and are now keenly awaiting good results. Goa has a modest turtle conservation programme at Morjim, Mandrem, Agonda and Galgibaga. About 40 to 50 nests are laid on an average and a few thousand hatchlings are released each season. The breeding of the bigger flippered visitors is often observed by locals and tourists, since the late 1990s. However, the breeding of smaller species, like this Indian flap shell turtle, is hardly observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-chicalim-a-different-kind-of-turtle-love/articleshow/79008842.cms||Paul Fernandes
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP assembly bypolls: Voting under way on 7 seats||LUCKNOW: Voting is under way for bypolls to crucial seven Uttar Pradesh assembly seats. Today's outcome could potentially decide the future discourse of political parties in the run up to high-stake state elections due in 2022. The seven seats where voting is taking place include Naugaon Sadat, Bulandshahr, Ghatampur, Malhani, Bangarmau, Tundla and Deoria. Except for Malhani in Jaunpur district, the remaining seats were won by the BJP in 2017 assembly elections. Riding on the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the BJP and its ideological fountain-head, the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), have already pressed in their cadre to retain the political ground won in 2017. Despite the constraints following the coronavirus pandemic, BJP pushed in its well-oiled organisational machinery in its bid to reach out to the maximum possible electorate. Party sources said the BJP initiated divisional and sector level meetings to consolidate its electoral position. The ruling party in UP, however, faces a tough challenge from the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party which would seek to regain its lost political ground. The Congress has also been seeking to find a foothold in a politically crucial state, especially after its win over BJP in states like Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. Experts said the SP would bank on the consolidation of Muslim votebank, especially after BSP chief Mayawati last week announced that she would support BJP to ensure the defeat of SP in Vidhan Parishad elections in January next year. This came after the BJP did not field an additional candidate in Rajya Sabha elections paving way for BSP candidate Ramji Gautam to Rajya Sabha despite not having adequate numbers. Mayawati retracted from her stand of supporting BJP on Monday. BJP sources told TOI that the party faces a challenge in constituencies like Bangarmau, Bulandhshahr and Naugaon Sadat which have significant number of Muslim voters. According to experts, Muslims may rally behind SP instead of getting divided among SP, BSP and the Congress which may pose a grave challenge to the BJP. Not surprisingly, BJP is banking on sympathy factor by fielding Usha Sirohi and Sangeeta Chauhan, widows of late Virendra Sirohi and late Chetan Chauhan from Bulandshahr and Naugaon Sadat, respectively. SP has also played sympathy card by fielding Lucky Yadav, son of late SP MLA Parasnath Yadav from Malhani. BSP, contrary to its tradition, has also thrown its hat in the by-elections. Experts said the party would bank on consolidation of its traditional votebank, essentially comprising Dalits and OBC. Despite Mayawati’s silence, BSP seeks to get the support of Dalits, especially after Hathras incident in which a Dalit girl was gang-raped and murdered. BSP has also been trying hard to replicate its tried and tested social engineering formula – seeking amalgamation of Dalits and upper caste – which catapulted Mayawati to power with absolute majority in 2007 assembly elections. Mayawati’s close aide and Rajya Sabha member Satish Chandra Mishra has been addressing election meetings to win over Brahmins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/battlelines-drawn-as-parties-vie-to-gain-foothold-before-2022-polls/articleshow/79009469.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 3, 2020||Salem||28 lakh cases registered for traffic violations in last 10 months in 8 districts of west zone||COIMBATORE: As many as 1,483 people have lost their lives in road accidents in eight districts of the west zone since January 2020 while 1,937 people died in the same period last year, reducing the fatality rate by 23%. So far, the eight district police in the zone have registered 28 lakh cases for traffic violations and collected Rs 8.75 crore as fine amount. The west zone has eight district police including Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Namakkal. Data available with the west zone police show that 12 people have lost their lives in Nilgiris till November 1 from January 2019. In the same period this year, 13 people have lost their lives in Nilgiris, increasing the fatality rate by 8.33%. However, fatality rates have reduced drastically in the rest of the seven districts. “We have reduced the fatality rates by 23.4% in the west zone. During the lockdown, the vehicle movements were completely restricted in the zone and the lockdown also helped to reduce the number of fatal accidents,” inspector general of police (west zone) P K Periaiah said. In Coimbatore, 360 people were killed in road accidents till November 1 from January 2020 and in the same period last year, 395 people were killed. Namakkal district has the least number of fatal accidents in the west zone. As many as 208 people lost their lives in road accidents in Namakkal district this year and 308 in the same period last year, reducing fatality rate by 32.47%. In Erode district, 116 people lost their lives this year and 171 people were killed last year, reducing the fatality rate by 32%. Periaiah said 1,0897 accidents (including fatal and non-fatal) were reported in the west zone till November 1 from January 2019. In the same period this year, 8,244 accidents were reported in the zone. “We have reduced accidents by 24% in the zone. I have instructed the inspector of police to visit the accident spot if one person died in an accident. If two or more than two people lost their lives in road mishaps, the superintendent of police and deputy superintendent of police should visit the accident spot. They will also take the state or national highways officials, respective local bodies representatives to the accident spot and will discuss how to reduce fatal accidents on particular stretches,” Periaiah said. He said police in the eight districts have registered 28.02 lakh cases for traffic violation and imposed fine of Rs 8.75 crore. Last year, 15.27 lakh cases were booked and a fine of Rs 6.46 crore was collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/28l-cases-registered-for-traffic-violations-in-last-10-months-in-8-dists-of-west-zone/articleshow/79013227.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Coimbatore||28 lakh cases registered for traffic violations in last 10 months in 8 districts of west zone||COIMBATORE: As many as 1,483 people have lost their lives in road accidents in eight districts of the west zone since January 2020 while 1,937 people died in the same period last year, reducing the fatality rate by 23%. So far, the eight district police in the zone have registered 28 lakh cases for traffic violations and collected Rs 8.75 crore as fine amount. The west zone has eight district police including Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Namakkal. Data available with the west zone police show that 12 people have lost their lives in Nilgiris till November 1 from January 2019. In the same period this year, 13 people have lost their lives in Nilgiris, increasing the fatality rate by 8.33%. However, fatality rates have reduced drastically in the rest of the seven districts. “We have reduced the fatality rates by 23.4% in the west zone. During the lockdown, the vehicle movements were completely restricted in the zone and the lockdown also helped to reduce the number of fatal accidents,” inspector general of police (west zone) P K Periaiah said. In Coimbatore, 360 people were killed in road accidents till November 1 from January 2020 and in the same period last year, 395 people were killed. Namakkal district has the least number of fatal accidents in the west zone. As many as 208 people lost their lives in road accidents in Namakkal district this year and 308 in the same period last year, reducing fatality rate by 32.47%. In Erode district, 116 people lost their lives this year and 171 people were killed last year, reducing the fatality rate by 32%. Periaiah said 1,0897 accidents (including fatal and non-fatal) were reported in the west zone till November 1 from January 2019. In the same period this year, 8,244 accidents were reported in the zone. “We have reduced accidents by 24% in the zone. I have instructed the inspector of police to visit the accident spot if one person died in an accident. If two or more than two people lost their lives in road mishaps, the superintendent of police and deputy superintendent of police should visit the accident spot. They will also take the state or national highways officials, respective local bodies representatives to the accident spot and will discuss how to reduce fatal accidents on particular stretches,” Periaiah said. He said police in the eight districts have registered 28.02 lakh cases for traffic violation and imposed fine of Rs 8.75 crore. Last year, 15.27 lakh cases were booked and a fine of Rs 6.46 crore was collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/28l-cases-registered-for-traffic-violations-in-last-10-months-in-8-dists-of-west-zone/articleshow/79007691.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand gets six more months to act against errant officials||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday gave the state government six more months to take action against the officials under whose tenure encroachments came up in the state capital. The order by the division bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath came as the state government had moved an application seeking modification of the court’s June 2018 order. In its 2018 order, the court had directed the state government to clear the city of all encroachments while also directing the chief secretary to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the officials under whose tenure the public spaces of the city were encroached upon. The court had added that a nodal agency should be constituted to supervise the proceedings initiated against the officers. However, the state government filed an extension application seeking more time to comply with the order dealing with disciplinary proceedings against officials. The government said they have asked the National Remote Sensing Centre, Hyderabad, for providing data on encroachment which will take time and therefore, they should be given at least ten months to comply with the order. On Monday, the court gave six months to the state for complying with the order. “Learned chief standing counsel submitted that efforts are being made to comply with the directions issued in para 19 (ii) of the said order. Therefore, a further period of ten months may be granted. On considering the contention, we are of the considered view that the time granted to comply with condition 19 (ii) is required to be extended by a further period of six months,” read the court order. Meanwhile, the state government also informed the court that it has cleared all but 92 encroachments from Dehradun. The chief standing counsel told the court that while 64 of the remaining structures could not be demolished because of the stay granted by court, the remaining are structures of public utility which is why they have been spared for the time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-gives-govt-6-more-months-to-take-action-against-officials-under-whose-tenure-encroachments-came-up/articleshow/79006472.cms||Prashant Jha
November 3, 2020||Agra||49 test Covid +ve in Agra, district tally 7,330||AGRA: At least 49 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 7,330. The fresh cases included one staffer of SN Medical College and one staffer of the district hospital. Besides, there were six patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three patents of influenza-like illness, three of severe acute respiratory infection, three of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 49 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 7,330 cases reported in the district, 92.9% have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases was 372. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 6,812 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/49-test-covid-ve-in-agra-district-tally-7330/articleshow/79005407.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Pune||2 gold chains worth Rs 1 lakh snatched||Pune: Two gold chains, worth over Rs1 lakh, were reported to have been snatched at Katraj-Kondhwa bypass and Bibvewadi on Sunday. In the first case, two men on a motorcycle snatched a chain worth Rs30,000 from a PCMC employee at at Katraj-Kondhwa bypass, around 5.10pm. The incident occurred when the woman and her sister were returning home after buying vegetables. In second case, two men snatched a chain worth over Rs1 lakh of a woman in Bibvewadi around 5.45pm. The women registered first infomration reports at the Bharati Vidyapeeth and Bibvewadi police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-gold-chains-worth-rs-1-lakh-snatched/articleshow/79007694.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Salem||56 theatres in Salem district getting ready to reopen||SALEM: Following the state government’s announcement to allow cinema theatres to reopen with 50% seating capacity from November 10, cleaning works have started on theatre premises in Salem, Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts. “We have nearly 146 cinema theatres in Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts,” K Elangovan, a cinema theatre owner from Salem district, said. As the theatres will be opened after seven months, complete cleaning work is going in full force. According to him, Salem district has 56 theatres while Namakkal 33, Dharmapuri 27 and Krishnagiri 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/56-theatres-in-salem-dist-getting-ready-to-reopen/articleshow/79007312.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Erode||28 lakh cases registered for traffic violations in last 10 months in 8 districts of west zone||COIMBATORE: As many as 1,483 people have lost their lives in road accidents in eight districts of the west zone since January 2020 while 1,937 people died in the same period last year, reducing the fatality rate by 23%. So far, the eight district police in the zone have registered 28 lakh cases for traffic violations and collected Rs 8.75 crore as fine amount. The west zone has eight district police including Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Namakkal. Data available with the west zone police show that 12 people have lost their lives in Nilgiris till November 1 from January 2019. In the same period this year, 13 people have lost their lives in Nilgiris, increasing the fatality rate by 8.33%. However, fatality rates have reduced drastically in the rest of the seven districts. “We have reduced the fatality rates by 23.4% in the west zone. During the lockdown, the vehicle movements were completely restricted in the zone and the lockdown also helped to reduce the number of fatal accidents,” inspector general of police (west zone) P K Periaiah said. In Coimbatore, 360 people were killed in road accidents till November 1 from January 2020 and in the same period last year, 395 people were killed. Namakkal district has the least number of fatal accidents in the west zone. As many as 208 people lost their lives in road accidents in Namakkal district this year and 308 in the same period last year, reducing fatality rate by 32.47%. In Erode district, 116 people lost their lives this year and 171 people were killed last year, reducing the fatality rate by 32%. Periaiah said 1,0897 accidents (including fatal and non-fatal) were reported in the west zone till November 1 from January 2019. In the same period this year, 8,244 accidents were reported in the zone. “We have reduced accidents by 24% in the zone. I have instructed the inspector of police to visit the accident spot if one person died in an accident. If two or more than two people lost their lives in road mishaps, the superintendent of police and deputy superintendent of police should visit the accident spot. They will also take the state or national highways officials, respective local bodies representatives to the accident spot and will discuss how to reduce fatal accidents on particular stretches,” Periaiah said. He said police in the eight districts have registered 28.02 lakh cases for traffic violation and imposed fine of Rs 8.75 crore. Last year, 15.27 lakh cases were booked and a fine of Rs 6.46 crore was collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/28l-cases-registered-for-traffic-violations-in-last-10-months-in-8-dists-of-west-zone/articleshow/79013226.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Satellite campus of NIT closes in Jaipur||DEHRADUN: The satellite campus of NIT Uttarakhand that was operating from Jaipur has now been closed and professors present at the Jaipur campus have been shifted to NIT Srinagar. A staff strength of around 35, including professors and support staff, which was stationed at the Jaipur satellite campus has now been recalled. On Monday, the professors also started conducting online classes for students. “Some students were shifted to NIT Jaipur after the Union ministry’s order. The step was taken as there weren't much facilities in the Srinagar campus for a large number of students. Now, in the wake of Covid-19, most of the students are at their homes and a large number of our students which were in the final year have now passed out. Therefore, there is currently room for the faculty and staff members in the Srinagar campus which was operating from Jaipur. Now all of them have settled down here in Srinagar. As far as students are concerned, they are currently at their homes and we expect that by the time they return, a new accommodation facility will be constructed,” said Dharmendra Tripathi, assistant professor and acting registrar of NIT Srinagar. Notably, the NIT Srinagar students had protested against the lack of facilities in 2018 due to which the Central government had shifted the then students of I, II, and III year to the NIT Jaipur. Subsequently, the foundation of a new campus of the institute was laid at Sumari in Pauri Garhwal. The construction work of the building is currently underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nit-ukhand-satellite-campus-shuts-down-in-jaipur-online-classes-begin/articleshow/79006491.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 3, 2020||Goa||South Western Railway’s double-tracking paused as thousands throng Chandor||MARGAO: Thousands of protesters from across the state who converged at Chandor late Sunday night to participate in the midnight protest against South Western Railway’s (SWR) track doubling project sniffed first signs of victory when the Railways, in what is seen as a strategic move, made no attempt to start the scheduled work. The South Goa collector had given permission to SWR to close the level crossing from midnight to 5am on November 2 to facilitate the work. Large number of protesters squatted on the railway tracks just before midnight and refused to budge despite repeated pleas by senior police officials. SP Pankaj Kumar Singh was personally monitoring the volatile situation at the site. Tension rent the air on several occasions when tempers frayed, but law enforcing authorities observed restraint and prevented any flare-up. Deputy collector Jyoti Kumari who arrived at the scene of the protest well after midnight attempted to strike a dialogue with the protesters to persuade them to disperse from the tracks, but they would have none of it. “Let the collector first withdraw the permission,” was the protesters’ refrain every time Kumari began to engage with them. Action later shifted to the Chandor police outpost, meters away from the railway tracks, where Kumari retreated after failed attempts to make protesters see reason. A section of the protesters had laid siege to the police outpost for several hours, demanding that Kumari come out and answer their queries – a demand that she didn’t oblige. Attempts by political parties to derive mileage from the agitation antagonised the organisers who asked them, in no uncertain terms, “to join the protests as a pure Goemkar” discarding their party flags and scarves. An altercation ensued for a brief while when protesters blamed the MLAs for bringing them on the streets at midnight. Margao MLA Digambar Kamat, Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai, Curtorim MLA Alexio Reginaldo Laurenco were the opposition MLAs spotted in the crowd with their supporters. The protesters finally dispersed at 5am but with a firm resolve to intensify their stir. The scale of Sunday’s midnight agitation was of the kind that has not been seen in recent times, sources said. SWR is scheduled to close the level crossing at Davorlim on November 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swrs-double-tracking-paused-as-thousands-throng-chandor/articleshow/79008851.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||L&T to bag Ahmedabad-Vadodara bullet train corridor work||AHMEDABAD: With Larsen and Toubro once again emerging as the lowest bidder for the Ahmedabad-Vadodara section of the bullet train project, the company is almost certain to bag the contract for construction of the corridor section. On Monday, L&T was the lowest bidder at Rs 7,289 crores for the C6 package of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail Project. The government opened the financial bids on Monday. The Ahmedabad-Vadodara contract, which is also for elevated corridor, involves the design and construction of civil and building works including testing and commissioning for Double Line High Speed Railway involving 87.5km of viaducts and bridges, 25 crossing bridges and a tunnel, 97.5km of roads, one station, a maintenance depot, 4 sub-maintenance depots, and other associated structures. The project is being financed by JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency). The other bidders for this package were the consortiums, Tata Projects-J Kumar Infrastructure Projects Ltd-NCC Ltd. and AFCONS Infrastructure Ltd.-Ircon International-JMC Projects. Earlier on October 20, L&T had offered to execute construction of the 237km corridor at Rs 24,985 crore, emerging as lowest bidder for India's largest infra project. The NHSRCL has already awarded work for 237km of viaduct between Vapi and Vadodara in Gujarat including 4 elevated stations namely Vapi, Billimora, Surat and Bharuch and one Train depot at Surat. With this the NHRSCL has completed awarding the contracts for the major part of the project within Gujarat. Officials said that the NHSRCL, the nodal agency implementing the 508km corridor, will award the contract to L&T soon even for the Ahmedabad-Vadodara section and has set a deadline of 48 months for the work from the date of issue of work order. NHSRCL officials say nearly 83% of land acquisition has been completed for the project. While most of the land needed in Gujarat has been acquired, about 23% has been obtained in Maharashtra. A major portion of the project, 349km of the total 508km falls in Gujarat. Delay in land acquisition in Maharashtra and the Covid pandemic have impacted schedules. The railway board hopes the high speed train route to be operational in Gujarat first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lt-to-bag-abad-vadodara-bullet-train-corridor-work/articleshow/79007721.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||200 allowed at weddings now||Ahmedabad: In a relief to couples who are about to marry, the state government on Monday announced an increase in the cap on guests permitted at weddings. Against a maximum of 100 persons earlier, one can now have 200 persons at a wedding. According to state government officials, social distancing and wearing of masks will be mandatory at weddings henceforth. For indoor venues, only 50% of the venue capacity can be present. People feel the announcement should have been made at least a month ago, because weddings are planned affairs. “The venue has already been booked and I don’t think I will be expanding my guest list now and will limit it to 100 only. I may have including a few more people if the announcement had been made earlier,” said Ayyan Karmakar, a business development officer for a private company who is set to tie the knot in December. The decision, which comes into force on November 3, will benefit the event management sector along with hoteliers, caterers, and banquet hall owners, and boost the retail sector. Several representations were made by industry associations seeking a higher cap on wedding guests. “The state government decision will benefit the hotels and events industry. Branded hotels are being largely preferred as venues for weddings given the safety measures in force. We already have had a good number of inquiries for weddings and we can now cater to more guests. This will not just add to our revenues but also enable us to offer a more elaborate experience to our guests,” said Vivek Sharma, general manager, Renaissance Ahmedabad Hotel. The Hotels and Restaurants Association (HRA), Gujarat, had also made a representation to the chief minister seeking to a higher cap on wedding guests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/200-allowed-at-weddings-now/articleshow/79008952.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Goa||Teachers condemn curtailing of vacation||Panaji: All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association (AGSSTA) on Monday expressed its displeasure and dissatisfaction over the curtailing of Diwali and Christmas vacations for schools for the academic year 2020-21. In a memorandum submitted to the director of education Santosh Amonkar, they said that the circular is discriminatory only to them, as government staff, including those working at the directorate of education (DoE), continue to enjoy earned and sick leave facilities. “No leave of any other employee or any government employee, including the office of DoE has been curtailed to date. This injustice is inflicted only on teachers. The discrimination of teachers by DoE has sent a wrong message to the teaching community. We earnestly request you to credit earned leave for teachers equal to the number of vacation days curtailed,” the teachers told the director. If the earned leave is not credited, teachers should either be allowed to work from home till the reopening of schools or the entire vacation period should be cancelled and the leave rules applicable to other employees should be extended to teachers, AGSSTA told Amonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-condemn-curtailing-of-vacation/articleshow/79008849.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Will quit politics but won’t join hands with BJP, says Mayawati||LUCKNOW: Days after claiming that she would support BJP or any other party to defeat Samajwadi Party, BSP president Mayawati on Monday sought to assure the minority community that she would retire from politics but would not support the saffron party due to ideological differences. Alleging that her statement has been twisted by SP and Congress to damage her party’s prospects in byelections, Mayawati said her agenda was to ensure that SP did not win a second seat in legislative council election, and for that, she would support BJP or any other party. “SP and Congress are playing up this statement so that Muslims don’t vote for us in bypolls. However, they will fail in this attempt as Muslims know that in special circumstances when we had to tie-up with BJP to form a government, we did not compromise with our ideology,” she said. Citing examples of the times when her party stood in support of Muslims while being in power with BJP’s support, Mayawati said, “In 1995, when we formed government for the first time, we thwarted the attempts of BJP and RSS to start a new practice in Mathura Eidgah. In 2003, when BJP pushed for an alliance with us for Lok Sabha election, I refused saying that BSP’s philosophy was totally different from BJP.” She said BJP tried to put pressure on her by unleashing CBI against her and added that when Congress came to power, Sonia Gandhi called her to discuss the issue. “However, Congress went a step ahead of BJP and never took back the case. I was forced to turn to the Supreme Court,” Mayawati said. “Others run after power but BSP never compromises on ideals. Whenever we have formed government with BJP, it has always been on our terms. BJP is a communal and narrow-minded party which we cannot support,” she said. “Main swabhimani hoon, mazboot hoon, dabne wali nahin hoon (However, I have self-respect, I am strong and won’t be cowed down.) I will fight communal and capitalist forces at every step,” the BSP chief added. She said no communal riot took place during her four terms as chief minister but both SP and Congress strengthened BJP. “BJP is in power now only because of SP. We have always taken care of Muslims and given them participation. In bypolls too, two out of seven BSP candidates are Muslims,” she said. Mayawati added that in 1995, when people were sick of the deteriorating law and order under the SP government, BJP and Congress, offered support to her. “BSP’s partnership with BJP materialised because some decisions have to be taken for public good,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/will-quit-politics-but-wont-join-hands-with-bjp-maya/articleshow/79009476.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 3, 2020||Meerut||Makeshift temple catches fire, cops suspect caretaker||MEERUT: A makeshift temple in Bulandshahr's Khurja road caught fire on Sunday night. Two idols were also damaged. Alerted, police immediately replaced the idols to prevent any untoward incident in the area. "Based on the claims of the caretaker sadhu, an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC was registered against unidentified persons at the local police station," a Bulandshahr police officer said. However, after scanning CCTV footage in the area, police believe that the caretaker sadhu could be behind the arson and desecration of the idols with a motive to frame rivals. Police have traced the temple's real owner, who was outstation, and handed over the charge to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/makeshift-temple-catches-fire-cops-suspect-caretaker/articleshow/79006488.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Srinagar||Uttarakhand: Satellite campus of NIT closes in Jaipur||DEHRADUN: The satellite campus of NIT Uttarakhand that was operating from Jaipur has now been closed and professors present at the Jaipur campus have been shifted to NIT Srinagar. A staff strength of around 35, including professors and support staff, which was stationed at the Jaipur satellite campus has now been recalled. On Monday, the professors also started conducting online classes for students. “Some students were shifted to NIT Jaipur after the Union ministry’s order. The step was taken as there weren't much facilities in the Srinagar campus for a large number of students. Now, in the wake of Covid-19, most of the students are at their homes and a large number of our students which were in the final year have now passed out. Therefore, there is currently room for the faculty and staff members in the Srinagar campus which was operating from Jaipur. Now all of them have settled down here in Srinagar. As far as students are concerned, they are currently at their homes and we expect that by the time they return, a new accommodation facility will be constructed,” said Dharmendra Tripathi, assistant professor and acting registrar of NIT Srinagar. Notably, the NIT Srinagar students had protested against the lack of facilities in 2018 due to which the Central government had shifted the then students of I, II, and III year to the NIT Jaipur. Subsequently, the foundation of a new campus of the institute was laid at Sumari in Pauri Garhwal. The construction work of the building is currently underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/nit-ukhand-satellite-campus-shuts-down-in-jaipur-online-classes-begin/articleshow/79018076.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 3, 2020||Pune||ATAL buses to ply on more routes||Pune: Encouraged by the response from commuters, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has decided to add more routes to its ATAL bus service launched a week ago. “We have identified around 40 new routes on which the buses will ply. This feeder service needs to run continuously so that people become used to it and it will pave the way for feeder bus service the PMPML will provide once the Pune Metro starts functioning,” a senior official of the transport body said. The service was started with 97 buses on five routes located in the core areas of the city in addition to routes on the outskirts. The buses ply a distance of 5km, with passengers having to pay Rs5 as fare. Addition of new routes will also lead to an increase in the number of buses. “Last weekend, more than 60,000 passengers used the services of midi buses, which are deployed for the service. We earned a revenue of around Rs2 crore from them,” PMPML chairman-cum-managing director Rajendra Jagtap said. Around 24,000 commuters used the service in the core city areas and another 16,000 on the outskirts. “The good thing about the service is that buses are available at every five minutes. “The PMPML should take steps to increase ridership. This service is good and will become more popular with proper timings,” Rupesh Dixit, a regular commuter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/atal-buses-to-ply-on-more-routes/articleshow/79007701.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 3, 2020||Goa||Centre releases second tranche of compensation||Panaji: Continuing the process to transfer funds through the special window for states to meet the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess shortfall, the Centre on Monday released the second tranche of Rs 6,000 crore to 16 states, including Goa, and two Union Territories. The funds, the second back-to-back transfer by the Centre has been raised at an interest of 4.42%, much lower than the cost of borrowing, if the states had to borrow the same amount. Goa, which is facing close to 50% shortfall in GST collections in the current financial year, is owed Rs 1,018 crore as GST compensation. The first tranche of funds to meet this gap was released on October 23. The second tranche of funds comes just a day after the Union ministry of finance reported that GST collections had crossed the Rs 1 lakh crore mark for the first time in eight months in October. “This amount will be passed on to the states and Union Territories at the same interest rate, which is lower than the cost of borrowings for the states and UTs, thus benefiting them. The ministry of finance has facilitated loans of Rs 12,000 crore till date under the special window,” the union ministry said in a statement. While 21 states and three Union Territories have opted for the special window offered by the Centre under Option I, the remaining have yet to take a decision. The gross GST revenue collected in the month of October is Rs 1,05,155 crore, of which CGST is Rs 19,193 crore, SGST is Rs 25,411 crore and IGST is Rs 52,540 crore. IGST includes the Rs 23,375 crore collected on import of goods. The Centre also collected Rs 8,011 crore through cess levied on luxury and sin goods, including Rs 932 crore collected on import of goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-releases-second-tranche-of-compensation/articleshow/79008853.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Goa||Safeguard local interests in rail project: Michael Lobo||PANAJI: Science and technology minister Michael Lobo met CM Pramod Sawant on Monday and opposed the South Western Railway’s double-tracking project. Lobo told TOI that he told the CM that the government needs to do whatever is necessary to safeguard the interest of locals. “The chief minister will take a decision in the interest of the people. Locals have come out in opposition of the project and we have to stay with the people,” the Calangute MLA said. He added that the voice of the people can’t be silenced and that their voice is that of the government. Lobo also demanded that the IIT-Goa campus be shifted out of Melaulim in Sattari as the people don’t want it there. “The chief minister will take an appropriate decision at the right time,” he said. Stating that Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar and BJP state president Sadanand Tanavade also want the site of the IIT-Goa campus to be changed, the Calangute MLA told reporters that he supports Tendulkar, who has called for the campus to be shifted to Farmagudi in Ponda. Tanavade, however, told TOI that he has never asked for relocation of the IIT from Sattari. “It is up to the government to take a decision on it,” he said. Speaking on Sunburn, Lobo said that the government has given conditional approval to the organisers for the festival to be held in December at Vagator. “If Covid-19 positive cases continue to increase in the state, the government will not allow it,” he said. Stating that Goa needs tourists, Lobo said, “I’m not against Sunburn. In fact, I am the first one to say that something like Sunburn is required. But we also don’t want to have to close down tourism because of one Sunburn,” he said. On Sunday, tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar had said that the state government has granted “in-principle” approval to the Sunburn electronic dance music (EDM) festival. The move immediately sparked severe criticism on social media as the decision came just days after GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar, and several other doctors warned, against taking the Covid-19 situation lightly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/safeguard-local-interests-in-rail-project-lobo/articleshow/79008885.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Congress retains top posts in Ullal City Municipal Council||MANGALURU: Chithrakala Chandrakanth and Ayub Manchila from the Congress have been elected as the president and vice-president of the Ullal City Municipal Council.  to Ullal CMC, which has been a Congress bastion for three decades, was held on August 31, 2018. Out of the 31 wards, Congress had bagged 13 seats, BJP and SDPI had won six seats each, JD(S) secured four and independent candidates won two seats. However, election to the posts of president and vice-president were not conducted due to litigations regarding reservations. As per a court direction, the post of president was reserved for general woman category and vice-president’s post for general category. Assistant commissioner Ravichandra Nayak conducted the process of the election held on Monday. Congress bagged a majority with the support of 13 elected members of the party, Mangaluru MLA UT Khader and an independent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/congress-retains-top-posts-in-ullal-cmc/articleshow/79006175.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Manjamma Jogati’s autobiography set for Diwali release||HUBBALLI: Manjamma Jogati, a transgender of Jogamma heritage and first transwoman president of Karnataka Janapada Academy, has authored ‘Naduve Suliva Hennu’, her autobiography. Manjamma is the first transgender to write an autobiography in Kannada. The book is expected to be released by Diwali. Speaking to TOI, Jogati said she is eagerly awaiting the release of her autobiography. “Seeing the responses on social media I am happy that my life is an open book. However, I am also curious and apprehensive on how readers will react to my book,” she added. Karnataka Folklore University had released her autobiography in 2014. “However, it was not comprehensive. The varsity’s students had interacted with me for 4 hours and had brought it in the form of books. But this autobiography is different. It is narrated by Arun Joladkudligi, a post-doctoral fellow at Kannada University Hampi, who has been interacting with me for the pst 15-odd years,” she explains. Unknown circles of life Baraguru Ramachandrappa, veteran Kannada writer and film director, who has written the preface says the book is an effort at unveiling unknown circles of life. “Manjamma represents a social and cultural circle, which is still unknown to commoners. This book can also be seen from linguistic and folklore aspects as it’s narrated in the local dialect of Jogati,” he commented. Narrator Joladkudligi says there are two translated autobiographies of transgenders in Kannada; and lives of transgenders are recorded in the form of project reports and these have showcased Hijra tradition of trans community. “However, Mangamma’s autobiography is a narration of life of Jogatis of North Karnataka and Yellamma cult of Shakta tradition,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/jogatis-autobiography-set-for-diwali-release/articleshow/79006596.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Online campaign calls for renaming of Mangaluru International Airport after Koti-Chennaya||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai has kicked off an online campaign with a demand to rename Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) after the legendary twin Tuluva heroes —Koti and Chennaya. Residents from the coast have been active on WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and other social media platforms pushing their demand to rename the airport after the twin heroes of Tulunadu. The airport was recently handed over to Adani Airports for its maintenance as per a decision taken by the Union cabinet in July 2019. Consequently, on October 31, the Adani Group took over the management of MIA. Congress leader Mithun Rai @TheMithunRai tweeted soon after the airport was handed over – “Mr @gautam_adani, since you are the decision making authority now for the Mangaluru International Airport, instead of changing to Adani Airports, we the citizens of Mangaluru humbly request you to change it to KOTI CHENNAYA International Airport. #AdaniTakesOverMangaluruAirport (SIC)”. While many have backed Rai by retweeting and replying to his tweet, some also have opposed the views and want the airport to be named as Tulunadu International Airport or Mangaladevi International Airport. Meanwhile, Ranjith @ranjithshetty98 in reply to Rai’s tweet wrote: “Dear ‘Tulunadu International Airport’ will be more appropriate. It helps us to identify ourselves as Tuluvas in the outside world.” However, DYFI state president Muneer Katipalla told TOI that “the airport has already been handed over to Adani Group for 50 years. There is no point in raising a demand now to rename the airport after Koti – Chennaya, Kudmul Ranga Rao (social reformer) or Deyi Baidethi (mother of Koti – Chennaya).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/online-campaign-calls-for-renaming-of-mia-after-koti-chennaya/articleshow/79006236.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: After sale of 1,000 ventilators, inventory begins to pile up||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat-based Max Ventilators, a part of AB Industries, has posted the record sales of 1,000 ICU ventilators ever since the Covid-19 outbreak in the country in March. However, as number of cases decline and medical fraternity gets a grip on the disease treatment, the company is facing a dry spell leading to inventory pile up as it awaits confirmed orders from customers. Max Ventilators, head-quartered in Vadodara, is among the top three ventilator companies of the country and had ramped up its manufacturing capacity from 30 ventilators per month to 1,000 ventilators a month. For this, the company entered into a strategic tie-up with MG Motors and set up a new facility at Vadodara. This facility presently houses 300 ready-to-use ventilators that are lying unsold due to the lack of firm orders. Max’ strategic tie-up with Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) for manufacturing another 1,500 ventilators per month at Bhopal is yet to take off as there are no takers. But the company expects a revival in their sales very soon. This is especially after a team from the Centre recently visited their facility at Vadodara to see their preparedness in dealing with a fresh spike in Covid-19 cases. “A second wave is anticipated in the winters, maybe in December. Take the case of Delhi where everyone thought that the Covid-19 cases were on a decline but suddenly there was a spurt in the numbers. A similar situation cannot be ruled out in other places soon,” said Ashok Patel, founder and managing director of the company. “Parts of Europe are also experiencing a similar trend where there is a fresh spike in Covid-19 cases,” said Patel, an IT Chennai alumnus who founded the company in 1992. The company has assured the Centre that they are ready to roll out 1,000 ventilators a month from their Vadodara facility, according to Patel. “The bottleneck for further ramp-up is the testing capacity of the facility,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-sale-of-1k-ventilators-inventory-begins-to-pile-up/articleshow/79008955.cms||Maulik Pathak
November 3, 2020||Goa||Vacationers drive down to Goa, opt for private villas with pools to usher in festivities||Not many international destinations are open for travel in this pandemic, so domestic holiday spots this Diwali are high on the tourists’ radar, and Goa tops the list. The pandemic has caused a surge in demand for private villas vis-à-vis hotels as well as car travel in comparison to flights this season, tour companies have told TOI. Nikhil Thakurdas, owner of Odyssey Tours and Travels, told TOI, “Private villas in Goa provide an option of a private pool to the guests, while swimming pools in hotels are still closed for public. In addition, private villas are more popular than hotels this season because tourists have the property to themselves, which is what many are looking for considering the Covid-19 situation.” He added that last year, the preference was more for hotels, while this Diwali, private villas are the sought-after stay option. Thakurdas said couples and multi-generation families are planning trips to Goa for Diwali. “People are preferring personal cars more than ever as they don’t want to risk taking their parents and children by air,” he said. The company has about 10-12 queries at various stages of confirmation for Goa. Most queries are for the week after Diwali though a few queries are for the next week too. “The 20-30% lower hotel room rates than same period last year in Goa has also given an additional push to bookings for the destination from tourists who prefer hotel stay,” Thakurdas said. Santosh Gupta, owner of Shree Vinayak Holidays, told TOI with no direct flights from Pune to Goa after Lohegaon airport shut during the night, travellers are planning to head to Goa in their own cars, which is cheaper than a flight booking. “There are currently only flights with one or more layovers from Pune to Goa. A group of four people can take a two-way Goa trip at about Rs 10,000 in their own car as against a one-way flight booking priced at over Rs 4,000-plus per person, which takes almost six hours from Pune to Goa due to a layover in Hyderabad,” he said. There was a direct flight from Pune to Goa at 8pm before the airport operations were restricted within a time-frame. The Lohegaon airport now only operates flights between 8am and 8pm. Gupta added that he has nine people travelling to Goa this Diwali period for leisure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vacationers-drive-down-to-goa-opt-for-private-villas-with-pools-to-usher-in-festivities/articleshow/79008861.cms||Neha Madaan
November 3, 2020||Goa||CM, youth and coffee pe charcha||Panaji: Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that he intends to reach out to the youth of the state to address issues faced by them for which he will hold a ‘Coffee with Chief Minister’ programme in every taluka. “I will go to each and every taluka,” he said, adding that this government was for the youth, farmers and common man. Sawant said that his the government will create around 10,000 jobs in the coming year, advertisements for which will be released from January 2021. Former WRD minister Dayanand Mandrekar’s son Samir was appointed president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM). BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that the 2022 assembly election is a challenge for the party. He said that the opposition is creating various issues in view of the polls and expressed confidence that people will stand firmly behind BJP and bring it back to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-youth-and-coffee-pe-charcha/articleshow/79008868.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Criminal in net on murder bid charge||PUNE: The Yerawada police on Sunday arrested a criminal and booked two of his friends on the charge of attempting to murder a handcart operator and his employee in the afternoon. Albert Reddy (29), the handcart operator, sustained injuries on his abdomen and neck. His employee, Tushar Ukirde, suffered injuries on his left hand. Senior inspector Yunus Shaikh from Yerawada police said on Monday, “The suspect, Jai Sunil Anthony, and his two accomplices reached there and argued with Reddy’s employees and assaulted Ukirde.” Reddy, chased by the suspects, tried to flee, but was caught and brutally assaulted. Police investigated the incident and later took nabbed Anthony and launched a hunt for his accomplices, Shaikh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-in-net-on-murder-bid-charge/articleshow/79007709.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Centre’s price for our crop unfair, say cane growers||MYSURU: Sugarcane growers under the banner of Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers Association staged a protest on Monday urging the government to provide higher price for sugar cane. They shouted slogans against sugar minister Shivaram Hebbar, the district minister and the state and Union governments for turning a deaf ear to their demands. They said the fair and remunerative price (FRP) fixed by the centre of Rs 2,850 per tonne was not adequate and didn’t even cover the input cost. They wanted the state government to announce a state advisory price (SAP) of at least Rs 350 more per tonne of sugarcane along with Rs 200 incentive per tonne, over and above the FRP. Association chief Kurubur Shanthakumar said that though a dozen sugarcane research institutes had said the production cost for one tonne of sugarcane was around Rs 3050, the governments had fixed the FRP at Rs 2,850 per tonne, much against their demand of Rs 3,300 per tonne. “As the cost of fertilizer, manure, labour and production has increased, growers had been suffering losses. Yet, the governments are not ready to offer better prices,” he said. He condemned the state government for its discriminatory decision of distributing Rs 25,000 flood relief to residents affected in Bengaluru rains eyeing bypolls to state assembly but not offering any help for flood victims of 189 villages in North Karnataka. Earlier, the protesters were involved in a verbal clash with police for not allowing them to protest near the main entrance of the DC office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/centres-price-for-our-crop-unfair-say-cane-growers/articleshow/79004496.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Pune||Municipal flea markets on the cards to promote reuse||Pune: The civic administration will provide space for setting up of flea markets selling segregated used goods across its limits in a bid to raise awareness about recycling and sustainable lifestyle. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will allot space to the non-governmental organisations working in the field of solid waste management. According to the proposal tabled before the women and child welfare committee, who had drafted the project, the administration will identify 15 places across the municipal areas — one each under every ward office. The selected NGOs will segregate the collected products and sell them at these spots. PMC officials said the flea markets would have items of daily needs, including garments and electronic gadgets, on sale. “Lockdown has shown us the importance of a minimalistic lifestyle. Sustainable lifestyle can be promoted by recycling and reusing the items,” Madhuri Sahastrabuddhe, chairman of women and child welfare committee, said.Sahastrabuddhe stated that a collection drive carried out in Prabhat Road areas last week saw participation from around 275 families. “The collected material will be segregated and sold. The cost of these products will range from Rs5 to Rs25,” she added. A PMC official said the quality of the products would be checked. “Damaged items would be discarded,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/municipal-flea-markets-on-the-cards-to-promote-reuse/articleshow/79007727.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Pune||Vacationers take festive celebrations to Goa||Pune: Not many international destinations are open for travel in this pandemic, so domestic holiday spots this Diwali are high on the tourists’ radar, and Goa tops the list. The pandemic has caused a surge in demand for private villas vis-à-vis hotels as well as car travel in comparison to flights this season, tour companies have told TOI. Nikhil Thakurdas, owner of Odyssey Tours and Travels, said, “Private villas in Goa provide an option of a private pool to the guests, while swimming pools in hotels are still closed for public. In addition, private villas are more popular than hotels this season because tourists have the property to themselves, which is what many are looking for considering the Covid-19 situation.” He added that last year, the preference was more for hotels, while this Diwali, private villas are the sought-after stay option. Thakurdas said couples and multi-generation families are planning trips to Goa for Diwali. “People are preferring personal cars more than ever as they don’t want to risk taking their parents and children by air,” he said. The company has about 10-12 queries at various stages of confirmation for Goa. Most queries are for the week after Diwali though a few queries are for the next week too. “The 20-30% lower hotel room rates than same period last year in Goa has also given an additional push to bookings for the destination from tourists who prefer hotel stay,” he said. Santosh Gupta, owner of Shree Vinayak Holidays, told TOI with no direct flights from Pune to Goa after Lohegaon airport shut during the night, travellers are planning to head to Goa in their own cars, which is cheaper than a flight booking. “There are currently only flights with one or more layovers from Pune to Goa. A group of four people can take a two-way Goa trip for Rs 10,000 in their own car as against a one-way flight booking priced at over Rs 4,000-plus per person, which takes almost six hours from Pune to Goa due to a layover in Hyderabad,” he said. There was a direct flight from Pune to Goa at 8pm before the airport operations were restricted within a time-frame to raciolitate runway recarpeting. The Lohegaon airport now only operates flights between 8am and 8pm. Gupta added that he has nine people travelling to Goa this Diwali period for leisure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vacationers-take-festive-celebrations-to-goa/articleshow/79007763.cms||Neha Madaan
November 3, 2020||Goa||Taxi, bus operators question ISL using ‘non-local’ vehicles||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday had to intervene after taxi and bus operators threatened to take “legal action” against the organisers of Indian Super League (ISL) engaging buses and taxis from outside the state to ferry their teams and personnel. A delegation of taxi and bus owners met the chief minister to discuss the issue. The league kicks off on November 20 in Goa. Minister of waste management Michael Lobo told TOI that there has been less business for taxi and bus operators in the state due to the ongoing Covid pandemic. “ISL teams have come to Goa and have engaged yellow number-plated vehicles such as taxis and buses which are registered outside the state. If they have only come to drop ISL teams to Goa then it is OK. ISL teams should engage local taxis and buses to ferry teams and personnel from their hotels to the grounds and vice-versa,” he said. Lobo also said that ISL teams can hire local taxi and buses at the same price they are paying to taxis and buses hired from outside the state. “It is totally illegal for those vehicles to ply within Goa. We have different types of our own transport vehicles in Goa,” Lobo said adding that locals should get the business. “This is our demand,” he said. “The chief minister has directed the director of transport to hold a meeting and call ISL teams as well as taxi and bus operators’ delegation to solve the issue,” he said. Lobo said ISL teams arrived in the state with hired vehicles and were using these in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/taxi-bus-operators-question-isl-using-non-local-vehicles/articleshow/79008892.cms||Murari Shetye
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s GST revenue up 34% in October||AHMEDABAD: In what may signal a revival of demand and manufacturing and commercial activities in the state, Gujarat’s revenue through goods and services tax (GST) grew by 34% in October this year against the same month in 2019. Figures provided by the state commercial tax department suggest that Gujarat received Rs 2,733 crore in revenue through state GST and integrated GST in October 2020, up Rs 696 crore from Rs 2,037 crore in the same month last year. With this, October became the month with the highest state revenue of the current financial year i.e. 2020-21. State government officials attribute the growth in tax collection to the revival of demand due to the festive season. “Thanks to the festival season, there was a boost in demand across sectors. This will have a cascading effect on the state’s manufacturing sector as well, spuring economic activities, which drove the growth in tax collection,” said J P Gupta, state commercial tax commissioner. “A better crop season also boosted demand across the state,” he added. Total GST collection from Gujarat also showed growth. According to data furnished by the Union ministry of finance, GST collection was Rs 6,787 crore in October 2020, up 15% against Rs 5,888 crore in the same month last year. With this, Gujarat registered the third highest growth among the manufacturing-heavy states of India in tax collection. The state was only behind Andhra Pradesh which clocked a GST collection of Rs 2,480 crore with 26% growth year-on-year and Haryana which clocked Rs 5,433 crore at 19% growth. Interestingly, in absolute terms, Gujarat’s tax collection growth was the highest among manufacturing states at Rs 899 crore for the month of October. This September, Gujarat’s tax collection stood at Rs 6,090 crore, when the state clocked 6% growth against September 2019. This means tax collection grew by 11.5% month-on-month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-gst-revenue-up-34-in-october/articleshow/79007793.cms||Niyati Parikh
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Teething troubles for seaplane service?||AHMEDABAD: Yash Solanki, a resident of the city, was thrilled when he and a friend boarded the seaplane from the Sabarmati riverfront early on Monday morning. His excitement soon fizzled out as he landed at Kevadia, only to find that the Statue of Unity – the world’s tallest statue — was closed. “We had nothing to do because SoU was closed. I was to return from Kevadia via the flight at 12.30pm, but it got delayed to 3.15pm,” said Solanki, who landed at the Sabarmati riverfront at 4.15pm on Monday. After making a splash at its inauguration on October 31, the country’s first seaplane service seems to be facing teething troubles. The service was opened for passenger travel from Sunday. However, the first trip from Ahmedabad to Kevadia on Sunday morning, saw just six passengers aboard the aircraft that can accommodate 15. The airline spokesperson said, “The flight from Kevadia was delayed as the monument was closed for the day. Passengers wanted to return after spending time at the monument. Traffic is bound to rise in the coming days as we will be operating two flights from tomorrow. On November 3, we have full flights and are running two round trips.” Only one round-trip was made on Sunday and Monday, instead of two announced by SpiceJet. The airline spokesperson said, “Seaplane flight operations are non-scheduled flight operations and are completely dependent on passenger demand and bookings. Since the Statue of Unity was closed on Monday, SpiceShuttle operated only one return flight.” This is despite a heavy rush for bookings. The airline confirmed that its website is currently accepting requests and more than 3,000 such booking requests were received. “These booking requests are for various dates and days, for example during the period of Diwali a huge number of requests have been received and our backed teams are processing these and trying to accommodate as many as we can,” said the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teething-troubles-for-seaplane-service/articleshow/79008961.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||NU holds re-exam for 11 courses at one go, denies data went missing||NAGPUR: The Nagpur University (NU) is holding re-exam for 11 courses involving several subjects on Monday and Tuesday as the data regarding these examinees have allegedly gone missing. As if this were not enough, the university has scheduled all the re-exams in one day. Hence, many students would need to appear in all the three shifts back to back starting from 8am. Though the university had been claiming it has been smoothly holding online exams for more than 95% students, the rescheduling lays bare its tall claims. The NU top brass is tight lipped about the rescheduling. Officially, the exam section officials claim the reschedule was for those who had been unable to appear in the online exam due to different reasons. Some colleges told TOI they have been asked to inform all students to appear in the exam. The NU hasn't put up this in its official communication through circulars for public. When TOI sent these queries to director of examination and evaluation Prafulla Sabale, he denied that any data has gone missing. Instead, he blamed the students and their devices for the lapse in submission of online papers during the regular schedule last month. On holding all exams for same course together, Sabale said the attendance was expected to be very low. “Hardly 50 students in all the subjects are appearing. So there was no need to delay the exams further,” he said. Explaining the missing papers submitted by students, Sabale said, “Data is not missing. Many students didn’t properly synch the paper. We found papers were not synched with university server. These students have been asked to reappear.” He also gave an example of a student who came to the exam section with his cell phone complaining about problem in paper submission. “When we checked none of his papers had been submitted in the sever. There are many such students. We don’t want any student to miss the exams,” he said. Sabale said if the paper is held without any disruption, it gets automatically synched in schedule time. If it did not happen, it indicates the students kept on solving the paper for more than the stipulated time. Colleges leaked files: Exam director NU Director of examination Prafulla Sabale on Monday said the alleged data leak was not from the university side but from the colleges. “It can’t be called data leak as principals had mailed the information to the students,” he said. Amid allegations of the leakage from university side, Sabale challenged anyone to prove the misdoing was done by any of the exam officials. He accused “some student activists” of leaking the data and making a propaganda. Last week TOI had reported many students were baffled as three files carrying data of 3,000 BE students was leaked. Results process from today Sabale said the exam section would start processing 18 results including BTech, BArch, and other engineering courses from Tuesday. He also informed that re-examination of five subjects are pending including BA, BSc, BCA, and BPEd and MPEd. Those would be completed in next couple of days, he said. Once processed, the results would be uploaded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-holds-re-exam-for-11-courses-at-one-go-denies-data-went-missing/articleshow/79009556.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow Development Authority hammer razes 55 illegal buildings in a day||LUCKNOW: Over 55 illegal commercial and housing units, including a supermarket, a hookah bar and an underconstruction colony, were razed on the first day of the three-month drive launched by the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) and district administration against the land mafia. “The buildings were either constructed on government land or did not have approval from LDA. Total 21.2 hectare land worth Rs 39.8 crore was freed from encroachment. The cost of the demolished units was around Rs 275 crore,” said district magistrate Abhishek Prakash, who also has the additional charge of LDA. LDA secretary Ritu Suhas said the owners were given an opportunity to dismantle illegal structures on their own and the drive was carried out when they failed to do so. “The five-storey supermarket was found to have been constructed illegally on a piece of land allotted to Lalbagh Girls College in Lalbagh. The High Court had directed LDA to demolish commercial unit on a petition in 2019. Thereafter, it was sealed and demolished on Monday,” she added. The DM said a hookah lounge and restaurant near Clock Tower in Thakurganj was demolished as its map was not approved by LDA. “About 22 row houses constructed on Kursi Road under Gudumba police station and an additional unit being constructed at an educational institute at Ahmamau on Sultanpur Road under Ansal API police station were also bulldozed,” he added. An underconstruction housing society in Sunhara tehsil in Sarojininagar and 30 illegal shops in May village on Sitapur road under Madiaon police station were demolished as they were constructed on government land. Similarly, illegal encroachments on government land were removed in Para area. “About 286 illegal buildings/structures have been identified in the district. Eight teams have been constituted to bulldoze all these structures. Illegal encroachments on government land and water bodies will be removed. The drive will continue till January 31,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-hammer-razes-55-illegal-bldgs-in-a-day/articleshow/79009535.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Goa||After massive meet, jittery BJP MLAs go to Goa CM||PANAJI: Within hours of the massive agitation on double-tracking and coal handling in Chandor, BJP legislators from Salcete and Mormugao talukas met CM Pramod Sawant to seek a clarification from him on the twin issues. The CM told the apprehensive MLAs that double-tracking isn’t being done for coal handling, even as he said he would take up the issues with the Centre “Sawant told us that when he goes to Delhi, he will take up the issues with Union ministers,” said Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa. “We asked him for the reason behind double-tracking, and he told us it’s being done by the Centre.” The meeting was attended by D’Sa, power minister Nilesh Cabral, social welfare minister Milind Naik, transport minister Mauvin Godinho, WRD minister Filip Neri Rodrigues, Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias, deputy chief minister Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavalekar and PWD minister Deepak Prabhu Pauskar. Meanwhile, Sawant told reporters that power minister Nilesh Cabral would address the media on Tuesday to issue a detailed explanation on double-tracking and coal handling. He also told MLAs that the quality of coal imported in Goa would remain the same. He also told MLAs that 4 metric tonnes of coal used to earlier be imported in the state, but due to mining closure, it went up to 9 metric tonnes for MPT to be able to sustain the operation. The CM said that once mining activities restart, coal import would reduce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-massive-meet-jittery-bjp-mlas-go-to-cm/articleshow/79008896.cms||Murari Shetye
November 3, 2020||Bhopal||EC does not have power to strip leader of star campaigner status: SC||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday expressed serious reservations over the Election Commission's power to strip the leader of a political party of the status of 'star campaigner' and stayed the EC's October 30 order divesting Congress leader Kamal Nath of the status for by-elections to 28 Madhya Pradesh assembly seats.A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told the EC, "We are staying the order. You do not have the power. Where do you get the power to decide who should be the leader of a political party to enjoy star campaigner status? We will examine the issue."The bench issued notice to the EC and sought its response to Nath's petition. Appearing for the EC, senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi said the petition had become infructuous as campaigning had ended and voting was scheduled for Tuesday. He said the EC took the decision under the model code of conduct which was in force during electioneering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ec-does-not-have-power-to-strip-leader-of-star-campaigner-status-sc/articleshow/79007783.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 3, 2020||Goa||Back to school? Goa government to announce decision today||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said the state government — which has concluded consultations with stakeholders in the education sector — will declare its decision on the reopening of schools on Tuesday. Sawant, who also holds the education portfolio, had instructed the directorate of education to elicit the views of stakeholders on reopening schools in the state which have been shut for over seven months now due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He told TOI he has received a report from the directorate. As per the Centre’s Unlock 5.0 guidelines, schools could reopen from October 15 and state governments were given flexibility in the matter. Parental consent, however, was made necessary if students were to attend physical classes. President of the Goa Headmasters’ Association, Mariano Valadares, had recently said that 198 of the 209 government-aided schools it had surveyed were not in favour of reopening yet. The parent-teacher associations (PTAs) in these schools had sought that reopening plans be kept on hold till the Covid-19 situation stabilised further, he had said. “The association wants schools to reopen, but the situation is not conducive at the moment,” Valadares had said. “Most parents are not in favour of it as of now. We know that Class X students will be facing their board exams this year, and these students can be allowed to come to school after Diwali to seek guidance from teachers. Class X students are already coming to school for one-on-one guidance with teachers.” In September, most stakeholders in the field of education had said that Classes IX-XII could begin from September 21, even as they expressed concern over ferrying students via Bal Raths. They had also addressed parents’ apprehensions about schools resuming during the height of the pandemic. At least 45 stakeholders had participated in a video conference with Sawant on the issue, and the chief minister had consequently decided not to open schools. According to Unlock 5.0, schools could reopen, but online learning would be encouraged. If students preferred to stay at home and attend online classes, schools should permit them to do so, the guidelines stated, while adding that recording of attendance should not be enforced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/back-to-school-govt-to-announce-decision-today/articleshow/79008898.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Infection rate in Mumbai down to 0.4% from nearly 1.1%, says BMC||MUMBAI: The city, once a Covid-19 hotspot, reported 706 new cases on Monday, its lowest addition in 69 days. The last time Mumbai had reported fewer cases was 587 on August 25. The city’s tally touched 2,59,111, while the death toll reached 10,348 with the addition of 30 fatalities. Continuing with the trend of a drastic dip in new Covid-19 cases on Monday, a phenomenon attributed to lower levels of testing over the weekend, the state added only 4,009 cases, its lowest in a week. The case tally has reached 16,87,784. There were 104 deaths, taking the toll to 44,128. The last time the state had added fewer than 4,009 cases was 3,890 on June 2. In fact, Kerala reported more cases 4,138 than the state on Monday. The death rate in the city for October was 2.5% and the cumulative death rate fell from 4.4% to 3.9%, said municipal commissioner I S Chahal. He said that due to implementation of the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ Campaign since September 15, the active cases had fallen by 29%. “The rate of infection has fallen steeply from 1.06% to 0.41%,” he said, adding that the doubling rate had climbed from 66 days to 171 days. “The total number of critical patients in hospitals have dropped by 24%, while the number of vacant ICU beds has risen from 225 to 561 beds,” he said. While experts have been cautioning about a second wave with the current unlocking measures coinciding with Diwali and a dip in temperatures, health minister Rajesh Tope said it was unlikely that the state would see a second wave. “But in case the numbers do increase, the state is prepared to handle the surge,” he said. He said that according to a presentation made by the health secretary, the a second wave in the country and the state was unlikely. “However, we must all continue with maintaining social distancing, wearing a mask and even washing our hands regularly,” Tope said. He said that people who were stepping out ahead of the festive season must follow all the necessary protocols. On whether places of worship would open in the state, Tope said that in the current situation a decision on these would be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after Diwali. The Mumbai circle remained the biggest contributor of cases. It added 1378 cases on Monday and 40 deaths. It was followed by Pune and Nashik circles, which reported 767 and 682 cases, respectively. On Monday, a little over 40,000 tests were carried out compared to the daily average of 65,000. Within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Kalyan-Dombivli reported 88 new cases and two deaths, taking the tally to 50,282, including 1,008 deaths. The recovery rate was 94.95 % with 1,527 patients still undergoing treatment. In Thane city, 156 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 46,998, while three deaths took the toll to 1,158. The recovery rate was 93.3% on Monday with 1,986 active cases. The overall state recovery rate crossed 90% with 15.24 lakh discharges, whereas the city recovery rate was around 89%. ( With inputs from Manoj Badgeri & Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-sees-706-new-covid-cases-fewest-in-69-days/articleshow/79009546.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Filmmaker Ashish Kakkad no more||Ahmedabad: Known Gujarati filmmaker, actor and voice artist, Ashish Kakkad, passed away on Monday afternoon due to heart attack. He was 49 years old. He had gone to Kolkata to celebrate his son’s birthday, where he developed health complications, sources said. Kakkad was the first filmmaker to have made a Gujarati film in the modern urban backdrop. His directorial debut ‘Better Half’ in 2010 was set in changed urban milieu and was viewed as a contrast to the convention of portraying social issues in rural backdrop in Gujarati cinema. His second directorial venture was ‘Mission Mummy’ in 2016. Kakkad had acted in various movies including a couple of Hindi films, the most famous of them being Kai Po Chhe!. Kakkad was also a famous voice-over artist. Lately, he was busy lending his voice to numerous documentaries and short films in Gujarati. He was a popular choice for commentary in short films because of his impressive voice. Many filmmakers who succeeded later in exploring vivid subjects with urban background in Gujarati movies credit Kakkad for his path-breaking film. One of them, Abhishek Jain, said, “When he was making Better Half, I had gone to his set. I was planning to make ‘Kevi Rite Jaish’ but I had certain doubts about the subject. After seeing him work, my confidence grew and it was Kakkad who clapped the slate in the opening shot of my film. While many believe that Kevi Rite Jaish was the first film of this genre with city background, Kakkad was the real pioneer, I would say.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/filmmaker-ashish-kakkad-no-more/articleshow/79008962.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Goa||Tanavade to meet CM to decide party stand||Panaji: BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said on Monday he would meet CM Pramod Sawant to discuss the issue of double tracking and coal handling, and decide the party stand. He also said he would seek the opinions of MLAs and party karyakartas and convey their sentiments to the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tanavade-to-meet-cm-to-decide-party-stand/articleshow/79008927.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 3, 2020||Pune||Alumni donate cellphones, laptops to needy pupils for digital learning||Pune: The alumni of several schools in the city have stepped up to support students unable to afford gadgets for online education. At Bhave High School, the alumni collected funds to provide 16 smartphones to the children and The Bishop's School’s appeal to its alumni fetched handsets and tablets for some students. They got more than the number they needed. Two alumni of the 1994 batch from Bhave High School in Perugate__ Ravindra Dahspurte and Vivek Barve __ took the lead. They got over 50 alumni from their batch to buy new and branded smartphones to donate to 16 children.Headmaster Rohidas Bharmal said the students are children of vegetable vendors, security guards and daily-wage workers who cannot afford smartphones.“These children are very talented and have good academic records. We felt they should not be left behind in online classes,” he said. At The Bishop's School, when online classes started, the staff noticed that some students were unable to join the classes. An enquiry later, they realised that these students lacked any medium to attend online classes.Principal of The Bishop’s School, Camp, Joel Edwin, approached the alumni. A letter was sent in July, and in a few days, several ex-students got back with offers on the requirement. Edwin said, “We were able to help close to 85 students in our three branches in Camp, Kalyaninagar and Undri. Some donated fresh tablets, laptops and desktops while others gave refurbished ones with a warranty.”Ramesh Rao, honorary treasurer and governing body member of Alumni Association of College of Engineering, Pune, said,“Our alumni raised Rs 67 lakh and worked out a special deal with Lenovo for laptops . We could provide 175 laptops to students as per a priority list from the college.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alumni-donate-cellphones-laptops-to-needy-pupils-for-digital-learning/articleshow/79008933.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Constable ordered to sweep Civil Hospital floor for month||AHMEDABAD: Sixteen years after he was caught inebriated at the workplace, police constable Gordhan Katariya has been convicted under liquor prohibition laws and will now have to undergo the punishment of sweeping Civil Hospital for a period of one month. A constable with the state reserved police (SRP), Katariya was awarded this social service punishment by a metropolitan court in February last year, but the state government questioned the mild punishment and filed an appeal seeking enhancement. A city sessions court last week rejected the state government’s appeal for a more severe punishment and upheld the social service punishment. According to the case details, Katariya was caught drunk during working hours at his workplace, Shahibaug Ghoda Camp, in 2004. He was abusing his colleagues while drunk. He was booked for alcohol consumption and unruly behaviour in public. It took 15 years for the metropolitan court to complete the trial. He was held guilty under Section 66(1)B and acquitted of the offence under Section 85(1)(3) of the Bombay Prohibition Act. He was awarded a social service punishment by which he must serve at Civil Hospital in Asarwa for a month and do sweeping work between 10am and 4pm every day. The state government was not content with this punishment and challenged the order before the city sessions court. It insisted that the cop should have been sent to jail instead. Awarding social service punishment under Section 92 of the Prohibition Act was an erroneous decision by the magisterial court. With the amendment of liquor prohibition laws, the punishment for a first-time offence for drinking is six months and a court cannot award less than three months in jail on conviction. The sessions court rejected the state government’s demand and upheld Katariya’s punishment and ordered him to start social service at Civil Hospital from the first day of this month. The court sent its order to Katariya’s superior officer at the SRP Group 7 in Nadiad so he can arrange his deploymentwith the hospital authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/constable-ordered-to-sweep-civil-hospital-floor-for-month/articleshow/79008964.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||Fishermen attack Pench patrol staff, burn boat||NAGPUR: History was repeated Sunday night when a gang of 60-70 fishermen attacked Maharashtra Pench Tiger Reserve patrolling staff and set their boat afire. Fishing inside tiger reserves is banned as per Supreme Court orders. The incident took place at 8pm when the special tiger protection force (STPF) patrol had taken a break to have food at a protection hut in Tumdimatta in South Bodalzira area of Pench tiger reserve. The fishermen, who were in 30-40 boats at Totladoh reservoir with an intention fish at night, surrounded the protection hut and started hurling stones. They abused the field staff and some also tried to break open the main door of the hut. They also allegedly used explosives during the attack. Some fishermen climbed up the protection hut and damaged the solar panel on the roof. They also tried to cause an explosion by rigging the LPG cylinder at the protection hut. “As the situation was going out of control, the STPF staff fired at the attackers in self-defence. Scared by gunshots, fishermen fled taking with them the forest department motor boat also. They later set it afire at a nearby island,” said assistant conservator of forests (ACF) Atul Deokar, Pench. Deokar said, “The attack was in retaliation of forest department action three days ago when our staff had seized a boat and nets. The staff from neighbouring MP Pench had also seized three vehicles and 2,000kg of fish on October 6.” Maharashtra Pench suffered a loss of damage to property worth Rs 25 lakh in the attack. STPF staff was surrounded and there was no backup team. Teams from MP arrived three hours later and all the fishermen had escaped by that time. Deokar said, “Some attackers have been captured in cameras installed at the protection hut. We will identify the culprits and take police help to nab them. An FIR has been registered against the unidentified fishermen at Deolapar police station.” Skirmishes between fishermen and forest staff are common on Pench waters. In February 2015, a fisherman was killed when forest department staff opened fire on fishermen who attacked forest staff with explosives. A similar attack took place in July 2017 when dynamite was thrown on patrolling forest staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fishermen-attack-pench-patrol-staff-burn-boat/articleshow/79009563.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||SC for SIT probe into Lucknow boy’s death mystery||LUCKNOW: The Supreme Court has directed fresh probe by a special investigation team (SIT) in the mysterious death of La Martiniere College student Rahul Sridhar and directed that a status report should be submitted to it within eight weeks from Monday. The SC took up the issue of the mysterious death of Rahul Sridhar while hearing a special leave petition (SLP) filed by the victim’s brother Rohit Sridhar in 2017. Rohit’s counsel, Alok Singh told TOI that the SC reiterated its order of September 16, 2019 citing that an SIT was not constituted despite its instructions. As a result, it directed that a SIT headed by senior superintendent of police, Lucknow to probe the case afresh and submit status report in eight weeks. The case was listed again after two months. Alok said that despite earlier orders of the SC, the special investigation team is yet to be formed. “The police had recreated the crime scene last year and claimed that Rahul’s death was an accident, but we questioned it citing reports of bona fide international forensic experts,” he added. Class IX student Rahul (15) had fallen to death from the 60-foot Constantia building in the campus on April 10, 2015. His parents lodged a murder FIR against unidentified persons a week later. However, police submitted its final report in court saying Rahul’s death was a suicide. In February 2016, the bereaved family challenged the report in the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) who ordered reinvestigation stating the inquiry was not done properly. Next year, the family moved the high court seeking CBI probe, but the HC directed police to conclude investigations within a month and dismissed the demand for probe by an independent agency. Subsequently, Rahul Sridhar’s brother filed the SLP in SC, which stated the high court did not attempt to enquire about the evasive investigation carried out by state police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sc-orders-fresh-sit-probe-in-rahul-sridhar-death-mystery/articleshow/79009565.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Amaravati||Telangana & Andhra Pradesh resume inter-state bus services after 7 months||HYDERABAD: After months of gridlock and at least four rounds of negotiations, the transport departments of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have finally agreed to resume the inter-state bus services with immediate effect from Monday evening. The memorandum of understanding (MoU), which was signed between the managing directors of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) and Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) in the presence of transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar on Monday, includes the number of buses to ply between the two states and the number of kilometres each state transport undertaking should run in either state. The transport minister said that the TSRTC will operate 826 buses across 1,61,258 km in Andhra Pradesh and APSRTC will operate 638 buses across 1,60,999 km in Telangana. “With both the corporations coming to an agreement to operate around 1,60,000 km, we believe that APSRTC will also see profits under the current pandemic situation. However, when the requirement arises, both the corporations, on a parity basis, will try to meet the demand and requirement of the public,” said Kumar, and added that running the services in profits is a big challenge in the current situation. When asked about the delay in coming to an agreement about resuming the inter-state operations, the minister said, “Preparing this MoU was an extensive exercise since we had to prepare a detailed plan considering every single route, kilometres, buses, segments and sectors for the first time after the state bifurcation and ensure that both the corporations benefit from it.” Inter-state public transport services between the two states have remained suspended since March 24, when the Covid-19-induced lockdown was put in place. The services did not resume even after the unlock measures came into force as the profitable routes such as Vijayawada-Hyderabad sector had become the main bone of contention between both the states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/t-ap-resume-inter-state-bus-services-after-7-months/articleshow/79010888.cms||Moulika.KV
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana & Andhra Pradesh resume inter-state bus services after 7 months||HYDERABAD: After months of gridlock and at least four rounds of negotiations, the transport departments of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have finally agreed to resume the inter-state bus services with immediate effect from Monday evening. The memorandum of understanding (MoU), which was signed between the managing directors of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) and Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) in the presence of transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar on Monday, includes the number of buses to ply between the two states and the number of kilometres each state transport undertaking should run in either state. The transport minister said that the TSRTC will operate 826 buses across 1,61,258 km in Andhra Pradesh and APSRTC will operate 638 buses across 1,60,999 km in Telangana. “With both the corporations coming to an agreement to operate around 1,60,000 km, we believe that APSRTC will also see profits under the current pandemic situation. However, when the requirement arises, both the corporations, on a parity basis, will try to meet the demand and requirement of the public,” said Kumar, and added that running the services in profits is a big challenge in the current situation. When asked about the delay in coming to an agreement about resuming the inter-state operations, the minister said, “Preparing this MoU was an extensive exercise since we had to prepare a detailed plan considering every single route, kilometres, buses, segments and sectors for the first time after the state bifurcation and ensure that both the corporations benefit from it.” Inter-state public transport services between the two states have remained suspended since March 24, when the Covid-19-induced lockdown was put in place. The services did not resume even after the unlock measures came into force as the profitable routes such as Vijayawada-Hyderabad sector had become the main bone of contention between both the states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-ap-resume-inter-state-bus-services-after-7-months/articleshow/79007798.cms||Moulika.KV
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Pandemic pulls down Telangana’s tertiary sector activity, hits GST collections||HYDERABAD: Exponential growth recorded by tertiary sector services such as real estate, hotels, and IT among others has helped the state since it was formed in 2014. However, the growth in GST collection was affected during the Covid-19 pandemic. Experts say the growth in tertiary sector's contribution to Gross Value Added (GVA) of the state from just 58% to 65% in 2019-20 has been huge. The GST collection depends on tax to GDP ratio and production in each sector which is reflected in the GVA and Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The state saw Rs 8, 74 496 crore tertiary sector production, including both government and private sectors, which was just Rs 4,66, 499 crore in 2014-15. Telangana, compared to other southern states, witnessed slow growth rate this year due to the pandemic. “The tertiary sector plays a major role and among the sub-sectors, real estate, hotels and other parts of high-end services, there is a slowdown as we depend on Hyderabad for 60% share,” Revati Ellanki, director, Centre of Economic and Social Studies (CESS) pointed out. Dr Krishna Reddy Chittedi, assistant professor at school of economics, University of Hyderabad, observed that the state economy largely depends on Hyderabad, which generates income with help of all the services in the tertiary sector. “Compared to other states, our dependency on these sectors is more, when growth happens, it is very high and similar will be the slowdown,” he said. K Narasimha Murthy, financial expert and director of National Stock Exchange, said people in Hyderabad are more cautious and are restricting their social lives. “People are not going out even though the curbs have been lifted. This is in a way right but has an impact on the economy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pandemic-pulls-down-states-tertiary-sector-activity-hits-gst-collections/articleshow/79007812.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 3, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad: Notices to at least 40 pvt schools for blocking students over fees’ dues||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Over 40 private schools in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits have been served notices from June for blocking online education of their students who were unable to pay the fees on time. According to Vilas Patil, grievance redressal officer in the PCMC, the notices were sent private schools after frequent complaints from parents. “When a complaint is received, we visit the school to verify the nature of the complaint and whether there is any truth in it. In almost all of the cases, the complaints were true. Most schools tended to block the online classes of the students after parents failed to pay the requisite fees on time. However, under the Right to Education, Act, 2009, no student can be deprived of education,” he said. Many schools allowed resumption of online classes to the respective students, but there are at least four private schools, against which there are many complaints. Patil said they are going to recommend the deputy director of education to initiate action against such erring schools. Activist Maruti Bhapkar said the state government should look into the matter and take strict action against such erring schools. “The school management should offer discounts in fees because of the pandemic situation, but they want to take undue advantage,” he said, adding that he will write to the education minister. Patil said parents can lodge complaints with the education department at schoolboard@pcmcindia.gov.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/notices-to-at-least-40-pvt-schools-for-blocking-students-over-fees-dues/articleshow/79008956.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Pune||In-house SPPU resources to build online exam plan||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to have an indigenous examination software and support system for its students in the future.The university had received nearly 13,500 complaints regarding the final year semester examination conducted in online and offline mode from students. The nature of complaints ranged from issues with options, phrasing of questions, connection issue to submission of papers online. A three-member panel has been set up by SPPU to consider these complaints and decision on the same will be delivered after one week. The report on all the complaints was to be sent to the state government. “We have found out the glitches in the system and we also know the problems that we face when conducting an exam on a large scale. While technical know-how is important, we also need proper management and most importantly, we need to be able to resolve any new issues that might crop up, without delay,” Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, SPPU, said.Aditya Abhyankar, head of the technology department of the university, said, “When we rely on external agencies, newer challenges crop up every time. When these challenges are not resolved, students are unhappy and most importantly, we don’t end up developing any internal strength or capacity. The biggest hurdle we saw now is that the system is neither scalable nor flexible enough to accommodate requests in time. But if you develop the system internally, it can be both.”Abhyankar said the university already had a tried and tested platform where the on-campus departments are successfully hosting all the exams. “Now, it is a matter of scaling it up and taking it to all the affiliated colleges. The miniature structure is already ready and all we have to do is to scale it up so that lakhs of students can attempt the examination without the system getting overloaded or crashing. We can fine-tune it as per our needs and requirements,” Abhyankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-house-sppu-resources-to-build-online-exam-plan/articleshow/79008947.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Stanley student Padma seeks re-election to House of Reps||Hyderabad: City-origin Padma Kuppa is seeking re-election on Tuesday to the Michigan House of Representatives. The former graduate of REC Warangal (now NIT Warangal) and Stanley Girls Junior College is the first Indian to be elected to the post from the state. “I learnt about inclusiveness from India. While I was studying in Warangal, I met people from across the country and places such as Malaysia and Palestine as well. The experience taught me how to find common ground even amidst diversity,” said Kuppa, who was the first woman mechanical engineer to study from the institute. On her re-election effort, she said while diversity is a given, she is working to be bring about more inclusivity. “It’s crucial to build things in the community and help find common ground on issues,” she said. Kuppa represents Michigan’s House of Representatives in the 41 District. She assumed office in January 1, 2019 and her term expires on December 31, 2020. Kuppa, whose parents still live in the city, was born in Bhilai. Her father, a professor, took the family to the US where she stayed till she was 15. She returned to India to pursue her intermediate education at the Stanley Girls Junior College. After her graduation from REC Warangal, she went back to the US to pursue her education in 1988. She lives in Troy with her husband and two children. Kuppa has been the Troy planning commissioner and the founder of Troy area inter-faith group. She says she believes in democratic values. “The party represents the ideals that every child should have an education, people should work for fair wages. We also believe in science and climate change, clean air, water and energy,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stanley-student-padma-seeks-re-election-to-house-of-reps/articleshow/79007806.cms||Uttara Varma
November 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 11-year-old with 60-year-old donor heart gets stent||MUMBAI: While angioplasty is a term associated with elderly patients, an 11-year-old city boy underwent the procedure on Saturday due to what doctors believe could be heart disease transmitted from the elderly donor’s heart transplanted into him 15 months ago. In September, he had developed breathlessness that led to discovery of a blockage. In a country where heart donations are difficult to come by, paediatric heart failure patients often get hearts from donors who are decades older than them. The boy (name withheld for reasons of privacy) was 10 in July 2019 when he got a 60-year-old donor heart. He had to undergo the transplant following a heart failure diagnosis in August 2018. “The boy was recovering extremely well from the transplant and had even begun playing cricket,” said cardiologist Dr Hasmukh Ravat from Fortis Hospital, Mulund, who operated on him on Saturday. For the child’s parents, who don’t want to be named, the September episode hurtled them back to his heart failure diagnosis in August 2018. “He had come back from playing football and complained of breathlessness,” said his mother. His heart continued to weaken thereafter, with him needing a mechanical pump implanted in his chest as well as specialized procedures to stay alive. “When we heard a heart from an O blood group donor was available in Indore, we agreed as time was running out,” she said. The elderly heart, however, brought age-related cardiac problems such as plaque build-up in arteries, believes Dr Ravat. Donor-transmitted coronary atherosclerosis is a well-known entity in medical literature. The family’s woes didn’t end here. The blockage was in the left main artery (one of the most important blood vessels in the body) that is to this day a contentious topic between cardiologists and heart surgeons; while surgery is supposed to be the best bet, new studies have shown that stents are not inferior to surgery in patients with moderate blockages. “We expected the procedure to be lengthy, but it was uneventful. We used special image guiding techniques to finish the procedure in 30 minutes,” said Dr Ravat, who operated along with Dr Atul Limaye and Dr Swati Garekar. Dr Prafulla Kerkar, who heads the cardiology department of KEM Hospital, Parel, said the blockage could have been a “double whammy” caused by an elderly donor and the use of immunosuppressant drugs to avoid rejection of the donor heart. Dr K R Balakrishnan, who has done the highest number paediatric heart transplants in the country at 120, said the practice of old donors for paediatric patients cannot be avoided in India. “In the US (where deceased donations are higher than in India), it would be rare for a paediatric recipient to get a heart from elderly donors, but here we have transplanted from 55-to 60-year-old donors to seven-year-old children,” he said. Of the 120 paediatric transplants, four needed angioplasty later due to blockages. When a paediatric patient is in urgent need of a heart, the doctor is more likely to think about saving the child’s life with elderly donor than about transmitting cardiac disease. “After the life-saving transplant, a simple angioplasty can always be done at a later date if needed,” said Dr Balakrishnan. As for the little boy, his smiles and cricketing banter belie the fact that he has undergone a specialty procedure. Confessing he is an “average student”, all he desires is to emulate his ‘hero’, batsman Rohit Sharma. “I only want to play cricket,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/11-yr-old-with-60-yr-old-donor-heart-gets-stent/articleshow/79009568.cms||Malathy Iyer
November 3, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit faces uphill task providing care to 1,400+ TB patients under national programme||Pilibhit: The Pilibhit health department is facing an uphill task implementing the ‘national strategic plan’ (NSP) of the Indian government’s national tuberculosis elimination programme (NTEP) in the district. Under NSP, launched in 2017, the central government has fixed 2025 as the year by which it will eradicate TB from India. In Pilibhit, the plan envisages the challenging task of providing medical treatment at the doorsteps of over 1,400 identified TB patients, a figure that is expected to rise, what with the health department launching an active case finding campaign to detect new TB patients across rural and urban areas of the district on Monday. According to Dr Rajesh Bhatt, the superintendent of Pilibhit TB hospital, 91 teams — each comprising one Asha worker, one anganwadi worker and a volunteer — have been deployed under 20 TB supervisors, to identify new patients out of 10% of the total population in district. “Under this 10-day-long campaign, field teams will collect sputum samples door-to-door, which will be sent for testing to the nearest primary and community health centres, in addition to the district tuberculosis hospital,” he said, adding, “Following guidelines, the test reports will be issued the same day. Sample collection and active case figures will be uploaded on the Indian government’s website every day.” Treatment will be provided to all active TB patients at their doorsteps by the field teams. During the current year, the department has registered 2,641 new patients, of which 1,197 have been fully cured, leaving behind a backlog of 1,444 patients, said Rajesh Gangwar, the TB supervisor. The slow recovery of patients was an outcome of the Covid-19 outbreak, due to which, door-to-door treatment could not be provided to patients for a long period, he added. “We have adequate stock of medicines and supplementary amenities, and hope the department will project much better results, now that treatment has been initiated at full swing,” said Dr Bhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-faces-uphill-task-providing-care-to-1400-tb-patients-under-national-programme/articleshow/79003464.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||City hospitals got about 200 ventilators since March||AHMEDABAD: The treatment of Covid-19, earlier thought to mainly affect the lungs, relied heavily on oxygen supply to patients. Estimates by top health experts put the number of ventilators procured by city-based hospitals at 200, conservatively. Dr Hardik Shah, director of DHS Hospital in Vastrapur, said he had two ventilators before Covid-19. “Due to the need during this pandemic, we procured four ventilators and systems for high-flow nasal oxygen (HFNO),” he said. He added that at his hospital, the number of patients requiring ventilators has not fallen. Administrators of hospital in the city said procurement and purchase was done by medium and small hospitals. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said big hospitals already had ventilators which they diverted to Covid-19 treatment. “These hospitals thus focused more on HFNO and Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) systems, which is required by more patients than ventilators,” said Dr Gadhvi, adding that several hospitals were also provided ventilators by civic authorities. “Some rented them for some time. Peak demand for ventilators was in July-August after which it has been declining.” Government hospitals also reported fewer Covid-19 patients requiring ventilator support. Senior officials at Civil Hospital said that on Monday morning, 101 patients were on support systems (ventilator, BiPAP and HFNO), compared to an average of 180 in July-August. “Early identification of stress, medication and other interventions are preventing patients from getting critical,” said an official. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), said the state government did not buy any ventilators itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-hospitals-got-about-200-ventilators-since-march/articleshow/79008967.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||Graduates’ constituency polls on December 1||NAGPUR: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has finally declared the date for five Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) seats in the state. Polling for Nagpur graduates’ constituency and Amravati teachers’ constituency will be held on December 1. Counting will take place on December 3. Mayor Sandip Joshi and ex-MLC Anil Sole, who represented this seat till July this year, are the front-runners for BJP ticket, while Abhijit Wanjari is the top contender for Congress ticket. As per the ECI schedule, divisional commissioners will issue notification for election on November 5. The last date of filing nominations will be November 12. Scrutiny of nomination papers will take place the next day while last date for withdrawal of candidature is November 17. Polling will take place on December 1 between 8am and 5pm while counting will take place a couple of days later. The election process has to be completed by December 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/graduates-constituency-polls-on-dec-1/articleshow/79009585.cms||Ashish Roy
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||This Karva Chauth, social media to be storyteller||LUCKNOW: As Covid-19 has changed our way of living, festivities have been no different. With Karva Chauth around the corner, many married women observing the fast for their husbands will avoid large congregations or get togethers and will tune into YouTube to listen to the narration of the story behind the one-day festival to complete rituals. The fast begins at dawn and in the evening, a women-only ceremony is held. Women sit in a circle with puja thalis and a priest or storyteller narrates the story behind the festival. During pauses, the Karva Chauth song is sung by the women and they collectively perform the ‘pheris’ (passing the thali around). Since the ritual means a gathering of 10-15 people, many women have decided to celebrate the day with their families, listening to the ‘katha’ on social media. “It would be difficult to manage social distancing and other protocols during such gatherings. The need of the hour is everyone’s safety and that’s why we will stay confined to our homes,” said Mansi Arora, who has hosted a Karvachauth gathering for 13 years. Celebrating her first Karvachauth, Nikita Parashar will mark the day through video calls with her family. “My mother-in-law will send a recording of the story in her own voice. Other rituals will be completed over video call,” she added. Some women have decided to mark rituals with minimal participants and Covid safety protocols. Nisha Kohli, a teacher, has made markings on the floor to ensure social distancing. “I have invited only six women. We will wear gloves because we will pass our thalis around,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/this-karva-chauth-social-media-to-be-storyteller/articleshow/79009572.cms||Aditi Singh
November 3, 2020||Mangaluru||RSS leader Kalladka Bhat dubs Ullal ‘Pakistan’||Mangaluru: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat in highlighting what he said is skewed demographic profile in Ullal has stirred a hornet’s nest. The speech excerpts of which TV channels picked up saw Bhat, executive committee member of south central region of RSS, describe Ullal as ‘Pakistan’. There are many such pockets across India, Bhat said. Bhat, who delivered this speech on Sunday at ‘Dampathi Samavesha’ organised by Keshava Shishu Mandir, Kinya told TOI that he had only mentioned the obvious. “There are several topics in India, speaking on which are deemed politically incorrect. Rapid growth of Muslim population in certain pockets in India is one such topic,” Bhat said. “My observation is based on the fact that the growth of Hindu families is limited to a child or two at the most. It is also a fact that while Muslims teach their children the Quran and Christians the Bible, there is no such effort in Hindu families,” Bhat said. This will lead to a situation where Hindus will be largely devoid of a sense of belonging to their own religion and basic tenets of life enshrined in the various Holy Scriptures, Bhat contended. It is this very fact of life that saw the birth of Pakistan and Bangladesh with Muslims dominating the demographic profile of these two nations. This can be countered only when the Hindus increase their numbers, Bhat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rss-leader-kalladka-bhat-dubs-ullal-pakistan/articleshow/79006149.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Dirt and stink plague Cantonment colonies||Secunderabad: Even after two weeks, several colonies in Secunderabad Cantonment, which were inundated after the rains, are yet to be freed from heaps of debris and mud. Aravelly Enclave, Royal Enclave, SBI Colony and SAIL Colony were the worst affected after the Hasmathpet lake breached and the nala overflowed. The debris of the retaining walls, which collapsed due to the flood waters, are yet to be cleared. The residents of these colonies are also facing a huge problem as the lanes are filled with mud and dirt. “After going through the horrors of Covid-19 pandemic, we are now scared about threat from water-borne diseases because of the dirt and resultant stench,” Chandrasekhar, a resident of Aravelly Enclave, told TOI. Most of the roads were blocked by debris after retaining walls collapsed. For instance, after two weeks, the SCB on Monday lifted the debris from LIC Colony at Picket. “The process of lifting the garbage, debris and unwanted plants piled up on the roads has already begun and we have covered almost 90 per cent of the flood affected areas. So far, in 57 trips, garbage and debris were cleared from these areas in the past two weeks. In another couple of days, we will clean the streets in the remaining colonies,” M Devender, SCB senior superintendent (SWM), told TOI. “We are also clearing up the weed that had obstructed the free flow of sewage in the open nalas,” he said. “The iron mesh which was put up along open nalas was also damaged. We are planning to fix a new mesh,” he added. “In some areas, residents are discarding furniture, bedsheets and beds, which were damaged in the floods, on the streets. The sanitation teams are clearing up all this,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dirt-and-stink-plague-cantonment-colonies/articleshow/79007846.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 3, 2020||Delhi||How cops nabbed snatcher ‘holed up’ inside a flyover in Delhi||NEW DELHI: It was a cat-and-mouse game between cops and a snatcher fleeing after assaulting a woman and relieving her of her mobile phone near the flyover at Kashmere Gate. Though the criminal entered the “cavities” at the flyover and disappeared, the cops gave chase through a pitch-dark alley and resolved the case within an hour. The incident was quickly handled because Anto Alphonse, DCP (North), had mapped the snatching hotspots in the district and asked the station house officers to secure them. Accordingly, SHO Dharmender had deployed teams in civvies and in uniform at select spots on Outer Ring Road. On October 31, an elderly woman, her hand and knees showing abrasions, approached one such team. She said a man wearing a yellow sherwani had snatched her phone and purse and dragged her on the road when she resisted the snatching attempt. She said the man had fled towards the flyover. How cops nabbed snatcher ‘holed up’ inside a flyover in #Delhihttps://t.co/6vKFvWRf0i https://t.co/P1kKUJTI5I— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1604383335000The cops led by sub-inspectors Sundeep, Satish and others rushed to the site and discovered that the snatcher had entered a cavity in the flyover. Without wasting time, two of the cops blocked the entry and exit of the cavity on either side of the flyover to prevent the snatcher from escaping while one team entered the alley. The cavity was not only dark, but suffocating due to accumulation of carbon monoxide due to vehicular pollution and short supply of oxygen. The cops found it difficult to breathe and realised that it was going to be completely dark for around 400 metres. There was also a possibility of the robber, who was presumably familiar with the territory, attacking the cops under cover of the darkness. However, the policemen continued the search using the mobile phone flashlight and finally spotted the snatcher at the other end of the dank space. Cornered, the suspect tried to jump off from a height of around 50 feet but was overpowered by the chasing cops and the policeman manning the exit. When he was searched, the cops found the robbed purse, mobile phone and cash on the suspect. He was arrested and an FIR registered against him. The accused was identified as 22-year-old Mohammed Zubair alias Suraj. A vagabond, he used to commit snatchings and thefts around Kashmere Gate and hide in the dark cavities in the flyover to dodge the cops. He also used the space to store his booty. Zubair is being interrogated to ascertain the exact number of crimes he has committed. The cops will conduct another thorough search of the entire stretch and find ways to either block the flyover cavities or illuminate them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-cops-nabbed-snatcher-holed-up-inside-a-flyover/articleshow/79007849.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||RT-1 captured, but tiger attacks on cattle stir fear||CHANDRAPUR: Even before the dust over the killing spree of dreaded tiger RT-1 has settled, fresh attack on cattle by tiger in Rajura range has again stirred fear among the residents. A tigress has injured a cow and killed one other in the last two days. However, forest officials say there is no need to panic. A cow was injured by a tigress in compartment no. 160 in Chunala beat on Sunday. The same tigress killed a cow again in compartment no. 158 in the same beat on Monday stirring panic among the locals. Pictures of dead cow went viral on social media leading to the panic. Officials brushed off the incident as usual one and claimed cattle kills are not unusual in forest and fringe areas. DCF, central Chanda division, Arvind Mundhe, said that RT-1 posing threat to humans has been captured. As far as cattle kills are concerned, predators often tend to kill bovines going to forest or in the fringe areas in the absence of prey. Hence, there is no need to panic. He maintained that the place where RT-1 was captured is in opposite direction of the place where these cattle kills took place. Sources in Rajura informed that there are two other tigers — a full grown female and a sub-adult male — in Rajura range. Apart from this, there is another male and a female tiger in adjacent Virur range. Officials have scientifically confirmed that the captured tiger was RT-1 responsible for eight human kills and there is little chance of other tiger turning rouge against humans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rt-1-captured-but-tiger-attacks-on-cattle-stir-fear/articleshow/79009592.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||LMC seizes house allotted to Azam Khan kin||LUCKNOW: Lucknow Municipal Corporation on Monday took possession of the River Bank colony house allotted to SP leader Azam Khan’s sister Nikhat Aflaq. Officials said the allotment of the house to Aflaq, a retired teacher, was cancelled on October 15 and she was given two weeks to vacate it. She shifted her belongings on October 29 and handed over the keys on Monday. LMC officials took possession of the house by putting the lock in presence of police. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said LMC has taken possession of the bungalow. The bungalow spread over 6,000 sqft was allotted to Aflaq on monthly rent of Rs 1,000 in March 2007 when Mulayam Singh was the chief minister. She is also a member of Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust that runs Jauhar University and several educational institutes. In August this year, a complaint was lodged against Aflaq that she lives in Rampur and is not using the residence since 10 years. LMC conducted a probe and informed government that the allegations were prima facie true. On August 29, a notice was issued to Aflaq asking her why her allotment should not be cancelled if she is no longer using the house. In her reply, Aflaq said she resides in the house and has been paying rent, but had gone to Rampur to look after an ailing relative. LMC, however, cancelled the allotmenton October 15 as she did not provide any evidence to support her claim and served her another notice to vacate the bungalow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-seizes-house-allotted-to-azam-kin/articleshow/79009593.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||20-year-old man arrested for bestiality||Hyderabad: A 20-year-old marble polishing worker, was arrested on the charge of bestiality with a calf at Chaitanyapuri. On Monday night, Rachakonda police received a complaint from a milk vendor from Sagar Hills in Chaitanyapuri. He told the police that on Sunday night he tied up two cows, two calves and three buffaloes in an open plot near his house. At 11 pm on Sunday night, the accused scaled the compound wall of the cattle shed and raped a calf. Alarmed by noise from the cattle shed, the vendor reached there and tried to pin down the offender. Based on the complaint, police filed a case against the accused, a native of UP. He was produced before the court and sent to judicial remand. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-year-old-man-arrested-for-bestiality/articleshow/79009011.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||Change in Chikhaldara villages land status challenged before SC panel||Nagpur: The decision of Amravati district collectors converting the occupancy of Class-II land to Class-I in five villages in and around Chikhaldara hill station has been challenged before the Supreme Court’s Central Empowered Committee (CEC). The present collector issued an order on July 6, 2020, changing Class-II land to Class-I in Lavada village paving way for sale-deeds of forest lands near hill station. Akot-based wildlife and forest lawyer Vijaysingh Chauhan, who has moved CEC, said converting these lands into Class-I was in violation of the Forest Conservation Act (FCA), 1980. Chauhan, who recently challenged Maharashtra governor’s order on amendments to FRA, 2006, in his application stated that landholders in Shahapur, Lavada, Aladoh, Motha, and Madki villages in Chikhaldara were allotted forest land in 1969. The said reserve forest land was declared ‘A’ class state forest by the Central Provinces notification of November 20, 1913, under the Indian Forest Act (IFA). Shahapur, Lavada, Aladoh, Motha, and Madki in and around Chikhaldara were established with an objective to secure a supply of adequate and assured labour for various forestry operations. The residents of these villages were given cultivable land for their maintenance at concessional rent for meeting basic agricultural needs. They were also given several concessions and privileges regarding grazing and nistar. The land in the forest villages was legally reserved forest owned by the state government and the holders of the land had no proprietary rights and had to pay a rent of Re 1 per holding in Melghat. As the villagers were not having occupancy rights, they were denied benefits of several schemes. Hence, in 1965, Maharashtra government appointed a panel to study the problem and on May 22, 1967, conferred upon the landholders’ leases on a temporary basis under the provisions of Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966. The said notification also mentioned the these should continue to be designated as forest villages and their administration should continue to be with the forest department. However, in 1969-70 the areas of these villages were temporarily deforested under various government notifications. The survey of these villages was completed in 1970 but the final notification for disforestation was not issued. On June 17, 1987, the state issued a notification under Section 27 of the Indian Forest Act, by which reserved forest of Class-I was dereserved. Out of these five villages, only Lavada was included in this notification. The remaining four villages are still having the status of the reserve forest. The petitioner has alleged that landholders of forest villages Shahapur, Lavada, Aladoh, Motha, and Madki to whom the land was allotted in 1969 started selling their lands to private parties and builders, though the lands were held by them under restrictive occupancy of Class-II. The earlier district collectors also converted occupancy of land from Class-II to Class-I without confirming the legal status of these lands. The petitioner says FCA came into force on October 25, 1980, with the sole object to prevent deforestation but the notification deforesting land in various villages was issued on June 17, 1987, bypassing provisions of FCA. “Therefore, any order passed on the basis of the illegal notification is also illegal and void. The notification of June 17, 1987, and an order issued by district collector on July 6, 2020, and various sale deeds and agreements to the sale for lands in Shahapur, Lavada, Aladoh, Motha, and Madki villages are illegal,” Chauhan said. The applicant has sought specific directions from the CEC to protect the sanctity of Chikhaldara, a hill station in Amravati district, and stop diversion of forest land for non-forest use by selling it to private entities in utter disregard to FCA and apex court orders. The area abounds in wildlife such as tigers, panthers, sloth bears, sambars, wild boar, and wild dogs. Grounds of Challenge * 5 villages were provisionally deforested in 1969 but the final notification was not issued. Final notification was issued on June 17, 1987, without seeking prior approval of the Central government under FCA, 1980 * The landholders in five forest villages should not have transferred their land in favour of builders and private entities on the basis of the lease * Amravati district collector committed grave illegality by allowing forest lands to be transferred to the builders and private parties and use of these forest lands for non-forest purposes * Changing occupancy of forest land from Class-II to Class-I terming them as revenue lands is a serious breach of the provisions of FCA * Provisions of Maharashtra Land Revenue Code cannot supersede and prevail over the provisions of FCA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/change-in-chikhaldara-villages-land-status-challenged-before-sc-panel/articleshow/79009595.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||Malini Awasthi to collect gold medal from Lucknow University after 33 yrs||LUCKNOW: With a marksheet in hand, this Lucknow University gold medallist who is now a noted folk singer will be back on the campus to perform for her alma mater. Malini Awasthi, the topper of the first batch of BA (Hons) course in 1987, could not get her medal as no convocation was held that year. She will receive it after 33 years when she comes to perform ‘Awadh ki Roshan Chowki’ during the centenary celebrations of the university. In the 1980s, a cultural group called Lucknow University Study Circle was a hub for all creative and talented students. A number of these students have made a big name in the music and dance industry and one such name is Malini’s. “I had joined Allahabad University but left it as my desired subject combination of Sanskrit, history and political science was being offered at Lucknow University. It also gave me a beautiful and magnificent platform to present my songs,” said Malini. Stressing on the innocence on campus in those days, Malini recalled how even in ragging, people were made to do what they were best at, adding that she was asked to sing. “It is a preconceived notion that students who are good in co-curricular activities like music and dance are not good at studies, but, I had topped my course. Unfortunately, I didn’t get my gold medal as no convocation was held,” she added. “Our city Lucknow has a big contribution to the world of music, hence I will talk about Awadh and its contribution to music during my performance of Awadh ki Roshan Chowki,” said Malini, who would be joined by musicologist Yatindra Mishra at the event. Convener of centenary celebrations Prof Nishi Pandey said, “If our student has topped but not got her medal, we will have it verified and ensure that she gets it during the convocation in our centenary celebration week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/malini-awasthi-to-collect-gold-medal-from-lu-after-33-yrs/articleshow/79009603.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Sudan national held for trying to smuggle sandalwood||HYDERABAD: Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel on Monday intercepted a Sudan national who was trying to smuggle out 5 kg sandalwood chips worth Rs 13,600 to Khartoum from Rajiv Gandhi International Airport. The accused was handed over to customs officials for further investigation. At around 1 am on Monday, CISF sleuths, conducting passenger checks at international terminal, intercepted the accused. “Based on passenger profiling, we intercepted a Sudan national and screened his baggage. There were multiple packets of Sandalwood chips found in his luggage. The weight of the seized sandalwood chips was 5 kg and as he could not produce proper documentation pertaining to the sandalwood chips, we handed him over to custom officials,” said a CISF official. Customs officials said that the intercepted passenger is a student and was planning to travel to Khartoum in Sudan via Sharjah in Air Arabia flight. Prior to this, on July 30, customs officials at RGIA, in coordination with CISF team, intercepted five passengers who were trying to smuggle out sandalwood from the city to Khartoum and seized 78 kg of sandalwood from their possession. Prior to this, on February 25, the CISF team intercepted a Sudan national and an Indian, who were bound to fly to Khartoum via Dubai, and seized 45 kg of sandalwood from their luggage. The duo could produce bills only for 20 kg of sandalwood. Customs officials said that some Sudan nationals, who are in the city for business or education purpose, try to smuggle out sandalwood while returning to their home land. “Sandalwood oil is used in some medicines in Sudan,” said a customs official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sudan-natl-held-for-trying-to-smuggle-sandalwood/articleshow/79009004.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Why so serious? Joker sticker spells snatchers’ downfall in NE Delhi||NEW DELHI: A sticker of a joker on the taillight and another saying ‘Sahab’ on the front fairing of a getaway bike helped police nail two snatchers in northeast Delhi. The men had been involved in a phone snatching incident in Gokulpuri on October 5. Ved Prakash Surya, DCP (Northeast), had formed a led by ACP Ajay Singh and station house officer Pramod Joshi, which had begun by scanning footage from the CCTV cameras installed in the area. Recordings of over 200 cameras were scrutinised carefully before the first breakthrough was provided by a camera installed a kilometre from the crime spot. This camera had captured the getaway vehicle — a black Splendor motorcycle sporting the two joker and Sahab stickers. The riders’ mannerisms and familiarity with the interior lanes indicated they were locals. Digging further, the cops found pictures from another camera revealing the first four digits of the bike’s registration plate: DL5S. The investigators got in touch with the traffic unit and transport department and obtained details of all bikes whose licence plates had the numbers revealed by the CCTV footage. The cops received details of 27 suspect bikes registered in a 3-km radius of the snatching spot. The last bike on the list turned out to be that of the snatchers. Both the telltale stickers were intact. The registered owner of the bike, Majid, was questioned and it became apparent that he was in Bulandshahr on the day of incident and the two wheeler had been in the care of his younger brother, Shahrukh, on October 5. Shahrukh was picked up. His features matched those of the suspect seen in the CCTV footage. During interrogation, Shahrukh broke down and led the cops to his accomplice, Asif. The duo further helped police arrest Sabir, the fence to whom they and other snatchers sold the stolen wares to. The motorcycle was seized and the mobile phone stolen on October 5 recovered along with 10 other devices. Their owners are being traced. The cops are probing the exact number of snatchings committed by the two men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-so-serious-joker-sticker-spells-snatchers-downfall/articleshow/79007854.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow wakes up to smog as air quality takes a dip in 2 days||LUCKNOW: As a layer of smog covered the city throughout the day on Monday, the first two days of November have witnessed a spike of around 90 units in air pollution level. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the data released by the Central Pollution Control Board, Lucknow’s Air Quality Index (AQI) was recorded at 312. On October 31, city AQI was 226 which increase to 318 on November 1. According to experts, the weather in last two days was conducive to high air pollution. They said the drop in temperature had led to spike in pollutants in the air. People woke up to a hazy sky on Monday and many thought that the sky is cloudy. “It was not cloudy. Smog formed after pollutants combined with mist after the city registered dip in temperature,” state Met director GP Gupta said. Previous years’ trends show that pollution level gradually increases in the first week of November and turns ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ and then to ‘severe’ levels by mid-November. On November 2 last year, AQI was recorded at 422 while it was 336 in 2018. Similarly, on the same date, AQI was registered at 322 in 2017, 329 in 2016 and 321 in 2015. “Satellite pictures released by NASA clearly indicate stubble burning as a major contributor to air pollution. Haziness in the city was due to stubble burning in Barabanki and other adjoining areas of the city. If the issue of air pollution is not taken seriously, Lucknow will soon inhale extremely poor quality air with pollution levels crossing over 400,” environmentalist Venkatesh Dutta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-wakes-up-to-smog-as-air-quality-takes-a-dip-in-2-days/articleshow/79009616.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Court junks discharge pleas of two accused||Hyderabad: Judge Sambasiva Rao Naidu of ACB special court on Monday dismissed the pleas of two of the accused — MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah and Rudra Udaya Simha — seeking discharge from the cash-for-vote case. Though the duo claimed innocence and wanted freedom from the case, ACB opposed any such relief to them. The judge agreed with ACB’s contention and dismissed the discharge pleas of both the accused. The case was adjourned to November 4 for commencing the ‘charges framing session’ before starting the trial in the case. As the charges framing session is a precursor to the trial, all the accused are likely to appear before the court on November 4. Udaya Simha was one among the three accused who were caught red-handed with Rs 50 lakh cash while trying to lure independent MLA Elvis Stephenson towards voting for TDP’s nominee in 2015 MLC elections, the probe agency said bfore the court while opposing any relief to the accused at this stage. Call data of accused gave enough proof of their role in scam, ACB said. “This material is enough to frame charges against each of accused,” its special PP V Surender Rao said. Congress MP A Revanth Reddy is another accused in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/court-junks-discharge-pleas-of-two-accused/articleshow/79009019.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||Delayed monsoon end, leaves Nagpur with 985mm rains in season||NAGPUR: The monsoon withdrawal this year from Nagpur district is the most delayed in last eight years, said the weather office. The Indian Meteorological Department began tracking the monsoon withdrawal dates from 1975. As per the data provided by Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, monsoon officially ended on October 26 in the district this year, 12 days earlier than last year’s withdrawal date. It said, 2018 saw one of the earliest withdrawal in recent years, with monsoon coming to an end on October 5. In last ten years, the withdrawal date has been close to second week of October. Officials said the delay can be attributed to climatic variation but not climate change. “It is too early to deduce that the withdrawal is happening due to climate change. To ascertain it, we need such constant delays for at least 30 years. Right now, the correct term would be climatic variation,” said Mohanlal Sahu, deputy director general of RMC, Nagpur. The official further added that the delay in monsoon systems has pushed forward the withdrawal late. Official data shows that the total rainfall that the district received this monsoon season was 985.1 millimetres, against the average of 920.4mm. Last year, the district had recorded 1,169.8mm rains while in 2018 the total rainfall received was 972.5mm. “The district has overall received normal rains,” officials said. In the month of October, the district received 39.5mm rains, which is less than the month’s average of 53.6mm. While the official winter season begins from January, with November and December being the post-monsoon months, the mercury levels have started dipping in the city since last week of October. Nights, particularly, are getting cooler. From 24.2 degree Celsius on October 19, the city’s minimum temperature saw a dip and went down to nearly 19 degree Celsius on the night of October 23. The lowest minimum temperature in the month of October was recorded on October 29, with the mercury levels going as low as 17.6 degree Celsius. Till date, November 2 has been the coldest, with the minimum temperature dropping to 17.2 degree Celsius. The maximum temperatures too started witnessing a drop since beginning of the month and are now between 32-33 degree Celsius. As per the forecast of met department, the weather is going to turn chillier in the coming week. Minimum temperatures are expected to further go down to 15 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/delayed-monsoon-end-leaves-city-with-985mm-rains-in-season/articleshow/79009608.cms||Manka Behl
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court reserves verdict on plea against RBI circular||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday reserved its judgement in a petition that challenged the constitutional validity of the master circular issued by RBI asking banks to declare accounts of fraudulent borrowers as fraud accounts. Rajesh Agarwal of BS Company filed this petition urging court to declare this circular as illegal and unconstitutional because it offers no opportunity to the borrowers to explain their case. Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy concluded its hearing in the case after hearing counsel B Nalin Kumar of RBI who defended the master circular and Agarwal’s counsel Arunab Chowdhuri, who described the process as one that is contrary to the principles of natural justice. RBI counsel said there is an elaborate examination of the suspicious accounts and the records pertaining to their companies by forensic auditors and what the circular envisages is to ask the banks to be wary of such fraud accounts so that such incidents can be averted in other member banks. . Lender banks have to make the assessment and if they come to a conclusion that they are duped, then they have to inform the RBI and also the other banks, he said. This will have both civil and criminal consequences and fraudster need not be heard at this stage, Nalin Kumar said. Loans below Rs 50 crore do not come under this circular. Individual banks have to deal with such defaulters, he said. SBI lent Rs 1,500 crore to Agarwal and his firm and lost its money. Advocate General BS Prasad appeared for SBI and said that scores of other banks too have lost money. Agarwal’s counsel said the circular must possess within it a process where the banks would hear the borrower before declaring his account as fraud. The bench reserved its judgement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-reserves-verdict-on-plea-against-rbi-circular/articleshow/79009031.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Positivity rate decreases in many districts||MYSURU: Besides a steep drop in fresh cases, Mysuru and the districts around have also recorded a drop in positivity rates (number who test positive per 100 tests), even while testing has increased. Data from the state Covid-19 War Room as on October 30 puts the positivity rate in Mysuru district at just 3.3%, lower than the state average of 3.5%. Similarly, positivity rates in Chikkamagaluru (2.7%), Hassan (3.2%), Chamarajanagar (2.6%), and Shivamogga (2.3%) has also plummeted. Only a month previously (on September 30), the positivity rate in Mysuru district was 16.5%, Hassan at 15.4% and Chikkamagaluru at 20.2%. The doubling rate in Mysuru district now has reduced to 51 days from 40 on September 30. Mysuru deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said the low figures are a result of hard work in the first two weeks of October. “When I took charge, the focus was to reduce deaths. Low testing and availability of oxygen beds was a concern,” Sindhuri said. “We ramped up testing to almost 5,000 per day and also increased the number of oxygenated and ICU beds. Those in home isolation are also being strictly monitored.” However, Sindhuri, who chairs a review meeting every day, is wary of a surge during the festive season and urged people not to drop their guard. “We are putting measures in place to handle any eventuality,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-positivity-rate-drops-in-mysuru-and-many-other-districts/articleshow/79006659.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials confirm tiger’s presence in Kothaguda||Mahabubabad: A tiger was said to have been spotted in Kothaguda mandal of Mahabubabad district. Villagers noticed a tiger’s pug marks and informed the forest officials on Monday. Locals claimed that the tiger had killed a cow belonging to one Pulusam Ramaiah of Jangamvanigudem in Kothaguda mandal. District Forest Officer (DFO) T Ravi Kiran said, “The presence of the tiger in Kothaguda forest is confirmed. But we are not sure if it had killed a cow.” According to the DFO, the forest staff found the pug marks of a tiger near near Apparajupally village in Gudur mandal of the district several days ago. They suspect that this is the same tiger which was spotted in Bhupalpally and then entered Peddapally district last month. Officials said it could be the same tiger moving in both the districts. It may be recalled here that the forest officials spotted the pug marks of a tigress in Nimmaguda forest in Pegadapally range under Mahadevpur division in Jayashankar-Bhupalpally district in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-confirm-tigers-presence-in-kothaguda/articleshow/79007853.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Teachers shouldn’t suffer in blame game: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Teachers cannot be allowed to suffer in the blame game between the state government and Delhi University’s colleges, Delhi High Court observed on Monday. The high court was hearing a plea challenging the decision to pay outstanding salaries to staffers from the Students Society Fund. The court asked Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) to make the concerned colleges, party to the petition. DUSU had challenged the October 16 order of Delhi government asking 12 colleges, which are fully funded by it, to pay salaries of over 1,500 staff — teaching and non-teaching — from the students fund. Justice Jyoti Singh pointed out that Delhi University is the guardian of all its colleges and there is some responsibility of the varsity to put things in order. “Colleges should be made a party. In this blame game, teachers cannot be allowed to suffer. Where should teachers go then? They should also say okay fine we are not working,” the court said, adding that it would be unfair to pass any order in the absence of representation from colleges. Delhi government had informed the high court that a coordinate bench of the court, on October 23, had stayed the decision asking the 12 colleges to pay outstanding salaries of staffers from the students’ fund. The court thereafter listed the matter for November 5 and said the interim order would continue till then. During the hearing, the varsity submitted that it supported the students’ petition and paying salaries from the SSF would amount to cheating the students. The high court had on October 23 issued notice to the Directorate of Higher Education, Delhi University and the state government and sought their replies on the petition by DUSU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-teachers-shouldnt-suffer-in-blame-game/articleshow/79007874.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Galwan martyr’s wifetakes over as dy collector||Hyderabad: Santoshi, wife of Galwan Valley martyr Col Bikkumalla Santosh Babu, assumed charge on Monday as deputy collector of Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district in her first posting. After taking over, Santoshi called on district collector Anitha Ramachandran. The government apointed her as a group I officer and her letter of employment was handed over to her personally by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at Pragati Bhavan on July 22. Secretary in CMO Smita Sabharwal said Santoshi would be undergoing the mandatory training as a deputy collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/galwan-martyrs-wifetakes-over-as-dy-collector/articleshow/79009036.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong writes to CJon flood relief||Hyderabad: The Congress wrote to the high court chief justice to look into the alleged irregularities in disbursement of aid to flood-hit families. Sravan Dasoju, party spokesperson, urged the CJ to consider the letter as PIL and register a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-writes-to-cjon-flood-relief/articleshow/79007859.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s ‘White House’ for friendly ties irrespective of US poll result||LUCKNOW: As the Republicans and Democrats cross swords in the US Presidential elections to make it to the White House – the officials residence of the President of the United States – residents of Lucknow’s own ‘White House’ in Mahanagar hope that Indo-US ties continues to thrive irrespective of the poll outcome. In the ongoing US elections, Republican Donald Trump is seeking re-election while his Democratic rival Joe Biden has been urging his countrymen to send him to the Oval Office. Lucknow’s ‘White House’ was constructed in 1996 by businessman Harishankar Agarwal. It is spread over an area of 12,000 square feet and has two statues of lions at its entrance. It is quite popular in the area and people often stop here to clicking selfies with the ‘White House’ nameplate. “My mother, Rekha Agarwal, wanted the house to be completely white and different from others, as every house in the colony had dual colour pattern with red-white being the most common. Our house became a landmark for local residents as it was the first in the vicinity to be in complete white paint, with white marble for floors brought from Rajasthan and lush green garden,” said Amit Agarwal, elder son Harishankar Agarwal. Amit is a businessman dealing with modular kitchens, while his younger brother Rohit Agarwal joined politics in 2016 and contested assembly election from Lucknow East constituency from Rashtriya Lok Dal. “Our White House inspired many in the vicinity, including MP Naresh Agrawal and others, to paint their houses white,” said Amit. “The house has tiles, walls and statues, all in white. In the garden, there is a marble statue of Lord Buddha, elephant and peacock,” he said. When asked as to who the family thinks will be the next occupant of White House in the US, Amit said, “We can’t predict that but we just want that whoever becomes the next President of the US, he should maintain harmonious relationship with India. We are looking forward to welcome a pro-India government in the United States.” More than decade ago, Amit, his wife and two children visited the US. “Some of our relatives in the US laughed at the idea of naming our residence as ‘White House’. My brother-in-law laughed at the idea, and felt amazed that we live in ‘White House’,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citys-white-house-for-friendly-ties-irrespective-of-us-poll-result/articleshow/79009631.cms||Arvind Chauhan
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||ED slaps Rs 222-cr fine on MBS Jewellers||Hyderabad: The Enforcement Directorate imposed a penalty of Rs 222 crore on MBS Jewellers Private Limited and Rs 22 crore on its director Sukesh Gupta in connection with an alleged Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) violation. The case pertains to diamond export to Hong Kong. The Enforcement Directorate said: “MBS Jewellers is guilty of contravention of the provisions of FEMA.” Sukesh Gupta is already an accused in the Rs 216-crore Metals and Minerals Trading Corporation-linked fraud. FEMA violation is a civil offence. Sukesh Gupta had claimed he had exported diamonds worth Rs 220 crore in 2013 to Link Fai Ltd based in Hong Kong. Sukesh earlier informed the court that he was yet to get money from Link Fai and he would clear the dues he had owed to Metals and Minerals Trading Corporation. TheED said Link Fai was already under scanner. Enforcement Directorate Mumbai said investigation into exports made by three diamond companies had revealed how Link Fai forged export documents and bills of entry. The ED said it is probing alleged links of Sukesh Gupta-owned companies with Hong Kong diamond trading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-slaps-rs-222-cr-fine-on-mbs-jewellers/articleshow/79009041.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangalore University gets Kreeda Poshaka Prashasthi||MANGALURU/BENGALURU: Mangalore University added a feather to its cap by receiving the Kreeda Poshaka Prashasthi from the department of youth empowerment and sports (DYES), in Bengaluru on Monday. Suvarna Football Abhivruddhi Samsthe, Mandya, and RV Deshpande Memorial Trust, Uttara Kannada, Sri Siddaganga Mutt Samsthe, Tumakuru, and Manik Sports Academy, Bidar, were the other recipients during 2018-19 and 2020-21 respectively. PS Yadapadithaya, vice-chancellor who received the award and a cheque for Rs 5 lakh on behalf of the university, told TOI that the university’s forward looking approach has put it on par with state and private universities across India when it comes to sports. “We were the first state university in Karnataka to formulate a sports policy that recognises and rewards our students for their performances at various levels,” Yadapadithaya said. “Constituent and affiliated colleges under the university have been our backbone when it comes to ensuring that the university has excelled in sports,” the VC said. Mangalore University to its credit has both Arjuna and Ekalavya awardees on its rolls. Kishore Kumar C K, dean, faculty of education, said the award is a morale booster for the physical education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mu-gets-kreeda-poshaka-prashasthi/articleshow/79006271.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyd tourist rescued at Goa beach||A 21-year-old tourist from Hyderabad was rescued by a Drishti lifeguard, Suvesh Keluskar, at Baga beach in North Goa on Monday. Sources at Drishti said that a group of four tourists ventured into the sea at around 3.30pm when one lost his footing. Receding tide pulled him further away from the shore and he began drifting into deeper waters. The lifeguard rushed into the water with a rescue tube. He managed to calm the tourist and secure him to the rescue tube and swim back to shore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-tourist-rescued-at-goa-beach/articleshow/79009047.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||Sameet Thakkar gets bail in city court, arrested by Mumbai police||Nagpur: A local court on Monday granted Sameet Thakkar bail in the case registered by Sitabuldi police for his tirade on social media against chief minister Uddhav Thackarey and his son Aditya. Moments after getting bail, Thakkar was taken into custody by VP Road police of Mumbai from the court premises itself.Apart from VP Road, a FIR is also lodged against Thakkar at BKC police station in Mumbai. He was taken to Mumbai by train.The local court had released Thakkar on a personal bond of Rs15,000 and cash surety of Rs10,000 while imposing other conditions, including a direction not to leave the country without permission.Thakkar was produced in court amid tight security. Sitabuldi police wanted to extend remand custody of Thakkar by another six days. He had been in custody since October 26 after his arrest from Rajkot in Gujarat two days before that.However, enlarging him on bail, the court observed that it was a settled principle of law that ‘bail cannot be rejected, as a mode of punishment’. The court also underlined the fact that the investigation was almost over. Considering the ongoing perils of the pandemic, the court said overcrowding in jails and importance of Covid distancing was also considered while granting bail.VP Road police, present on the premises, had hurriedly moved an application before the court seeking permission to take Thakkar into custody.Advocate Prakash Jaiswal, who represented Thakkar, said he had raised an objection against Mumbai police taking his client in custody without getting a Covid test done. The court then ordered Mumbai police to take custody of Thakkar only after observing all due medical precautions.Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) office-bearers and activists had staged a protest against the arrest of Thakkar at Akashwani Chowk on Sunday. It’s learnt BJYM staged similar protests in Mumbai and other places too. Thakkar’s elder brother Rishi has clarified that his younger brother Sameet was not part of any political outfit but just a pro-BJP person, who, along with the rest of the family, was a follower of RSS ideology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sameet-thakkar-gets-bail-in-city-court-arrested-by-mumbai-police/articleshow/79006645.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH claims Remdesivir cured 77% Covid-19 patients||Nagpur: The global ‘Solidarity Trial’ by WHO may have declared Remdesivir as ineffective for Covid-19 patients, but the picture in Vidarbha is different.A retrospective analysis done by the medicine department of Government Medical College and Hosptial (GMCH) has revealed that about 77% of the patients who were given Remdesivir recovered from moderate to severe level of Covid-19. TOI on October 18 had reported that most doctors in Vidarbha were in favour of Remdesivir use and continued to administer this drug irrespective of WHO trial results.Head of the GMCH medicine department Dr Prashant Patil shared the results of this comparative study of various compassionate drugs used in treatment of Covid-19 with TOI and also expressed need to have our own parameters and treatment protocol for Indian population rather than blindly following WHO results. “Remdesivir, used either individually or in combination with other drugs, brings good result for the Covid-19 patients. We have done a retrospective analysis of the patients who got admitted in the GMCH during last six months. Personal experience from doctors all across Vidarbha shows Remdesivir is effective,” said Dr Patil. GMCH Nagpur has treated more than 9,000 patients of Covid-19 till date, including above 6,500 from Nagpur district alone. The data collected for the study was of 1,900 patients admitted in GMCH with moderate and severe infection. Patients admitted in mild to moderate condition were given Favipiravir. Patients with moderate to severe infection were administered Remdesivir. Some patients, who did not responded to individual drugs, were given Remdesivir in combination with Favipiravir, Tocilizumab and both in some cases. In all, 898 patients were given Remdesivir either alone or in combination. Of these, 690 recovered and 208 died. Favipiravir was also effective in patients with mild to moderate level of infection. Total 953 patients were administered Favipiravir of which 863 recovered. For this analysis, doctors at GMCH concentrated on patients with moderate, severe and critical level of infection who required medicines of high grade only.Many patients who were asymptomatic or with mild symptoms recovered without specific antiviral drugs, and in last two months, a large number of patients recovered in home isolation without medicines. Effective with 77% results DrugTotal cases Discharge Deaths Recovery Remdesivir (moderate to severe patients)71054416677%Remdesivir + Favipiravir (severe patients)1481183080%Remdesivir + Tocilizumab (serious patients)32230972%Remdesivir + Favipiravir+ Tocilizumab (critical)85362.5%Remdesivir TOTAL (Alone or in combination)89869020877%Remdesivir!- a broad-spectrum antiviral medication- administered via injection into a vein- authorized for emergency use in the US, India, Singapore, etc. on Covid-19 patients- shortens the time taken to recover from infection||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-claims-remdesivir-cured-77-covid-19-patients/articleshow/79006692.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: E-voting option for government staff, old and quarantined||HYDERABAD: After deciding to introduce face recognition in 150 polling booths on an experimental basis in the forthpcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, the Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) said e-voting facility would be provided to the aged, thoseunder quarantine due to Covid-19 and government employees discharging polling duties. Based on outcome of the experimental e-voting system in the GHMC elections, the SEC would implement e-voting in the Warangal and Khammam municipal corporation elections too. The decision has been taken in the wake of expected second wave of Covid-19 cases.  State election commissioner P Partha Sarathi held a meeting with principal secretary of IT Jayesh Ranjan and Centre for Good Governance (CGG) representatives on e-voting on Monday. He directed the officials to prepare software and give a demo on how e-voting could be implemented in the GHMC elections without violating the norms. He also asked the IT and electronics department to give orders for implementing the e-voting system. “Generally, postal ballot and special booth for Covid-19 patients were organised in earlier elections. Now, we are experimenting with e-voting in the civic body elections,” a senior official of the SEC said. Meanwhile, Partha Sarathi held a meeting with commssion secretary Ashok Kumar and I&PR department officials on voterenrolment, bringing awareness among people on voting and Covid-19 preventive measures during polling. The commissioner said there was a need to improve polling percentage in the civic election as the voters turnout did not cross 45% in the previous elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/e-voting-option-for-govt-staff-old-and-quarantined/articleshow/79007916.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Students protest college ‘shutdown’ in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Students of GB Pant Government Engineering College (GBPEC) on Monday protested against Delhi government outside Vikas Bhawan alleging that their college’s name was not there in the list of institutions affiliated with GGSIP University. The students claimed this was an attempt to shut down their college, which would jeopardise their placement opportunities. IP University, however, said the colleges removed from the list would now probably be affiliated with Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology, but there was no confirmation on this from Delhi government. Admission counselling is due at IP University soon. The students, along with ABVP members, assembled outside Vikas Bhawan while on their way to the CM’s residence. Abhay Goyal, a third-year student, said, “The college has been affiliated with IP University since 2007. In 2017, we had protested demanding a better campus and facilities. The AAP government had promised to provide Rs 530 crore to develop the new campus. But last Friday, the college’s name was removed from IP University’s admission counselling list. This will impact third-year students as there may not be any campus placements because no company would want to hire people from a college that is shutting down.” ABVP Delhi unit head Siddharth Yadav said, “GBPEC is the only college in IP University that is teaching engineering for just Rs 40,000, but Delhi government is bent upon closing it.” However, IP University registrar Ravi Dadich told TOI, “We were told that the college would not be affiliated with our university. Hence, we removed its name from our admission counselling list.” Despite several attempts, Delhi government officials and deputy CM Manish Sisodia did not respond to TOI’s queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-protest-college-shutdown/articleshow/79007922.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||900 agri property registrations done through Dharani on first day||HYDERABAD: As many as 900 agriculture property registrations were done on the first day on Monday through Dharani, the integrated land web portal, which was launched by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao. While the first slot was booked in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district, the highest number of registrations were done in Rangareddy district. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar visited Shamshabad tahsildar-cum-registration office and handed over the first registered copies to the individual, who had made a gift deed on his wife’s name. Somesh Kumar said the chief minister would take a call on the date of launching non-agriculture property registrations soon. “The registration began at all 570 tahsildar offices in the districts. Some technical glitches came to our notice, which will be resolved within 2-3 days,” he said. Speaking to reporters, the CS said 946 members had paid money towards registration, while 888 members booked the slot for Monday. The slots can be booked at MeeSeva centres by paying Rs 200 . “The government will take a decision on pending mutations and setting up special and fast-track tribunals for pending cases in revenue courts shortly,” the CS said. He said Telangana introduced transparent way of property registrations for the first time in the country. “Four types of registrations -- sale deed, gift deed, succession and partition — will be done under Dharani. Those with smart phones can also book slot under Dharani. If any problem arises due to fingerprint, then registration can be done through Iris. Slot booking can also be done through bank payment. Computer-generated registration documents will be given to the citizens,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/900-agri-property-registrations-done-through-dharani-on-first-day/articleshow/79009087.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||Rural women set to get govt training||Lucknow: The UP government will be carrying out a special training programme for rural women from November 5 to November 19 in a bid to empower them and train them in the latest technology in farming. Currently, 70% women in the state are engaged in agricultural activities. A government spokesperson said that under the ongoing Mission Shakti programme, women were being imparted training in various fields and due to this, women in rural UP had left behind men in their participation in agricultural activities. “We have been imparting training to women self-help groups and food security groups,” he said. The official said that women were participating in organic farming, mushroom farming and sericulture. Along with this, they are also working with men in rearing goats and chicken and beekeeping. “To promote participation of women in agriculture, the agriculture department has set aside 30% of its budget for women related schemes under Mission Shakti,” he said. Under the second training module, the agriculture department will hold sessions on using modern technology equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rural-women-set-to-get-govt-training/articleshow/79009642.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||Home-grown herbs, self-made chyawanprash latest Covid trend||Nagpur: Lilies, roses and jasmine used to blossom in the household garden of Bhagyashre Kashikar in Ram Nagar some six months ago. Now, these have been replaced by gulvel, mandukparni, mint, and tulsi.“I got these herbs from a social organization promoting natural and ayurvedic herbs. They are quite helpful especially to avoid viral infections,” she said.Importance of maintaining immunity with the use of ayurvedic herbs and traditional medicines are in trend across the country during Covid-19 time. But in Nagpur, people are a step ahead. Apart from groups and individuals providing organically grown fruits, vegetables and medicines, the city has institutions providing package of ayurvedic herbs to the households for their kitchen garden and experts giving live demo on how to make chyawanprash.Recently, one such workshop on chyawanprash making was held at Aura Park, 40km away from city, where 30 individuals from different fields learned the ‘recipe’ of chyawanprash. Chyawanprash has been included in the national clinical management protocol based on ayurveda for Covid-19. “The chyawanprash making workshop was a success as all 30 seats were booked in advance,” said Ambarish Ghatate, organizer. The Aura Park is known for growing more than 400 herbs. All these herbs are plucked right in front of the participants, and entire process of making Chyawanprash is carried out in front of them. During the workshop, Dr Poonam Madan, MD in ‘Rasa Shastra’, shared the first-hand information about the medicinal plants which is used in chyawanprash and a scientific process of making. Excited with the response of the first workshop, the group is now planning to hold ‘Vana-Aushadhi Darshan’ next week. Similar workshop was held on October 31 at Aarogya Sadhana Kendra in Deendayal Nagar.Mukund Sherekar, who coordinated the event, said ancient concepts from ayurveda are getting global acceptance during the pandemic. “The concept of maintaining healthy body and mind and avoid falling ill at the first place is the base of Ayurveda. We are finding more people trying to grow herbs at home and staying healthy with their regular use,” he said. Several groups, including Manas Ayurveda, are providing a package of 14 very commonly used herbs that could be grown in kitchen gardens. Naturopath Dr Sadhana Kanoje who runs Natural Organic Food Process Marketing & Research Co-op Society Ltd, said that people are adopting organic way of life. “Pure and organic food grown in natural way itself is the best medicine against infections like Covid-19. At our society, we are providing organic spices, vegetables, fruits, cereals and flour. The demand has grown multifold in pandemic,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-grown-herbs-self-made-chyawanprash-latest-covid-trend/articleshow/79006664.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cyber fraudsters held for duping NGO worker of Rs 16 lakh||HYDERABAD: Three fraudsters, including a Nigerian, were arrested for duping a city-based NGO worker of Rs 16 lakh through gift parcel fraud. In another incident, cyber crime police arrested an offender from Visakhapatnam for providing bank account details to a SIM card swapping gang. Police arrested 40-year-old Nigerian, Nonso Chife Kelvin, 30-year-old Md Sirajuddeen, a cook, and 30-year-old Subhash Singh, a labourer. All the accused are residents of Delhi. On October 12, Sailaja, director of an NGO, involved in training women in teaching computer courses, lodged a complaint with cyber crime team of Cyberabad alleging that on September 28, she received a friend request on Facebook from James Donold of Germany. Introducing himself as a Berlin-based doctor, James appreciated Sailaja’s work and they soon started chatting on WhatsApp. On September 30, he sent a photo of a bag saying that it was a gift parcel. Further, James told Sailaja that the parcel was at IGI Airport in Delhi and she had to pay 370 pounds to collect it from there. On October 1, Sailaja received a phone call from a man posing as a customs official. She fell for the trap and transferred Rs 16.74 lakh into various bank accounts as processing fee. Based on the victim’s complaint, police arrested the three accused from Delhi.  During interrogation, Nonso told police that he and the other accused have been working for VIP alias Ejike of Nigeria for a commission. In another case, one T Chiranjeevi was arrested for providing bank accounts to fraudsters Sagar Mahato, Kumar Gourav Singh and Sanjay Agarwal of Kolkata so that they could transfer the fraudulently obtained amount from the victim’s bank account. The gang siphoned off Rs 35 lakh from the bank accounts of a city-based businessman. On October 1, Sailaja received a phone call from a man posing as a customs official. She fell for the trap and transferred Rs 16 lakh into various bank accounts as processing fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-fraudsters-held-for-duping-ngo-worker-of-rs-16l/articleshow/79009075.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||25k board Aapli Bus as NMC increases no. to 90||Nagpur: As announced earlier, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has increased the number of city buses to 90. It had resumed the service after seven months last Wednesday with 25 buses.The civic body had started the service on Hingna and Butibori routes to cater to industrial workers. No decision has been taken on Kamptee route as it is a loss-making one.The number of trips will be increased in phased manner up to second week of November depending on the response.The number of buses on Hingna route was 13 while that on Butibori route was 10. The number of trips on Pipla Fata to Hazaripahad was also increased. The new routes include Pardi-Jaitala, Kharbi-Jaitala, Sitabuldi-Khaparkheda, Besa-Gorewada, Sitabuldi-Pardi, Sitabuldi-Ordnance Factory Ambajhari, Sitabuldi-Nagsenvan, Sitabuldi-Godhani and Sitabuldi-Shesh Nagar.NMC transport department sources said in the first few days, only 4,000 to 5,000 people used the city buses. However, on Monday this number increased to about 25,000.The number of standard size buses that plied on Monday were 45, midi 39 and mini six. Thirty buses departed from Orange City depot, Patwardhan depot 30, Khapri depot 16 and Koradi depot 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/25k-board-aapli-bus-as-nmc-increases-no-to-90/articleshow/79006700.cms||Ashish Roy
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Coronavirus testing laboratory at RGIA||Hyderabad: The city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport has now launched an on-site Covid-19 testing laboratory within its premises, for all international passengers. The facility will benefit flyers, especially in the wake of the government order that makes it mandatory for all arriving international passengers to carry a RT-PCR negative report, conducted within 96 hours before departure, to skip institutional quarantine. "However, with the RT-PCR testing facility available at Hyderabad Airport, now passengers can also get themselves tested once they land in Hyderabad,” read a release issued by the GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. “GHIAL has collaborated with Mapmygenome, a Hyderabad-based National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories and ICMR certified agency to test Covid-19 samples. The lab is operational round the clock,” it added. The sample collection counters are available at immigration level (for arriving passengers) and forecourt of Interim International Departures Terminal (for departing passengers). Results of samples will be declared within three to four hours. “The laboratory is equipped with all necessary testing and sample collection facilities, in compliance with protocols established by ICMR and NABL. We are confident this will instill more confidence in air travel as the safest mode of transportation in the post pandemic world,” said Pradeep Panicker, CEO, GHIAL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coronavirus-testing-laboratory-at-rgia/articleshow/79007923.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Trichy||No difference between DMK and Congress: Sanjay Dutt||TRICHY: Ruling out any differences between the Congress and the DMK, secretary of the All India Congress committee (AICC) secretary and party Tamil Nadu in-charge Sanjay Dutt on Monday said that the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) would work towards ensuring a clean sweep by the DMK-led alliance in the forthcoming assembly elections. “I must tell you that there is a good bonding between the Congress and the DMK. It is a perfect understanding. We are all working to ensure the victory of the Secular Progressive Alliance,” Dutt said in Trichy. He was here to launch the ongoing signature campaign against Centre’s Farm Acts and also to hold a meeting with the district secretaries and functionaries about the preparation for the upcoming assembly elections in the state. Dutt said while DMK president M K Stalin was the first one to declare Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as the prime ministerial candidate in 2019 general election, the latter reciprocated it by saying that TNCC would work to make Stalin the chief minister. Replying to a question by reporters, Dutt said it was too early to discuss the seat allocation. “We are working in all seats to strengthen the alliance. Our main objective is to win in all the 234 seats contested by candidates of the Secular Progressive Alliance,” he said. He announced a state-wide demonstration of the TNCC on November 9 to protest against the rising crimes against women and dalits in the state under the rule of the AIADMK which is supported by the BJP. The Congress leader said a tractor rally being conducted by the Congress from November 1 to November 10 across the country was aimed at extending solidarity towards the farming community. Terming the Edappadi K Palaniswami government as a puppet of the BJP government at the Centre, Dutt said the AIADMK indirectly supported the BJP over the ‘anti-farmer’ bills. He also said that there has been a good response to the signature campaign against the farm bills, which was getting support not only from the farmers but also from the common man. Trichy urban district president, V Jawahar, state vice-president Suba Somu, former Trichy Corporation mayor V Sujatha and several others partcipated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-difference-between-dmk-and-congress-sanjay-dutt/articleshow/79009090.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn seeks police support to reign in festive crowd||TRICHY: The commercial hubs of the city are sizzling with festive crowds forgetting the Covid-19 pandemic. Though the crowds in the commercial streets are not on a par with the usual festival crowd, the gathering is alarming in view of the pandemic situation. With Trichy Corporation struggling to reign in the crowd, it sought the city police and other stakeholders to chip in to regulate the crowds to avoid Covid-19 to peak again. All the commercial hubs of Trichy city including NSB Road, Nandhikoil Street and West Boulevard Road remain overcrowded with people making a beeline to the textile showrooms for Diwali purchase. Social distancing has become a mockery with hundreds of people passing through the narrow commercial streets and elevator cabins of textile outlets. Among the crowd, only 60-70% of the people wear face masks. Even though the textile showrooms follow the safety measures to an extent, they acknowledge that a section of customers is still failing to obey the safety measures. “Although the crowd is low compared to previous years, roadside shops occupy a significant space, making the roads congested. Authorities should spread awareness among people to purchase goods from shops near their houses,” K P Rangaprasad, joint secretary, Satta Panchayat Iyakkam, said. Officials claimed that people are not listening to their sensitisation. “People lack self-responsibility. It is highly difficult for us to penalise all the offenders since other issues such as waste collection management are cropping up now,” a senior corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-seeks-police-support-to-reign-in-festive-crowd/articleshow/79009094.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Trichy||Trichy police insist Diwali shoppers to wear face masks to enter bazaar areas||TRICHY: With Diwali round the corner, the Trichy city police has insisted shoppers to compulsory wear face masks to enter the main bazaar areas around NSB road in Trichy. Taking control of the NSB Road and adjacent areas by setting up temporary police posts, commissioner of police, Trichy J Loganathan said that people must wear face masks and maintain social distancing during shopping. “Traders are roping in volunteers to check if all the people entering the bazaar are wearing masks,” he told reporters after inaugurating the outpost at NSB Road and Teppakulam junction on Monday. “Besides wearing masks, the vendors should tell the customers to comply with the safety measures,” he said. Police have also set up 127 surveillance cameras in the areas around NSB Road including from Chathiram bus stand up to Anna statue to cover public movement. Surveillance cameras of commercial establishments have also been tilted towards the road as an additional measure. The surveillance system will be in place round-the-clock from November 2 to 14. Police have also installed watch towers in eight places – NSB Road–Big Bazaar street junction, near Poompuhar showroom at Singarathoppu, near Kareem Store on Big Bazaar street, Main Guard Gate, near Ragunath Hotel at Teppakulam junction, Sandhukadai at Big Bazaar street, Anjuman bazaar in Gandhi market–Thanjavur Road junction and market arch on Big Bazaar street. In addition to regular police personnel, about 100 policemen in plainclothes have also been deployed. Police will also conduct vehicle checks at Nandhi Kovil junction, Chinnakadai street–Babu Road junction, Big Bazaar street – Thaila Silks Kilethar road junction and opposite Poompuhar showroom at Singarathoppu. Parking facilities for two-wheelers have been established at the corporation ground between Holy Cross College and Banana Leaf restaurant, Yaanikulam ground and Bishop Heber school ground. For four-wheelers, the parking lots have been set up at railway grounds on Old Good Shed road, Fort railway station vehicle parking lot and Bishop Heber school grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-insist-diwali-shoppers-to-wear-face-masks-to-enter-bazaar-areas/articleshow/79009092.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||Ex-MP Annu Tandon joins SP, hails Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: A day before the bypoll in Unnao’s Bangarmau assembly constituency, former Congress MP from Unnao Annu Tandon joined Samajwadi Party on Monday. The move is being seen as a blow to Congress. Welcoming Tandon, SP president Akhilesh Yadav recollected an instance when he was campaigning in Unnao and people told him that SP had worked hard but Annu Tandon would win. “When people talk to political leaders, they generally tend to say what leader like to hear. Initially, farmers praised the SP candidate but when I insisted for honest response, they said Annu Tandon will win and she did,” Akhilesh recalled. Interacting with media at SP headquarters, Tandon said she switched over from Congress because she had seen the development work carried out by Akhilesh Yadav as chief minister. “No other CM can do what he has done,” she said. “A lot has been written on why I have left Congress. But the only reason why I have joined Samajwadi Party is Akhilesh Yadav ji himself. During his stint as UP CM, I met him as an MP for some issue related to my constituency and saw his way of functioning from close quarters. I believe it was impossible to do anything more on the development front than what he did,” she said, after announcing her decision to join SP along with about 150 Congress leaders from Unnao. “The condition in which the state is right now, there is an urgent need to have a progressive, visionary and educated leader like Akhilesh to counter communal forces. I see all the qualities in Akhilesh ji that I wanted in my leader,” she said. Talking about her association with Congress, Tandon said she was in the party for 15 years and got all the attention from Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. “After 2019, I realised Akhilesh was a leader to follow but being emotional, I could not leave Congress. However, in the last one year I was deprived of opportunities to work in the Congress and it was abundantly clear that the party is heading nowhere. So, I decided to put aside my emotional preferences and join the SP,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-mp-annu-tandon-joins-sp-hails-akhilesh/articleshow/79009646.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Testing blues hit Covid-19 fight; 922 +ve||Hyderabad: Continuing with a weekend dip in tests over the past few months, Covid-19 testing in the state was at a low of 25,643 on Monday resulting in 922 positive cases. Seven more persons died, raising the toll to 1348 and the total number of cases in the state to 2,40,970. The case fatality rate (CFR) which is the measure of the percentage of patients dying due to the virus as compared to the patients getting infected, has declined further. The CFR in the state is currently 0.55 percent, as against the country average of 1.5 percent. The recovery rate (percentage of patients recovering as compared to patients getting infected) is 92 percent in the state, as compared to 91 percent in the country. So far, a total of 2,21,992 patients have recovered in the state, while 17,630 patients are under treatment. The total number of samples tested so far in the state has crossed 43.5 lakh, and the samples tested per million population to 1,16,854. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/testing-blues-hit-covid-19-fight-922-ve/articleshow/79007920.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Extend voter registration date, says BJP||Hyderabad: State BJP unit on Monday gave representation to the chief electoral officer of Telangana to extend the time for enrollment of graduate voters from two MLC elections in Nalgonda- Warangal- Khammam and Hyderabad- Rangareddy- Mahbubangar constituencies.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/extend-voter-registration-date-says-bjp/articleshow/79009091.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll a test for all parties, top leaders||HYDERABAD: As the Dubbak legislative assembly constituency goes to bypoll on Tuesday, the Telangana chief electoral officer (CEO) has revealed that only 70 out of 1,628 postal ballots have been issued to Covid-19 patients. Around two lakh voters are enrolled to cast their vote. “We have completed all preparation for elections. Following the Covid-19 preventive guidelines, there will be a polling station for every 1,000 voters. We have also set up 54 additional polling stations, taking the total number to 315,” CEO Shashank Goel told TOI. “We have issued 1,628 postal ballots apart from service voters. Postal ballots have been issued for those who are 80 years of age or above, specially-abled and Covid-19 patients,” added Goel. Officials said that around 1,180 ballot units, 550 control units and 580 VVPATS have been deployed for polling. To ensure that no untoward incident takes place during the voting process, four companies of Central Paramilitary Forces have been deployed. ECI has appointed general observer, police and expenditure observers for monitoring elections. “We have made arrangements to live stream the voting process from 104 polling stations. Another 98 stations will see videographers who will record the proceedings. Around 113 polling stations will have unmanned cameras installed. We can check the video footage of these in future if any complaints arise,” said Goel. “Additional electronic voting machines (EVM) have also been put in place, in case we encounter any technical issued,” said Goel, adding that all voters are required to wear masks and maintain physical distancing, both inside and outside the polling booths. “We have made markings on the ground outside polling stations. Voters and parties are required to co-operate with the election machinery for free, fair, peaceful and safe elections,” Goel said. Regarding violation of moral code of conduct, the CEO said: “We have sent out enquiry report to ECI. There are no major violations. Most of them are doubts and apprehension, and have been resolved at returning officer level.” Around 23 candidates are in fray for Dubbak seat, where a triangular fight among Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party is expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/70-covid-19-patients-enrolles-for-postal-ballot/articleshow/79007942.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Five city researchers among top 200 in the world||Hyderabad: Five city researchers have made it to the top 200 ranks across the world in their fields, as per data complied by a professor from Stanford University. The rankings were published in journal PLOS Biology recently. Among the top was B Yegnanarayana, who was ranked 29 in speech-language pathology and audiology and is associated with International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIITH). Making it to the list were three faculty members from University of Hyderabad (UoH), including MNV Prasad of the School of Life Science, who was ranked 116 in the field of environmental sciences; Ashwini Nangia of School of Chemistry, ranked 124th in the field of Inorganic and Nuclear Chemistry; and Pramod K Nayar of the department of English ranked 189, in the field of Literary Studies. From the Indian Institute of Technology, Mathukumalli Vidyasagar bagged a rank of 154 in industrial engineering and automation. Sparsh Mittal, who has been ranked 107 in computer hardware and architecture, was formerly with IITH, but is now with Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee. The data was studied and complied by a team at Stanford University led by Dr John PA Loannidis. The database ranks over 100,000 top scientists of the world. For analyses indicators, SCOPUS data provided by Elsevier was used with data freeze as of May 6 this year. While Prasad is an honorary professor at UoH after superannuation, Nangia is associated with UoH and is presently serving as director of National Chemical Laboratory in Pune, and Pramod K Nayar is also the director, Institution of Eminence at UoH. Incidentally, 15 UoH faculty members figure in the top two per cent of Indian researchers according to this study. In some cases, such as Literary Studies, Nayar is the only academic in the world’s top 200. Prof Appa Rao Podile, UoH vice-chancellor, said: “I am delighted but not really surprised at the wonderful rankings and citation record of our faculty. UoH clearly demonstrates excellence across multiple disciplines as can be seen from this data, with concentrations of high-impact work in physics, chemistry, life sciences, computer science and English. UoH has been at the forefront of research in multiple disciplines and the faculty listed here are all high performers. I see them as setting the high standards for other UoH faculty to be inspired by.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-city-researchers-among-top-200-in-the-world/articleshow/79007931.cms||Uttara Varma
November 3, 2020||Trichy||Dengue cases up in Nagai dist, prevention drives launched||NAGAPATTINAM: The number of dengue cases has been increasing in Nagapattinam district as total 45 dengue cases were reported in October this year. The total number of dengue cases reported since January this year in the district was 169. Meanwhile, the district health department has launched necessary prevention drives to control the disease, officials said. Total of 316 dengue cases were reported in Nagapattinam district in 2019. According to officials from the health department, 85 cases were recorded in October last year, but this year, 45 cases were recorded in October. Out of 685 people tested at the lab in Nagapattinam government hospital in the last year, 85 patients turned dengue positive. While only 400 tests were done this year, of them 45 tested positive, district epidemiologist Dr Liyakath Ali said. “Since September, October, November and December are the months where more people are likely to be affected by dengue, we have asked our field workers to test simultaneously for dengue along with Covid-19 to treat them early to avoid fatality,” Dr Ali added. When compared to other areas, Nagapattinam municipality has more dengue cases, he said. “In order to take swift measures to counter dengue, we have 33 rapid response teams for 11 blocks - each block has 3 teams to detect fever cases and 450 dengue breeding checkers. We are conducting a mass cleaning process across the district. Every Thursday, all the government buildings are sanitized. We closely monitor gated communities, scrap shops, hotels, terrace of all the government and private buildings,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dengue-cases-up-in-nagai-dist-prevention-drives-launched/articleshow/79009101.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 3, 2020||Trichy||Farmers urge Centre to extend waiver on loans||TRICHY: Farmers in the delta districts have condemned the Union ministry’s announcement that the crop and tractor loans are not eligible to get ex-gratia relief for the interest-on-interest waiver. Leaders of the farming community wonder as to why the agriculture loan is not eligible for the relief, while housing, consumer, and credit card loans are eligible for the scheme. According to the Union finance ministry, crop and tractor loans coming under the agriculture and allied activities loans are not part of the eight segments or classes eligible under the scheme of granting ex-gratia payment of the difference between compound interest and simple interest. However, the relief will cover MSME loans, education, housing, consumer durable loans, credit card dues, automobile and personal loans to professionals and consumption loans. Condemning the announcement, district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to the CPI, P S Masilamani said that based on a prayer put forth before the Supreme Court, the court directed the banks to extend a discount on the compound interest. Meanwhile, the announcement from the finance ministry came as a shock to the farming community, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-urge-centre-to-extend-waiver-on-loans/articleshow/79009102.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Trichy||Decline in cases make Trichy city containment zone free after 5 months||TRICHY: For the first time in five months, Trichy city has become free from having a Covid-19 containment zone, with the last active ones in Cauvery Nagar in Ariyamangalam and Periya Setti street in Srirangam zones, having been removed. Authorities said that establishing a containment zone did not arise owing to the sustained decline in fresh positive cases and absence of clusters. Over the past few days, Trichy has been recording less than 50 fresh cases daily. “Fresh cases are down and even the few positive cases surface in a scattered manner. The hotspots are still under our watch,” a senior official with the Trichy Corporation said. The Trichy Corporation in April established the first containment zone in areas comprising Bhima Nagar, Alwarthope, Palakkarai, Thillai Nagar and Woraiyur. By the end of May, the city became containment free for a short while, as the norms were revised. However, by early July, as more positive cases were registered, the strategy was intensified by establishing a containment zone even if three or more positive cases were reported from a particular vicinity. Due to the changes, the city saw the maximum number of containment zones in July and August with the number ranging between 21 and 42. However, with fresh infections declining since September, a corresponding plunge was witnessed in active containment zones too, the number dropped to 10 in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/decline-in-cases-make-trichy-city-containment-zone-free-after-5-mths/articleshow/79009099.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Body stuffed in bed box: Man, wife arrested for killing niece in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Ten days after the body of a 17-year-old girl was found stuffed in a bed box in Nand Nagri of northeast Delhi, her uncle and aunt were arrested for the murder. Police said the man used to make repeated sexual advances towards the girl, which would result in frequent fights between the couple. Following one such fight, the couple allegedly killed the girl. The accused have been identified as 51-year-old Vakeel Poddar and his 45-year-old wife, both natives of Madhepura in Bihar. According to police, on October 25, staff at the Nand Nagri police station received an information that a girl’s body was found in a house in Tahirpur’s Leprosy Colony Complex where she lived with her uncle and aunt. Deputy commissioner of police (Northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said it was found during the probe that Poddar was missing since October 23. “Detailed questioning of neighbours and relatives revealed that Poddar was sexually inclined towards the girl. He was later arrested from Madhepura,” Surya said. Poddar confessed that he had recently tried to make a physical relationship with the girl. When his wife came to know about it and confronted him, they had a quarrel. “On October 23, Poddar’s wife asked him to get rid of the girl. While she kept watch, Poddar bludgeoned her to death,” the DCP said. Watch Delhi couple kills niece to hide rape attempt, arrested||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/body-stuffed-in-bed-box-man-wife-arrested-for-killing-niece/articleshow/79007991.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP: ‘Decision on Hathras DM’s fate by November 25’||LUCKNOW: Reserving its order in Hathras case, a Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Monday asked the state government why no action was taken against district magistrate Pravin Kumar Laxkar, as per its previous direction, for fairness of probe and justice. Responding to this, the state government assured the bench to take a decision in his regard by November 25. The bench also directed the CBI to lay before it the status of investigation in the matter on the next date. The bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Rajan Roy was hearing the PIL which the court had earlier registered suo motu in the case related to alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old girl, especially the issue of her cremation. On Monday, the bench asked the state government as to what decision was taken about the DM in view of the previous direction. At this, the state counsel defended Laxkar, saying that he was not at fault. “The SP, too, was suspended due to poor handling of the probe in the alleged gang rape case and not on cremation issue," he said. At this, the bench said that on the previous date it had asked the state if it was just to retain the DM in Hathras for the purpose of impartiality and transparency? Reminding about the previous hearing to the state government, the bench said that to this, the state had assured it to do the needful in DM’s matter to meet its concern . Before this, the state government, DM Laxkar and the then SP Vikrant Veer filed their affidavits before the court. Additional advocate general VK Sahi informed the bench that the state’s affidavit contained a draft of the guidelines to be followed in Hathras-like situation, so far as cremation was concerned. In their affidavits, the DM the and then SP repeated their stand that the decision to cremate the victim in night was taken keeping in the existing situation in a bona fide manner and that kerosene was not used in the cremation. ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar, home secretary Tarun Gauba, the then SP Vikrant Veer were present in the court at the time of the hearing on Monday. The court also asked CBI counsel Anurag Singh to furnish the status of probe by next date. The court was also apprised that the compensation amount was transferred in the bank account of the victim’s father. The bench was also informed that the victim's family had been given security by the CRPF. Senior Supreme Court lawyer Siddhartha Luthara appeared for the accused and requested the court not to make any observation in its orders that may affect the investigation. Meanwhile, the victim’s lawyer Seema Kushwaha reiterated her demand to transfer the trial out of UP. Central government’s assistant solicitor general SP Raju and amicus curie JN Mathur also appeared to address the bench. After completing its Monday’s hearing , the bench reserved its order to be dictated in the chamber. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/decision-on-hathras-dms-fate-by-nov-25/articleshow/79009650.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Priest from Hyderabad held for misbehaving with minor||HYDERABAD: Ch Venkateshwar Sharma, a 46-year-old priest from Malkajgiri, was arrested under POCSO Act for misbehaving with a minor girl at a place of worship on Monday. On Sunday, the accused told the minor’s father to send her to the place of worship for prayers. The minor’s father sent her along with his co-sister. After they reached the place, Venkateshwar sent the woman accompanying the minor to another place of worship nearby. “When the minor was alone with him, the accused turned off the lights, fed her a tablet and misbehaved with her. He asked her to revisit the place alone at night with a towel and spare clothes. He also told the girl not to inform anyone about visiting him,” Malkajgiri inspector B Jagadeeshwar Rao said. After returning home, the girl started vomiting and her family took her to a hospital. When she told them about what had happened, her kin lodged a police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/priest-held-for-misbehaving-with-minor/articleshow/79007927.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nashik||Action to be taken against auto drivers for flouting rules||Nashik: The city traffic police have decided to take action against autorickshaw drivers, who are caught carrying more passengers in the vehicle than the permissible number. Officials of the city’s traffic police branch said with the rising rush in the city especially during the ongoing festive season and the number Covid cases reducing, autorickshaw drivers are making passengers sit on the front seat as well. “We will be taking strict action against autorickshaw drivers if found violating the rule,” said Sitaram Gaikwad, the assistant commissioner of police of the city’s traffic branch. Last year, the traffic police had come down heavily on the drivers. However, after the outbreak of Covid-19, a large number of autorickshaws did not operate in the city for more than three to four months following strict restrictions. However, life is returning to normalcy, the drivers have also resumed their services. Gaikwad said traffic police will also be taking action against people not wearing helmets while in two-wheelers, motorists not wearing a seat-belt, jumping traffic signal. Police officials said while there will not be a specific drive, whoever is seen breaking traffic rules will be challaned. Among other things, the traffic police have also decided to take action against illegal parking on the roads. With the absence of towing vans, motorists park their vehicles anywhere they want which leads to traffic snarls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/action-to-be-taken-against-auto-drivers-for-flouting-rules/articleshow/79005645.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 3, 2020||Trichy||Farmers to hold nationwide protest against farm bills||THANJAVUR: All India farmers coordinating committee has decided to protest against the farm bills that were passed recently in both the houses of Parliament. The association will conduct the protest on November 26 and 27 across the state. Based on the decisions taken at a meeting of the national working committee of the all India farmers associations and various other farmers' associations held in Delhi recently, it was decided to oppose the three farm laws enacted in the Parliament and the proposed electricity amendment bill 2020 brought by the BJP government. As per the resolution taken at the meeting, the first phase of protest would be an all-India road blockade which is scheduled on November 5 and a rally towards Delhi named ‘Delhi Chalo’ on November 26 and 27. Demonstrations will be held in front of the head post office in Thanjavur on November 5 and in front of the central government offices across the state demanding to revoke the agricultural laws and opposing the electricity amendment bill 2020. The functionaries of the meeting urged the members of the associations as well as the farming community to take part in the protest. All India farmers coordinating committee district coordinator NV Kannan and committee members Kaliyappan, Arunachalam, Nazir, Venkatesh were present the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-to-hold-nationwide-protest-against-farm-bills/articleshow/79009104.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Chennai||Why not upgrade govt schools instead of questionable reservation?||By N L Rajah The governor has granted assent to the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on a Preferential Basis to Students of Government Schools Act, 2020. Nevertheless, if we are to pride ourselves on being a democracy, we need to question whether such an initiative of the government is constitutionally and legally valid. Good intentions do not translate into constitutionally acceptable legislation. Read the entire story on TOI+Why we need better govt schools, not reservation for students||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-not-upgrade-govt-schools-instead-of-questionable-reservation/articleshow/79006741.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||Directors discharged, but ED attaches Rs 163 crore assets of Nagpur company||NAGPUR: The enforcement directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs169 crore of Topworth Urja and Metals Limited (TUML), which has a steel unit and captive power plant at Umred. The company’s earlier directors are being tried by a CBI court in the coal block allocation cases of UPA regime. The present directors were discharged in the case. The company had been allotted three coal blocks — Marki-Mangli II, III and VI in Yavatmal district. At the time of allocation, the company was known as Shree Virangana Steels. The ED said in a press release that the assets have been attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) 2002. The ED action was based on a FIR registered by the CBI against the company and its directors. This is a typical case of corporate riddle. The coal blocks were originally allocated to Shri Virangana Steels, where three businessmen from Nagpur — Anil Kumar Saxena, Manoj Maheshwari and Anand Sarda — were the directors. They later sold the shares to a new trio — Surendra Lodha, SK Mitra and AK Nevatia. Initially, all the six were named in the CBI FIR and charged with getting the blocks allocated through misrepresentation. In September 2020, however, the CBI court discharged the current directors — Lodha, Mitra and Nevatia — on the grounds that the three were not part of the company when the allocation process happened. They were discharged as the alleged conspiracy had already happened before they took over, observed the court. Management sources in Topworth say that just because it’s the same company, no matter in new hands, the ED has gone ahead and attached the assets. This is a provisional attachment. The ED press note says that Shree Virangana Steels, now known as Topworth Urja and Metals (TUML), through misrepresentation got allotment of the three blocks. It further says 9.21 lakh metric tonne (MT) of coal was extracted illegally from 2011-12 to 2014-15 leading to an illegal gain of Rs52.50 crore. There was also a benefit of Rs20.40 crore on account of sale of excess power to the grid from the captive plant. The company generated share capital by issuing equity and preference shares on high premium benefiting to the extent of Rs96.72 crore. This sums up to Rs169 crore, which translates into agriculture land, plant and machinery and building, which has been attached. A management source said the case of misrepresentation for allocation does not remain because the CBI court itself has discharged the present directors. The coal extraction was done on record by paying the royalty and there was nothing clandestine about sale of excess power too. At present, a power plant owned by the company is shut and a steel plant is working.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/directors-discharged-but-ed-attaches-rs163cr-assets-of-ngp-co/articleshow/79026316.cms||Shishir Arya
November 3, 2020||Trichy||Theatres gearing up to reopen from November 10||TRICHY: With the state government’s nod to reopen theatres with 50% occupancy from November 10, theatres across Trichy are gearing up for the reopening. Theatre owners say that 50% occupancy wouldn't hamper as average occupancy was little over 20% last year. Theatres are busy cleaning the premises besides covering alternate seats to ensure that the guidelines are followed. There are totally three multiplexes in Trichy which includes 14 air-conditioned halls and five non air-conditioned halls with a total seating capacity of 1,455. Theatres are planning to distribute masks to the viewers who come without one. Sanitizers will be kept in the premises. However, viewers will not be charged for the additional arrangements. Asked on the possible implications on the income of theatres, joint secretary of Tamil Nadu Theatres Association S Srither said that average occupancy of single-screen theatres was a mere 14% and 24% for the multiplexes. People have the fear of Covid-19 so we are not expecting good turnover, he said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/theatres-gearing-up-to-reopen-from-nov-10/articleshow/79009108.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Volunteers ‘repair’ bad road||Hyderabad: Volunteers cleared up the Miyapur-Bachupally road of gravel after appeals to officials fell on deaf ears. The volunteers cleared the sand and filled up the potholes. Memes on social media show them fishing in the pools of water stagnant on the road. “There are a lot of potholes, gravel, water-logging spots on the Bachupalli-Miyapur Road. I have been following up with officials to address our concerns, but all efforts have been in vain,” said Vinay Vangala, one of the people involved in cleaning up the road. Stating that it was dangerous travelling on this road, Sai Teja said, “I have personally come close to skidding here due to the loose gravel. Several accidents have taken place due to potholes. We swept the road and filled the potholes with some sand so that no untoward incident takes place.” Srinivas Bellam, one of the volunteers, said, “For months we have been trying to get the attention of the officials but nothing changed on this stretch of road. Hence, we thought of taking things into our hands to avoid accidents. We are ready do it again.” Hyderabad Road Development Corporation executive official, said to be in-charge of the road, did not respond to calls or mail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/volunteers-repair-bad-road/articleshow/79007938.cms||Uttara Varma
November 3, 2020||Trichy||AIADMK compromising interests of state: M K Stalin||TRICHY: Health minister C Vijayabaskar is escaping from various corruption charges with help of the ruling BJP at the centre and in return the AIADMK government had been compromising the interests of the state, said DMK president M K Stalin on Monday. He was addressing party workers in Pudukottai through video conferencing after unveiling the statue of former chief minister M Karunanidhi at the DMK office in Pudukottai. Vijaya Baskar was accused of allegedly bribing voters during the RK Nagar bypoll, which is another reason for AIADMK’s fear, he said. Recalling the income tax raids, he said that the minister’s involvement in various corruptions will come out. The list of corruption charges against other ministers continue. The DMK is waging a war to retrieve the state from such corrupt people, said Stalin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-compromising-interests-of-state-stalin/articleshow/79009105.cms||---
November 3, 2020||---||BJP, JD(U) in damage-control mode amid talk of alleged rift||PATNA: Amid speculation about the two main NDA allies in Bihar drifting apart mid-election, the BJP and JD(U) brass on Monday scurried to plug coordination gaps between the two parties from the top to the bottom of the hierarchy. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal’s recent comment on "lack of coordination" in the NDA, followed by deputy CM Sushil Modi publicly warning a JD(U) MP for working against the official nominee at a rally on Saturday, had triggered a strong buzz about differences between the NDA allies over campaign coordination. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on Bihar polls“I will say that the coordination between the two parties has been restored down to the grassroots level in every assembly constituency where the polling is due. The candidate of a party – JD(U) or BJP, or any other party in the NDA – has to take the initiative to invite functionaries from the other parties,” state JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. “Both parties have realised they need each other, and going solo without taking the other party’s rank and file into confidence will be to their mutual disadvantage,” Prasad said, almost conceding that there were issues between the allies. Addressing a rally in Pirpainti assembly constituency in Bhagalpur district on Saturday, the deputy CM had accused the local JD(U) MP Ajay Mandal of working against not only the BJP candidate, Lalan Kumar Paswan, but also harming the interests of the coalition. Pirpainti will vote on Tuesday. Sushil Modi went to the extent of saying that BJP’s former MLA Aman Paswan, who was denied ticket this time, had been propped up as an Independent candidate with funds. Watch Bihar polls 2020: BJP, JD(U) in damage-control mode amid talk of alleged rift||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-jdu-in-damage-control-mode-amid-talk-of-alleged-rift/articleshow/79009978.cms||Abhay Singh
November 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Liquor prices cut to curb deaths due to sanitizer ingestion: Andhra Pradesh deputy CM||TIRUPATI: Refuting allegations of opposition parties that the government lowered liquor rates to boost sales, deputy chief minister K Narayana Swamy has clarified that the move is intended to bring down deaths linked to sanitizer consumption. Narayana Swamy, who also holds the excise and prohibition portfolio, reiterated that the government is committed to enforce total prohibition in the state. “The government is committed to complete prohibition in a phased manner. The opposition is misleading people by levelling false charges. After the YSRC came to power, the number of liquor stores have been brought down by 33% (from 4,380 to 2,934). Similarly, the number of bars were cut down by 40 per cent. In the next three years, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy will fulfil his promise of enforcing complete prohibition in his first five-year rule,” he told TOI. Swamy said opposition parties also had issues when the government tried to discourage liquor consumption by imposing over 75% additional retail excise tax on all types of alcoholic beverages. “Today, when the government is trying to bring down sanitizer consumption-linked deaths and plug smuggling of liquor from neighbouring states by rationalising liquor prices, the opposition parties are again feeling uncomfortable. This clearly shows their double standards,” the deputy CM added. When asked how the government would compensate for falling revenues for the excise department, Narayana Swamy said though revenue from liquor sale is gradually dwindling, the government is exploring options of alternate sources of revenue. “The state has a long coastline and huge potential for investment opportunities. Andhra Pradesh State Development Corporation has also been established recently with the mandate of planning, funding and financing social and economic development projects. Unlike the previous regime, this government is not at all inclined to raise revenues by turning public into liquor addicts,” the deputy CM said. Swamy alleged that the excise department was a money spinner for the previous government which is why belt shops mushroomed in every village corner. “Today, belt shops and permit room culture are a thing of the past as we continue to crack the whip against those trying to get people addicted to alcohol. Women in the state will tell you how happy they are as their husbands and other family members are slowly moving away from alcohol because of the steps taken by the government,” the deputy chief minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/liquor-prices-cut-to-curb-deaths-due-to-sanitizer-ingestion-dy-cm/articleshow/79007305.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Kudla gearing up to host state executive committee meeting of state unit of BJP||MANGALURU: Nearly two decades after it hosted the state executive committee meeting, the Dakshina Kannada district unit of BJP is gearing up to host top state and national leaders at the same event scheduled to be held at T V Raman Pai convention hall here on November 5. In all, 120 key party leaders including chief minister, union ministers — Pralhad Joshi and D V Sadananda Gowda and national general secretary B L Santhosh — will attend. In all, 16 committees have been set up for the smooth conduct of the event, noted Sudarshan Moodbidri, president of DK district unit of BJP. CM B S Yediyurappa will inaugurate the event and Nalin Kumar Kateel, DK MP, also president of state unit of BJP will chair the same as well as several strategy sessions planned as part of the daylong event. Santhosh is expected to be part of the valedictory event as per schedule, he said. The party’s executive committee has been meeting virtually every month on account of the prevalent pandemic. This meeting will be special in that it will be the first physical meeting of the leaders in the lockdown phase. It is also keeping in sync with Nalin’s vision that each district unit hosts the meeting every month, a move that will ensure the state leaders travel to all parts of the state and chalk up plans for organisational preparedness, he said. The national leaders will brief the state leadership about various plans and schemes of the Union government, which in turn will be transmitted down the line to the booth level. Since the CM will be attending the same, development issues pertaining to the region as well as the state could well figure in this meeting, he said. This is the first meeting that Nalin will chair in his home district since he reconstituted the state team in July, Sudarshan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kudla-gearing-up-to-host-state-executive-committee-meeting-of-state-unit-of-bjp/articleshow/79006128.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hubballi||AAP to hold protest at KIADB office in Dharwad on November 7||HUBBALLI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has planned to launch an agitation in Dharwad condemning the government’s anti-industry policies. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Aap district president Santosh Nargund said that the government’s initiatives are turning to be a curse for the MSMEs in the state. “We conducted a survey by approaching young and experienced entrepreneurs of Hubballi-Dharwad and studied their problems. We found that government’s slogan of ‘Ease of doing’ is ignoring MSME entrepreneurs. We focused on Gamanagatti industrial area, which is also called as Green Tech Park and learnt that government had failed in providing basic amenities to entrepreneurs,” he said. Other leaders Vikas Soppin and Shashikumar Sullad alleged that lack of policy to hand over the land to entrepreneurs is affecting entrepreneurs but has empowered the government and KIADB to extort money from beneficiaries. “The government has been chanting the ‘single window’ mantra but entrepreneurs are still forced to approach 24 government departments and corporations to get different licences,” they added. They asserted that all findings of the survey will be shared with the government so that it can take appropriate measures. “Meanwhile, we are also holding an agitation at KIADB office on Hubballi-Dharwad road on November 7. Various organisations have extended their support to the agitation” they said. Ananth Kumar Bharatiya, Naveen Singh Rajput, Daniel Icose and others were present in the press meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/aap-to-hold-protest-at-kiadb-office-on-nov-7/articleshow/79006509.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Disha cops to probe Varalakshmi murder||VISAKHAPATNAM: Home minister Mekathoti Sucharita on Monday said the investigation into the murder of Intermediate student Varalakshmi on October 31 has been assigned to a Disha police station. It will be recalled that one Akhil Sai, jilted by Varalakshmi, had slit the throat of the Inter student at an isolated place in Srinagar in Vizag city on Saturday, killing her on the spot. The accused was arrested within three hours of the crime. The home minister visited the victim’s family in Sundarayya colony in Gajuwaka and handed over Rs 10 lakh ex-gratia announced by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. The minister promised Varalakshmi’s family that the government would see that the accused was punished. A charge sheet will be filed in a week, she said. “We will try to see that this kind of incident is not repeated and we will not spare anyone who is involved in atrocities against women,” Sucharita said. The home minister said the police will also focus on persons who helped the accused. The minister was accompanied by Disha Act special officer Krutika Shukla, IPS officer Dipika Patil and Visakha DCP Aishwarya Rastogi. Meanwhile, TDP Mahila Wing state president Vangalapudi Anitha and other TDP activists staged a sit-in in front of the Visakhapatnam police commissionerate on Monday, calling for stringent action against the accused. Protesters sat in front of the commissionerate after the police did not allow them to enter the CP’s office to submit a memorandum. Vangalapudi Anitha also wrote a letter to the commissioner of police, taking serious objection to the manner in which the murder of Varalakshmi was being ignored without proper investigation. TDP leaders said this was the third attack on women within a span of three weeks. The earlier attacks on women took place in Vijayawada, in which a 24-year-old nurse was set on fire on October 12 and a 20-year-old engineering student was stabbed to death on October 15. In her letter, Anitha said in spite of an increase in attacks on women, the government has been turning a blind eye to women’s safety. Proactive steps are necessary and stern action should be taken against the perpetrators, the letter said, adding that only timely punishments would deter future attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/varalakshmi-murder-case-handed-over-to-disha-ps/articleshow/79007329.cms||Siva G
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||CSWs start enrolling for state government dole||Nagpur: Rani (name changed), who is in her fifties, exhausted all her savings for a breast cancer surgery in July this year. With her first chemotherapy session due in a week’s time, she desperately needs Rs6,000. From Odisha, Rani, who has spent nearly three decades at the city’s Ganga Jamuna red light area, has already signed the state government’s consent form. This is a declaration that she is into sex trade. Rani is now entitled to the state government’s dole of Rs5,000 per month. The grant for female sex workers (FSWs) will come from the state’s Covid relief fund. Those with children will get another Rs2,500 “I’ll be able get the chemotherapy done with the grant,” she says. “Times have been tough after Covid. Client visits have stopped. We are surviving on donated rations,” says her sister Rashmi (name changed). The little money earned goes into subsistence and sending it to the family in the village. In our youth, we settled between Rs10 and Rs20. It’s better these days at Rs100 or 200,” says an ageing Rashmi. It’s a month since the women at Ganga Jamuna have begun venturing out, say social workers. Wearing masks as they wait for clients at their doorsteps, some are offering themselves for a price lower than the minimum wage for unskilled workers in the state. A little ahead at the Indian Red Cross Society’s (IRCS) office, project director Hemlata Lohave is busy filling up details in a form. Her assistant directs a female sex worker (FSW) to get a copy of her Aadhar card and a couple of photographs and sign the consent form. Last month, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued guidelines on women’s rights in the context of Covid, including FSWs. The guildines call for states to provide FSWs assistance and recognize them as informal workers providing them access to welfare schemes. The supreme court, too, has issued directions over aid to the FSWs while hearing the plea about their condition. In Nagpur, the work began a fortnight ago on these lines in coordination with the district collectorate, says Lohave. Leaders of sex workers’ organisaiton say the NHRC guidelines is the first step towards getting their work official recognition. In Delhi, Ayesha Rai, coordinator of national network of sex workers (NNSW), says Maharashtra is the first state to start financial assistance. The model needs to adopted elsewhere too. She demanded that the coordination committees should have FSWs at the helm so that they can identify the right beneficiary. Back in Nagpur, Lohave says they are getting formalities done on a war footing. Apart from those in the business, the women who have been rehabilitated are also eligible for the grant. So far, 100 odd forms have been submitted at the collectorate. According to the IRSC data, there are 1500 FSWs in Ganga Jamuna. The amount can be paid in cash or deposited in bank accounts. “Getting a consent will not be difficult. Those from other places can also apply. The women openly accept that they are in this profession,” says Lohave. Out of the 1500 women, over 1000 have Aadhar cards and 260 odd also have permanent account number (PAN) cards. There are 450 with bank accounts out of which around 150 are active. Most of them save money in cash only. “The biggest hassle is getting bank accounts opened for depositing the grant. The banks should come forward and open Jandhan accounts for them. If cash has to be given, a proper system should be put in place,” she says. In the smelly narrow lanes of Ganga Jamuna, every woman had the same story — not being able to pay rent or fend for their children. Groups of men roam around gazing at them. “They (the men) just stand and look, but are scared to come in due to Covid,” say the women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/csws-start-enrolling-for-state-government-dole/articleshow/79008606.cms||Shishir Arya
November 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Kochi gets unified transport body, but Bengaluru lags||BENGALURU: While Bengaluru’s long-pending dream for a Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA) is yet to be realised, Kochi on Sunday formed a similar body to build an integrated, multi-model urban transport system. With different government agencies handling different responsibilities, public transport users in the city are often at the receiving end due to poor coordination between them. Buses are operated by BMTC but shelters are built by BBMP. Metro stations are constructed by BMRCL but few are connected to nearby bus and railway stations. BBMP, BDA and highways authority are in-charge of roads, footpaths, skywalks and flyovers, but police are responsible for traffic management. Besides ensuring multiple modes of urban commute are in sync, a unified transport agency will also facilitate operation of a common mobility card. UMTA, with financial and legislative authority, will also be responsible for regulating fares for public transport and cab/bike aggregators. The Kerala government on Sunday set up Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) after a law was notified in December 2019. KMTA will be responsible for drawing up plans pertaining to Metro rail, buses, autorickshaws, boat service, feeder buses, taxies, walkways and cycling tracks. There are plans to extend the common mobility card, Kochi-1, to autos and taxis. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day address had urged for multi-modal connectivity and infrastructure, stressing on better coordination among government agencies. Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, Union ministry of housing and urban affairs had said: “Most big cities in the world have MTA...Kochi is one of the pioneers in this citizen-centric development.” While Kochi with a population of about 30 lakh has made headway, Bengaluru with over 1.2 crore people is way behind. Proposals to bring agencies such as BBMP, BMTC, BMRCL, BDA, BWSSB traffic police, NHAI and transport department under one umbrella have been gathering dust. Last year, chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced they will set up a Bengaluru Mobility Management Authority under the urban development department. Governments led by Siddaramaiah and HD Kumaraswamy had also announced similar proposals but they never took off. The government had in 2007 constituted the Bengaluru Metropolitan Land Transport Authority with the same objectives. However, BMLTA, which was chaired by the chief secretary, has since become defunct. Sources say a tussle between the transport department and UDD is delaying the formation of UMTA. Transport department fears it will lose power if UMTA is formed. Rakesh Singh, additional chief secretary, UDD, said: “The file is now with the law department. It will be placed in the cabinet soon after getting approval from the CM.” Sources say the draft UMTA bill will have to be placed before the assembly. According to the Centre’s 2017 Metro policy, formation of UMTA and a comprehensive mobility plan (CMP) are mandatory for planning Metro rail systems. Though a CMP was recently prepared, UMTA is yet to take shape. The Centre is yet to approve the Outer Ring Road-KIA Metro corridor. QUOTE Such an authority enables promotion of multi-modal public transport and ensures seamless integration. It facilitates creation of urban transport fund for sustainable development. I strongly recommend all states and big cities aspiring to have mass rapid transit to get the legal framework notified and set up MTA and UTF Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, Union ministry of housing and urban affairs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kochi-gets-unified-transport-body-but-bluru-lags/articleshow/79006969.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Techie, architect held for selling ecstasy, LSD bought via darknet||BENGALURU: Sleuths from the Anti Narcotic Wing of Central Crime Branch (CCB) have arrested 10 men, including a city- based techie and a US-returned architect, on drug-peddling charges and recovered contraband worth Rs 90 lakh from them. The accused are Sarthak Arya, 31, an HSR Layout resident employed as a techie with an international investment firm whose office is in Manyata Tech Park; P Nitin, 24, of Vijayanagar who recently returned from the US after discontinuing a master’s programme in architecture; S Kartik Gowda, 25, an engineer from JC Nagar working with a private firm; photo studio owner Zaman Hanzamina, 25, of Ulsoor; businessman Mohammed Ali Tuzari, 29, of HBR Layout; cloth merchants Amal Baiju, 20, of Changanassery in Kerala, Fenix D Souza, from Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala and Shon Shazi, 22, of Marathahalli; private firm employee Palaguda Venkat Varun and Nigerian national Sunny O Innocent. Police said prime accused Sarthak imported drugs from Belgium and other foreign countries and sold them to customers. “The other accused helped transport the drugs to the users. The accused had a wide network, including students and IT professionals who were regular customers,” police commissioner Kamal Pant said. They contacted international peddlers through the darknet, police added. Pant said the arrests were made after cops raided eight different places, including residences of the accused. “We recovered 560 MDMA pills, 12 grams of MDMA crystals, 10 grams of coacine, 660 LSD papers and 12 mobile phones from them,” he added. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said the accused were on their radar for more than three months. “Customs officers had tipped us off that synthetic drugs were being smuggled into the city from different countries. Investigations revealed the accused functioned through a website known as Empire Market using the browser Onion Router (TOR),” he said. LSD papers and MDMA pills were seized from Sarthak’s house, which was raided on Friday. “An international courier had reached Sarthak and cops were on alert. A close relative of Sarthak, who is with the Indian Air Force, called CCB police saying he was innocent. However, we have evidence against him and the court will decide the rest,” said an officer from CCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/techie-among-10-held-for-peddling-drugs-bought-via-darknet/articleshow/79006545.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Flood control: SWDs to get 109 more sensors in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Close on the heels of heavy rain inundating several pockets of Bengaluru, BBMP has decided to augment its preparedness for such incidents by installing 109 more sensors to monitor water level in stormwater drains (SWDs). At present, 26 locations in major drains have sensors installed by Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSDMC) and IISc. Officials claim they are working efficiently. Every time the water level in an SWD reaches 75% of its capacity, the sensor beeps and an alert is sent to officials involved in flood-mitigation operations. During the flooding in Gurudutta Layout and Dattatreya Nagar near Hosakerehalli on October 24, the sensors installed in the SWD alerted the BBMP control room and the KSNDMC team immediately informed the Civil Defence Quick Response Team (CD-QRT). “The SWD breached at 4.06pm and in a few hours, the CD-QRT was at the spot rescuing residents. The sensors were our biggest support,” said a senior BBMP official. However, by the time the team reached the spot, it was too late as about 200 homes were flooded and hundreds of vehicles were washed away. BBMP officials said the CD-QRT team is based in Mahadevapura and by the time it reached, the worst was over. “We have special coordination with State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), which work under the home department. During such situations, the home department has to inform them and the necessary action will be taken,” said N Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner. Prasad said a 540-member quick response team is being readied by the government and BBMP is paying the salaries of these personnel. The Palike will spend Rs 20 crore on the team in a year, he added. “Over three years, we have identified 211 flood-prone areas, of which 58 are sensitive and 153 moderately sensitive,” said Shubha Avinash, scientific officer, hydrology division, KSNDMC. “The sensor sends an alert every 15 minutes. Initially, it was sent only to KSNDMC, but later was connected to the chief engineer, SWDs and the BBMP control room,” added Shubha. Now, a special SMS system has been put in place to ensure everyone is informed the minute the water level rises above the danger mark. “People think the biggest problem is debris piling up in drains, but that is not the case. Their capacity is very less and the rain pattern has also changed over the years, leading to flooding,” said a BBMP official. “The sensors will be installed soon but it’s the social responsibility of citizens which plays a vital role in monitoring flooding,” said Shubha, adding: “Vandalism has been the biggest concern. People tend to steal the solar panel and sensors, which is not right. Though BBMP is providing all support, people too need to become responsible to prevent flooding.” Yelahanka, Bellandur among new locations GRPS-enabled, solar-power based sensors with ultrasonic technology were installed at 26 locations in SWDs for the first time on June 24, 2019. The places include Magadi Road Metro Station, Gali Anjaneya Temple, Shantinagar bus stand, Mathikere, Horamavu and Silk Board junction among others. New locations where the 109 sensors are coming up are Yelahanka lake outlet, Kaggadasapura lake outlet, Arekere, Bellandur outlet, Kodigehalli and CV Raman Nagar among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/flood-control-swds-to-get-109-more-sensors/articleshow/79006536.cms||Nithya Mandyam
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Journalist donates liver, gives second life to 8-year-old daughter||NAGPUR: A father donated part of his liver to his 8-year-old year-old daughter, saving her from the life-threatening Wilson’s disease. This was the first paediatric liver transplant surgery performed in Central India, and first organ transplant performed after complete stoppage of transplants over the last eight months due to Covid-19 conditions. Dr Rahul Saxena of New Era Hospital, who led the team of doctors that performed this surgery, said liver transplant was the only option to save 8-year-old Grimsha Shambharkar, and her father Yogendra, a journalist, was the best donor. “A slice of the father’s liver was transplanted in Grimsha in a 12-hour long surgery on Dussehra night. Paediatric transplants are technically challenging because of low patient weight and small blood vessels and biliary ducts in children,” said Dr Saxena. The doctors had to prepare for this surgery on state-of-the-art 3D models of the donor liver. While Yogendra was discharged from hospital on the 5th day after transplant, Grimsha is recovering fast and will be allowed to go home very soon, said doctors. Not only was the disease and the surgery rare, but the crowd funding to raise money for the surgery was also special in this case. Various NGOs raised online appeals apart from Grimsha’s father Yogendra’s online appeals. NGOs and individuals came up with grants and donations. Sensing the financial constraints of the family, New Era hospital also waived off a significant amount of their charges, which reduced the total expense of surgery. Transplant anaesthetists Dr Sahil Bansal and Dr Dinesh Babu maintained the child under anaesthesia during the surgery. Post operation, she was managed in transplant ICU by hospital’s paediatric team including Dr Swapnil Bhisikar, Dr Vivek Charde, Dr Amol Kokas and supported by gastroenterologist Dr Shashank Wanjari. This entire exercise was coordinated by directors Dr Anand Sancheti, Dr Nilesh Agarwal and Dr Nidheesh Mishra. Living donation is possible because the liver is the only organ that can regenerate itself. An adult can donate a portion of their liver to a child or another adult. According to doctors, adult-to-child living-donor liver transplants have helped diminish waiting list deaths, giving a second chance at life to children in need of transplant. Earlier, patients from Central India had to go to metropolitan cities for liver transplants. In 2018, Dr Saxena performed the first liver transplant at New Era Hospital, Nagpur. Since then, his team has done around 30 transplants till date. This has come as a big boon to patients from Central India, including Vidarbha, MP, Chhattisgarh and Telangana. While the surgery was successful and Grimsha is recovering fast, the expenses on post-surgery medicines also run into lakhs of rupees. The Shambharkar family is trying their level best to raise funds for this. Philanthropists can still help them online on various platforms. Yogendra Shambharkar can be contacted on 9422147732. Donors can visit https://milaap.org/fundraisers/support-grimsha-yogendra-shambharkar for further details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/journalist-donates-liver-gives-2nd-life-to-8-year-old-daughter/articleshow/79008683.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 3, 2020||Nashik||Police seize weapons worth Rs 31,000||Nashik: City police on Monday raided the house of a 32-year-old man on Makhmalabad Link Road where they recovered eight swords, two choppers and another sharp weapon — all worth Rs 31,000. The suspect, Pranil Pathade, was later produced before a court that has remanded him to 14-day of police custody. According to sources, crime branch police inspector Anand Wagh received information about the collection of weapons at Pathade’s house following which the raid was planned. “An offence under the Arms Act has been registered against the suspect. During initial probe, Pathade claimed that he had just collected the weapons and had no motive of using them. However, we will get more details from him during the remand,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-seize-weapons-worth-rs-31000/articleshow/79005661.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to revive 17 endangered rivers||LUCKNOW: After restoring the flow and course of two rivers with mythological connect, Tamsa in Ayodhya and Mandakini in Chitrakoot, the state government is making efforts to revive 17 more rivers whose existence is under threat. The total length of these rivers, which flow through at least 35 districts in the state, is around 3,900km. Many of these rivers like Tedhi in Bahraich and Gonda, Sasur Khaderi in Fatehpur, Kaushambi and Prayagraj, and Manorama in Gonda and Basti districts are not very well known. “Encroachment on river banks, reduced ecological flow, siltation and pollution have made these rivers go almost extinct,” a forest department official said. Forest department and the officials of districts concerned are carrying out plantation on the banks of rivers to conserve them. The ecological flow of the rivers in at least 1,041km out of the total 3,900km has been restored. Acording to officials, at least 22 lakh trees have been planted till now in catchment areas of the rivers. To maintain the ecological flow, nullahs and ponds in the vicinity of rivers are also being revived. “More than 900 ponds and 500 nullahs have been restored in over three dozen districts through which these rivers flow,” an official said. The effort has also generated over 25 lakh man days as the government is getting the work executed under MGNREGA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-revive-17-endangered-rivers/articleshow/79009655.cms||Neha Shukla
November 3, 2020||Nashik||350 cops defeatCovid, join duty||Nashik: More than 350 Nashik city police personnel, including officers, have defeated Covid-19 and resumed duty soon after recovery over the past four to five months, attending to distress calls, preventing crime and taking action against criminals. The first Covid-positive case was detected in the city police on June 11, following which the infection started spreading and more than 400 police personnel tested positive while seven died in around five months. “Duty comes first. It is even more important for police to maintain law and order in society. Unfortunately, it took me more than a month to resume duty after recovery because my husband too had caught the infection,” said a woman police constable. “I thank CP Deepak Pandey for setting up a Covid facility for personnel soon after taking charge of Nashik. Policemen no more need to to go through the stress after testing positive. Even private hospitals used to dread admitting Covid patients, which is not the case now,” she said. A senior police inspector, who recently recovered from the infection, said Covid police personnel know they can catch the infection any time as they come in contact with a large number of people. “The same had happened with me, but my senior as well as junior colleagues were very supportive. After one-and-a-half months, I am back on the field arranging bandobast for the governor’s visit,” said the officer. DCP Pournima Chaugule said that mmong those who have caught the infection and recovered are beat-marshals and traffic police who have to raid places, catch criminals, frisk them and do patrolling. They are working as if they never had Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/350-cops-defeatcovid-join-duty/articleshow/79005693.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 3, 2020||Kozhikode||Not against reservation for EWS, says Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulema||KOZHIKODE: Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulema has clarified that it is not against reservation for the economically-weaker sections (EWS) among forward castes. Inaugurating Rights Declaration conference on Monday, Samastha president Syed Muhammad Jifri Muthukoya Thangal said this policy has been made amply clear by the organization many times. “Each section has their own rights and efforts should be made by governments to accomplish them through legislation. Samastha has no objection in allowing reservation for forward castes. We also have the opinion that EWS should be given reservation,” he said. But, Samastha is against robbing the reservation allotted for backward classes and then giving quota to forward classes, he said, adding that losing reservation rights is a painful thing for backward classes and it needs to be resisted. Thangal said Samastha’s delegation will meet the chief minister to express its concerns. Sunni Yuvajana Sangam state secretary Abdusamad Pookkottoor asked the government to institute a survey in Kerala to find the actual representation of each community in government jobs. “There is a false campaign that Muslims have amassed wealth and resources. The survey will bring out the truth,” he said. Presenting data, he said Muslims are poorly represented in government jobs in India. “There is no Muslim chief secretary in all states and UTs. The case of DGPs is the same. Representation of Muslims in Railways is less than 5%; that too in lower levels. The total percentage of Muslims in all-India services is 3%. There are no Muslims in the board of governors in premier educational institutions including IIMs, IITs and AIIMS,” he said. Samastha general secretary K Alikutty Musaliyar said backward classes should get rights in a decent way. Samastha leaders reiterated that the issue of reservation is not a communal one, but an issue affecting the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/not-against-reservation-for-ews-says-samastha/articleshow/79005699.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||28,000 illegal structures on Hyderabad nalas||HYDERABAD: When water gushed into several colonies of Ramanthapur in 2017, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) had identified 109 buildings — 16 residential apartments and 93 independent houses — in the full tank level (FTL) and buffer zone of Pedda Cheruvu. After three years, the situation has remained the same. None of the structures has been removed. For that matter, the situation is same in several lakes of the city. About 28,000 unauthorised structures have been identified on major nalas (stormwater drains) in the city. Of them, the civic body has come to a conclusion that 1,001 structures in 47 critical bottlenecks are to be removed immediately to avoid inundation during heavy rains or flashfloods. But till October this year, there has been no major drive or attempt to modernise the nalas and remove the encroachments except taking up the removal of bottlenecks at some isolated places or in the lakes, especially after court orders or due to specific complaints. GHMC engineering and town planning officials blame lack of support from the political parties — ruling or opposition — in bringing down illegal structures in lakes and nalas. They say nearly half a dozen reports have been prepared and dozens of meetings held since August 2000 when Hyderabad had witnessed unprecedented rains. They also recall compensation packages were prepared in 2017, but nothing has happened since then. As per official records, 558 structures out of 2,094 identified on four major nalas and three other secondary nalas have been razed under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM). Under the scheme, the erstwhile MCH spent Rs 158 crore as against the available funds of Rs 260 crore. “When I was in-charge of east zone (towards LB Nagar), I made an effort to remove encroachments in one of the lakes in LB Nagar area. But, I was stopped by local politicians, including a legislator, from going ahead with the drive. The then LB Nagar municipal commissioner was also helpless. Officials should be supported by the ruling parties for taking up such drives,” V Narender Rao, former GHMC additional chief city planner says. Officials blame local MLAs, corporators and even ministers coming in the way of removal of encroachments on nalas and near lakes. “There have been instances when locals, instigated by the corporators, attacked our officers in the Old City and Langar Houz areas when they had gone to remove illegal structures on nalas,” a retired city planner told TOI. With elections to the GHMC round the corner, politicians and corporators would not dare to support the officials for taking up this drive, S Chandrasekhar, an RTI activist and founder-member of India Against Corruption, said. A GHMC superintending engineer said officials are often in a fix. “Politicians promise support to the officials’ drive during meetings. But, they change their tack in front of the public. This puts the officials in an embarrassing position,” he said. When contacted, public health department engineer-in-chief R Dhan Singh, who had worked in GHMC earlier, said: “Urban flooding is not uncommon and a universal phenomenon. You cannot have a city with zero flooding situation. No drainage system can handle unprecedented rainfall like the one we had in October. Remodelling of nalas can only minimise the flooding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nala-fied-helpless-officials-look-the-other-way/articleshow/79007993.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Discoms to hand-hold residents to boost rooftop solar power in Delhi||NEW DELHI: To boost rooftop solar installations in the city, BSES discoms are launching “Solarise Safdarjung” and “Solarise Karkardooma” community-based demand aggregation programmes, which will be expanded if the pilot projects are successful. The programme is an extension of BSES Solar City Initiative and brings residents welfare associations (RWAs) and solar vendors on a common platform, a BSES spokesman said. Adapting to the new Covid normal, a 100% virtual campaign will be carried out, he said. The areas under BSES Rajdhani and BSES Yamuna already have over 2,800 such installations with an installed load of above 90 Megawatts-peak. “The programmes were launched in virtual ceremonies in presence of the RWAs from these two areas. This initiative is pursuant to a statement of intent signed by US Department of State and India’s Ministry of New and Renewable Energy under US-India Clean Energy Finance Task Force on November 15, 2018,” he said. The initiative aims to maximise the utilisation of solar rooftop potential in a targeted area. It seeks to create a market-based approach for scaling up rooftop solar utilities. The 10-week drive will involve reaching out to consumers, resolving their queries, organising consultations with installers and financiers, and interactive testimonials from owners of existing facilities. “The campaign is adopting innovative concepts like Solar Ambassadors and Solar Champions. Youth is being specifically targeted and reached out in the online campaign as ‘influencers’. Though domestic consumers and residential societies are the prime targets, commercial and institutional consumers can also participate in the initiative,” he said. The arrangement is helping consumers reduce their electricity bills while helping the environment. Consumers are being offered premium, customised and non-subsidised solar solutions, including imported components, easy financing options and extended warranty. The consumer’s excess solar power is bought by the discoms at the rates specified by Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/discoms-to-hand-hold-residents-to-boost-rooftop-solar-power/articleshow/79008048.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Chennai||MTR needs a plan for eco-conservation||CHENNAI: The Supreme Court has given a fillip to conservation efforts in the Western Ghats by upholding the validity of a Tamil Nadu government notification declaring an elephant corridor on Sigur plateau. The apex court also formed a three-member panel to hear claims of land and resort owners. Environmentalists feel the next step should be to draft a zonal master plan (ZMP) for Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) eco-sensitive zone, where Sigur plateau falls, and form a monitoring committee. The ZMP, prepared with inputs from departments like the pollution control board, PWD, tourism and local bodies besides the forest department, would be a ready reckoner of types of forests, man-made structures, water bodies, agricultural land and settlements if any, and provide a road map for conservation. Last December, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change declared adjoining areas, up to 33.65km, around the MTR as an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ). The notification states that the state shall prepare a ZMP by December 2021, but there are no signs of the work. Environmentalists feel formation of the ZMP would ensure proper enforcement of the SC order. "Tamil Nadu should prepare and notify the ZMP immediately,’’ said B J Krishnan, former member of the Western Ghats ecology expert panel and a senior advocate who has appeared for environmental protection in multiple cases. The issue dates back to 2009 and 2011 when the Madras high court hearing a public interest litigation alleging obstructionsa in the elephant corridor in the Sigur plateau ordered that all illegal resorts and unauthorised electricity connections and solar fencing in the identified corridors be removed. Private land falling under the corridor should also be taken over by the government. In July 2011, a final map of the elephant corridor falling within Sholur, Masinagudi, Hullathi and Kadanadu villages in Sigur plateau of the Nilgiris district was notified by then Nilgiris collector Archana Patnaik. As per the notification, resort owners and other private landowners should hand over their land to the collector and would receive compensation. Those living in government poramboke land would be given alternative dwelling sites or compensation as per the Forest Dwellers Act, 2006. The land and resort owners plea was turned down by the court. Subsequently the landowners went to the Supreme Court in 2011. Krishnan points out, "MTR eco-sensitive zone is a statutory authority constituted under Section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act 1986. The elephant corridor is part of the zone and there should be harmony in implementing both notifications." The SC also ordered for a three-member committee to inquire into land, building and title disputes. Krishnan said the monitoring committee should be constituted before the court-appointed committee begins its study. Environmentalists point out and officials admit that the ZMP would regulate development activities in eco-sensitive zones. Whatever regulations are drafted in the ZMP would be binding on the elephant corridor, said K K Kaushal, field director, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, but said the government is yet to form the ZMP and the monitoring committee. Nationally too, there have been delays. According to environmentalist Bandu Dhotre, who is fighting for ZMPs in Maharashtra, between 2017 and 2019 final notifications for 14 protected areas were issued, but the monitoring committee has not been formed nor has work begun on drafting of the ZMP. J Innocent Divya, Nilgiris collector, said the court orders would be upheld. "There is no clear plan for land use in the Nilgiris, except for Ooty and Coonoor municipalities". "We need a master plan for the entire hill district, given the fragile ecosystem. However, the ZMP for MTR will help us regulate the land use pattern," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mtr-needs-a-plan-for-eco-conservation/articleshow/79006787.cms||Shantha Thyagarajan
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak byelections: With stakes high, political parties on edge on polling day||HYDERABAD: With the curtains drawn on political campaigning in Dubbak constituency, the three major parties are bound to spend anxious moments until the results of the bypoll is declared as the voters’ mood has remained largely undecided. While the TRS is wary of cross-voting, BJP is concerned about votes of the elderly and women. Anti-incumbency votes have been on Congress’ mind. During the days leading up to the polls, all parties tried to put their best foot forward. TRS had roped in activists and leaders from Siddipet and Sircilla. BJP was no less as it invited rank and file from the party and even RSS activists from Kamareddy, Nizamabad and Mahbubnagar to hop on the electioneering bandwagon. The Congress left no stone unturned in Mirdoddi and Toguta mandals, where a triangular war is unlikely. In their bid to impress the voters, the parties continued road shows, live sessions on social media and press conferences until the last minute. “Each party is observing the others to formulate a counter strategy. The silent activities were to be carried before the election day,” said a resident of the Dubbak mandal, which is the biggest in the constituency. All the parties had focussed on the urban areas of the constituency and rural areas did not see the hustle-bustle of campaigning in the last days. However, village level activists were given the task to gauge the voters’ mood until the polling. War of words had also remained sharp this time, with many leaders challenging each other in the name of tendering resignations. Chief minister KCR had offered to resign if his words were proven wrong while Congress MP Revanth Reddy had dared TRS to show development in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-stakes-high-political-parties-on-edge-on-polling-day/articleshow/79008013.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR targets BJP, says India needs KCR||Hyderabad: Targeting BJP government at the Centre for the second consecutive day on Monday, TRS working president KT Rama Rao said all categories of people were disillusioned with the Modi government. Setting off fresh speculations, he also said the country is looking forward to the leadership of chief minister K Chandrsekhar Rao. “The entire nation is looking at the strong and able regional party leader like Chandrasekhar Rao at the Centre,” KTR said while addressing party workers after BJP leader Ravula Sridhar Reddy joined the TRS on Monday.“Both Congress and BJP have failed the country,” he said. Sridhar Reddy said Telangana is progressing under the leadership of KCR and KTR. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-targets-bjp-says-india-needs-kcr/articleshow/79008054.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 3, 2020||Bareilly||Trader found hanging on temple campus||Pilibhit: A 45-year-old trader, Rajkumar Dewal, a resident of Kesari Singh locality under Pilibhit Kotwali police station, was found hanging on Ma Yashwantatri temple campus on Monday morning. The deceased had opened a temporary shop there on the occasion of Navratra. A probe is on. Deceased's wife, Mithilesh, said her husband had come home for dinner on Sunday night and gone back to the shop thereafter. Their son found him hanging in the shop when he went to deliver tea on Monday morning, she said. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, said no written complaint had been lodged with police in the matter. They were awaiting his autopsy report and further action would be based on it, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/trader-found-hanging-on-temple-campus/articleshow/79002804.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||More gated communities join no-cracker campaign, appeal for diya-only Diwali||KOLKATA: More apartment complexes have joined the ‘cracker-free Diwali’ campaign this year. While the state Pollution Control Board has decided to bring ahead its pre-Kali Puja meet with housing society secretaries to ensure people don’t start buying crackers and have the excuse to burst them, the management of several gated communities have already put their ‘no-cracker’ diktats in place. On Monday, more residential welfare societies issued advisories for a smoke-free Diwali. Lake District on Kadapara off EM Bypass asked its residents to “practise total restraint” with regards to bursting firecrackers. “Let us be responsible and pledge for a smokeless Kali Puja and Diwali and restrict it to diyas only,” its advisory read. Secretary of Lake District Residents’ Welfare Association Sanjay Agarwal said, “All our residents have been asked to abstain from bursting any kind of cracker, including sparklers and the less noisy ones.” The complex with 382 flats and over 1,000 residents has quite a few Covid patients at present. The advisory asked residents to be sensitive to Covid patients and those who have recovered as the disease weakens the lungs considerably and the slightest carelessness can worsen their condition. Particles emitted by the crackers may act as aerosol and spread the contagion and infect even healthy people. Residents of Nabakailash on Ballygunge Circular Road, too, have decided to go cracker-free this time. “We have appealed everyone to refrain from lighting fireworks to spare neighbouring Covid patients and senior citizens in our building any kind of distress,” said Janet Gasper Chowdhury, secretary, Nabakailash. She added, “Our high-rise is tightly packed among several four- or five-storey buildings. I hope the residents realize that lighting fireworks on their terraces, which may be convenient for them, will directly affect our residents.” Meanwhile, in the next two or three days, West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB), will be addressing secretaries of around 300 housing societies to urge them to ensure that no firecracker is lit this time. Before Kali Puja every year, WBPCB convenes a meeting with representatives of gated communities to stress the firecracker norms. “This time, there will be a video conference where doctors will explain how rising pollution can aggravate the condition of the Covid patients,” WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-gated-communities-join-no-cracker-campaign-appeal-for-diya-only-diwali/articleshow/79006807.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||SC to hear KMDA plea for Chhath at Lake on November 16||KOLKATA: The Supreme Court will hear Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority’s (KMDA) appeal against the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) refusal to modify its 2016 order banning any social or religious celebration at Rabindra Sarobar on November 16. The NGT order also restricted Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, an ecologically sensitive and a biodiversity hotspot known as the lung of south Kolkata. This year, Chhath Puja will be celebrated on November 20. KMDA tried to comply with the NGT order in 2019, but failed to prevent the hordes of devotees, mostly women, from entering the Lake premises. KMDA, therefore, urged the NGT to modify its earlier order to allow the celebration with some riders. But NGT summarily dismissed the plea, forcing the KMDA to move the apex court. The NGT ban was issued to stop the pollution of the water, which would irreversibly damage the ecology of the area. In its appeal to the NGT and the apex court, KMDA mentioned that many women, children and elderly people come to Rabindra Sarobar to observe the Chhath rituals and that it was difficult to forcibly prevent them. Considering the public sentiment, KMDA wanted a revision of the order. In 2019, KMDA came up with alternative arrangements for devotees to celebrate the festival at water bodies other than Rabindra Sarobar and rebuilt ghats of 10 other water bodies, including those at Nonadanga, Baishnabghata and Patuli. It is making arrangements at 44 ghats this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sc-to-hear-kmda-plea-for-chhath-at-lake-on-nov-16/articleshow/79006814.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Exclusive GHMC wing to deal with nalas||Hyderabad: In an effort to fix Hyderabad’s drainage system, Telangana’s MAUD minister, K T Rama Rao, on Monday announced a Strategic Nala Development Programme (SNDP) that will be rolled out by the civic body. As part of this, an exclusive wing has been formed in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), to deal with nalas. The wing will be responsible for developing and maintaining the storm water drainage/nala system in the city. Under the SNDP, officials will study the existing storm water drainage system, identify critical narrow points, encroachments on nalas, trunk mains, feeder nalas and submit the report to MAUD department. Nala widening, demolition and identification of nalas and retaining walls which need to be restored are also part of SNDP. The wing will be headed by Vasantha, retired engineer from the roads and building department. She has been appointed as Officer on Special duty ( OSD), SNDP. “The first step will be identification of critical points which will be repaired immediately,” Vasantha said. Under SNDP, irrigation department officials and experts will be roped in based on requirements. “The policies, programmes and activities of this wing are subjected to frequent review by higher level,” read a statement issued by MAUD. An exclusive wing was formed after city witnessed unprecedented rains in October. MAUD department also attributed narrowing storm water drains over a period of years as the reason for flooding. At 101 stretches within GHMC storm water drains/ nalas have been damaged due to recent floods causing an estimated loss Rs 83 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exclusive-ghmc-wing-to-deal-with-nalas/articleshow/79008065.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||PSC adopts Kerala govt order on 10% reservation for EWS||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Public service commission (PSC), on Monday, formally adopted the state government order introducing 10% job reservation for candidates belonging to economically-weaker sections (EWS) in communities that are not eligible for caste or community based reservation for securing government jobs. The commission meeting, held at the PSC headquarters in the capital, decided to consider the EWS quota reservation for all notifications from October 23, the date on which the government notified the order pertaining to the introduction of EWS quota. The formal adoption of the government order by PSC comes at a time when caste and community leaders and organizations representing people eligible for caste and community-based reservation have come up against the government. Cutting across political affiliations, they have joined hands and asked the government to withdraw the EWS quota as they claimed it would undermine the very spirit of reservation and eat into the reservation for the candidates belonging to backward communities. However, no major political front has come out openly against the EWS quota and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had even chastised Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) for leading the protest against implementation of EWS quota. The EWS quota was introduced by the Union government through a Constitution amendment, after holding talks with various political parties. LDF and UDF in Kerala welcomed the decision as both political fronts were supporting such a demand for a long time. The state government order regarding EWS quota was published on October 23, 2020. However, protesters argued that the EWS category of reservation would undermine their reservation rights. According to PSC, necessary changes would be carried out soon in the online application forms for incorporating the EWS reservation category. Subsequently, more time would be sanctioned for eligible candidates to make changes in their online application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/psc-adopts-govt-order-on-10-reservation-for-ews/articleshow/79005721.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||Housing societies report fresh Covid cases after Durga Puja, plan low-scale Kali Puja||KOLKATA: With fresh Covid cases surfacing at multiple housing complexes after Durga Puja, residents welfare associations of almost all major societies are taking fresh guard while preparing for Diwali celebrations. At Urbana, the property managers said two or three fresh cases were being reported almost every day. “Three days ago, a resident in his mid-50s had succumbed to Covid-19. We are asking every resident to maintain caution and not to go overboard with Diwali celebrations. The annual firecracker show has been called off and we are replacing it with a laser light show,” said Debjani Mukherjee, director of Urbana Facility Management and a resident of the complex. Silver Spring residential complex on EM Bypass has suspended the annual Diwali community dinner and fireworks show and the association has been sending advisories to residents asking them to not to organize any big parties even at home. The complex has recorded five cases post-puja. “We are taking all measures and are asking residents not to drop their guard, be it outside the complex or at homes,” said Indranil Chowdhury, secretary of the residents’ association. At DLF Heights, secretary Sameer Sharma said the complex had only eight cases before Pujas. After Pujas, there have been four fresh patients. “It’s quite surprising because we had followed all protocols. No more than 15 people were allowed inside the pandal. All kinds of sanitization measures were taken. Everyone wore masks and maintained physical distancing. Perhaps people had gone out on their own, visited other pandals or ate out. We had no control over that,” said Sharma. Aparajita Apartments in Baguihati has also had three cases in the last one week. “The puja in our complex was a small one, and we did impose social distancing norms. But people must have stepped out and mingled. It’s difficult to say unless they reveal the contact tracing,” said Sudhir Chowdhury, a resident. Complexes that hasn’t immediately seen a rise in number of cases post-Puja are also taking fresh guard to ensure safety of their residents. “In the last few weeks, the number of cases have come down. At this point, we don’t want to let our guard down and are discouraging people to organize parties even at home. Inflow and outflow of outsiders can adversely affect the good work in controlling the Covid situation. We will organize Kali Puja but in a very small scale,” said Manak Daga, president of South City Apartment Owners’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/housing-societies-report-fresh-covid-cases-after-durga-puja-plan-low-scale-kali-puja/articleshow/79006817.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||VAHAN services made more people friendly||Lucknow: Monday onward, some of the VAHAN services (services related to vehicles) have been made easy for people in the state by the transport department. To begin with, people, seeking a duplicate RC (since original RC is provided by the dealer concerned), fitness certificate or any other document related to their vehicle, can book an appointment with the RTO office concerned by visiting the transport department’s VAHAN portal, the way people do it for DL through SARATHI portal. “People can pick up the time slot that suits them. It started from Monday after the order was issued on Friday,” said senior ARTO, IT, Prabhat Pandey. Secondly, people can upload supportive documents online. For instance, someone needing a duplicate RC had to come to the RTO office concerned to submit the copy of an FIR (in case of theft of RC) or a copy of the damaged RC (in case the document is torn or damaged). Now, the copy of an FIR or that of a damaged document can be uploaded online. The same will be authenticated by the officer concerned. There are as many as ten VAHAN services which include transfer of ownership, change of address, duplicate RC, fitness, particulars of RC (needed by insurance companies), hypothecation/addition/deletion (in case of vehicles which have been financed), permit and others. Another facility that has been extended to applicants is that they can print the documents from the portal (after RTO office uploads it following a due verification) and need not come to the office. Efforts of the transport department are directed towards making it convenient for RTO customers and reducing the number of occasions when they are actually needed to visit RTO offices personally. Now, as another major relief to users of VAHAN services, the transport department has decided to do away with the requirement of people coming to the RTO offices for some of the VAHAN related services completely. But, the department has to decide on ways to make it possible. The documents that are uploaded in the portal by applicants need to be verified and applicants are called to RTO offices for authentication. Since the transport department services are not Aadhar linked, NIC and transport department are working on the possible process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vahan-services-made-more-people-friendly/articleshow/79009656.cms||Neha Shukla
November 3, 2020||Nashik||Allow 500 people at events, says state decorators’ body||Nashik: Sporting white shirts and black stoles, the members of Nashik Zilla Mandap Decorators’ Association on Monday staged an agitated at the Golf Club Maidan demanding the state government to allow them to conduct events for 500 people instead of only 50 people. “Since the lockdown, the workers engaged in decorating, tent suppliers and event managers had no source of income. They are under serious financial problems and they need urgent help,” said Keshav Dingore, the president of the association. The tent dealers have rented places to keep their goods and have also taken a loan from banks for their business. Similarly, other businesses like caterers, waiters, the flower decorators, photographers, musicians and others are also financially dependent on functions and events. Sanjay Jagtap, one of the office bearers of the organisations, said. “We request the state government to allow us to conduct events with 500 people or at least 50% of the capacity of a venue, instead of just 50 people. The event management alone requires a staff of more than 25 people. The permission for higher numbers will help the hoststo bear the cost of the services, which will employ a large number of people dependent on this industry.” The delegation met with district collector Suraj Mandhare presented him a memorandum addressing it to the chief minister requesting permissions for the same, keeping in mind the wedding season likely to begin post-Diwali. The association members said if the government takes more time to decide on the permission, they will organise a ‘morcha’ in Mumbai to draw the attention of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/allow-500-people-at-events-says-state-decorators-body/articleshow/79005728.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||At least 23 trains diverted, 200 bus services suspended||Jaipur: The Gujjar agitation continued to affect rail traffic on the Delhi-Mumbai route for the second consecutive day on Monday, forcing many trains to be diverted via Bandikui-Jaipur. Similarly, the Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) did not operate bus services in the interior areas of many districts, including Karauli, Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopur and Dausa, due to the protest. At least 23 trains were diverted via Bandikui-Jaipur and some 200 buses in rural regions, especially Gujjar-dominated areas, had to be suspended. According to North Western Railways (NWR) sources, 23 trains on the Delhi-Mumbai route, blocked between Hindaun City and Bayana, were diverted via Bandikui and Jaipur. “Since Sunday, we have been receiving diverted trains from NWR and West Central Railways (WCR). Till Monday evening, at least 23 trains have been diverted via Bandikui and Jaipur,” said a senior NWR official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/at-least-23-trains-diverted-200-bus-services-suspended/articleshow/79009138.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM on RJD pledge: They used to sell jobs in last tenure||LUCKNOW: Terming the poll promise of mahagathbandhan CM face Tejashwi Yadav about 10 lakh jobs as mere poll gimmick, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said it was only the good governance model of JD (U) leader Nitish Kumar which would pave way for creating of jobs for the youth in the state. Campaigning in Valmikinagar seat of west Champaran district in Bihar, Yogi questioned the Opposition about how they would generate so many jobs. “Sirf naukri ka jhujhuna padka diya logon ko,” he said. Calling RJD a ‘jungle party’, Yogi said that these are the same people who used to sell jobs during their previous tenure. He further tore into the Opposition, accusing it of creating situations that led to closing down industrialisation even as kidnapping people became an industry. “No villages were provided roads or electricity, drinking water or health facilities,” said Yogi, who also campaigned in Ruxaul and Sitamarhi assembly seats. Yogi said that the su-shashan (good governance) of Nitish would further up the ‘swabhiman’ (self-respect) and ‘samman’ (respect) of Bihar in the days to come. He reiterated that Lalu Prasad’s RJD which ruled the state for 15 years could not provide basic necessities like housing, toilets and pension to the needy. That is now being guaranteed by the NDA government, he said. “Congress and RJD only cheat and divide people,” Yogi said. He also accused the Congress of dividing the country in 1947 and then dividing people in terms of caste, region and religion for political gains. Yogi said development should be based on the model envisaged by the Modi government at the Centre. “Be it housing, toilets, gas connection or free electricity connection—all these sectors were addressed by the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. That too without any discrimination…yahi toh Ram Rajya hai,” Yogi asserted. He said that by paving way for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, the BJP had silenced its critics about making hollow promises. “Humne jo kaha so karte dikha diya…(we delivered on our promises),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-on-rjd-pledge-they-used-to-sell-jobs-in-last-tenure/articleshow/79009657.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Vehicle sales shift gears in October to close in on pre-Covid levels||NEW DELHI: The month of October has brought some much needed cheer for the automobile sector with vehicle registrations touching pre-Covid levels after eight months. In all, 41,905 non-commercial vehicles were registered in October, which was not only the highest since May, when registrations restarted, but also more than the 39,655 vehicles registered in February. The number of cars sold in October (14,292) was also the highest since February and very close to the figure in January — 15,674. Compared with 2019, however, the numbers were much lower. In October 2019, 66,560 vehicles — 16,817 cars and 49,743 two-wheelers — were registered, the highest that year. While the dip in car sales compared with last October was 15%, for two-wheelers it was much deeper at 44.4% as only 27,613 were registered. Sources, however, said that while Diwali was celebrated on October 27 last year, this year the festival was on November 14. Despite the huge dent caused by the Covid-19 outbreak, some recovery would be recorded by the end of 2020. Till October 31 this year, 3,06,091 vehicles were registered, including 87,206 cars and 2,18,885 two-wheelers. Compared with January to October 2019, the dip is quite staggering. Last year, 4,92,918 vehicles were registered, including 1,27,654 cars and 3,65,264 two-wheelers. “The sale of four-wheelers started picking up in July compared with the previous months. While more two-wheelers are being registered than cars, the growth in sales for four-wheelers percentagewise is much better. The sale of cars picking up shows the revival of the economy in Delhi,” an official said. Vehicle registration in Delhi restarted on May 4, when many relaxations were announced as part of Lockdown 3.0 by the Centre. While online sales of vehicles started in April and 928 two-wheelers and 297 four-wheelers were sold, registrations began only in May. In all, 8,955 four-wheelers and 1,225 vehicles sold in April were registered. Though more than 70% of all vehicles sold in Delhi are two-wheelers, car sales are also increasing. In September, car sales saw a dip of 10% compared with the same month in 2019. Comparatively, the dip in sale of two-wheelers was 26.9%. Sources said that the government was also trying to recoup collection of road tax with increase in sales. Sources in the transport department said that while it was expected that two-wheelers and budget category cars would witness higher sales, the sale of high-end cars, including SUVs, had been high too. Covid-19 made a dent in the sale of vehicles in Delhi compared with January when the pandemic was yet to become a part of a Delhiite’s daily lexicon. The registration of cars dipped by 87% in May. The sale and registration of two-wheelers braved a lesser impact and saw a dip of 74% in May compared with January. The drastic fall, however, has been steadily closing with the dip coming down to 31.6% in June, 22.9% in July and 17.5% in August. September saw a decrease in vehicle registrations, resulting in the gap going up to 23% compared with last year and 37% in October due to the huge number of registrations in the same month last year. Officials said that due to strict social distancing norms followed in buses and Delhi Metro, which reduces the carrying capacity of public transport, many people who didn’t have personal vehicles were now opting for one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vehicle-sales-shift-gears-in-oct-to-close-in-on-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/79008093.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 3, 2020||Kochi||Priyanca Radhakrishnan draws legacy from her North Paravur roots||KOCHI: Priyanca Radhakrishnan, who joined the Jacinda Ardern government as New Zealand’s first-ever minister of Indian origin, is the great granddaughter of C R Krishna Pillai, a medical doctor and early communist leader, who shaped the literary and cultural sensibilities of the state through the Jayakeralam magazine. Though Priyanca was brought up in Singapore where her father, Raman Radhakrishnan, worked as an engineer, her ancestral roots lie in North Paravur. Priyanca, who was elected to the Labour party in 2017, has been handed the community and voluntary sector and diversity and inclusion portfolios. “C R Krishna Pillai, her maternal great grandfather, was also part of the labour movement and had contested against [former finance minister of India] T T Krishnamachari,” recalls G K Nair, grand uncle of Priyanca, who resides in Chowara, near Kalady. The Jayakeralam magazine he founded with Padmanabhan Nair was a left-leaning publication that was published by several writers, including ONV. “Her grandfather Ramachandran Pillai was a noted cardiologist,” he said. Priyanca had travelled to Kerala twice in 2019 following the death of her mother, Usha, in February last year. “The last visit was in July for the final rites of her mother at Chelamattom,” said Nair. Priyanca’s father Radhakrishnan, who started his own engineering company after retirement, is settled in Chennai. “I come from a politically active family; a family that is dedicated to doing their part to make the world a better place. My great grandfather, Dr C R Krishna Pillai, was involved in left-wing politics in India and played an instrumental role in the formation of Kerala, the state of origin of my family,” Priyanca had written in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/priyanca-draws-legacy-from-her-roots/articleshow/79005734.cms||Binu Karunakaran
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM adopts 4th village, to develop it on all fronts||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has adopted a fourth village, Vasalamarri, in the state promising to develop it in every sphere. “The CM has told us that, if necessary, funds up to Rs 100 crore would be spent and no stone would be left unturned for its all-round development,” village sarpanch Pogula Anjaneyulu told TOI on Monday. The official machinery has started chalking out a plan of action for the village, which is just 35 km from ECIL crossroads in Hyderabad. “We are devising plans for developing Vasalamarri,” special officer M Upendar Reddy, who has been given the responsibility for the village, told TOI. The village in Turkapally mandal of Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district has a population of 2,600 people and 470 houses and falls in Alair assembly constituency. Vasalamarri is about 15 km from KCR’s farmhouse at Erravelli in Gajwel of Siddipet district. The CM was on his way to Kodakandla in Jangaon district on October 31 to inaugurate the Dharani portal. On his way back, he stopped his convoy and spoke to a few villagers of Vasalamarri he had come across on the road. He enquired about the village and when the villagers requested that he take interest to develop the backward area, he asked them to send the sarpanch to his farmhouse the following day. On November 1, collector Anitha Ramachandran visited the village and spoke to the villagers. She said a village development plan would be prepared and submitted to the CM. On Monday, officer on special duty (OSD) in CMO Priyanka Varghese visited Vasalamarri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-adopts-4th-village-to-develop-it-on-all-fronts/articleshow/79008092.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 3, 2020||India||MP, K’taka plan law to curb ‘love jihad’||BHOPAL/BENGALURU: The club of BJP-governed states contemplating laws against “love jihad” grew to four on Monday, with MP already “making legal arrangements to check this” and Karnataka waiting for UP and Haryana to finalise theirs so that it can study and decide what provisions to adopt. “There will be no jihad in the name of love, and if anybody dares to, then action will be taken,” MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on the eve of bypolls to 28 assembly constituencies. “My government will not allow fanaticism. Whoever does so will face the consequences.” Three days ago, BJP’s Bhopal MP Pragya Thakur had demanded a law to “protect Hindu girls from love jihad”. Referring to the recent murder of a 21-year-old college girl in Ballabhgarh by a suitor she had spurned, Pragya claimed to be getting 10 to 15 complaints on “love jihad” every day. “Those who do this are irreligious people,” she said. “There should be a strict law to stop this and such people should be severely punished.” Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai told TOI that the state government had “taken note of recent incidents of communal tension over religious conversions” in Dakhina Kannada, Udupi and some other districts. "Let us see what the UP and Haryana governments will do. We’ll study their laws before adopting them.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-ktaka-plan-law-to-curb-love-jihad/articleshow/79009985.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kochi||Case involving Kummanam Rajasekharan settled||KOTTAYAM: A financial fraud case in which BJP leader Kummanam Rajasekharan was named as an accused has been settled after complainant wrote to police saying he received the money due to him. P R Harikrishnan will move high court to quash his complaint. In his letter to Aranmula police on Monday, Harikrishnan said he received the money after talks with first accused Praveen B Pillai and second accused Vijayan. As per rules, a complainant has to get the FIR cancelled from the court and till then, police cannot close the case file. Kummanam was named the fourth accused in the FIR registered on the complaint by Harikrishnan, a native of Aranmula. Pillai, former personal assistant of Kummanam, is the prime accused. The cases were charged under IPC sections 406, 420 and 34. The case was for cheating the complainant by taking money from him by promising to get him share in a new venture of New Bharath Biotechnologies. Praveen is alleged to have cheated the complainant by posing as a middleman and taking Rs 30.75 lakh on different occasions from him for starting the new venture based in Palakkad. During this time, Kummanam was serving as the governor in Mizoram. When a complaint was raised, BJP NRI cell former convener Harikumar intervened and returned Rs 6.25 lakh. According to Aranmula police, Kummanam was added as an accused as the complainant said he met Praveen in the presence of Kummanam and Kummanam had recommended the company to him. Kummanam had later said the case against him was politically motivated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/case-involving-kummanam-settled/articleshow/79006839.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Delhi||NE Delhi violence: HC cancels bail of private school owner||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday cancelled the bail granted to a private school owner in a communal violence case related to the riots that rocked northeast Delhi in February. The high court said that the trial court granted bail at a “pre-mature stage,” adding that personal liberty of an individual, though precious, was of little value if the larger interest of the people and the nation was at stake. “The entire country is aggrieved by the action of such offenders who tarnish the basic secular fabric of the nation and need to be punished severely,” justice Suresh Kait noted, allowing the plea of Delhi Police challenging the trial court’s order granting bail to Faisal Farooq. However, Farooq had not been released from jail as there was a stay on the bail order by the Supreme Court. The accused, owner of Rajdhani Public School (RPS) in Shiv Vihar locality, was among the 18 arrested for alleged involvement in burning and damaging property of the adjacent DRP Convent School. The police, represented through Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, had challenged the trial court bail order saying the decision was unwarranted. The high court observed that Farooq was wealthy with reputation and roots in the society and since the investigation in the present FIR was pending and the prosecution was likely to file a supplementary chargesheet, he might influence the witnesses and hamper the investigation and trial. It added that there was evidence the rioters entered the school on the afternoon of February 24 and continued pelting stones, petrol bombs through catapults installed at the RPS rooftop. Huge quantities of bricks and stones were already there, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-delhi-violence-hc-cancels-bail-of-pvt-school-owner/articleshow/79008111.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nashik||Sec 144 in place, but can shop till 8 pm & dine till 10 pm||Nashik: The district administration has extended prohibitory orders across Nashik district, including urban areas, to November 30 to ensure that people do not gather at public places as the Covid-19 pandemic is not over. Resident deputy collector Bhagwat Doifode confirmed about the order on gathering of people and added that shops will be allowed to remain open till 8 pm and hotels and restaurants till 10 pm. The order, under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) of 1973, prohibits the assembly of four or more people in public or any other areas. The authorities clarified that the order is basically aimed at curbing the spread of coronavirus and not for any law and order situation. “Except for marriage ceremony, where 50 people are allowed, and in case of funeral where 20 are allowed, the gathering of four and more people will be discouraged,” said Doifode. The order also states that people who were found moving around in public places without wearing face masks would be penalised. Asked about the rush of people in busy markets and flouting of social distancing norm, a senior official said the departments concerned would be undertaking information, education and communication (IEC) campaign to spread awareness about the social distancing, masks and hand sanitisers. “We are in the ninth month since the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown and people must understand that though the number of patients is coming down, the situation is far from normal given the fact that European countries are now under the second wave of the infection,” the officer said. The officersaid the administration is prepared to treat patients, but citizens must exercise caution to keep themselves safe against the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sec-144-in-place-but-can-shop-till-8-pm-dine-till-10-pm/articleshow/79005738.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll: Scuffle between TRS, BJP workers||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the bypoll, a scuffle ensued between BJP and TRS party workers on Monday night at a hotel in Siddipet town. According to police, the trouble began when BJP district president Srikanth Reddy, along with party workers, went to Swarna Palace hotel in Siddipet where Andole MLA Ch Kranti Kiran was staying with other TRS cadre. An argument broke out between the workers of both the groups when BJP workers allegedly peeped into the MLA’s room. “During the scuffle, a TRS worker’s finger got stuck in the glass door and he suffered a bleeding injury. So far, no complaint has been received from either groups. If we receive a complaint, appropriate legal action will be initiated,” said Siddipet commissioner Joel Davis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scuffle-between-trs-bjp-workers/articleshow/79008110.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kochi||Kottayam youth puts up flex board seeking bride||KOTTAYAM: A youth from the district has put up a flex board seeking a girl’s hand in marriage. Aneesh Sebastian erected a huge flex hoarding in front of a sawmill he owns in Kanakkary near Ettumanur. The 35-year-old has also posted the picture of the board on his Facebook page. The board says that the man has no demands and gives importance to good values in life. The flex board carries a huge photograph of the youth, alongwith his mobile/WhatsApp number and email ID. According to Sebastian, such an idea struck him as he was already late to marry, and was fed up of searching for a match with conventional methods of arranged marriages. “We face hundreds of issues while trying to find a match through arranged marriage. Now, most marriages happen over other means like internet,” he said. He said that people even in his locality have realized that he was still a bachelor. “In the beginning people thought that it was just a joke. But they now know that I am serious about it,” he added. Sebastian found it a good alternative for finding a bride since travelling and visiting houses is difficult during the Covid situation. Ever since the flex was put up, Sebastian has been receiving several inquiries, even from parents of girls working abroad. Sebastian delayed getting married as he was busy with the family’s sawmill business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/youth-puts-up-flex-board-seeking-bride/articleshow/79005742.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
November 3, 2020||Nashik||Daily passengers stress on demand for MST passes||Nashik: Over 4,000 monthly season ticket (MST) holders of the railways from Nasik Road Railway station have stressed on the demand for issuance of MST passes for them. The railways had discontinued the MST passes since the outbreak of Covid-19. Most of the MST holders are employed in public and private sector who travel daily, besides the traders, who also need to frequently travel to Mumbai. The MST holders travelling by second class need to pay Rs 930 per month to travel between Mumbai and Nashik, while those travelling by first class need to pay Rs 2,500 per month. The cost of travel for these classes has gone up to Rs 7,000 and Rs 25,000 per month, respectively, as the MST has been discontinued. “The railways is allowing only confirmed ticket holders to board the train and this means we have to shell out a huge amount for travelling and this is affecting our monthly budget,” said Pankaj Datir, one of the daily travellers. The most affected are the people in the private sector who are facing salary cuts. “A good section of my salary goes into buying the tickets. The alternative is to ride my bike on a daily basis, but that is risky and hence I have to carry on till the things change for good,” Keshav Shinde, an employee of the private sector. The railway MST commuters have requested the Bhusawal divisional railway manager (DRM) to start issuing the MST passes for the at the earliest. “It is our earnest request to the railway authorities to start issuing MST passes to the passengers. Given that life is returning to normalcy, it is beyond our imagination why the basic elements of running the economy – employees and small traders – are being sidelined by the railways,” said Kiran Borse, one of the MST holders, who has also drawn the attention of the railways through the social media platform. A senior officer from DRM Bhusawal said the demand of the commuters was noted and forwarded to the officers concerned for further action. “Issuing of passes is a policy matter and only when the Railway Board decides, the passes will be issued,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/daily-passengers-stress-on-demand-for-mst-passes/articleshow/79005758.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan private schools issue threat to shut down||JAIPUR: Unhappy with the recent fee formula proposed by the directorate of secondary education, private schools in the city on Monday threatened to shut down their institutions indefinitely from November 5 and requested authorities to solve the problem immediately. Recently, the directorate had issued an order waiving 40% fees for RBSE and 30% for CBSE students based on the reduction in syllabus. This has not been acceptable for private schools in the city who termed it "injustice". At a press conference on Monday, Mridul Sisodia, secretary of the Private School Forum of Rajasthan, said that the government has left them with no option but to close down. “We are requesting authorities to follow the high court single bench order, issued on September 9, 2020, which had asked students to deposit 70% fees. This will make things clear for parents regarding fees to be paid before Diwali. Otherwise, the government has to provide some relief fund for schools,” Sisodia said. According to school authorities, after the September 9 order, many parents had started paying fees. But when the matter was stayed by the double bench, they stopped depositing fees again. Sandeep Bakshi, owner of Seedling Public Schools, Jaipur, said, “The recent orders issued have ambiguities and are creating a lot of dilemma. The delay is badly affecting 50,000 schools, including 11 lakh employees. We are receiving reduced fees and that too in instalments, but we cannot cut staff salaries. This is not fair given the present situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-pvt-schools-issue-threat-to-shut-down/articleshow/79009145.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||‘Most Oppn parties are now centred around a family’||UP bypolls are being seen as a reflection of the political scenario before the 2022 assembly elections. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh tells Pankaj Shah that the party will rely on its grassroots workers and popularity of PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath to take on the opposition.Q: Which is the principal opposition of BJP in the state?A: There is not one particular party which is our key opposition. Both SP and BSP are strong enough. Congress is also trying to find its foothold in the state. But the basis on which their leadership runs the party is goonda gardi, casteism and corruption. And that makes them a force to reckon with. The opposition parties do not stand much chance in front of BJP but still there are factors like candidates, caste factor and appeasement politics which continue to play a crucial role. “In sab ke aadhaar per wo ladenge aur taqatwar bhi rahenge (They would contest on the basis of these factors and would be strong enough). Q: What makes you feel so?A: It is natural that every political party has been pursuing its agenda. But the opposition parties often get restricted to one or the other caste and then become party of a particular family. What would you expect from such parties which are formed around one particular family? They run like a trust or as a business set up. Q: But what makes BJP strong politically?A: The party has been accepted in the rural areas. The farmers, tribes feel that their true ‘hamdard’ (well-wisher) is PM Narendra Modi at the Centre and CM Yogi Adityanath in the state. The party has attained a ‘virat swaroop’ (tall stature) after years of struggle and is pursuing principles like development of villages and poor since the time of our stalwart leaders like Shyama Prasad Mukherjee and Deen Dayal Upadhyay. Q: There are speculations of growing bonhomie between the BJP and BSP. Your party allowed BSP candidate to sail through easily in RS polls. Your comment.A: There is no strategy of inching close to BSP. It is clear that BJP will win eight seats in Rajya Sabha elections which is why we fielded eight candidates. We do not believe in horse trading or fielding rich candidates. Q: Do you see the byelections as a semi-final before the next big election in 2022?A: No. There are many other elections which would be held before 2022 such as graduate and teachers’ constituency elections for Vidhan Parishad, panchayat and local bodies’ elections. Q: The opposition has been raking up Hathras incident in which a Dalit girl was raped and murdered. Do you think it has dented the party’s image?A: There is impact of every incident. But in UP, after Yogi Adityanath took charge as CM, there is clarity that the accused would be brought to book. There is no interference of the organisation or the government. Law takes its own course. Q: But don’t you think the party cashes in on the popularity of PM Modi in every election?A: Our party is a functionary based party. The soul of BJP rests with the karyakarta (worker). It is only in BJP where a booth level functionary can become the national president of the party and even PM. Modiji is our leader under whose guidance we work. No one can point out a blot in any of our leaders. Same is the case with Yogi Adityanath. Q: Have you started the spade work for 2022 assembly elections?A: At present, our focus is to make our organisation even stronger. Preparing a party functionary is an ongoing process. Our aim is to pass on the party principles to the karyakarta (workers) through meetings. BJP organisation is a school. Even a booth level worker can be more deserving than a state president like me. Q: The opposition, especially SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, has been saying that BJP does not come up with any project of its own. It is inaugurating the projects initiated in the SP government.A: What has SP done? Constructing four buildings in the city cannot be called an achievement. BJP, on the other hand, gave Kisan Samman Nidhi to farmers, provided toilets to poor, allotted houses under PM Awas Yojana, all transactions in passing monetary benefits to the poor have been digitised. There is zero corruption. We have given pension to the needy and launched Ayushman Bharat scheme. The BJP government has given impetus to various expressways, besides renovating holy cities of Kashi and Mathura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/most-oppn-parties-are-now-centred-around-a-family/articleshow/79009681.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Targeted testing in markets, restaurants||NEW DELHI: With the latest surge in Covid-19 cases in the capital attributed to greater movement of people during the festive season accompanied with laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour, a home ministry review meeting on Monday decided to focus a containment strategy through targeted RT-PCR testing in critical zones like marketplaces, restaurants, salons and barber shops. It was also felt that Delhi Metro travel needs to be regulated strictly in line with the laid-down standard operating procedures (SOPs). Among the other measures approved at the review meeting chaired by home secretary Ajay Bhalla — held as part of a regular process and attended by senior officers of Delhi government, Niti Aayog member V K Paul, secretary of ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), DG ICMR and Delhi Police commissioner — are enhancing availability of hospital beds, including ICU beds and ventilators. This would go hand in hand with more aggressive contact tracing and monitoring of quarantined contacts to break the chain of transmission, awareness through targeted information, education and communication campaigns, ensuring all cases under home isolation are monitored and shifted to hospitals well ahead of deterioration in their medical condition. Delhi government made a presentation on the Covid-19 situation, currently witnessing a “third wave” in cases. For the past five days, total positive cases have consistently breached the 5,000-mark, with an all-time high of 5,891 cases reported on October 30. Though this had come down to 5,664 cases on November 1. As the new and total active cases rise, Delhi administration is focusing on testing, contact tracing and treatment. “The recent surge in the number of active cases was attributed to festival season, which has witnessed greater movement of people, accompanied by laxity in adhering to the basic principles of safe Covid behaviour,” a home ministry statement said on Monday. The hospital bed situation was reported by Delhi government to be comfortable, with 57% of the 15,789, dedicated beds currently vacant. It was, however, highlighted both by Delhi government and Delhi Police commissioner that there was no let-up in enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour and awareness generation. The strategy to contain spread of Covid-19 in Delhi, especially keeping in view the festival season and decreasing temperatures accompanied by rising pollution was discussed at length. The home secretary, while appreciating the efforts of Delhi officials, called for strict enforcement and implementation of Covid containment strategies. He stressed the need for reaching out to the residents to sensitise them about safe Covid behaviour through RWAs, mohalla and market committees, public announcement systems, message on police vehicles. The situation in Delhi would be reviewed again in the coming week, along with other districts of NCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/targeted-testing-in-markets-restaurants/articleshow/79008139.cms||Bharti Jain
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||New tariff norms provide relief to renewable energy sector||Jaipur: The new tariff issued by the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (RERC) extended major relief to renewable energy power developers, who have to only pay wheeling charges on actual power transmission than on contractual capacity. According to industry estimates, the annual per megawatt saving will be around Rs 15 lakh due to changed norms. Earlier, wheeling charges were paid on the basis of total power contracted even if generation or consumption was low. Similarly, the regulator offered 75% exemption in intra-state transmission and wheeling charges for renewable projects with a storage facility for the first seven years of operation from the date of commercial operation. In a bid to promote establishing solar-powered electric vehicle charging stations, transmission charges have been completely waived off for the first 10 years. Biomass power projects will also get a boost as the regulator allowed them to use fossil fuels or solar power to the extent of 15% of the total energy generation. RERC secretary B K Dosi said the regulations specify that wind, solar, small hydro, wind-solar hybrid projects and biomass plants with a capacity up to 15 megawatt will be treated as ‘must-run’ and will not be subjected to ‘merit order despatch’ principles. Must-run projects are those whose generation cannot be stopped even in times of power surplus or for other reasons, while ‘merit order despatch’ means ranking of projects mainly on the basis of power cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-tariff-normsprovide-reliefto-renewableenergy-sector/articleshow/79009143.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-A prof survey shows signs of recovery post Covid||AHMEDABAD: The Business Inflation Expectations Survey (BIES), carried out monthly by Prof Abhiman Das, chairperson of Misra Centre for Financial Markets and Economy at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A), results for September showed signs of economic recovery. The survey, based on a questionnaire to the MSMEs, gauges the economy based on parameters such as inflation expectations, production cost, sales and profit margin. The survey for September showed that the sales has improved for many respondents – 18% mentioned ‘normal’ sales compared to the same period in 2019, more than four times rise from 4% reported in June. ‘One year ahead business inflation expectations in September 2020, as estimated from the mean of individual probability distribution of unit cost increase have witnessed a fall of 28 basis points to 3.49% from 3.77% reported in August 2020,’ mentioned the report. The report mentioned that more than half (54%) firms reported 3.1% or more cost increase compared to September 2019. It was primarily driven by the firms indicating moderate cost increase (between 3.1% and 6%). Compared to 11% of the respondents who had reported normal profit margins in June, the number rose to 15% in September. Experts termed it as signs of recovery in the Unlock phase after three months of lockdown, that had witnessed sales and profit nosediving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-prof-survey-shows-signs-of-recovery-post-covid/articleshow/79008112.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kochi||SNDP to train Ezhava students for civil services||ALAPPUZHA: In order to ensure the presence of Ezhava community members in IAS and IPS posts, Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam is set to send students from the community for coaching in civil service examinations at leading institutes in Thiruvananthapuram. Coaching will be given to students for two years. A selected student will be given Rs 1,70,000 per year from SNDP Yogam for accommodation and other study expenses and the student need not repay it. SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan said that only a handful of Ezhava community members are serving in IAS and IPS posts presently. “IAS and IPS officials have a key role in policymaking at the administration level. Though the central government is ensuring civil service coaching for minority communities, the government doesn’t consider the students of Ezhava community for this purpose. If our students do not serve in civil services, we will go backward from our present situation,” Natesan said. Natesan announced Yogam’s decision on civil services coaching through his Facebook page. As per his FB post, SNDP Yogam will select at least five students from its branches and a test will be conducted for them. Students who have completed courses like MA, MSc, MCom, BTech and MBBS will be selected for coaching. After the test, at least 20 students will be selected for civil service coaching. The SNDP Yogam is also planning to start its own coaching centre for Ezhava students in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sndp-to-train-ezhava-students-for-civil-services/articleshow/79005761.cms||Sajimon P S
November 3, 2020||Nashik||NMC turns off taps of 100 ‘big’ water tax defaulters||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started taking action against water tax defaulters, snapping over 100 connections in the last 10 days while warning that it will intensify the drive after Diwali if dues are not cleared.Civic officials on Monday said the action has started against ‘big’ residential and commercial defaulters having tax dues of over Rs 10,000 each.The action comes amid a sharp decline in the civic body’s revenue during the Covid-related lockdown and the period following it. There are 1.98 lakh water connections in the city, including 1.9 lakh residential, 4,000 commercial and 4,000 non-commercial.“The revenue of the civic body through various taxes has dropped by over 30% due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We have already curtailed some development projects due to the drop in the revenue,” said the officials.“Considering the need for funds, we have started cracking down on big water tax defaulters.” The NMC has set a water tax collection target of Rs 106 crore for the current financial year 2020-21, but it could collect only Rs 16 crore so far.The water tax collection was Rs 29.50 crore in 2017-18, which was increased to Rs 40 crore during the financial year 2018-19. The revenue through water tax had increased by 35% to Rs 55 crore in the last financial year of 2019-20.“The NMC expected more revenue through property tax collection during the current financial year, but the Covid-19 pandemic badly hit it,” said the officials.There are 13,690 water tax defaulters with dues between Rs 10,000 and Rs 14,999. They have altogether defaulted on tax amounting to Rs 16.95 crore.There are 9,107 water tax defaulters with dues of Rs 15,000 to Rs 24,999 and have altogether defaulted on tax payment of Rs 16.78 crore.There are 2,897 defaulters who have water tax dues of Rs 25,000 and above. They have altogether defaulted on payment of Rs 20.36 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-turns-off-taps-of-100-big-water-tax-defaulters/articleshow/79005795.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll: Cancel M Raghunandan Rao’s candidature, Telangana Congress tells EC||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress has written to the Election Commission of India to cancel the candidature of M Raghunandan Rao, who is contesting the Dubbak by-poll on a BJP ticket. Senior Congress leader Marri Shashidhar Reddy on Monday wrote the letter saying that money related to Raghunandan Rao was confiscated twice in the recent times and there is a possibility of massive distribution of money and liquor before the voting. Shashidhar Reddy also said thatboth TRS and BJP continue to distribute money and liquor in Dubbak. “Police are conducting checks on some select vehicles but not of the vehicles belonging to the ruling TRS. There is a need to deploy more police to check all the vehicles,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-to-ec-cancel-raos-candidature/articleshow/79008132.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ready to face probe, Ramesh Chennithala tells police chief||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Intensifying the attack on state police chief Loknath Behera, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that if UDF comes to power, the government will appoint a commission to probe the corruption in the state police led by Loknath Behera.He said here on Monday that the government is protecting the police chief who committed corruption to the tune of crores of rupees through various purchases. For the same reason, the state police chief has stooped to such a low that he would agree to any kind of work given to him by the government. He said that the state police chief is registering false cases against UDF MLAs who are exposing the LDF government’s corruption. If the state police chief does not end this practice, he will have to pay a heavy price, Chennithala said. He said that the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report has detailed the corruption and irregularities in the police purchases, but the government has kept the report in cold storage. In return for the government’s gesture, the police chief has registered cases against UDF MLAs V D Satheesan, P T Thomas and K M Shaji. But the UDF will not end its fight against corruption, Chennithala said. The opposition leader said that in the wake of M Sivasankar becoming the fifth accused in the Life Mission case, it has been proven that it is the chief minister who is the first accused. People have understood that the Wadakkancherry project of Life Mission was a huge corruption and such things would not have happened without the knowledge of the chief minister, he said. As the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau has unearthed the iPhones that were given by Unitac Builders, CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan should publicly apologize. The CPM secretary had alleged that Ramesh Chennithala was one of the recipients of the phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ready-to-face-probe-ramesh-tells-police-chief/articleshow/79006904.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Vijayashanti takes potshots at KCR||Hyderabad: Amid speculation that she will rejoin BJP, Congresss leader Vijayashanti said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to quit to pave way for his son, Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president and MAUD minister KT Rama Rao’s apointment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vijayashanti-takes-potshots-at-kcr/articleshow/79008162.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Assembly passes farm bills, MSPmandatory for contract farming||Jaipur: The Rajasthan assembly on Monday passed three amendment bills to counter the farm laws recently passed by the Centre which the state government had accused of being anti-farmer and benefitting corporates. The amendments make the minimum support price (MSP) mandatory for contract farming but not for sale/purchase made in mandis; reintroduce taxes on mandis; empower state to impose stock limits to check black marketing; provision 3 to 7 years jail and fine up to Rs 5 lakh for harassing farmers; and prevent banks from attaching debtor farmers’ land up to five acres. BJP members opposed the state bills during the day-long assembly debate and staged a walkout when they were passed late night. Before adjourning the two-day session sine die, the assembly also passed the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill that made the state the first in the country to make wearing face masks mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/assembly-passes-farm-bills-mspmandatory-for-contract-farming/articleshow/79009146.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Consumption of remdesivir almost halved in state: Experts||AHMEDABAD: With gradual decline in Covid-19 positive cases in Gujarat, the consumption of remdesivir, which is widely used in the treatment of Covid-19, has almost halved in October from its peak in September. Though these are positive signs but medical experts also weave in a word of caution as winter months may lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases.  The consumption of remdesivir across Gujarat plummeted to 1.1 lakh injections (vials) in October from 2.2 lakh in September. “A downward trend has been witnessed in the consumption of remdesivir injections, favipiravir tablets and medical oxygen. Reduction in the number of drug dependent Covid-19 positive cases has mainly led to a drop in the demand of Covid-19 drugs and medical oxygen,” said Dr HG Koshia, commissioner, Food and Drug Control Administration, Gujarat. Pharmaceutical associations explain that because of awareness people go for tests early and due to early detection prefer home quarantine. “Remdesivir is largely required for moderate to severely ill cases. Clearly there is marked reduction in sales across counters. Earlier 25K to 30K vials used to sold at our counters but it dipped to 15K to 20k October onwards,” says Alpesh Patel president Federation of Gujarat State Chemist and Druggist Association Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that compared to August-September, the use of oxygen and Remdesivir has surely witnessed dip in the last one week. "The reason is reduced number of patients. However, we should not let our guards down. Experts predict a spike again after the Diwali festivities. Thus, the procurement from our side would continue” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/consumption-of-remdesivir-almost-halved-in-state-experts/articleshow/79008135.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic polls: To prevent poaching, BJP shifts its aspirants to hotels||Jaipur: BJP shifted all the 150 candidates who contested in the Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Greater, election to a hotel in Chomu on Monday afternoon. The move comes a day after the candidates who contested from JMC, Heritage, were shifted to a hotel in Bhankrota. This is being done to prevent any cross-voting which the BJP had faced when Ashok Lahta, a BJP rebel, who became mayor defeating BJP candidate by one vote. Around 150 candidates were called at the BJP office in the morning. At 1 pm, they were shifted to the hotel in a bus. Many women candidates were accompanied by their husbands and small children. They will be kept there till November 10. A BJP source said candidates have been kept in the hotel for management and administration training that will be needed by them at a later stage after getting elected. However, other sources in the party said their phones had been taken away as the party was not ready to any risk after a humiliating defeat the last time. Result of the elections will be announced on November 3, for which the candidates will be brought back to the headquarters as the winning candidate will get the certificate and have to take the pledge. After this, the candidate will again be taken to the hotel till the mayor election is held on November 10. Sources in the Congress has confirmed that their winning candidates will also be taken to a hotel on Tuesday after the results are announced. The party is scared that the opposition will try to bribe the candidates to vote for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/to-prevent-poaching-bjp-shifts-its-aspirants-to-hotels/articleshow/79009148.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, MLAs can ask question on a subject discussed only once a year!||GANDHINAGAR: A controversial decision of the Gujarat assembly speaker to curb MLAs from asking questions in the legislative assembly has fuelled a controversy with the opposition Congress calling it ‘undemocratic’ and demanding its rollback. By an order dated October 28, Gujarat assembly secretary D M Patel issued a fresh set of guidelines for MLAs to ask questions – both starred and unstarred. According to the fresh order, the gap for asking a question on a subject which has been discussed, has been increased from six months to one year. Another contentious part of the order is that MLAs can now seek data and figures for three years instead of five years. When contacted, assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedia said, “The decision is not new. However, I will look into this.’’ Starred questions are those where MLAs seek information from departments for the previous two years. Unstarred questions are those where information is sought for a longer period and generic information is sought. Earlier too, there was an order, restricting MLAs to asking only three unstarred questions per week. Leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani termed the fresh guidelines as ‘undemocratic and unfortunate’. “On the basis of its majority, the BJP government is attempting to curtail the voice of opposition. The October 28 order of the assembly speaker reducing the time limit of seeking details from five years to three years is unfortunate and undemocratic,” Dhanani said. “Since Independence, the right of MLAs to ask questions pertaining to peoples’ welfare, has been safeguarded. The very purpose of assembly proceedings will be defeated if this right is snatched away. We will request the speaker to withdraw the order immediately, as it is undemocratic,” said Dhanani. He added that when common citizens can seek information under the RTI act, the assembly cannot restrict constitutional rights guaranteed to MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-mlas-can-ask-question-on-a-subject-discussed-only-once-a-year/articleshow/79008163.cms||Kapil Dave
November 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Voting for 8 assembly seats today||AHMEDABAD: Voting for byelections to eight assembly seats in Gujarat will be held from 7am to 6pm on Tuesday and authorities are focused on measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 due to polling, officials said on Monday. A total of 81 candidates are in fray in the eight seats, which collectively have 18.75 lakh voters, Gujarat chief electoral officer (COO) S Murali Krishna told reporters in Gandhinagar. “As not more than 1,000 voters are allowed in one booth due to Covid-19 concerns and guidelines of the Election Commission of India (ECI), 3,024 polling booths have been set up, higher than in a normal scenario,” the COO said.  The official added that 3,400 thermal guns, 41,000 N-95 masks, 82,000 disposable masks, 41,000 face shields and an equal number of rubber hand gloves have been procured for the staff deployed for polling. The voting process will be webcast live from 900 polling booths, the official said. Bypolls will be held in eight seats- Abdasa (Kutch district), Limbdi (Surendranagar), Morbi (Morbi district), Dhari (Amreli), Gadhada (Botad), Karjan (Vadodara), Dang (Dang district) and Kaprada (Valsad). The byelections to these seats became necessary after their sitting Congress MLAs resigned ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls held in June this year. Five of them later joined the ruling BJP and the party has fielded them from the seats which they won in 2017. The Bharatiya Tribal Party, which has two MLAs at present in the 182-member assembly, has also fielded two candidates in Dang, a seat reserved for scheduled tribe candidates, and Karjan. Smaller outfits like the Bahujan Maha Party, Bahujan Mukti Party, Bharatiya Jana Parishad, Akhil Bharatiya Rajarya Sabha, All India Majlish-e-Inqulab-e-Millat, Rashtravadi Jana Chetna, Yuva Jan Jagruti, Vyavastha Parivartan Party and Rashtriya Jankranti Party have also fielded a few candidates. The counting of votes will be taken up on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/voting-for-8-assembly-seats-today/articleshow/79008180.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ICU beds in short supply as Covid tally nears 4 lakh||NEW DELHI: At least 40 hospitals in Delhi — mostly private-run — have run out of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. In public hospitals, too, the data shared at 8pm on Monday showed, there is a serious shortage of ICU beds, with and without ventilator support. This, doctors say, may cause a serious crisis because Covid-19 cases in Delhi are on the rise. On Monday, the city reported 4,001 new cases of the viral infection, taking the total tally to over 3.96 lakh, even as the positivity rate hovered around 11%. The new cases came out of the 36,665 tests conducted the previous day. Delhi had recorded over 5,000 daily cases for five days till Sunday when 5,664 cases were recorded. The highest single-day spike in Delhi till date — 5,891 — was recorded on Friday. Forty-two fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 6,604, according to the latest bulletin issued by the health department on Monday. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, told TOI non-adherence to preventive measures such as wearing a face mask and maintaining social distancing were behind the increase in Covid cases. “The number of persons developing severe symptoms and those requiring ICU care have gone up. This could be due to the double impact of Covid-19 and pollution. Both are known to affect lung function,” he said. Lok Nayak Hospital, which is run by Delhi government, had only eight Covid-19 beds with ventilators available on Monday. The number of ICU beds without a ventilator at the hospital was 79. Safdarjung and AIIMS Trauma Centre that are run by the Centre had one and five beds with ventilators available, respectively. Among private hospitals, Apollo, Max Saket and Fortis Vasant Kunj did not have a single ICU bed available. Dr Priyadarshini Pal Singh, who heads emergency and critical care at Apollo hospital, said delay in admission was another major cause for rise in critical illness due to Covid. “If someone has Covid-19 symptoms, for example fever, cough or difficulty in breathing, he or she should get tested immediately. Even those under home isolation should be under medical supervision,” she said. Dr Singh said deterioration of symptoms could be very sudden in Covid-19. “Covid-19 is known to cause happy hypoxia, an unusual complication portrayed by low oxygen level in blood without obvious breathing difficulty.” A 40-year-old man was recently rushed to the Apollo emergency with very low levels of oxygen saturation. Doctors said he had intermittent fever and back pain till about a day ago and no other symptom. “In many patients, sudden complications can be caused in the second week of infection due to cytokine storm, an overreaction of the body’s immune system. Therefore, even if fever subsides, one should be watchful of any possible complication,” a doctor said. According to Dr Sandeep Dewan, director and head of emergency and critical care at Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI), nearly 80-90% of the critically-ill Covid patients have respiratory complications. “In some cases, we also see complications involving the heart, liver, kidneys and brain,” he said. The potential long-term effects of the infection are still being studied but many patients who have recovered have reported fatigue, breathing difficulty and neurological symptoms, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/icu-beds-in-short-supply-as-covid-tally-nears-4-lakh/articleshow/79008172.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 3, 2020||Nashik||1.88L comorbid patients found in rural areas of Nashik||Nashik: The district health office (DHO) has detected 1.88 lakh comorbid patients during the survey carried out across the district under the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ programme. The health teams went to every house to make a note of people living there and if they were suffering my any health-related issues. The programme was launched by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to curb the spread of Covid-19 infection. The district health survey teams covered data of 43.07 lakh people across 8.56 lakh households across 15 talukas of Nashik district. According to a health official, the maximum number comorbid patients were suffering from hypertension. “We found that as many as 63,808 people are suffering from hypertension which tops the chart, while 12,878 were obese,” the official said. The authorities also found that a total of 9,218 people were asthmatic along with 990 people suffering from cancer and 21,501 suffering from other chronic diseases. During the survey, 4,595 comorbid patients were referred to various fever clinics for further diagnosis related to Covid-19. “There were more than 100 patients who were found positive for Covid-19 infection. The survey has helped us in locating the comorbid patients across the district. The best part was that very few of them were infected by the disease. The health department will now pay special attention towards the comorbid patients in the district,” the official said. It should be noted that the highest number of comorbid patients were registered in Baglan taluka (26,555) followed by Niphad (26,062) and Dindori (22,285).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1-88l-comorbid-patients-found-in-rural-areas-of-nashik/articleshow/79005805.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 3, 2020||Rajkot||Man arrested for unnatural sex with cow||RAJKOT: A man was arrested on Sunday night for allegedly perpetrating unnatural sex upon a cow in Dwarka of Devbhoomi Dwarka district. Police said, they arrested the accused, Bharat Aswar (42) after a clip from the CCTV footage of the crime went viral on WhatsApp and social media. The incident occurred on early Saturday morning when Aswar committed the crime near the office of old Dwarka municipality. Aswar is believed to have been caught in his act by one of the CCTV cameras installed near the crime spot. “A social worker, Atul Dave (52), caught Aswar red-handed. When Dave asked him as to what he was doing, Aswar left the cow and fled from the spot,” said Gajendrasinh Zala, in-charge inspector with Dwarka police station. Later when the video clip of the crime started circulating on WhatsApp and social media, Dave approached the police and lodged the complaint against Aswar. “Dave, who has a shop near Dwarka temple, said he knew Aswar as a rickshaw driver. Aswar has no criminal record. However, we have booked him under sections 377 and 511 of Indian Penal Code dealing with unnatural sex and 11 (1) (A) of the IPC dealing with cruelty against animal,” said Zala. Zala said that Aswar might have been suffering from a mental disorder and might have problems in his personal life that spurred him to resort to committing such a heinous crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-arrested-for-unnatural-sex-with-cow/articleshow/79005960.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Lucknow||Rajya Sabha polls: All 10 candidates from UP elected unopposed||LUCKNOW: All 10 candidates — eight from BJP and one each from SP and BSP — were elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from Uttar Pradesh on Monday which was the last day for withdrawing nominations. With their election, voting scheduled on November 9 will not be held. In fact, the decks were cleared for election of all the candidates after the candidature of SP-supported independent candidate, Prakash Bajaj, who was the additional candidate, was cancelled following discrepancies in his nomination papers and affidavit. Bajaj did not get relief from the Supreme Court which he had approached after his candidature was cancelled. BJP, on the other hand, did not field an additional candidate which could have necessitated polling for the tenth seat. BJP fielded only eight candidates who would have won in case of polling since the party had a majority. In fact, the party and its ally Apna Dal were left with 17 spare votes. This was besides the votes of some MLAs from rival camps – BSP MLA Anil Singh, SP legislator Nitin Agarwal and Congress legislator Rakesh Singh had already shown their allegiance towards BJP. BJP’s eight candidates elected to the Upper House are: Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, BJP general secretary Arun Singh, former PM Chandra Shekhar's son Neeraj Shekhar, former UP DGP Brij Lal, former UP minister Haridwar Dubey, and three party functionaries -- Geeta Shakya, BL Verma and Seema Dwivedi. Samajwadi Party candidate Ram Gopal Yadav also won given the SP’s strength of 48 MLAs in the UP assembly. It was only the BSP which managed RS entry of its candidate, Ramji Gautam, without having adequate number of MLAs. A high voltage drama took place on the last day of nomination last week when SP supported Bajaj and five BSP MLAs claimed that their signatures as proposers of Gautam were forged. Two BSP MLAs had also started hobnobbing with the SP camp triggering speculation of a rebellion in the BSP. BSP chief later suspended all seven MLAs from the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-polls-all-10-candidates-from-up-elected-unopposed/articleshow/79009683.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Civic poll results today, counting begins at 9am||Jaipur: The fate of 1,116 candidates who contested in the civic elections for the 250 wards of Pink City — Municipal Corporation Greater and Jaipur Heritage Corporation — will be decided on Tuesday. Counting for Municipal Corporation Greater and Heritage Corporation will be held in Rajasthan College and Commerce College, respectively. An election commission official said, “Counting will start at 9am instead of 8 am and results of 25 wards will be released within 30 minutes. The first list will include results of 15 wards of Jaipur Greater and 10 wards of Heritage Jaipur.” For Municipal Corporation Greater, the counting for 686 candidates will be held in 279 rounds. Similarly, the fate of 430 candidates will be decided in 199 rounds for Corporation Heritage. “The counting of votes will be ward wise. In wards where polling booths are 10 or below, counting will be completed in a single round, while in wards with more than 10 booths, counting will be done in two rounds,” said an official. Counting of one ward at a time will be done in the counting hall. The counting for the next ward will start only after the counting of one ward is complete and result is determined. At the time of counting, the candidate of the ward or his polling agent will be given admission. The elected councillors will vote for the mayor on November 10. Even before the results are declared, the BJP has shifted its candidates in a hotel near Jaipur. Party sources said before mayor elections, it might also shift the councillors to Gujarat. A BJP office bearer said, “This time BJP cannot take risk as in the last time it lost the mayor post despite having the majority of councillors in the board. As the margin in formation of the board will be lesser, the party cannot risk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-poll-results-today-counting-begins-at-9am/articleshow/79009149.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||National agencies crossing the line: Kerala CM||T’PURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who initially welcomed the investigation by central agencies in the gold smuggling case, came down heavily on enforcement directorate (ED) and CBI for interfering with Kerala’s prestigious projects like Life Mission and K-FON. While addressing a news conference on Monday, Vijayan said the agencies were crossing boundaries and their acts were anti-democratic and anti-Constitutional. “No investigating agency has the right to probe the policies and projects carried out by the state government. It is an intrusion into the federal structure prevailing in India,” he said. “There was legitimate expectation when agencies took up the probe in gold smuggling case. But now, agencies are intruding into areas where they have no Constitutional rights or powers. They are playing to the script written by certain sections of people who have vested interests. It cannot be allowed,” said the chief minister. The decision of ED to probe details of Life Mission, K-FON, Smart City and Technopark downtown projects which were spearheaded by former IT secretary M Sivasankar, who is in their custody, seems to have triggered a sharp reaction from Vijayan. Last week’s CPM central committee meet had decided to expose the agenda of central agencies that try to weaken anti-BJP governments. Vijayan made it clear that the government will not surrender before any investigation agency and no one should be under the impression that the government will remain a mute spectator if they cross their limits. “The trust on investigating agencies have been lost. Investigation should be impartial and fair. However, now it has to be believed that the agencies are acting with a pre-conceived notion. The statements given before agencies are being leaked to media, which is a clear indication of existence of vested interests,” he alleged. Vijayan lashed out at ED for summoning Life Mission CEO UV Jose twice and ordering him to submit files of the state project within two days. “No agency has the right to probe projects enforced by the government. For this, a periodic audit by CAG is done,” he said. K-FON and Life Mission are two major programmes of Kerala benefitting the poor. The aim is to sabotage these schemes through such interventions. But, government is determined to go ahead with these projects and no one can stop it, he added. When asked whether the government would refuse to hand over the documents sought by ED, the CM didn’t give a direct reply. He said the government would give all support to legitimate and impartial probes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/natl-agencies-crossing-the-line-cm/articleshow/79006921.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Antigen tests stopped due to lack of kits||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has stopped antigen tests in the city for the past two days due to the non-availability of the testing kits. Moreover, the number of tests of suspected patients have reduced from 1,500 to 1,000 tests. Earlier, of the total 1,500 tests, 1,000 were RT-PCR tests and remaining were the antigen tests. But the NMC is now conducting all the RT-PCR tests, which are around 1,000. “The number of tests has been reduced due to a drop in the number of fresh Covid cases. We are conducting the RT-PCR tests only. We have stopped the antigen tests due to non-availability of the kits,” said NMC officials. “But we have already placed an order for 10,000 antigen kits from the Indian Council and Medical Research (ICMR)-approved manufacturing companies. We are expected to get the kits in a week,” said the officials. So far, the NMC has conducted 1.25 lakh antigen tests of Covid suspects and 20,000 of them tested positive.-Tushar Pawar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/antigen-tests-stopped-due-to-lack-of-kits/articleshow/79005820.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Opening day: Safety top priority at ISBTs in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The three inter-state bus terminals (ISBT) in Delhi are all set to reopen from Tuesday after more than seven months of closure due to Covid-19. The new standard operating procedures will be implemented to ensure the safety of passengers, bus staff and ISBT employees. On Monday, Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot reviewed the preparation and the SOPs at a meeting held ahead of the resumption of inter-state travel to and from Delhi. “The safety of all passengers and staff and crew are of utmost priority to us. We’ve been carefully monitoring patterns of travelling since we resumed bus services. And even though inter-state travel is a challenge, we are ensuring sanitisation at every point,” Gahlot said. Gahlot said that apart from thorough and regular disinfection, regular announcements and sensitisation of passengers about Covid precautions through audio-visual communication are also being undertaken. “A strict ban on the use of gutka and tobacco products will be imposed on the premises of all ISBTs,” the minister added. To reduce the risk of infection for passengers and crew, a clear SOP has been put in place prior to resuming services. The interstate buses will be disinfected by the respective depots of the bus operators at the point of origin and before departure from the respective ISBT. Thermal checking of both passengers and bus crew at boarding and at the point of entry to ISBTs will also be mandatory, according to a statement issued by the office of the minister of transport. The statement also said that passengers had to mandatorily wear face masks and no standing passengers would be allowed in the buses. Social distancing was to be ensured at the station, at the time of boarding and inside the bus as per government guidelines. These will be done through markers on the ground and in waiting areas, similar to the ones in DTC buses and Delhi Metro. The buses arriving from other states will need to produce a certificate of disinfection at the originating station before being allowed entry in the ISBTs. In case any passenger or bus staff shows Covid symptoms, officials of Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (DTIDC), which manages the ISBTs, will have to be informed immediately. In addition to these safety measures, testing camps for rapid antigen/ RT-PCR tests have also been set up at the three ISBT’s in case any asymptomatic passenger shows signs of illness after thermal screening. Monday’s review meeting was attended by senior officers of the transport department, DTIDC, DTC and Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd. Before the lockdown, 3,467 buses from other states arrived in Delhi every day, 1,636 at ISBT Kashmere Gate, 1,210 at Anand Vihar and 621 at Sarai Kale Khan. Most buses arrive from Uttar Pradesh (1,519), followed by Haryana (757) and Uttarakhand (313). DTC doesn’t operate any inter-state buses as its entire fleet runs on CNG, which is not easily available in the neighbouring states. While the central government had allowed inter-state bus transport from June 1, the bus services didn’t start in Delhi, which saw a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the month of June. On October 23, Delhi Disaster Management Authority allowed the capital’s three ISBTs to reopen and to follow the standard operating procedures prepared by Delhi government’s transport department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/opening-day-safety-top-priority-at-isbts/articleshow/79008197.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||‘Winterline’ adds to tourists’ delight in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: The spectacular ‘Winterline’, a one-of-its-kind phenomenon visible from mid-October to mid-January, has added to the delight of tourists thronging the hill town. Every evening, scores of visitors to the town can be seen gazing towards the Doon valley from the Mall Road in awe and amazement at the meteorological phenomenon. The Winterline, visible from Mussoorie, is a grey and mauve strip and the evening sun sets behind it creating a colourful palette of myriad shades of yellow, red and orange across the western horizon. Raghuveer Singh, a visitor, said soon after watching a ‘Winterline’ sunset, “We witnessed one of the most spectacular sunsets in our life and were spellbound for around 15-20 minutes as the sun painted the sky in its most beautiful shades.” The phenomenon, a photographer’s delight, is believed to occur due to the refraction of sunlight at a particular angle only during the winters because of less moisture and haze during the period. Mussoorie-based author Ganesh Saili said, “Across the globe, Winterline is visible only at Mussoorie and Cape Town in South Africa. It is due to a sudden rise in the altitude.” However, residents who have been witness to the phenomenon for years, are now worried that the rising pollution is proving a threat to the spectacular sight. A long-time resident of the town, Dana M Crider said, “I have been watching the Winterline rise in the horizon for several years now. The increasing pollution and smog in the Doon valley is slowly affecting this rare occurrence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/winterline-adds-to-tourists-delight-in-mussoorie/articleshow/79005822.cms||Anmol Jain
November 3, 2020||Madurai||HC directs CBI to file counter in bail plea||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday directed the CBI to file a counter to the bail plea moved by a suspended policeman who was arrested in connection with the Sathankulam custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by suspended constable S Vail Muthu who was arrayed as the ninth accused in the case. Since the assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri appearing for CBI sought time to file the counter, justice G K Ilanthiraiyan adjourned the case to November 19. It maybe recalled that Muthu was one among the 10 Sathankulam police personnel who were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of the father-son duo. Since the special sub-inspector Paldurai died, the CBI, which had completed the investigation, filed the final report against nine policemen before the Madurai chief judicial magistrate court on September 25. Earlier, during October, suspended SI Raghu Ganesh, who was arrested in the case filed his bail petition before HC. The court had directed the CBI to file a counter and his bail plea is pending. On September 17, HC Madurai bench had dismissed the bail plea of suspended inspector S Sridhar by observing that prima facie materials are available to prove that he had instigated his fellow policemen to assault the father and son. Similarly, on October 1, HC also dismissed the bail applications of head constables S Murugan, X Thomas Francis and constable Muthuraj by observing that prima facie materials are available on record to show that these three policemen played a vital role in the custodial torture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-cbi-to-file-counter-in-bail-plea/articleshow/79008183.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||House requests Gujjars to end stir, come for dialogue||Jaipur: The House on Monday appealed to the Gujjars to end their agitation and come to the talks table. The Gujjar Arakashan Sangarsh Samiti under Col Kirori Singh Bainsla had launched an agitation at Pilukapura in Bharatpur blocking rail and road traffic on November 1 . Speaker CP Joshi on behalf of the House appealed to the community leaders to resolve the differences through talks with the government instead of resorting to an agitation which will create hardships for the common man. Medical and health minister Dr Raghu Sharma, who is also a member of the cabinet sub-committee, gave a detailed account of the efforts made by the state government to fulfill the demand of the Gujjars on their various demands. He said the government had been very accommodative on their demands and was open to further talks to resolve the differences. He said the government and community leaders from 80 Gujjar-dominated villages agreed on 14 points of their demands after point by point talks with them. These include Rs 5 lakh compensation to the families of the three members of the community who succumbed to injuries in the previous agitation and agreed to provide government job to a family member. The government had also constituted a committee of officials to look into their pending demands. However, a section of Gujjars led by Col Kirori Singh Bainsla and his son Vijya Bainsla have been spurning the overtures from the government. Sharma said sports minister Ashok Chandana was sent for talks in Bharatpur on Sunday, but they refused to talk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/house-requests-gujjars-to-end-stir-come-for-dialogue/articleshow/79009151.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Masks must in Raj, fines yet to be fixed||Jaipur: Rajasthan assembly on Monday passed a bill making it mandatory to wear masks. However, the bill does not specify the penalties if someone was caught without maks. The Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was passed to control the rapidly spreading Covid-19 throughout the country, including Rajasthan, since its outbreak. To regulate and prevent epidemic diseases, the state enacted the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. Section 4 of the Act states that the state government might specify such temporary regulations or orders to be observed by the public to prevent the spread of the disease. The bill prohibits the movement of any person in public place, public transport, private transport, work place or at any social, political, general function or gathering without properly covering mouth and nose with face mask or face cover.  The bill said, “Health experts all over the world are of the opinion that the use of a mask can help control the spread of Covid-19 considerably and save lives of millions.” Government is also of the view that wearing a mask should be made mandatory at public places, workplace, social and political gatherings and public or private transport, the statement said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/masks-must-in-raj-fines-yet-to-be-fixed/articleshow/79009154.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bareilly||Chandigarh-based woman dupes groom-to-be for over Rs 6 lakh, booked along with her family members||PILIBHIT: Pilibhit police has booked a Chandigarh-based woman, her mother and two brothers for duping a 28-year-old Pilibhit resident — her groom-to-be — of more than Rs 6 lakh. The victim, Nitin Shrivastav, a resident of Khairulla Shah locality in Pilibhit city, took up the matter with police when he came to know about their “deceitful practice of making money by proposing a man for marriage through matrimonial websites”. According to Nitin, his marriage was fixed with Premlata Rajput of Sector 38 in Chandigarh last year through a matrimonial website. The woman’s mother, Chitra Rekha, along with her two sons Satish and Ravi, visited Pilibhit on August 22 and performed pre-marriage rituals, said Nitin. Upon returning Chandigarh, the mother demanded Rs 25 lakh from him to buy a small flat for Premlata in Chandigarh, stating that she would live in the flat after their marriage, following which he transferred Rs 5.2 lakh to the bank account of the bride-to-be, said the victim. Following the girl’s demands, he again paid for a 1.5-ton air conditioner and transferred additional Rs 41,000 in two instalments to her account, said Nitin. “I felt that they were cheating me after Premlata’s mother made a fresh demand of Rs 10 lakh on the pretext of placing her daughter in a government job,” said Nitin. “As I inquired about the woman and her family, locals in Chandigarh told me that the bride and her family had been in duping business for long. The bride’s family also threatened to implicate me in criminal cases if I pursued up the matter further,” alleged Nitin. Pilibhit kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the woman, her mother and her two brothers were booked under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing the delivery of property) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/chandigarh-based-woman-dupes-groom-to-be-for-over-rs-6-lakh-booked-along-with-her-family-members/articleshow/79004769.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nashik||Operation clean-up begins at Godavari river||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started cleaning Godavari river at the Ramkund and Ghat areas ahead of Diwali after the residents complained about solid waste being thrown on the river banks. Accordingly, NMC has deployed two garbage vans and increased their frequencies to lift the garbage. The NMC has also increased the workforce of sanitary workers to clean the river. NMC officials said they have already started cleaning the river. The movement of the people and religious activities have also increased at the Godavari in the past few days. “Moreover, we are also deploying two trolleys of tractors so that the puja waste and other wastes will be collected there,” said NMC officials. Meanwhile, the environmentalists also visited the Godavari river banks during the cleaning activities and praised NMC workers for making continuous efforts in keeping the river clean. The environmentalists, Rajesh Pandit and Devang Jani, who reviewed the cleaning activities by NMC in the stretch of Godavari from Ramkund to Tapovan, includes petitioner of Godavari pollution case in the Bombay high court. “We reviewed the cleaning works being done by the NMC’s sanitary workers. They are doing a good job. But at some places, there is no coordination between the sanitary workers, who collect all the solid waste at one place and the garbage vans, which do not come on time,” said Pandit. The environmentalists have urged the NMC officials to make proper coordination between its sanitary employees and garbage vans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/op-clean-up-begins-at-godavari-river/articleshow/79005825.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 3, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, 58, burnt alive by son, daughter-in-law for property, dies after recording dying declaration||Bareilly: A 58-year-old woman was allegedly burnt alive by her elder son and daughter-in-law over a property dispute in Jalalabad town of Shahjahanpur district late Sunday night. The woman was admitted to the district hospital where she died after recording her dying declaration, said police, adding that she accused her son, daughter-in-law and a relative of setting her on fire. Police said the accused wanted to sell the ancestral house, while his mother wanted to equally divide the house among all her children that led to a dispute, and a ‘panchayat’ meeting was also called on Sunday. Police said victim Ratna Gupta, a widow who raised her daughter and two sons after the death of her husband, was forced by her elder son Akash — who had moved to Maharajganj two years ago after he got married to a local woman, but returned to live with his mother — to sell the house. When Ratna refused, Akash misbehaved with her on Sunday morning, and the matter reached to the panchayat which asked them to resolve the dispute among themselves, said police. “My son, his wife and relatives set me on fire in my sleep,” Gupta told police. Police said her youngest son Kishan was sleeping in another room when the accused perpetrated the crime and fled the scene. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said, “Akash and three other relatives were booked under section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means which is likely to cause death) of the Indian Penal Code. Police sent the body for an autopsy, and the section of murder will be added to the FIR after we receive the autopsy report. The woman died after recording her statement. We have, meanwhile, detained the accused for questioning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-58-burnt-alive-by-son-daughter-in-law-for-property-dies-after-recording-dying-declaration/articleshow/79004807.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala HC stays trial to hear survivor’s plea||KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Monday stayed the trial in the actress abduction and sexual assault case while it hears the survivor’s plea for changing the judge. Justice V G Arun was considering petitions filed by the survivor and the state government seeking change of judge. They alleged that this is required to ensure justice. Senior advocate S Sreekumar said the trial judge was behaving partially and had even questioned the character of the survivor. She was cross-examined continuously for nine days. Witnesses have been put to hardships in the name of the trial, the counsel submitted, while stating the trial can be completed within the time period stipulated by the Supreme Court even if the judge is changed. Senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted that the trial judge had directly contacted two labs that examined the phone memory card. He alleged that this would benefit actor Dileep, who is the eighth accused in the case. The court allowed cross-examination of the survivor up to 7pm and many of the questions had put the survivor in great difficulty, the HC was told. Moreover, questions assailing the character of Dileep’s first wife, actress Manju Warrier, were raised by defence lawyers when she was examined. The court failed to record her statement that Dileep had tried to influence her. Furthermore, the HC was told eight out of 17 lawyers at the in-camera proceedings represented Dileep. While describing the incident, the survivor was mentally shattered and the court had to take a recess. But this was not recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-stays-trial-to-hear-survivors-plea/articleshow/79006948.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Tamed elephant charges at picture-crazy bikers||MADIKERI: An attempt to take a close-up photo of a tamed elephant at Anechowkuru Road near Mathigodu Elephant Camp in South Kodagu turned nearly to fatal for two bikers. Two unidentified bikers travelling towards Anechokuru from Thithimathi observed Bhima — a tamed elephant of the camp — grazing by the roadside. Their attempt to click close-up photographs of the elephant provoked the jumbo leading to an attack. However, the bikers escaped unhurt in the incident. Disturbed Bhima reportedly stood in the middle of the road blocking the traffic till Mathigodu camp mahouts rushed to the spot and pacified him. They later took him back to the camp premises. Speaking to TOI, camp RFO Kiran Kumar advised commuters to avoid provoking or disturbing the elephants to prevent such untoward incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tamed-elephant-charges-at-pic-crazy-bikers/articleshow/79005665.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Temple priest held for theft||MYSURU: A priest of Chowdeshwari temple in Sathi village in KR Nagar is cooling his heels in jail for allegedly cheating eight devotees in Hunsur in June. Manu, 28, was arrested by Bilikere police at KR Nagar bus stand. Valuables worth Rs 21 lakh have been recovered from him. Ningappa of Uyigowdanahalli in Hunsur had complained to police that Manu had cheated them of their valuables in the pretext of conducting puja for their wellbeing. He had told cops that Manu had asked eight of them to keep gold valuables in a vault in Ningappa’s house after a pooja and asked them not to open it till Ayudha Pooja, which concluded on October 25. After the pooja Manu went inside the room on the pretext of changing his dress and made away with the valuables, police said. The incident came to light only after Manu went missing, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/temple-priest-held-for-theft/articleshow/79006095.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||60% turnout in Rajasthan's 6 civic bodies: Poll panel data||JAIPUR: The overall turnout in the elections to six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, which was held in two phases, was 60.17 per cent, data released by state election commission said. According to the data, total polling recorded in Jaipur Heritage was 57.82 per cent, 58.31 per cent in Jaipur Greater, 62.64 per cent in Jodhpur North, 58.76 per cent polling in Jodhpur South, 65.12 per cent in Kota North and 66.43 per cent polling in Kota South. It also stated that of the 36 lakh voters in 560 wards, 21.66 lakh voters exercised their franchise. In 2014 municipal corporation elections in Jaipur, 60% polling took place and in 2009, the polling was 51.80%. Similarly, 63% polling took place in Jodhpur in 2014 and 58.53% in 2009. In Kota, 67 per cent voting took place in 2014 and 60.53 per cent voters exercised their franchise in 2009. The counting of votes for the six municipal corporations will begin at 9 am on Tuesday. Meanwhile, district election officer (municipal) and district collector of Jaipur Antar Singh Nehra said in view of Covid situation and section 144 being imposed, no victory procession will be allowed by the winners after counting of votes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/60-turnout-in-6-civic-bodies-poll-panel-data/articleshow/79009167.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nashik||232 new cases across Nashik district||NASHIK: As many as 232 Covid-19 cases, including 153 from Nashik city, were reported across the district on Monday — taking the tally of cases to 94,147. According to a health official, two people succumbed to the infection in the district, while no casualty was reported in the city. “The death toll currently stands at 867 in the city and 1,672 in the district,” he said. “As many as 487 patients were discharged from across the district on Monday, out of which 378 patients were from Nashik city. Currently, the number of active cases in the district stands at 3,564, of which 2,292 active cases are in the city,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/232-new-cases-across-nashik-district/articleshow/79005836.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ajmer||60% turnout in Rajasthan's 6 civic bodies: Poll panel data||JAIPUR: The overall turnout in the elections to six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, which was held in two phases, was 60.17 per cent, data released by state election commission said. According to the data, total polling recorded in Jaipur Heritage was 57.82 per cent, 58.31 per cent in Jaipur Greater, 62.64 per cent in Jodhpur North, 58.76 per cent polling in Jodhpur South, 65.12 per cent in Kota North and 66.43 per cent polling in Kota South. It also stated that of the 36 lakh voters in 560 wards, 21.66 lakh voters exercised their franchise. In 2014 municipal corporation elections in Jaipur, 60% polling took place and in 2009, the polling was 51.80%. Similarly, 63% polling took place in Jodhpur in 2014 and 58.53% in 2009. In Kota, 67 per cent voting took place in 2014 and 60.53 per cent voters exercised their franchise in 2009. The counting of votes for the six municipal corporations will begin at 9 am on Tuesday. Meanwhile, district election officer (municipal) and district collector of Jaipur Antar Singh Nehra said in view of Covid situation and section 144 being imposed, no victory procession will be allowed by the winners after counting of votes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/60-turnout-in-6-civic-bodies-poll-panel-data/articleshow/79018478.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Passing pro farmer bills a matter of satisfaction: CM||Jaipur: CM Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the assembly passing three farmer bills was a “matter of great satisfaction” as everyone stood for the farming community. “For the Rajasthan Govt, the welfare of farmers is paramount. We will not let our farming community suffer in any way. The new acts will help in empowering the farmers and provide them support & protection (sic),” Gehlot tweeted late night. He said that it would have been appropriate for the Centre to consult all stake-holders like farmer organisations, state governments and agriculture experts because the Union laws would have far reaching implications on agriculture. “Also, due legislative process should have been followed in Parliament while passing these bills. Referring these bills to Select Committee as demanded by some members of the opposition, would have ensured deeper appraisal and scrutiny of the varied aspects of the issue. By not doing so, the GoI seems to have jumped the gun and is now witnessing the protests of farmers across the country," Gehlot tweeted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/passing-pro-farmer-bills-a-matter-of-satisfaction-cm/articleshow/79009159.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Covid cases jump from 1 lakh to 2 lakh in 51 days||JAIPUR: Covid-19 cases in the state breached the two-lakh mark riding on 1,748 new infections on Monday. The current tally stands at 2,00,495. It took 51 days to reach two lakh from one lakh. It had taken 194 days to reach a lakh infections. The virus spread at an alarming rate since September 12, in comparison to the six initial months of the pandemic. The state took almost same time to go from one lakh to 1.5 lakh and from 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh, indicating that the average pace at which the virus has spread remained almost same. From 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh, the state took 25 days and from 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh, it took 26 days time. The first 50,000 cases came in 158 days, second in 36 days and thee third 50,000 cases came in just 25 days. The virus spread fastest from September 12 to Octover 7 as it took 25 days for rasing the Covid-19 count from 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that the pace of Covid-19 spread has slowed down. Sharma was speaking while flagging off the vehicle rally of corona warriors under jan andolan to defeat Covid-19, said, “Covid-19 can be defeated only through public awareness and by being cautious. The role of doctors, paramedical staff, sanitation personnel, media personnel, administrative and police officers as corona warriors has been praiseworthy. The efforts by the corona warriors in the form of the vehicle rally on Monday will further strengthen the public awareness movement.” He said that ‘Mask is the Vaccine’ till medicine or vaccine is invented for corona in the world. He said that the experts believe the vaccine can stop corona only up to 60%, but masks can stop the corona infection up to 90%. Despite of state government’s efforts, deaths have been reported from different parts of the state. Nine persons died, while 1748 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Monday bringing the overall tally to 2,00,495. With nine deaths, the state’s toll rose to 1926. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (315), Jodhpur (234), Bikaner (201), Alwar (120), Sriganganagar (117), Nagaur (88), Ajmer (78), Kota (69), Jhunjhunu (67), Hanumangarh (61), Pali (55), Bharatpur (54), Jalore (41), Sikar (34), Barmer (33), Chittorgarh (27), Bhilwara (27), Udaipur (24), Baran (19), Churu (17), Sirohi (10), Tonk (10), Dungarpur (9), Rajsamand (9), Jaisalmer (7), Sawai Madhopur (5), Dausa (5), Jhalawar (4), Dholpur (3), Banswara (3), Bundi (1) and Karauli (1). Jaipur reported its 376th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 186th, Ajmer 143rd, Bikaner 141st, Pali 76th, Udaipur 72nd, Alwar 58th, Nagaur 57th and Chittorgarh reported 31st Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-covid-cases-jump-from-1-lakh-to-2-lakh-in-51-days/articleshow/79009184.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jodhpur||60% turnout in Rajasthan's 6 civic bodies: Poll panel data||JAIPUR: The overall turnout in the elections to six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, which was held in two phases, was 60.17 per cent, data released by state election commission said. According to the data, total polling recorded in Jaipur Heritage was 57.82 per cent, 58.31 per cent in Jaipur Greater, 62.64 per cent in Jodhpur North, 58.76 per cent polling in Jodhpur South, 65.12 per cent in Kota North and 66.43 per cent polling in Kota South. It also stated that of the 36 lakh voters in 560 wards, 21.66 lakh voters exercised their franchise. In 2014 municipal corporation elections in Jaipur, 60% polling took place and in 2009, the polling was 51.80%. Similarly, 63% polling took place in Jodhpur in 2014 and 58.53% in 2009. In Kota, 67 per cent voting took place in 2014 and 60.53 per cent voters exercised their franchise in 2009. The counting of votes for the six municipal corporations will begin at 9 am on Tuesday. Meanwhile, district election officer (municipal) and district collector of Jaipur Antar Singh Nehra said in view of Covid situation and section 144 being imposed, no victory procession will be allowed by the winners after counting of votes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/60-turnout-in-6-civic-bodies-poll-panel-data/articleshow/79018477.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why smog tower replica doesn’t bring good news||NEW DELHI: To assess the possible impact of an anti-smog tower on the ambient air quality in its surroundings, an environmental organisation carried out an experiment with an air purifier in a balcony and measured readings within 12 feet of the device. The idea was to use a small-scale version of the tower that would be installed in Connaught Place at a cost of Rs 20 crore soon. Track the pollution level in your cityThe experiment conducted by Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) found that while ambient air quality dropped by 20-25 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) within the flow of the air, the impact reduced when measured away from it. Ambient air quality also returned to “normal” when the device was turned off, which proved that people would be required to be near the smog tower for consistent periods to notice any difference. The analysis pointed towards the need of considerably altering the size of the device to make any significant impact to the surrounding air. Under normal circumstances, it was not likely to reduce to “breathable” limits from Delhi’s normal ambient PM2.5 readings of 120 µg/m3. Karthik Ganesan, fellow at CEEW, who conducted the experiment, said that PM2.5 readings of 80-89 µg/m3 reduced to 55-65 µg/m3 within the flow of the air purifier. However, the readings were as high as 75 µg/m3 away from the flow of air. “When the purifier was switched off, the ambient air quality immediately returned to what it was earlier. This means the impact was short-lived. For sustained impact, people need to be in the vicinity of such air purifiers for consistent periods. Since the smog tower is being installed in a commercial space, the impact will be minimal for people dipping in and out,” said Ganesan. The study also highlighted that as Delhi’s ambient PM2.5 reading was generally around 120 µg/m3, the smog tower couldn’t bring it down to a level that would yield material impact where people could breathe in clean air. “To make an impact in a small area, it would require significant outsizing of the device, which would be a waste of public money. What we should be looking at is cleaning up the sources of pollution and encouraging people to stay indoors in purified air,” Ganesan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-smog-tower-replica-doesnt-bring-good-news/articleshow/79008201.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Gujjars intensify quota demand, block Ajmer-Ahmedabad highway||AJMER: Gujjar community members on Monday blocked the Ajmer- Ahmedabad six-lane highway for about an hour demanding reservation for their community. The agitation was made on the call of Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti. The community members threatened the state government of blocking the highway again if their demands are not fulfilled within 24 hours. Similarly, another group of protesters blocked the Ajmer-Kota highway. Police remained on high alert and got videography done through drone to collect evidences. High alert was issued in the district as there are many pockets of Gujjar villages. A meeting of the Gujjar community was called at Kalp Vraksha of Mangaliyawas on Beawar road. The leaders said they are demanding reservation for their community. They also decided not to harm anyone. Mostly youths participated in the meeting and later they reached National Highway 8 and blocked both the lanes shouting slogans. Families in personal vehicles and ambulances were allowed to move, but buses and trucks were blocked. “We have decided not to break any law and not to harm anyone or government property,” said a Gujjar leader. Police force was called in and after an hour police asked them to open the highway. There was a jam on both the sides for two hours. Similarly, there was a protest at Bandanwara on Ajmer-Bhilwara road. On Ajmer-Kota state highway near Surajpura, the blockade was lifted after a few minutes of protest. Meanwhile, an alert has been issued in the district. Police identified villages like Ghooghra Chatari, Bandanwara and others and are also keeping an eye on Gujjar leaders who participated in the agitation last time. Sources said Ajmer has a huge population of Gujjars and police want to keep the agitation in control this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gujjars-block-ajmer-ahmedabad-highway/articleshow/79008239.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jodhpur||Gujjars intensify quota demand, block Ajmer-Ahmedabad highway||AJMER: Gujjar community members on Monday blocked the Ajmer- Ahmedabad six-lane highway for about an hour demanding reservation for their community. The agitation was made on the call of Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti. The community members threatened the state government of blocking the highway again if their demands are not fulfilled within 24 hours. Similarly, another group of protesters blocked the Ajmer-Kota highway. Police remained on high alert and got videography done through drone to collect evidences. High alert was issued in the district as there are many pockets of Gujjar villages. A meeting of the Gujjar community was called at Kalp Vraksha of Mangaliyawas on Beawar road. The leaders said they are demanding reservation for their community. They also decided not to harm anyone. Mostly youths participated in the meeting and later they reached National Highway 8 and blocked both the lanes shouting slogans. Families in personal vehicles and ambulances were allowed to move, but buses and trucks were blocked. “We have decided not to break any law and not to harm anyone or government property,” said a Gujjar leader. Police force was called in and after an hour police asked them to open the highway. There was a jam on both the sides for two hours. Similarly, there was a protest at Bandanwara on Ajmer-Bhilwara road. On Ajmer-Kota state highway near Surajpura, the blockade was lifted after a few minutes of protest. Meanwhile, an alert has been issued in the district. Police identified villages like Ghooghra Chatari, Bandanwara and others and are also keeping an eye on Gujjar leaders who participated in the agitation last time. Sources said Ajmer has a huge population of Gujjars and police want to keep the agitation in control this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/gujjars-block-ajmer-ahmedabad-highway/articleshow/79017659.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Anti-smog gun at ITO to shoot down bad air||NEW DELHI: In a bid to fight air pollution in the city, PWD installed its first anti-smog gun on the roads on Monday. It was put up at ITO, considered one of the most polluted areas in the capital due to traffic at the intersection. Central Delhi will have three other locations for the anti-smog guns. PWD officials said the pollution levels started rising with the relaxations in the Covid restrictions and increasing number of people and vehicles came out on the streets. Track the pollution level in your cityIn January, the Supreme Court had ordered the installation of anti-smog guns at large construction sites, among other locations, to check dust pollution. A PWD official said that construction projects did install the guns, but it was also decided that ITO, because of the heavy pollution at the spot, could do with an anti-smog gun. The anti-smog gun sprays nebulised water droplets into the air through high-pressure propellers and help the dust particles settle down. After the Supreme Court order, Delhi Pollution Control Committee had enumerated the large projects in the city and wrote to them on January 22, asking them to come up with a plan in 30 days. They were given a deadline of March 18 to install the guns. A PWD official said the difficulty in brining pollution under control has been a big concern. In certain winter months, the air quality index has even gone beyond the emergency level 500-600 mark, with the burning of harvest remains in the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh contributing to the bad air. “By installing anti-smog guns at select locations, we can curb dust from dispersing into the air,” the official said. More such anti-smog guns are to be put up to fight the dark menace aside from construction sites, the first three locations being in central Delhi. On October 14, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai revealed that strict action was being taken against those flouting dust control norms, be it PWD or the municipal corporations. Rai said the issue of pollution was related to people’s health and all agencies were equally responsible for its prevention and control. “It doesn’t matter it is PWD or municipal corporations or any agencies, all have to take measures to prevent dust pollution,” the minister had said when he was inspection one of PWD’s biggest projects, the redevelopment at Chandni Chowk. Watch Air pollution: PWD installs anti-smog gun at Delhi’s ITO||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/anti-smog-gun-at-ito-to-shoot-down-bad-air/articleshow/79008253.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Vote slugfest over, Dubbak set to seal netas’ fate today||HYDERABAD: After a bitter campaign between TRS, BJP and Congress, residents of Dubbak are casting their vote in the assembly byelection today. The  was announced after the sudden death of the sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy in August. The feverish campaigning saw allegations and counter allegations after Rs 18.7 lakh cash was seized from the residence of a relative of BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao. The cops said that they had also recovered Rs 1 crore from Rao’s brother-in-law in Hyderabad. Besides, a BJP supporter in Hyderabad had attempted self-immolation to protest the arrest of state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar. The tense situation led to the Election Commission deputing four observers, including an IPS officer from Tamil Nadu, to oversee the election. In the middle of the acrimonious campaigning, Siddipet district collector P Venkat Rami Reddy was shifted to Sangareddy and Bharati Hollikeri was appointed in his place. While TRS is in a strong position in the constituency, both the Congress and BJP have made it a keen contest by coming out all guns blazing and asking their top leaders to campaign. TRS, which has fielded Solipeta Sujatha, wife of Ramalinga Reddy, believes it is going to be a cakewalk for it. “It will not be just a sympathy vote for Sujatha. It will be a vote in favour of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, his welfare schemes and the functioning of the government,” a senior TRS leader said. With KCR and TRS working president KT Rama Rao staying away, the mantle fell on finance minister and Siddipet MLA T Harish Rao, who ran a no-holds-barred campaign. In the 2018 election, TRS had won the seat with a margin of 62,500 votes. Sources said it is important for the TRS to at least hold on to this margin if not exceed it. BJP’s Raghunandan Rao, who has suffered defeats in three previous elections, is fighting for ‘atma gouravam’ (self-respect). The election is also a litmus test for Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, who campaigned for Rao in Dubbak. Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy, who came from the TRS, is also seeking vote in the name of his father, the late Cheruku Mutyam Reddy, who had represented the constituency in the past. His performance will test Nalgonda MP, TPCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy, and new AICC Telangana in-charge Manickam Tagore. Both had vowed to upstage TRS this time. In the 2018 poll, Congress polled 26,000 votes and the BJP 22,000 votes. The TRS had secured 89,000 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vote-slugfest-over-dubbak-set-to-seal-netas-fate-today/articleshow/79009720.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||No arrest yet in Pratap Nagar firing||Jaipur: Police are yet to arrest the person who had fired at a security guard in Pratap Nagar on Sunday. Cops claimed that the guard was not the target but his employer who had a dispute with the accused, who has a long criminal history. Raju Pandit had injured guard Madan Jogi, who is now in a stable condition after he was operated upon for removing the bullet. Pratap Nagar SHO Purshottam Maheriya said, “The victim worked at Murli Gurjar’s property who was kidnapped by Raju two years ago. On Sunday, Raju tried to shoot Murli’s brother Vikas, but instead the guard got shot. We are trying to locate him.” Cops will question the guard’s employer to find out more details into the case as well to find Raju’s informants. He is wanted in cases of theft and extortion. Just two days ago, shots were fired in Muhana on Friday evening in which one person sustained two bullet wounds. As the lockdown is gradually being eased, more cases of firings are being reported from across the state. Three firing incidents in Bikaner in a week raised concerns of the police department and the government and now the pattern appears to be being followed in Jaipur as well. Last month, cops had launched a campaign called Action Against Guns (AAG) through which they have been nabbing persons found with illegal arms. In most of the seizures, the weapons seized are country-made pistols and while police is running this operation, back-to-back cases of firing have been reported in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-arrest-yet-in-pratap-nagar-firing/articleshow/79008258.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Udaipur||Gujjars intensify quota demand, block Ajmer-Ahmedabad highway||AJMER: Gujjar community members on Monday blocked the Ajmer- Ahmedabad six-lane highway for about an hour demanding reservation for their community. The agitation was made on the call of Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti. The community members threatened the state government of blocking the highway again if their demands are not fulfilled within 24 hours. Similarly, another group of protesters blocked the Ajmer-Kota highway. Police remained on high alert and got videography done through drone to collect evidences. High alert was issued in the district as there are many pockets of Gujjar villages. A meeting of the Gujjar community was called at Kalp Vraksha of Mangaliyawas on Beawar road. The leaders said they are demanding reservation for their community. They also decided not to harm anyone. Mostly youths participated in the meeting and later they reached National Highway 8 and blocked both the lanes shouting slogans. Families in personal vehicles and ambulances were allowed to move, but buses and trucks were blocked. “We have decided not to break any law and not to harm anyone or government property,” said a Gujjar leader. Police force was called in and after an hour police asked them to open the highway. There was a jam on both the sides for two hours. Similarly, there was a protest at Bandanwara on Ajmer-Bhilwara road. On Ajmer-Kota state highway near Surajpura, the blockade was lifted after a few minutes of protest. Meanwhile, an alert has been issued in the district. Police identified villages like Ghooghra Chatari, Bandanwara and others and are also keeping an eye on Gujjar leaders who participated in the agitation last time. Sources said Ajmer has a huge population of Gujjars and police want to keep the agitation in control this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/gujjars-block-ajmer-ahmedabad-highway/articleshow/79017658.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: RERA registered projects can be tracked online||JAIPUR: Prospective home buyers can soon track the progress of real estate projects online as all developers and builders registered under the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Rajasthan, will soon have to upload quarterly progress report of their projects on the RERA website. The move to upload reports online will help buyers to assess the properties, the progress of the projects, evaluation of the company’s financial status and legal aspects. After the enactment and implementation of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, a total of 1,375 projects have been registered under RERA across the state. RERA registrar Ramesh Chandra Sharma said, “For consumer protection, the regulatory body making quarterly reports online will ensure transparency in the system. The prospective buyer can take take a comparative decision on buying a property after analysing quarterly report of projects.” As per the mandatory provision, the promoter has to upload updates on the RERA website for the project at the end of each quarter on apartments/flats, status update of each building, floor, internal infrastructure and common areas construction. Other details including information on approvals, bank account details, revision in plans, licence issues, permits or approvals for the projects also have to be displayed in public forum. A RERA official said, “Penalty will be imposed if developers failed to adhere to the norms of uploading the quarterly report. However, due to Covid- 19, the authorities have provided relaxation and decided not to take any action on defaulters.” Other than this, Rajasthan RERA is also going hi-tech and developers can apply for project extension and submit their revised map online. Developers supported the RERA decision to go online as it would ease the process. CREDAI chairman Gopal Das Gupta said, “The online system will benefit both consumers and developers. The paperless process will not only benefit developers, buyers will not have to additionally pay to get documents and seek legal advice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rera-registered-projects-can-be-tracked-online/articleshow/79008234.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ajmer||Gujjars intensify quota demand, block Ajmer-Ahmedabad highway||AJMER: Gujjar community members on Monday blocked the Ajmer- Ahmedabad six-lane highway for about an hour demanding reservation for their community. The agitation was made on the call of Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti. The community members threatened the state government of blocking the highway again if their demands are not fulfilled within 24 hours. Similarly, another group of protesters blocked the Ajmer-Kota highway. Police remained on high alert and got videography done through drone to collect evidences. High alert was issued in the district as there are many pockets of Gujjar villages. A meeting of the Gujjar community was called at Kalp Vraksha of Mangaliyawas on Beawar road. The leaders said they are demanding reservation for their community. They also decided not to harm anyone. Mostly youths participated in the meeting and later they reached National Highway 8 and blocked both the lanes shouting slogans. Families in personal vehicles and ambulances were allowed to move, but buses and trucks were blocked. “We have decided not to break any law and not to harm anyone or government property,” said a Gujjar leader. Police force was called in and after an hour police asked them to open the highway. There was a jam on both the sides for two hours. Similarly, there was a protest at Bandanwara on Ajmer-Bhilwara road. On Ajmer-Kota state highway near Surajpura, the blockade was lifted after a few minutes of protest. Meanwhile, an alert has been issued in the district. Police identified villages like Ghooghra Chatari, Bandanwara and others and are also keeping an eye on Gujjar leaders who participated in the agitation last time. Sources said Ajmer has a huge population of Gujjars and police want to keep the agitation in control this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/gujjars-block-ajmer-ahmedabad-highway/articleshow/79017660.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bareilly||Child rights body chairperson offers Rs 3 lakh aid, free electric potter's wheel to rape survivor’s family||Bareilly: UP state Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson Dr Vishesh Gupta on Monday met the family of a seven-year-old girl who was brutalised and raped by a teenaged boy in a cane field in Khudaganj area of Shahjahanpur district on October 28. After meeting the family, he visited the girl at the district hospital to take stock of her health. Later, he offered the family a financial aid of Rs 3 lakh under Rani Laxmi Bai Mahila Samman Scheme that would be transferred to the account of her father in a week. The tormentor had inserted a sugarcane stalk into her mouth so that she could not raise an alarm. Besides, there were grievous injuries in her private parts, and she had to be admitted to the hospital to save her life. Dr Gupta said, “After coming to know about the heinous crime through media reports, I visited the girl's family and found their economic condition is not good. So, we offered them an electric chaak (an electric potter’s wheel) and a tricycle to her physically challenged father. The family will also get a financial aid of Rs 3 lakh after the girl’s statement is recorded in the court on Tuesday. I have, meanwhile, told officials to make clay available to the family for making potteries and diyas during Diwali for their income. The family is satisfied with the police action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/child-rights-body-chairperson-offers-rs-3-lakh-aid-free-electric-potters-wheel-to-rape-survivors-family/articleshow/79004828.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Mega protest in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad chapter of Maharashtra Pandal Association — umbrella organization of several event organizers and related businesses — on Monday held a mega protest, demanding that the state government should allow them to resume their businesses. Hundreds of members gathered outside the district collector’s office to press for their demand. To register their protest, the protesters turned up in black dresses and erected a black coloured tent (pandal( opposite to the district collector’s office. Sumit Sahane, one of the protesters, said, “There are at least one lakh people, who are directly or indirectly dependent on the pandal and related businesses. By not allowing us to resume our businesses, the state is only adding to our sufferings.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mega-protest-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79005877.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Swapna Prabha Suresh’s petition for statement copy nixed||KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Monday disposed a petition filed by gold smuggling key accused Swapna Suresh seeking a copy of the statements given to customs during questioning. Justice V G Arun considered a petition (Crl MC No. 4381/2020) filed by Swapna Prabha Suresh, 39, seeking copy of statements given under section 108 of Customs Act. Denial of copies of statements by an economic offences court was questioned by her. As per section 108(4), the statement recorded by a gazetted officer of customs is considered a judicial proceeding and giving false evidence is punishable. The economic offences court had cited section 172(3) of CrPC to deny copies. It bars the accused from seeking a copy of the diary of proceedings in investigations that are produced before the court. Suresh contended in the high court that copies of documents produced in court or in the custody of court should be issued as per Rule 222 of Criminal Rules of Practice. Justice Arun found substance in the contention that section 172(3) cannot be relied on to deny copies of statements given to customs. But in the present case, the statements were made available in a sealed cover and cannot be considered as documents produced in court or in the custody of the court, the high court held. Discretion on whether it is a confidential document is vested with the court and as the magistrate found them to be confidential, there is no reason to interfere with the order, the high court held. While the case was pending before the high court, customs provided copies of statements to Suresh. Recording this, the court dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/swapnas-petition-for-statement-copy-nixed/articleshow/79007021.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Rajkot||5 booked for attacking birder||RAJKOT: Five persons were booked on Monday for allegedly attacking Dilip Tanti, a famous birder of Rajkot at his farmhouse in Pal village on the outskirts of Rajkot on Sunday night over a trivial issue. The accused also robbed Tanti of his licensed pistol after the latter opened fire on them, injuring one. A cross complaint was also filed against Tanti. According to the complaint lodged by Tanti (54), he objected to two persons standing near the wall of his farmhouse and hurling abuses, leading to the altercation and subsequent attack. “Tanti alleged that after he objected to the two persons using abusive language, the duo started abusing him. Later, Tanti went to the farmhouse of the accused in his SUV, where at the gate, the accused, Parshottam Sorathia, his sons — Nikhil Sorathia and Ghanshyam Sorathia —, his brother Jayesh Sorathia and his son-in-law Hiren Patel, attacked him with axe, crowbar, bats and iron pipes,” said H M Dhandhal, sub-inspector with the Lodhika police station. “Tanti claimed that in order to scare away the assailants, he fired two rounds from his licensed pistol — one on the ground and the other in the air. Tanti alleged that the Sorathia family members broke his fingers and caused him head injury by hitting him with arms and then robbed him of his pistol,” added Dhandhal. Meanwhile, in his cross complaint against Tanti, Nikhil alleged that he had received a bullet injury after the bullet fired by Tanti ricocheted off the ground and hit him in the stomach. “When Hiren and I went to tell him not to use abusive language, Tanti allegedly abused us. Then Tanti along with his two aides came to our farmhouse and brandishing his pistol, Tanti opened fire at us,” claimed Nikhil in his complaint. Tanti, a resident of Viththal Apartment on Race Course Ring Road, was admitted to a private hospital, while Nikhil, who was first taken to the Rajkot Civil Hospital, was also shifted to a private hospital. Tanti has set up a private zoo at his farmhouse which houses several varieties of birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/5-booked-for-attacking-birder/articleshow/79005935.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Gujjar community in Bundi gears up to join agitation||Kota: The Gujjar community in Bundi is waiting for a call from Colonel Kirori Singh Bainsla to join the protest if their demands are not fulfilled. It was in Bundi that this agitation took shape for the first time on May 29, 2007, claiming lives of seven community members from Baran, Jhalawar and Kota districts of Hadouti region. On Monday, Gujjars under the aegis of various organisations took out rallies in Jhalawar and Baran districts asking the government to fulfil their demands. They submitted memorandums to their respective district authorities on Monday noon. Gujjars in Hadouti are waiting for a call from Col Bainsla to join the agitation. As soon as the signal is received, all the Gujjars in Hadouti will step in the state-wide agitation, Bundi district head of Veer Gujjar Mahasabha Satveer Gujjar said. A meeting of Gujjars from all the five panchyats of Bundi district is scheduled to be held on Wednesday at a temple in Chatarganj village of Hindoli panchyat samiti to chalk out strategy for the agitation in the district, patron of the Mahasabha, Devraj Gochar said. However, Jhalawar district president of Rajasthan Gujjar Mahasabha, Suratram Gujjar refuted claims of call from Col Bainsla saying all the community units in Hadouti are active to press the government to fulfill their demands. They submitted a memorandum to Jhalawar collector on Monday noon with the ultimatum of intensified agitation across Hadouti if the demands are not met within three days, he said. CAPTION – Members of Gujjar community submit a memorandum to Jhalawar district collector on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gujjar-community-in-bundi-gears-up-to-join-agitation/articleshow/79008270.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mumbai||Govt panel rejects Dr Reddy’s proposal for full marketing nod to Remdesivir||MUMBAI: A government expert panel on Covid-19 under the Union health ministry has rejected full regulatory approval for anti-viral drug, Remdesivir, saying `restricted emergency use’ of the drug for treatment in Covid-19 will continue. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) in its meeting on October 29, shot down Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s proposal seeking a change in the approval of Gilead’s Remdesivir from restricted emergency use to a full marketing nod. Under restricted use to a new unapproved drug, the patient has to provide a signed consent form before treatment is initiated. This is because there is not enough data to support the claim that the therapy works, hence patients’ consent is important. As against this, in a full regulatory approval, the drug can be dispensed with a doctor’s prescription, with no consent from the patient. There is rampant use of Remdesivir to treat moderate-to-severe Covid-19 patients here in India, though doctors earlier told TOI that it’s indiscriminate use needs to be curbed. Over the past few months, Remdesivir has been controversial in the wake of its indiscriminate use, shortages, price gouging and recently a full approval by USFDA despite lack of robust global data in the treatment of Covid-19. It received a full go-ahead by USFDA on October 22 for use in adult and pediatric (12 years and above) Covid-19 hospitalised patients, even as the World Health Organisation’s Solidarity Trials showed that it was ineffective in reducing mortality or duration of hospital stay. Earlier in May, Veklury or Remdesivir was authorised only for emergency use by the US regulator. In another development, the SEC rejected an application of Dr Reddy’s to grant emergency approval to a potential cancer drug, Deoxy-D-Glucose oral powder for use in Covid-19 patients. The company was earlier granted approval to conduct Phase 3 clinical trials to study the drug’s safety and effectiveness as a potential Covid-19 therapy. Emails and calls to Dr Reddy’s were not answered till the time of going to press. After detailed deliberation, the SEC ``reiterated its earlier recommendation in respect of their proposal and did not recommend for approval of the drug for restricted emergency use as no additional data was presented’’, according to minutes of the meeting accessed by TOI. The SEC advises the apex regulator, Drug Controller General of India, on applications seeking approvals for new drugs, vaccines and clinical trials. Regarding Phase 3 clinical trials, the SEC said 28 days mortality should be included as one of the efficacy end points. Further, the expert panel rejected Sun Pharma's proposal to grant restricted emergency use to Cocculus hirsutus, a plant-based drug. The company had sought approval for the drug’s restricted emergency use, along with presenting Phase 2 clinical trial results. The committee observed that trial results have failed to meet efficacy end-points, and overall the scientific data was not satisfactory. The trials on AQCH, a phytopharmaceutical (plant derived) drug for the treatment of Covid-19 were started in June. AQCH, which is being developed for dengue, has shown broad antiviral effect in in vitro studies and hence was being tested as a potential treatment option for Covid-19, the company said earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-panel-rejects-dr-reddys-proposal-for-full-marketing-nod-to-remdesivir/articleshow/79009228.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Pray for stronger winds if you want to breathe easier||NEW DELHI: On Sunday, the concentration of PM2.5 in Delhi’s air crossed the mark of 500 micrograms per cubic metre in the morning. However, as wind speed picked up and crossed 12kmph over the next few hours, there was a sharp drop in localised pollution, and PM2.5 reading dropped to the acceptable standard of 60 micrograms per cubic metre by the evening. On Monday, Delhi’s AQI improved from the ‘very poor’ level to ‘poor’, highlighting again how dependent the city air is on the meteorological factor of the winds blowing at some speed. Track the pollution level in your city Delhi had seen a similar pollution spike when the reverse happened on October 28 — the wind speed came down to below 5 kmph and caused the AQI to briefly touch the ‘severe’ mark. Delhi’s AQI, which was recorded at 297 (poor) on October 27 by Central Pollution Control Board, was determined to be 395 (very poor) the following day. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, explained wind speed in that earlier incident had fallen close to nil, leading to an accumulation of pollutants at night. “The reverse happens as wind speed picks up because the wind flow disperses the pollutants. At night, the mixing layer is also low and trap pollutants closer to the surface,” he said. L S Kurinji, research analyst, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said the variation in air quality can be extreme, particularly when factors like wind speed change. “Meteorological parameters such as wind speed, wind direction and the mixing height influence the dispersion of pollutants in any region. On November 1, the PM2.5 level crossed 500 micrograms per square metre for a couple of hours in the morning,” said Kurinji. “However, due to the wind flow speeding up, the micro pollutant level had fallen by the evening.” Experts revealed that not only Delhi, but the entire Indo-Gangetic belt was largely influenced by meteorological conditions, with stagnant air trapping pollutants over the region. “We’ve seen it happen in several years, and these have been clear factors on days when air quality has degenerated to ‘severe’ category,” pointed out Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory. “As temperatures begin to drop, the boundary layer remains low, meaning pollutants cannot disperse freely. When wind speed drops, the pollutants hang in the air and you notice a haze.” The variation in wind speeds has been impacted by low temperatures in the region. Delhi recorded its coldest October in the last 58 years with a mean minimum temperature of just 17.2° C. The normal minimum for Delhi during the month is 19.1° C. As temperatures drop further, chances of an increase in pollution increases, owing to a low boundary layer. Historical data shows November records the most number of days when the air is in the ‘severe’ category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pray-for-stronger-winds-if-you-want-to-breathe-easier/articleshow/79008278.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||11 Gujjar leaders of breakaway group to meet Bainsla today, urge him to call off agitation||Jaipur: As nearly 300 people, belonging to Kirori Singh Bainsla group, continued their agitation on the railway tracks at Bayana in Bharatpur on the second day of agitation, the Gujjar leaders of the breakaway group on Monday decided to meet Bainsla on Tuesday and urge him to call off the agitation. “The panchs of 84 villages of Nehra block (Bayana) in Bharatpur held a panchayat today. They refused to support the agitation led by Bainsla. A message has been sent to Bainsla that he wanted an agreement on six points, but the group of 41 Gujjar leaders who met the representatives of the government got an agreement done on 14 points. So, there is no point holding an agitation now,” said leader of the 41-member group Himmat Singh. “A committee of 11 members has been formed during the panchayat. They will meet Bainsla on Tuesday and request him to call off the agitation. They will also try to convince him to have a dialogue with the state government. He will also be requested to call off the protest,” he added. Meanwhile, Kirori Singh Bainsla and his son Vijay Bainsla reached the Delhi-Mumbai railway track in the afternoon, where the agitation was continuing. Speaking to reporters, Bainsla said he was firm on his demands on the issue of backlogs. Bainsla also said he didn’t want to call minister Ashok Chandna to the railway track at night, that’s why the talks couldn’t take place on Sunday. Vijay said they were ready for talks during the day. “If Chandna doesn’t have time, Raghu Sharma or somebody else can come for talks,” he added. Bainsla had refused to meet Chandna, who had gone to Hindaun city (Karauli) to meet the Gujjar leader on Sunday. Bainsla, on Monday, again invited Chandna to Hindaun for a meeting. Karauli collector Siddharth Sihag had several rounds of talks with the Bainsla group on Monday urging them to call off the agitation, but the Gujjars refused to budge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-gujjar-leaders-of-breakaway-group-to-meet-bainsla-today-urge-him-to-call-off-agitation/articleshow/79008264.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Delhi||At 10.8°C, Delhi experienced season's coldest night on Monday||NEW DELHI: The capital experienced its coldest night of the season when the minimum temperature fell to 10.8 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, on Monday, said India Meteorological Department (IMD). It is also the lowest minimum temperature recorded in November in two years. The last time the mercury dipped lower than this — 10.5 degrees Celsius — was on November 8, 2018. Clear sky with lack of cloud cover is impacting the temperature, said an IMD official. The maximum temperature on Monday was 30.1 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature is likely to dip to 10 degrees Celsius on Tuesday as the similar weather condition is expected for a few days, the Met department predicted. The maximum temperature will hover around 30 degrees. Shallow mist or fog is predicted during morning hours. According to the Met department, the city received last rainfall on September 8 and October was cloudless. Lack of cloud cover causes warm days but cold nights. “The calm wind has been prevailing over the last many days. The wind with zero speed reduces the temperature at night,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. Due to a western disturbance, upper reaches of a few hilly areas have received light rain and snowfall, which has also led to the fall in temperature, he added. Before this, the lowest minimum temperature recorded this season was 11.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Delhi has even recorded its coldest October in 58 years with an average minimum temperature of 17.2 degrees Celsius for the month and had its coldest October night in 26 years on Wednesday when the minimum temperature dropped to 12.5. The normal mean minimum temperature in October was 19.1 degrees Celsius. According to IMD, the lowest minimum temperature in November 2019 was 11.4 degrees Celsius, which was recorded in the third week of the month. Watch 'Delhi stares at colder winter, records lowest post-monsoon temperature'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-10-8c-delhi-experienced-seasons-coldest-night-on-monday/articleshow/79008296.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||One held for duping people under pretext of giving question paper of exam||Jaipur: Jaipur Rural police arrested a person who along with his accomplices duped people of lakhs of rupees in the pretext of providing them with question papers of recruitment exams in police and armed forces. Keeping the upcoming constable recruitment exam in the state scheduled for November 6, 7 and 8, police conducted a covert operation and arrested Rajendra Prasad Meena, who ran a coaching institute ‘National Defence Academy’ in Viratnagar. “We received a complaint from a candidate who is appearing for the constable recruitment exam that one of his friends took him to the accused following which Meena asked for Rs 6 lakh for providing the question paper. The candidate gave him Rs 1.2 lakh in advance,” said a police officer. After giving money, the complainant thought of checking Meena’s the accused’s background and found that he had duped people earlier too. He then lodged a complaint at Shahpura police station. The accused himself was dismissed from ITBP. Elaborating further, the official said, “The accused told the aspirants that he would provide the question paper two hours before the examination. He claimed that he had helped many candidates get selected in paramilitary and armed forces. We are questioning him in detail to find others involved in the scam.” The upcoming constable recruitment examination will have over 5,000 aspirants appearing in it and internet will be apparently shut down for these days. CCTV cameras have also been put up at the centres and strict monitoring will be done during the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-held-for-duping-people-under-pretext-of-giving-question-paper-of-exam/articleshow/79008286.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Business row? Man from Hyderabad stabbed to death outside home in US||HYDERABAD: A 37-year-old man from Hyderabad, Mohd Arif Mohiuddin, was murdered in Georgia in the US on Sunday night. He was stabbed several times by four assailants right outside his home after he had returned from work. Arif’s family in Hyderabad told TOI that he had been living in the US for the past decade and was running a grocery store. Although the identity of the assailants has not yet been confirmed, the family has been told that CCTV footage had shown at least one of the assailants to be an employee of the store while another was a woman. Arif had called up his family recently and told them that he was running the store in partnership with a man of Spanish origin. He had also said that he had a financial dispute with his partner. “When I called him last (Sunday) night, he sounded disturbed and scared and said he would call back once he reached home. When he did not call, we were disturbed,” his wife Mehnaz Fatima said on Monday evening. Mehnaz rushed friends to Arif’s flat who confirmed that he had been murdered. Arif has a daughter who lives in the city with the mother. Social worker and Majlis Bachao Tehreek spokesperson Amjed Ullah Khan has written to Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar and the Indian embassy in the US to help the family. He also appealed to the US consulate in Hyderabad to provide an emergency visa to the victim’s family so that they can travel to the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/biz-row-man-from-city-stabbed-to-death-outside-home-in-us/articleshow/79009735.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Govt files reply in school fees matter, hearing in HC today||Jaipur: Following the direction of Rajasthan High Court, the state government on Monday submitted its reply in the matter of school fees by private schools and quoted the order of Saurav Sawai, the director of secondary school education. The bench will hear the matter on Tuesday. In the affidavit submitted by the state government it was stated that on October 28, the school fees had been fixed by an order issued by the education department. “Under this, it has been decided to collect seventy per cent of tuition fees CBSE students studying in classes 9 to 12. On the other hand, tuition fees for students of these classes of Rajasthan Board have been reduced by forty per cent. Apart from this, while deciding about students of classes 1 to 8, the fees will be determined on the basis of course cuts. At the same time, private schools have been given instructions not to change the uniform,” said additional advocate general (AAG). The state government has also asked private schools not to increase fees and parents be allowed to pay fees on quarterly basis. As per the order, there is also a mention of capacity building fees. The state government also informed the court that a three-member committee was formed to determine the fees on the directions of the Rajasthan High Court. Meanwhile, the division bench of the high court had directed the state government to determine the interim fees by November 28. On September 7, a single bench of the high court had allowed private schools to charge 70 per cent of the tuition fees. Thereafter, the state government and parents associations approached the HC against the single bench order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-files-reply-in-school-fees-matter-hearing-in-hc-today/articleshow/79009230.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Trichy||No deaths in central region, three in southern districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state on Monday reported 218 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths. The three deaths were reported one each in Madurai, Virudhunagar and Kanyakumari. Meanwhile, the central region reported 201 fresh cases, the lowest in the recent times. The regional tally of the positive cases also went up to 65,892, which include 1,663 active cases. No deaths were reported in the region maintaining the toll at 868. For the second straight day on Monday, all districts in the region recorded less than 50 cases each. With 40 cases Kanyakumari recorded the highest numbers in the region, followed by Tuticorin (39), Madurai (37) and Tirunelveli (25). The six other districts recorded less than 20 cases. Tenkasi (4) recorded the lowest, followed by Sivagangai (11), Ramanathapuram (12), Theni (15), Virudhunagar (16) and Dindigul (19). Except for Madurai (474), Tuticorin (447) and Kanyakumari (260), the seven other districts have recorded less than 200 active cases. Tenkasi (27) continued to have the least number of active cases in the state. Ramanathapuram (50), Theni (55) and Dindigul (62) have less than 100 active cases. The central region witnessed a sudden drop in the number of fresh cases for the past couple of weeks. No districts registered cases above 50 on Monday. The highest number (49) was reported in Thanjavur, while Perambalur and Ariyalur recorded four cases and seven cases, the lowest numbers. Public health department officials in the region believed that people might have developed antibodies of Covid-19 over the period of time since the outbreak in March. The sero-survey to ascertain anti-body was also completed in almost all the selected areas. A senior public health department official said that they were in the process of compiling the results. Meanwhile, 63,361 patients were discharged in the eight districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-deaths-in-central-region-three-in-southern-districts/articleshow/79016429.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Madurai||No deaths in central region, three in southern districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state on Monday reported 218 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths. The three deaths were reported one each in Madurai, Virudhunagar and Kanyakumari. Meanwhile, the central region reported 201 fresh cases, the lowest in the recent times. The regional tally of the positive cases also went up to 65,892, which include 1,663 active cases. No deaths were reported in the region maintaining the toll at 868. For the second straight day on Monday, all districts in the region recorded less than 50 cases each. With 40 cases Kanyakumari recorded the highest numbers in the region, followed by Tuticorin (39), Madurai (37) and Tirunelveli (25). The six other districts recorded less than 20 cases. Tenkasi (4) recorded the lowest, followed by Sivagangai (11), Ramanathapuram (12), Theni (15), Virudhunagar (16) and Dindigul (19). Except for Madurai (474), Tuticorin (447) and Kanyakumari (260), the seven other districts have recorded less than 200 active cases. Tenkasi (27) continued to have the least number of active cases in the state. Ramanathapuram (50), Theni (55) and Dindigul (62) have less than 100 active cases. The central region witnessed a sudden drop in the number of fresh cases for the past couple of weeks. No districts registered cases above 50 on Monday. The highest number (49) was reported in Thanjavur, while Perambalur and Ariyalur recorded four cases and seven cases, the lowest numbers. Public health department officials in the region believed that people might have developed antibodies of Covid-19 over the period of time since the outbreak in March. The sero-survey to ascertain anti-body was also completed in almost all the selected areas. A senior public health department official said that they were in the process of compiling the results. Meanwhile, 63,361 patients were discharged in the eight districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-deaths-in-central-region-three-in-southern-districts/articleshow/79008304.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kochi||NIA: Hameed’s questioning has thrown up more names||KOCHI: The National Investigation Agency, which is investigating the terror angle in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, is believed to have received information from Rabins Hameed about additional partners in crime who have taken shelter abroad. The agency’s claim was made in its remand report on Hameed, who was deported by UAE authorities last week following an Interpol blue- corner notice. Hameed was presented in court on Monday on expiry of his NIA custody. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate received permission to question prime accused Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and Sarith P S further based on new evidence, including that which led to the arrest of IAS officer M Sivasankar. The 10th accused in the case and one of the racket’s key pointmen abroad, Hameed, is learnt to have contributed funds to procure the gold in the UAE. Hameed, who hails from Muvattupuzha, was arrested by NIA sleuths on his arrival at Cochin Airport on October 26. He had been in a UAE jail till October 25 following his arrest in July this year. “[Hameed] has disclosed details of more associates involved in the crime [who have] taken shelter abroad. The investigation into their role is under progress,” NIA said in the report. The NIA court remanded Hameed in judicial custody till November 5. At least five others involved are suspected to be in the UAE. Hameed was part of the Muvattupuzha racket which smuggled nearly 150kg of gold between 2013 and 2015 through Cochin Airport. He was once fined Rs 60 lakh by a customs authority but is believed to have coughed up only Rs 6 lakh to date. The special court considering Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases approved ED’s petition, filed on Saturday, to question Sarith, Swapna and Sandeep, who are in judicial custody. The agency can question the trio on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from 10am to 4pm. The court directed ED to give the accused a 30-minute break if a questioning session continues for over two-and-a-half hours. The interrogation of Sivasankar continued on Monday. His ED custody ends on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-hameeds-questioning-has-thrown-up-more-names/articleshow/79007053.cms||---
November 3, 2020||India||France killings: FIR against Munawwar Rana for his remarks||LUCKNOW: UP police have registered an FIR against Urdu poet Munawwar Rana for his remarks on the recent beheadings in France over Prophet Mohammad’s caricatures. The FIR is based on a complaint lodged with Hazratganj police on Sunday by SI Deepak Kumar Pandey, who alleged that Rana’s remarks were tantamount to promoting communal enmity, hurting religious sentiments and disturbing peace and tranquillity. The 67-year-old poet has been booked under sections of IPC and IT Act. Speaking to TOI last week, Rana had said that caricaturing Prophet Mohammad and killing people over it were both wrong. But he admitted that he “would also have done the same” as insulting a religious figure was unacceptable. On Monday, he said he was ready to face the consequences of speaking his mind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/france-killings-fir-against-munawwar-rana-for-his-remarks/articleshow/79010023.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi air pollution: November ban for crackers? NGT seeks answers||NEW DELHI: Citing interest of public health and environment, National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday issued notices to Union environment ministry, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), Delhi Police commissioner, Delhi and its neighbouring state governments, questioning whether the use of firecrackers would be banned from November 7-30. Track the pollution level in your cityThe tribunal, in its order said, while past judgments had taken air pollution into equation, they had not considered Covid-19, which might increase due to the rise in air pollution. It then posted the matter on November 5. “There are expert views on a clear nexus between air pollution and Covid-19. With increased pollution, the virus can cause more damage. In view of the above issue, notices have been issued to the authorities concerned,” said NGT on Monday. Referring to the past judgments by the Supreme Court and other courts, NGT said, “The above cases do not consider Covid situation, when the adverse effect may be so severe that the number of deaths and diseases among children, senior citizens and other vulnerable people may increase. There are reports in public domain that air quality of Delhi is deteriorating, and further deterioration may increase Covid-19 cases,” said the bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Goel. The tribunal also referred to the Air Quality Index, stating it was averaging between 410 and 450, which was ‘hazardous’. “Firecrackers emit poisonous gases like SO2, NOX, CO and metal, besides creating noise. In the given climatic conditions, this may result in respiratory diseases, diabetic, hypertension and other issues,” the bench added. NGT was hearing an application that sought remedial action against pollution, which would be caused by firecrackers at a time when the air quality was “unsatisfactory”, and there was a potential of the pandemic becoming severe. The application referred to statements made by Union and Delhi health ministers that during the festive season, there could be a rise in Covid cases due to air pollution. “Increased pollution may further affect the vulnerable groups and increase the fatality rate. Covid cases may go up to 15,000 per day against 5,000 per day currently,” the application added. Watch Delhi air pollution: NGT seeks answers on November ban for crackers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nov-ban-for-crackers-ngt-seeks-answers/articleshow/79008314.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bareilly||BKU activists launch indefinite dharna against farm bill, pending cane dues||RAMPUR/BIJNOR: Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Monday launched a state-level agitation against the new farm bills and to demand clearance of cane dues, with hundreds of activists setting up an indefinite dharna at the collectorate premises across the state. If their demands are not met, the agitators threatened they will celebrate all festivals inside the premises, disrupting regular work. In Rampur, hundreds of farmers on bullock carts and tractor trolleys gathered at the collectorate under BKU’s banner to protest against the three farm reform bills — The Farmers’ Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill — passed by the Parliament. Rampur BKU district president Haseeb Ahmad said, “Farmers have been in financial distress since the pandemic outbreak and lockdown. Now, on top of the sugarcane dues, Parliament has passed bills that will ruin their lives,” adding, “The dharna will continue till the Union government withdraws these anti-farmer bills.” Across the state, sugarcane crushing season has begun, with 35 sugar mills out of 119 having started operations. But according to an official, though the mills have paid off around Rs 29,000 crore dues from last season, they still collectively owe Rs 66,000crore to 40 lakh sugarcane growers in UP, which has pushed many of the latter to the brink of poverty. Some farmers have even been forced to take loans on Kisan Credit Cards to make both ends meet. Across the state in Bijnor, scores of cane farmers led by state president of BKU’s youth wing, Digambar Singh, marched towards the Bijnor collectorate and pitched tent inside its premises on Monday. Singh said, “The government has failed to get mills to clear cane dues on time, pushing farmers into financial distress. They need money to pay labourers for harvesting cane, but are being forced to take banks loans to run their families instead. Farmers co-operated with the government during the lockdown by not demanding their dues. But, although the lockdown is over, mills are still not paying up.” “Many farmers are being unable to pay school fees of their children. On top of that, festive season has arrived. But the government is not feeling their pain,” Singh added. Some farmers said, “Crushing season has begun, but the state advised price (SAP) is yet to be cleared. We’ve demanded that the new SAP be hiked from Rs 325 to Rs 450 per quintal. We’re also against the new ‘anti farmer’ farm bills. We’ve told the administration that if our demands are not met, we’ll celebrate all our festivals inside the collectorate premises.” A state-level cane officer, on condition of anonymity, told TOI a meeting to decide the new SAP will be held soon, and that the state government is taking steps to get mills to clear their dues.” (With inputs from Harveer Dabas in Bijnor)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bku-activists-launch-indefinite-dharna-against-farm-bill-pending-cane-dues/articleshow/79004903.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 3, 2020||Madurai||Stalin urges Rajasthan govt to lift ban on fireworks||MADURAI: DMK president M K Stalin has urged the government of Rajasthan to revoke its ban on fireworks. This appeal comes in the wake of the announcement made by Rajasthan chief minister (CM) Ashok Gehlot banning sale of fireworks this Diwali to protect Covid-19 patients and public. In a tweet on Twitter, Gehlot on Monday stated that ‘poisonous smoke’ emanating from firecrackers pose a threat to Covid-19 infected patients and general public. He also warned that strict action will be taken to prohibit sale of firecrackers. Stalin tweeted that the Rajasthan government’s decision to ban sale of firecrackers is adding misery to the lives of millions of workers in the fireworks industry who are already struggling for survival due to Covid-19. “To safeguard their livelihood, I urge the Chief Minister of Rajasthan to reconsider and revoke the ban,” the tweet said. Stain had tweeted this along with the representation sent by the Tamilnadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers’ Association (TANFAMA) earlier that day seeking the DMK president’s support in getting the ban revoked by the Rajasthan government, as DMK’s ally Congress is in power there. In their representation to the Rajasthan CM, Tamil Nadu CM, the DMK president and leaders of various political parties, TANFAMA tried to explain how fireworks are safer and would not affect those affected by Covid-19. It also mentioned the impact a ban of this nature would leave on the livelihood of eight lakh workers in the industry in the cracker town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stalin-urges-rajasthan-govt-to-lift-ban-on-fireworks/articleshow/79008320.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||BARC scientist-turned-cop wants to reach justice to all||Nagpur: The 2015 batch IPS officer, Noorul Hassan, a former scientific officer at Department of Atomic Energy’s Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), left the prestigious job and also ignored opportunities in corporate world so he could provide justice to the commoners. Just like his name, which means ‘light of the God’, he wants to fight the darkness of crime and illegal activities and spread illumination of fairness.Hassan, in his early 30s, is currently posted as Zonal DCP in west Nagpur. He was also electrical project engineer at Siemens Limited after completing his B Tech from Aligarh Muslim University in 2009. Son of a government clerk, Hassan’s wife is a MD and so are his younger brother and his wife. Though a young turk in the force, Hassan has already showed shrewd side of policing when he cycled to reach MIDC police station in civil attire on Sunday for a surprise visit. Hassan, probably first IPS from his native district of Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, said his early days in an interior village were chequered with struggle. It was father’s job that brought the family to Bareilly.“Almighty chooses people to do a certain job and it was He for whom I am here,” said Hassan during brief meeting with the media at Rana Pratap Nagar police station on Monday after holding a Janata (public) meeting. Hassan said his selection in the UPSC in the very first attempt was a surprise for him too as he could barely invest one-third of the time that other aspirants had devoted to crack the examination. “My job at BARC was demanding and exhausting and had been a regular engagement from 8am to 5pm. After rest and refreshment, I would be left with barely six hours for studies. In reality, it would be only five. I studied in the bus during travelling,” he said.“If it interests you then anything is possible,” said Hassan. He also sounded a firm believer of in dictum of success being 99% hard work and 1% luck. After joining as Assistant SP in Beed in 2017, he was shifted as Addl SP Nanded and then to Yavatmal before getting transferred to Nagpur which will probably be his first acid test under a no non-sense CP Amitesh Kumar who is known to be a hard taskmaster. “We are following CP’s diktat against illegal activities like consuming liquor in the open and at the dabhas (roadside) eateries,” he said. “I have already given my cell phone to the people to call me. I am accessible for them. As of now, I get calls on my cell phone from 8 am to 11 pm,” said Hassan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/barc-scientist-turned-cop-wants-to-reach-justice-to-all/articleshow/79007056.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two more Gandhi Hospital fugitives held, one still on the run||HYDERABAD: After two months of hide and seek with cops stretching across states, luck finally ran out on Monday for two fugitives including the mastermind of the daring breakout from Gandhi Hospital in August. With the latest arrests, cops now have three of the four escapees. One fugitive was arrested earlier in September. During the early hours of August 27, the quartet — Mohammed Javeed, Mohammed Abdul Arbaz, P Narasimha and Soma Sundar — had escaped from the prisoners’ ward on the second floor of the eight-storied Gandhi Hospital by scaling down from the toilet window using a rope made out of bedsheets. Police first caught Soma Sundar (20) in September. Based on information provided by him police teams camped in neighbouring Karnataka for four weeks and managed to track down Javeed (35) and Arbaz (21) to a hideout in Telangana. Sundar said that Javeed, a vehicle thief from Chandrayangutta, had been the ring leader and the four had initially gone to Gulbarga where the latter has relatives. Cops said that they were closing in on the fourth fugitive Narasimha (44) as well. Narasimha, a life convict in rape and murder case, has a history of escaping from prisoners’ ward of hospitals, police said. Narasimha had left Gulbarga in late August after refusing to go along with Javeed’s plan to steal vehicles to survive in hiding. “We have some information about the whereabouts of Narasimha. He will also be caught soon,” said a cop from Chilakalguda. “Both Javeed and Arbaz have committed multiple offences in and around Gulbarga while they were on the run. Our police teams in coordination with Karnataka police finally caught them hiding in Telangana,” said a senior official. Police teams are also working to recover the stolen property, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-two-more-gandhi-hospital-fugitives-held-one-still-on-the-run/articleshow/79009745.cms||Mahesh Buddi
November 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||ED probing Bineesh Kodiyeri’s ‘hawala’ deals worth Rs 5 crore||BENGALURU: On Monday, a special court extended the enforcement directorate’s custody of Bineesh Kodiyeri –son of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and accused in a money-laundering scam – by five days. ED told the court that it is trying to establish hawala transactions worth over Rs 5.17 crore between Bineesh and his aide, drug dealer Mohammed Anoop, who was arrested by narcotics control bureau. Bineesh has failed to cooperate with the investigation, ED said. On Monday evening, ED officers escorted Bineesh to court hall number 34 in the city civil court complex and presented him before the special judge. Bineesh’s lawyers claimed he is unwell and the case politically motivated as all transactions being probed were done through cheques. Special prosecutor P Prasanna Kumar, on the other hand, said Bineesh is a habitual offender with 10 cases registered against him in Kerala and one in Dubai. Bineesh had transferred Rs 5,17,36,600 to two of Mohammed’s bank accounts in Bengaluru through two shell companies and other channels between 2012 and 2019, Kumar claimed. Bineesh is politically influential and needs to be quizzed about the large sum of money he had transferred to the drug dealer. ED wasn’t able to question him properly in the money-laundering case for two-and-a-half days as he’d refused to cooperate claiming he was unwell, Kumar told the court, arguing that ED needs another 10 days’ custody for interrogation. The special judge then extended Bineesh’s custody till Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ed-probing-bineeshs-hawala-deals-worth-rs-5cr/articleshow/79007063.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Faridabad||Delhi air pollution: November ban for crackers? NGT seeks answers||NEW DELHI: Citing interest of public health and environment, National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday issued notices to Union environment ministry, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), Delhi Police commissioner, Delhi and its neighbouring state governments, questioning whether the use of firecrackers would be banned from November 7-30. Track the pollution level in your cityThe tribunal, in its order said, while past judgments had taken air pollution into equation, they had not considered Covid-19, which might increase due to the rise in air pollution. It then posted the matter on November 5. “There are expert views on a clear nexus between air pollution and Covid-19. With increased pollution, the virus can cause more damage. In view of the above issue, notices have been issued to the authorities concerned,” said NGT on Monday. Referring to the past judgments by the Supreme Court and other courts, NGT said, “The above cases do not consider Covid situation, when the adverse effect may be so severe that the number of deaths and diseases among children, senior citizens and other vulnerable people may increase. There are reports in public domain that air quality of Delhi is deteriorating, and further deterioration may increase Covid-19 cases,” said the bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Goel. The tribunal also referred to the Air Quality Index, stating it was averaging between 410 and 450, which was ‘hazardous’. “Firecrackers emit poisonous gases like SO2, NOX, CO and metal, besides creating noise. In the given climatic conditions, this may result in respiratory diseases, diabetic, hypertension and other issues,” the bench added. NGT was hearing an application that sought remedial action against pollution, which would be caused by firecrackers at a time when the air quality was “unsatisfactory”, and there was a potential of the pandemic becoming severe. The application referred to statements made by Union and Delhi health ministers that during the festive season, there could be a rise in Covid cases due to air pollution. “Increased pollution may further affect the vulnerable groups and increase the fatality rate. Covid cases may go up to 15,000 per day against 5,000 per day currently,” the application added. Watch Delhi air pollution: NGT seeks answers on November ban for crackers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/nov-ban-for-crackers-ngt-seeks-answers/articleshow/79011028.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Madurai||Private company offers joyride to Kodaikanal visitors||DINDIGUL: A private helicopter service company has stationed a chopper at Kodaikanal for three days, to offer joyride for tourists visiting the hill station. The service, which started on Monday will be available till Wednesday. This will give an opportunity for people to have a bird’s eye view of deep valleys and the star-shaped Kodaikanal late, which is a main attraction in the hill station. “The helicopter carried a family to the hill station on Sunday. We decided to station it there for three days to offer joyride. We have not taken a call on continuing the service every week. It depends on the support we get from people,” said an official from the Coimbatore-based company. Helicopter service can be booked for 15 minutes at Rs 36,000 and 30 minutes for Rs 60,000. A maximum of six people can travel at a time. Due to Covid-19 individuals are not encouraged. Friends and families can book it and enjoy the ride, the official added. Apart from joyride, the company is also providing air ambulance service. The service is being offered by a team of experienced pilots, taking care of all safety measures and required permission from the departments concerned, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pvt-company-offers-joyride-to-kodaikanal-visitors/articleshow/79008328.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Awareness campaign on Covid-19 goes green, digital in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Covid-19 awareness Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activity in this coastal city went green and digital on Monday. Rather than depend on static messages painted either on cloth/vinyl banners displayed on a billboard, the district administration in conjunction with Indian Red Cross Society, DK district and Bank of Baroda opted for live streaming of awareness messages using digital signage with two electronic display boards at vantage points in the city. Launching the digital corona signage and inaugurating a blood donation camp organised by the zonal office of Bank of Baroda, deputy commissioner Dr K V Rajendra said the digital billboards will give authorities greater flexibility in spreading awareness about the pandemic. A cloth/vinyl banner can convey as much information as the size of the bill board presents, but messages on digital boards can be changed consistently, he said. The messages are being streamed through digital billboards at Ambedkar (Jyothi) circle and A B Shetty Circle. Dr Rajendra said even if these digital messages attract the attention of 5% of the motorists who stop at Ambedkar Circle for signals to change or when they slow down at A B Shetty Circle, the boards would have done their job. “Covid management is all about public awareness and their positive response will help the administration,” he said. Rahul Moitra, zonal marketing manager, Bank of Baroda said they have requested the city police chief to permit the bank to stream IEC messages subject to traffic police rules that they must not distract motorists. “Bank is also open to permitting the IRCS to stream the message on its soon to be digitised billboard on the zonal office premises and at Airport where it has rented out space,” he said. Dr Rajendra later told TOI he is following up with ICMR to permit the administration to make the plasmapheresis machine installed at district Wenlock Hospital operational. “The recommendation of the assistant drugs controller routed through the state government is pending with ICMR,” DC said. “The administration plans to use this machine for other blood related works if ICMR nod for its use in plasma therapy does not materialise,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/awareness-campaign-on-covid-19-goes-green-digital-in-city/articleshow/79006201.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Incidence of goat theft on the rise in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU: There has been a rise in the number of goats being stolen across Dakshina Kannada district, a trend that activists attribute to the steep spike in the price for mutton. Meanwhile, activists speaking for those who have lost their goats to theft, have demanded that the cattle theft and illegal transport detection squad constituted by Mangaluru city police to probe the string of crimes. President of the Democratic Youth Federation of India’s (DYFI) Karnataka unit Muneer Katipalla questioned the lack of seriousness with which the law enforcement agencies were dealing with these crimes despite rising instances of theft of goats. “Since there is a religious sentiment attached with cows and cattle, cops take cases involving their theft very seriously, but that is not so with the stealing of goats. Although farmers reported theft of goats initially, poor response from the cops has left them demotivated, and many of them are no longer filing complaints.” Katipalla told TOI. A goat is likely to fetch Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 on the market. Most cases of goat theft have been reported from Panambur, Surathkal and Moodbidri. In a recent case reported in Jokatte, a farmer Abubacker Bava lost three of his ten goats that he had set to graze near his house. Katipalla said that they had been observing a spike in the instances of goat theft for the past four years. “We appeal to police to look into these cases seriously, and initiate appropriate action,” he added. Around two months ago, Panambur police filed a case wherein eight goats had been stolen. “We are examining closed-circuit television camera footage, and have got leads after interrogating a few people. Most of the goats were stolen when they were grazing,” a senior cop said. Tauseef Ahmed, founder of Mr Rescuer, an agency dedicated to the finding of lost and stolen livestock, called on those involved in the rearing of goats to be more careful. “Letting goats roam on the streets of the city is dangerous, since they may sustain injuries or worse, die in accidents. When they are out grazing, goats must be accompanied by someone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/incidence-of-goat-theft-on-the-rise-in-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/79005756.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Family could be involved in toddler’s murder: Rajasthan cops||JAIPUR: Four days after a toddler’s charred body was found in a well in Jamwa Ramgarh, cops claimed that all the clues are leading to the possibility that the child was murdered by a family member. Cops also found that the whole family is embedded in tantric traditions and superstition. After the child disappeared, the family did not search for the boy and only informed the police when an acquaintance recommended it. Two-and-a-half-year-old Ganesh Regar had gone missing on Thursday around 2.30pm. The child was abducted and killed the day before and his body was burnt. “As the investigation is progressing, we are finding more details which indicate that the child was murdered due to some kind of superstition. This is based on the fact that if someone had to kill the child then there was no need to burn the body. The killer could have just dumped the body in the well,” said an official who is part of the investigation. Police also have a senior citizen on their radar and the official said, “This person is a distant relative of the victim’s family and it appears to be an inside job. It is strange that the victim’s mother and aunt who were sitting near the gate of the house claimed to have not seen anything. Sources told us that the family did not even search for the missing child. The whole case seems to have its source within the victim’s family.” Cops also said that the toddler was still learning to speak and the family had taken him to a tantric to speed up the process. “The family members are so deeply involved in tantric and similar things that few of the women claimed to have been possessed by ghosts. However, if one of the family members took the life of the child due to some faith, then we will not spare any of them,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/family-could-be-involved-in-toddlers-murder-cops/articleshow/79008336.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||NGT order no bar, choppers fly low over Kedar sanctuary||DEHRADUN: Despite orders of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) limiting the height at which choppers could fly above the eco-sensitive Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary (KWLS) to 600 meters, heli-companies have been persistently flouting norms in this regard and flying at dangerously low heights above the sanctuary, thereby affecting the sensitive high-altitude Himalayan flora and fauna in the sanctuary. Data exclusively accessed by TOI has revealed that heli-companies have been flying at altitudes as low as 250 to 350 meters above the sanctuary. Repeated notices to the companies over the past two years regarding the issue has had no impact, as per forest officials. NGT had on March 7, 2018 directed the state government to ensure adherence to recommendations made by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) that choppers flying over KWLS should not go lower than 600 meters (around 2000 ft). This was intended to protect sensitive species like musk deer, blue sheep, leopards and Himalayan birds like Monal -- who reside in the sanctuary -- from noise pollution. WII had in its report said that due to the constant whirring sound of choppers flying overhead, some of the wildlife species had “altered their activity pattern to either crepuscular (active in twilight) or nocturnal.” A random sampling of the elevation at which these choppers were flying was conducted both through altimeter reading and monitoring stations that were set up in the Kedar valley. At least 74 instances of violations were found in 2018 alone with a chopper reported to be flying as low as 270 meters above the sanctuary that year. A report sent by the DFO of Kedarnath, Amit Kanwar, dated October 4, 2018 regarding the issue to the chief wildlife warden, accessed by TOI, says, “By randomly analysing data of altimeter as well as data received from monitoring stations, it is clear that most of the times, helicopter companies have flouted rules and are not adhering to the parameters suggested by the Wildlife Institute of India report.” However, no action was taken against the erring chopper operators. Subsequently, in 2019, too, as per data accessed by TOI, choppers continued to fly at dangerously low levels over the sanctuary. For instance, on June 1, 2019, a chopper was recorded flying at an elevation of 362.49 meters over the sanctuary. A source in the state government said that forest officials have been sending notices to the heli-companies – in 2019, notices were sent to all the nine heli-companies flying on the Kedar route -- but there has still been no strict compliance. Gaurav Kumar Bansal, the advocate who had represented the NGO that had brought the matter to the green tribunal, said, “It is a clear cut contempt of court if state government has not taken action against the heli-services operators since 2018 even though there is recorded data of their violations.” A source in the forest department said that one of the reasons that no heli-service provider has been penalised till now is because they come up with excuses that due to bad weather, they had to fly low. “However, it is a clear bluff as they want to save time and ferry more passengers and therefore, they end up violating norms,” she added. Meanwhile, Ashish Kumar Chauhan, the CEO of Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development Authority (UCADA), which oversees flight service operations across the state, when queried about the matter, said that he had joined just three months ago, and refused to talk about past violations saying that he was not aware of the report. He added that “this year, the MoU done with the 10 chopper operators on the route clearly mentions that they have to adhere to the directions of NGT.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/despite-ngt-orders-choppers-constantly-flew-at-low-heights-over-eco-sensitive-kedar-sanctuary/articleshow/79005949.cms||Shivani Azad
November 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Septuagenarian’s murder: Four arrested||MANGALURU: The Konaje police have arrested four people, following the murder of 71-year-old. The victim, Palliabba also known as Palliyaka, 71, had been reported missing since Thursday. Police found the body of the victim near a quarry in Irapaday on Sunday. Based on a complaint by Abdul Majeed, Paliiabba’s brother, police intensified the investigation. The police have arrested Hamza,44, a scrap dealer, and Mohammud Azharuddin, 27, an autodriver, Arphaz, 20 and Ameer aka Ammi, 26,, in connection with the crime. Cops said that a financial transaction that turned sour culminated in the murder. While one more accused is absconding, the arrested have been produced before the magistrate. On Thursday, Palliabba left home around 7.30 pm, and when he did not return home, his brother filed a ‘missing person’ complaint with police. Palliabba’s mobile kept ringing till Friday evening, after which it had been switched off. Bantwal and Konaje police visited the spot where the victim’s body was found. Hamza had allegedly borrowed Rs 15,000 from Pallibba and owed the victim Rs 70,000, including interest. The duo allegedly clashed multiple times over repayment of the money. On Thursday, Hamza asked Palliabba to meet him under the pretext of returning the money. Palliabba went to meet Hamza by Azhar’s auto. When they met, Palliabba was reportedly strangled to death with a shawl and his body buried in Irapaday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/septuagenarians-murder-four-arrested/articleshow/79005809.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar police warn against illegal coracle rides in Cauvery River||MYSURU: Tourists who are planning to unwind with a coracle ride in Cauvery river may face legal action as the activity is illegal. Chamarajanagar district police have warned strict action against the violators. Despite repeated warnings by the authorities, tourists continue to take coracles rides in the river in Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district. In order to put an end to the risky rides, the district police had erected signboards, warning both tourists and coracle owners of legal action. Lockdown restrictions and the subsequent relaxation under Unlock, especially those with regard to the opening of tourist places, is keeping the authorities on their toes. Their biggest worry is hundreds of tourists flocking to tourist places in general and those near Cauvery river in particular. Bharachukki Falls, Madhyaranganatha Swamy Temple, Shimsha, and Wellesley Bridge, popular tourists destinations in the district, are frequented by many tourists everyday. Besides flouting health-related guidelines by not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing, some of them are also involved in illegal/ dangerous coracle rides in the river, which is in spate following heavy rain in the region in the recent past. Worse still, they don’t even wear life-jackets. A few years ago, six tourists had lost their lives when a coracle capsised in Hogenakkal Falls. Kollegal DSP Nagaraj told TOI that coracle rides have been stopped in Cauvery river. “It is illegal to take tourists in coracles. We have given instructions to coracle owners, and also put up signboards about the same to warn them and also tourists.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chamarajanagar-police-warn-against-illegal-coracle-rides-in-cauvery-river/articleshow/79004433.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Tractor sales in Rajasthan in a tearing hurry, defy pandemic blues||JAIPUR: Bansi Gurjar in Guledi village near Kota does not want a good monsoon to go waste. He cannot trust his old tractor to cover his 250 bigha land. “I want to complete ploughing of the entire land parcels in time for the kharif crops. My old tractor cannot do the task. That’s why I bought a new tractor,” said Gurjar. Better yields and incomes from rabi crop also gave him the means to spend over Rs 5 lakh for the new tractor. With tailwinds propelling agricultural economy, tractor sales in Rajasthan grew 131% in September which comes on a high base of 54% increase in August. Since the lockdown was lifted, tractor sales have raced far ahead of other automobile sales, especially cars which languished under the Covid-19 impact before posting a single digit growth in September. Dealers in the state said that the pandemic has brought focus back on agriculture which is one of the main factors fuelling demand for tractors. “Many of our new customers said agriculture is one sector that can withstand any disruptions. Before the lockdown, many family members in agrarian households who had gone out to work came back. They realized that farming was the best option for them and put in money to buy tractors. A significant size of the demand came from such people,” said Anil Mundra, a tractor dealer in Kota. A bountiful rabi crop and better price for agriculture produce due to the pandemic have also raised income levels of farmers. Shyam Sundar Godara, another tractor dealer in Bikaner, said that people got the extra income to buy a new or second tractor. “While the whole country was under lockdown, only the agriculture sector was buzzing with activity. It helped people in getting extra incomes. Tractor is the best investment option for any farmer. If one has one, he will buy another one. Those who don’t have one, will make the maiden purchase,” added Godara. But there was no denying the fact that the period between April and June is traditionally a good season for tractor makers. They clock higher volumes during the period compared to other months of the year. “There was some pent-up demand that also contributed to the high numbers. In April and May, sales fell sharply. Along with the rise in secular demand growth, the postponed purchases were also captured in the months after the lockdown was lifted,” added Mundra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tractor-sales-in-raj-in-a-tearing-hurry-defy-pandemic-blues/articleshow/79008366.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Crackers sellers stage protest against ban||Jaipur: Firecrackers sellers staged a protest at Statue Circle on Monday against the ban by the state government. These sellers are temporary shopkeepers who sell firecrackers on Diwali every year. According to them, the ban will affect them economically as they have already made advance payments and ordered firecrackers. Seller Karan Kanwat said, “We get temporary licenses every year from the authorities. Inspection by the fire officials was recently done and the the license was about to be issued. With this hope, we placed orders for the firecrackers and made advance payment. Due to the ban, we will not be able to sell our products. The government should have decided this earlier.” Box Firecrackers association approach HC demanding lifting of ban Jaipur: The state government’s decision to ban firecrackers ahead of Diwali has been challenged in the the high court by Rajasthan Fireworks Dealers and Manufacturers Association. The petition of the association will be heard in the high court on Tuesday. The petition says due to the decision of the government, there is a crisis of livelihood of thousands of people related to the crackers business. Zaheer Ahmed, the secretary of the association, said firecrackers ban hasn’t been imposed in any part of the country except Rajasthan. “No agency or organisation has done research and claimed that the bursting of firecrackers will spread Covid-19. The smoke from firecrackers on Diwali spreads only 4% of pollution in two to three hours. Whereas smoke emitted from factories, vehicles and smoking spreads 96 per cent of the pollution. The state government should control pollution emanating from factories,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crackers-sellers-stage-protest-against-ban/articleshow/79008373.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Goa||HC notice to govt over tree-cutting for substation||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Monday issued a notice in a public interest petition challenging the permission to cut 2,670 forest trees to make way for an electricity substation connected with the Tamnar high tension line (HTL) at Sangod, Dharbandora. The petition challenges the grant of construction licence by the Mollem sarpanch without a conversion sanad and without a resolution of the Mollem panchayat. In fact, the panchayat had already taken a decision to place the matter before the gram sabha. In the meanwhile, the licence was issued by the sarpanch. “The panchayat is to place on record all the resolutions with regard to the present project. The affidavit will also explain whether such permissions are issued even in the absence of any conversion sanad in all cases.” the court directed. Counsel A D Bhobe, appearing for Tamnar, submitted that there is no conversion sanad obtained for the property. He stated that no development or construction work is being carried out and added that there is a shed with corrugated sheets meant for security personnel/staff present at the site. Bhobe sought four weeks to respond to the petition filed by Goa Foundation which was granted by the high court. The PIL alleged that heavy earthmoving machinery had been brought to the site and that several workers were involved in clearing the area and removing mud. The petition challenges the construction of an electrical substation and related infrastructure including residences, badminton court in Sangod village in contravention of the Regional Plan 2021 which has zoned the land as natural cover, no development slope and paddy fields. The petition states that no conversion can be granted for such lands in view of the norms prevailing under the statutory Regional Plan for Goa 2021 and neither can land be converted as per the order of the Supreme Court dated February 4, 2015. The petition also challenges the destruction by clear felling of a patch of rich natural forest stocked with 2,670 trees located on the plot based on entirely fraudulent and manipulated permissions, and seeks its restoration, apart from penalties. The petition states that the decision to exclude the forested survey numbers from the purview of the Preservation of Trees Act, 1984 was signed, not by chief minister (late Manohar Parrikar), but by his principal secretary P Krishnamurthy. In its brief order, the high court has asked for a response from Krishamurthy who is presently adviser to the Lakshadweep administration. The petition also challenges the order of the Quepem town planner for granting technical clearance for construction. This violates norms laid down under the Town and Country Planning Act and the RP 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-notice-to-govt-over-tree-cutting-for-substation/articleshow/79009274.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Balwaram arrested in Chotiya murder case||Ajmer: Police on Monday brought Balwaram Jat, the main conspirator of Bhagchand Chotiya murder, here from Dholpur central jail on production warrant. Balwaram was sentenced to life in the Bhanwar Sinodiya murder case in 2011 and Chotiya was the key witness in that case. There was massive police bandobast on Kishangarh court premises when Balwaram was brought. People from both the camps were present when Balwaram was produced in the court. Police said Balwaram played the key role of a conspirator in Bhagchand Chotiya case and planned the murder. He had hired Ramu Singh of Agra, a sharp shooter, to kill Chotiya. Chotiya was gunned down in the main temple market of Kishangarh on October 18 and fled away. The case was sensitive as Chotiya was the main witness in Sinodiya murder case and deposed against Balwaram. Police have arrested Heera Lal (37), resident of Bandrasindri, Ram Dayal (23), resident of Bandrasindri, Devaram (24), resident of Roopangarh, Hanuman Singh (28), resident of Kishangarh, and Ramu (22) in connection with Chotiya’s murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/balwaram-arrested-in-chotiya-murder-case/articleshow/79008389.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Vadodara||One more Cong leader defects to BJP ahead of bypoll||VADODARA: The Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) engineered one more defection, this time just ahead of the Karjan byelections. Jagdish Patel, a key cooperative sector leader from the Congress, joined the BJP. Jagdish, who was amongst the frontrunners for the Congress ticket to Karjan seat, joined the party on Sunday night. BJP sources said that he had a major clout in Shinor under the Karjan constituency and could be a major asset for the BJP. Jagdish has been associated with the Baroda Dairy, Baroda Central Cooperative Bank, sugar cooperatives and other institutions, particularly in the cooperative sector. Sources said that he was sulking ever since the Congress decided to field Kiritsinh Jadeja from Karjan. State BJP general secretary Shabdasharan Brahmbhatt said that before Jagdish, another prominent leader from the Congress Chandrakant Patel had joined the BJP. He said that the confidence of Congress in the constituency was wrongly placed and BJP would win. To portray that its citadel was safe, the BJP on Monday also brought out a video of former Karjan BJP MLA Satish Patel requesting the electorate to vote for the BJP. Earlier, an audio had gone viral where a man believed to be from the BJP was asking aides not to vote for the party. It was also being speculated that Satish was sulking and may damage the party’s chances. The constituency will vote on Tuesday. Akshay Patel who was elected from the Congress in 2017, but then quit as an MLA and joined the BJP, is contesting from the BJP this time around. He had defeated Satish in the 2017 polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/one-more-cong-leader-defects-to-bjp-ahead-of-bypoll/articleshow/79006008.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||650 power theft cases in single day in 11 dists||Ajmer: Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (AVVNL) on Monday detected 650 cases of power theft in 11 districts and imposed penalties amounting Rs 1.67 crore. AVNNL MD VS Bhati said during searches carried out at 6,729 places across 11 districts, 650 industries and institutes were found involved in power theft. The discom has registered a case against such organisations and has started the process to recover the dues. The highest number of 123 power theft cases were detected in Banswara district where Rs 17,60,000 penalty was imposed. Banswara was followed by Nagaur and Udaipur districts. AVVNL has also decided to recover pending dues of Rs 30.34 lakh from 1,756 institutes. Out of Rs 83.50 crore dues pending from 4,209 government officers, only Rs 1.67 crore has been recovered so far from 174 government offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/650-power-theft-cases-in-single-day-in-11-dists/articleshow/79008393.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bareilly||‘Cremation’ of Muslims dying of Covid-19 should stop, writes Aala Hazrat grand mufti||BAREILLY: The grand mufti of Aala Hazrat Asjad Raza Khan has requested the governments of India and Sri Lanka to stop any "forceful cremation" of Muslims who die of Covid-19. The last rites should be followed as per the guidelines in Islam, he insisted. In a letter addressed to the president of Sri Lanka, the grand mufti, who is said to be receiving calls and mails on forceful cremation of Muslims, stressed that the last rites should be permitted strictly as per the tenets of Islam and keeping the sentiments of the family in mind. The letter further stated that the WHO and numerous scientists have also reiterated that the dead does not transmit the virus or infect the person handling it. Salman Hasan Khan, vice-president, Aala Hazrat wing, told TOI, “Islam does not allow under any circumstances the cremation of the deceased. This action, where Muslims dying of Covid-19 are being forcefully cremated, has caused immense grief in the community.” Notably, there have been several cases, particularly in neighbouring Sri Lanka, where Muslims dying of Covid were not given an "honourable burial".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cremation-of-muslims-dying-of-covid-19-should-stop-writes-aala-hazrat-grand-mufti/articleshow/79004917.cms||Maria Khan
November 3, 2020||Madurai||Lack of safety gear in fishing boats a concern ahead of monsoon||KANYAKUMARI: A survey conducted by the fisheries department in Thoothoor region on 275 deep sea fishing boats has brought to light that majority of them are not following the safety norms. The survey was conducted in view of the monsoon on the west coast of Kanyakumari (Thoothoor region) by a team led by assistant director of fisheries J L Ajith Stalin to check whether the boat owners are following safety norms formulated according to the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2016, and The Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Rules, 2020. It may be recalled that disasters such as Cyclone Ockhi had claimed the lives of at least 234 fishermen from Tamil Nadu – 204 from the state and 30 from other states who were at work on mechanised boats in Kanyakumari. The non-compliance of deep sea fishing boats to safety norms is an issue of concern. However the boats are equipped with communication gadgets having very high frequency and satellite phones. It showed that only 50 boats (18%) had the mandatory 10 life jackets and four lifebuoys in usable condition. It was completely unusable in 50 boats. In the remaining 175 boats they were partly usable and partly damaged. Only seven of the boats (2.5%) had fire extinguishers. Sadly the chemicals in these boats too had expired as they were filled more than three years ago when it was made mandatory in 2017. Bibin, secretary of St Thomas Boat Owners Association, Thoothoor, said that they have been sensitising boat owners and fishermen on safety norms and gadgets, but many are reluctant due to the cost factor. “Lifebuoys and jackets come in handy and help fishermen stay afloat in case of a disaster like Ockhi when many boats sank. Since these boats use gas cylinders for cooking, fire extinguishers would come in handy in the case of incidents such as the gas cylinder explosion,” he said. Fisheries department officials said that the faulty boats have been warned to rectify the flaws and produce them for inspection in two months. Failing which, their licences will be suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lack-of-safety-gear-in-fishing-boats-a-concern-ahead-of-monsoon/articleshow/79008402.cms||M K Ananth
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||200 km Fit India Walkathon concludes||Jaisalmer: The 200km Fit India walkathon organised by ITBP and Union youth affairs and sports ministry concluded on Monday. The walkathon, part of the campaign to make people aware about fitness, which began on Saturday culminated in Mohangarh of Jaisalmer. Villagers gave a rousing welcome to the participants. ITBP commandant Ajay Kumar Singh reached the finishing point first. Singh completed the walkathon in record 43.31 hours and ITBP DG S S Deshwal completed it in 49.17 hours. In-charge of this programme and BSF Bikaner sector DIG Puspendra Singh Rathore and others completed the walkathon along with Deshwal. Union sports minister Kiren Rijuju flagged off the walkathon on Saturday on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Around 100 participants from ITBP, police force, BSF, CRPF and NDRF took part in the walkathon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/200km-fit-india-walkathon-concludes/articleshow/79008398.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||2 suspected of spying detained near Pakistan border||JAISALMER: Special team of ATS on Monday detained two suspicious persons roaming near the international border in Shahgarh area in Jaisalmer district and have started an inquiry in the matter. One of the suspects had been in jail for smuggling and anti-national activities. He has his in-laws in Amarkot in Pakistan. The security and intelligence agencies suspect that he could be sending strategic and confidential information to ISI across the border. ATS SOG ADG Ashok Rathore said that on getting information from Shahgarh area that Fote Khan (38), a resident of Karmawali and Lala Khan (26), a resident of Lundey ki Dhani Rablau were found roaming near the international border, to carry out some anti-national activities and their link with ISI cannot be ruled out. ATS has detained them and are inquiring them, but have not got any satisfactory reply to the queries. Jaisalmer additional SP Rakesh Bairwa confirming the incident said police helped the ATS in detaining the duo and the remaining investigation is being done by ATS. Fote’s wife is from Amarkot in Pakistan so he often goes to Pakistan and he has come in contact with ISI. As per information from the sources, there are high chances of him being involved in spying against India and sending confidential information across the border to ISI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-suspected-of-spying-detained-near-border/articleshow/79008401.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jodhpur||2 suspected of spying detained near Pakistan border||JAISALMER: Special team of ATS on Monday detained two suspicious persons roaming near the international border in Shahgarh area in Jaisalmer district and have started an inquiry in the matter. One of the suspects had been in jail for smuggling and anti-national activities. He has his in-laws in Amarkot in Pakistan. The security and intelligence agencies suspect that he could be sending strategic and confidential information to ISI across the border. ATS SOG ADG Ashok Rathore said that on getting information from Shahgarh area that Fote Khan (38), a resident of Karmawali and Lala Khan (26), a resident of Lundey ki Dhani Rablau were found roaming near the international border, to carry out some anti-national activities and their link with ISI cannot be ruled out. ATS has detained them and are inquiring them, but have not got any satisfactory reply to the queries. Jaisalmer additional SP Rakesh Bairwa confirming the incident said police helped the ATS in detaining the duo and the remaining investigation is being done by ATS. Fote’s wife is from Amarkot in Pakistan so he often goes to Pakistan and he has come in contact with ISI. As per information from the sources, there are high chances of him being involved in spying against India and sending confidential information across the border to ISI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/2-suspected-of-spying-detained-near-border/articleshow/79016933.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Madurai||Protest against French prez||MADURAI: The members of All India Imams Council (AIIC) staged a protest against French President Emmanuel Macron for his stance on the caricature of Prophet Mohammed that was carried in the weekly Charlie Hebdo on Monday. AIIC members gathered at the Crime Branch office holding banners and placards and raised slogans against French leaders. Madurai district secretary of Imams Council Ashamath Faisal Makthumi led the protest. “Various Muslim outfits are staging peaceful protests and demonstrations across the country condemning Emmanuel Macron. The French president’s statement in connection with the caricature was not only shocking but also atrocious. But he has not shown any remorse so far, AIIC members said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/protest-against-french-prez/articleshow/79008397.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Stop extortion by Uttarakhand cops, BJP MP to Trivendra Singh Rawat||DEHRADUN: Dharmendra Kashyap, BJP MP from Aonla constituency in Uttar Pradesh, has written to CM Trivendra Singh Rawat alleging extortion by the Uttarakhand Police. In a letter dated October 31, Kashyap has claimed that police in the Himalayan state are “taking money from drivers of trucks overloaded with sand and mining materials to let them illegally cross over to adjoining UP.” Speaking to TOI on Monday, Kashyap said, “There is large-scale resentment among the transporters towards the police and therefore I decided to inform the Uttarakhand CM and seek his help in the matter.” He added that trucks carrying mining material from Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar districts were being intercepted by police in these districts. “I have inputs that police teams of both these districts were extorting money from the drivers and permitting overloaded trucks. I have requested for a high-level probe into the matter,” said Kashyap. In the letter, the MP claimed that drivers of trucks bringing mining material from Gaula river in Haldwani were being forced to pay a monthly amount at each police outpost. “Mahina (monthly extortion amount) is fixed by the police and taken from the drivers,” he added. He said that similar activities were being carried out by police at Rudrapur, Bazpur, Gadarpur, Pantnagar and Kiccha areas of Udham Singh Nagar district. Incidentally, a BJP MLA from Bilsi in Badaun district, Radha Krishna Sharma, following similar complaints by vehicle owners, had also written a letter to the CM a few days back. TOI tried to get a response from the CM’s office on these letters but did not receive one till the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand Police’s director general (law and order), Ashok Kumar, said, “We are yet to get a copy of the letter but keeping in mind the seriousness of the issue, we have sought a report in the matter from the SSPs of Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stop-extortion-by-uttarakhand-police-bjp-mp-from-up-writes-to-ukhand-cm/articleshow/79006015.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 3, 2020||Madurai||Prisoner who escaped from jail arrested||Tuticorin: A remand prisoner, who escaped from the Kovilpatti sub-jail in Tuticorin district on Monday, was nabbed within a few minutes by jail authorities with the help of traffic police, a group of youths playing on a ground and some construction workers. He was lodged in the same sub-jail. M Sakthivel, of Kootampuli in Tuticorin district, was arrested by the Eral police on October 14 in connection with mobile theft cases. On Monday morning, fellow prisoners saw him climbing a tree close to the compound wall. Before he could be stopped by the prison guards, he climbed the wall and escaped. The prison staff along with traffic police personnel, and others helped nab the accused. Sakthivel was trapped in a building close to the office of the special tahsildar for adi dravida welfare and arrested. He suffered an injury below his feet when he walked on pieces of broken glass on the prison wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/prisoner-who-escaped-from-jail-arrested/articleshow/79008410.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Dehradun||Snow leopard census kicks off in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Snow leopard count, a first of its kind venture in the country, kicked off in Uttarakhand on Monday. The project, Snow Leopard Population Assessment in India (SPAI), is being conducted jointly by scientists of the Doon-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). According to “habitat quality” estimation, there are around 620 snow leopards across the five Himalayan states of India and Uttarakhand is home to some 86 of them. However, a more accurate census of the big cats was yet to be made, until it started on Monday. According to forest officials, a ‘snow leopard occupancy map’ was created and around 40 camera traps have been set up in high-altitude areas. A total of 371 forests beats of Uttarakhand forests have been identified by the scientists to scan marks of snow leopards. The forest divisions identified for the task in the state include Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri, Nandadevi, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Rudraprayag, Uttarkashi and Tehri. Across the 371 forest beats, 109 grids of 15x15 square km areas will be made to be inspected by frontline staff, researchers and some trained villagers. “We have commenced the preliminary works of estimation. We have been asked to first identify the trails, so that the next level of survey can be started. In the first phase, we will find five trails and then look for more in the landscape,” said sub-divisional officer (SDO) of Berinag, Pithoragarh, Navin Pant. A team of forest officials were trained for the exercise at WII in February this year but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire estimation exercise was delayed. “The population estimation will be done using Artificial Intelligence (AI) and genetic analysis, so that each unique individual snow leopard is known to us and there is no inaccuracy in the count,” S Sathyakumar, the scientist spearheading the Project Snow Leopard at Wildlife Institute of India (WII), said. An endangered species, the snow leopard falls in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. Barely 7,000 odd members of the species survive in the 12 “snow leopard” countries – India among them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/snow-leopard-census-kicks-off-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/79006034.cms||Shivani Azad
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Fake ghee factory busted||Kota: Kota District Special Team (DST) busted an adulterated ghee manufacturing unit at Shatrinagar under Dadabari police station area of the city on Monday and seized 3,000 litres of the product ready to be packed in packets under popular brand names for sale, mostly in rural areas. Police arrested one person in this connection seized raw materials, packets, tins and manufacturing devices. The drive was carried out under ‘Sudh ke Liye Yudh’ campaign kicked off by the state government ahead of the festive season. On a report by the DST, a team from the food and safety wing of the chief medical and health office carried out the raid in a house in Dadabari area and busted the unit. The arrested person was identified as Raju Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fake-ghee-factory-busted/articleshow/79008403.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jaipur||Drive against spurious food items continues||JAIPUR: From refined oil to spices, from milk to mawa, the health department’s food safety officers in cooperation with police and district administration collected 137 samples of food items on suspicion of being adulterated. Health department officials said the samples had been collected under ‘Shudh Ke Liye Yudh’ campaign which started from October 26. It was the eighth day of the campaign when health department teams inspected eateries, producers and distributors of food items at Ajmer Road, Chomu, Kumbha Marg, Jhotwara and Kalwar Road. In Bagru, the teams found 120kg of snacks at a shop, which crossed the expiry date. The teams destroyed the snacks to prevent shopkeepers from selling those. Numbers have been issued of chief medical health officer and district collectorate’s control room numbers to provide information on food adulteration. The contact number of chief medical health officer (I) is 0141-2605858 and CMHO (II) is 0141-2603426. Police control room numbers are 0141-2388435, 0141- 2388436 and collectorate control room number is 0141-2204475. In Bundi, the health department teams seized 1,249kg of mawa, while 508 kilo-litre of groundnut oil, 500kg chilli powder, 958kg refined soyabean oil have been seized in Tonk. In Barmer, 95kg of coloured and expired chips have been destroyed. Across the state, the health department teams nspected 138 places and collected 137 samples of food items for quality checks. Eighty samples were tested on the spot and out of those, four were found to be of sub-standard quality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drive-against-spurious-food-items-continues/articleshow/79008409.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Goa||Rally to protest Nauxim-Marina project||Panaji: Citizens under the banner of Goemkar Against Marina are going to hold a public meeting against the Nauxim-Marina project on November 8 at 5pm near the Siridao panchayat. “In the past, a public hearing was planned for the environmental impact assessment. After our agitation, it was postponed and the government didn’t announce a fresh date for the hearing. But, in June, a notice was published informing of a public meeting in July. However, that was the peak Covid period. We have now decided to hold this public meeting on the project,” activist Ramrao Wagh said. He said that panchayats likely to be affected by the project, like Siridao, Curca, and villagers are expected to attend the meeting. In a run up, a rally will be held on November 7 to protest against the project. Wagh along with advocate Suresh Palkar are among the prominent locals who have opposed the marina in the eco-sensitive zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rally-to-protest-nauxim-marina-project/articleshow/79009291.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mysuru||Nine gamblers held for assaulting cops in Hassan||MADIKERI: Police from Konanur in Hassan district arrested nine residents of Virajpet and produced them before the principal Munsiff court in Arakalgod on Monday. The nine people have been accused of assaulting sub inspector Sagar and five other policemen at Arasinakatte temple on October 30. About 21 people from Virajpet had gone to the temple on October 30 to attend a puja. Many of them were engaged in gambling within the temple premises. When Konanur police raided the premises, the accused attacked them. The accused are Appumohan, BB Jaya, VS Kishan, Lokesh, Satish, Jeevan, Ranju, NP Dinesh and Raghavendra and they have been remanded to judicial custody till November 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nine-gamblers-held-for-assaulting-cops/articleshow/79004445.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Madurai||‘Pay Rs 60,000 relief to couple who were humiliated by police’||MADURAI: The state human rights commission (SHRC) has recommended the state government to pay Rs 60,000 to a couple, who faced humiliation at the hands of three police personnel over a civil dispute at Kanyakumari district in 2014. The commission also recommended to initiate disciplinary action against the three. Jaya and her husband Alex had a civil dispute with another couple, Paul and his wife Rathinabai, who are all residents of Kanyakumari district. When a complaint was lodged by Paul and his wife, the Anjugramam police registered a case. Jaya alleged that the police officials had acted in a biased manner favouring Paul and his wife due to which her husband was detained in illegal custody and was beaten up by the police in 2014. Denying the allegations, the police officials in their counter submitted that Alex was arrested as per procedure and he was not threatened by them at any point of time. They also denied the allegation that Alex was kept in illegal custody. It was also stated that a tenancy dispute between them resulted in frequent quarrels and the police intervened to maintain peace. Police acted only in good faith to ensure safety in public places and had not adopted any discretionary or unlawful or arbitrary methods. On perusal of the records and the submissions made on either side, SHRC member A Chittaranjan Mohandoss said that Jaya and Alex had suffered humiliation in the hands of the police. He said that a woman sub-inspector Anitha, and special sub-inspectors Kennedy and David Jayasekaran at the time of occurrence have acted in violation of the right to a life of dignity and security of the couple. Hence, the commission recommended the state to pay compensation to Jaya and Alex and further recommended to recover Rs 20,000 each from the three police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pay-rs-60000-relief-to-couple-who-were-humiliated-by-police/articleshow/79008442.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Hubballi||Bagalkot: Former minister Umashri’s house burgled||BAGALKOT: Former minister and Kannada film actor Umashri’s house at Vidyanagar in Rabkavi town was burgled on Sunday night. The incident took place when Umashri was at Rajarajeshwari Nagar in Bengaluru for poll campaign. Teradal police rushed to the spot and took stock of the situation. Bagalkot superintendent of police Lokesh Jagalasar told TOI that no complaint had been registered as the former minister was yet to arrive from Bengaluru. “The burglars gained entry by breaking the lock. Based on the information given by Umashri’s aides, our officials visited the house. There is no information yet about the stolen valuables. We are checking CCTV footage. We will nab the thieves soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/former-minister-umashris-house-burgled/articleshow/79006828.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Suresh Kumar calls teacher who rebuilt student’s house||MANGALURU: The call that Murali Kadekar, a retired headmaster from Nittur High School, got while he was performing puja on Monday morning was indeed a pleasant surprise, if not a godsend. For, the caller was none other than S Suresh Kumar, minister for primary and secondary education. The minister had called Kadekar, former principal of the government-aided Kannada-medium school in Udupi, to appreciate his gesture in rebuilding a student’s house and also financially helping her pursue education. In his Facebook post, the minister said that the headmaster acknowledged his word of praise, saying it was indeed special. “Teachers of his calibre are society’s strength,” he said. Speaking about the morning surprise, Kadekar said he recognised the minister through his voice. “I’m happy that he recognised my work,” he said. In the Monday edition, TOI had reported how Kadekar, on the day of his retirement, ensured that Nayana, a Class IX student, walked into her new house ‘Shri Vishvesha’ at Kakkunje, 1km from the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/suresh-kumar-calls-teacher-who-rebuilt-students-house/articleshow/79005636.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Haveli limits record major dip in active Covid cases in just a month||PUNE: Active Covid-19 cases have recorded a significant drop in Haveli tehsil limits in the last one month, similar to the trend observed in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas. On October 2, the tehsil areas had 1,132 active cases, which reduced sharply to just 76 on November 2. In case of Pune municipal limits, the active case tally dropped from 16,141 on October 2 and 5,732 on November 1. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas’ active count also decreased from 5,837 on October 2 to 1,764 on November 1. Confirming the trend, district health officer Bhagwan Pawar told TOI on Monday, “The Covid situation in both municipal corporations and 13 tehsils in Pune district has improved significantly in the last four weeks. We are seeing a sharp decline in active cases. We are also getting fewer symptomatic patients, which is a positive development for us. Now, our biggest worry lies in the festive period. If people do not follow social distancing norms and other guidelines, the situation may deteriorate again.” Pawar said the district has adequate number of testing kits and health infrastructure to provide timely health care. “We have adequate oxygen and ventilator beds, doctors and supporting staff, including nurses, in the urban as well as the rural areas,” he said. Health officials attributed the sharp decline in active cases to increased testing and health surveys, which helped spot the cases early, thus, pushing up recovery rate. In the case of Haveli tehsil, all the measures resulted in a sharp decline in cases in the worst-affected big gram panchayat limits like Wagholi, Manjari, Narhe Ambegaon and Uruli Kanchan. As the cases dropped in these localities, the overall situation showed a drastic improvement, said the tehsil administration. Sachin Kharat, tehsil medical officer of Haveli, said, “The number of discharged patients is higher than new admissions at present. That was not the case here last month. The situation has particularly improved after conducting ‘Maze Kutumb Mazi Jababdari’ campaign in September and October.” He said they were able to identify people with flu-like symptoms and even those who were asymptomatic during the survey. “Early detection of Covid patients has dual benefits. It helps contain further spread of the virus and facilitates quick recovery. Because of the survey, we could identify patients in large numbers, paving way for their faster recovery. Now, we are recording 20 to 25 positive cases in a day as against 60-70 daily recoveries,” Kharat said. Haveli was worst-affected among all 13 tehsils in the district. About 60% of its area is adjacent to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. “About 4 lakh people from the tehsil travel daily to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad for work. As a result, the number of cases spiked as soon as unlock phase began in June. We were reporting positive cases in the range of 300-400 daily then. The situation was precarious across Haveli in June, July, August, September and till mid-October,” said block development officer Prashant Shirke. The tehsil has four designated Covid care centres and 20 dedicated Covid health centres. Shirke said because of the decline in the number of cases, business establishments in the areas were functioning smoothly at full capacity in the tehsil. “Now, we are going to focus on creating more awareness about the virus among the citizens and take action against violators for not wearing masks at public places and flouting social distancing norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/haveli-tehsil-limits-record-major-drop-in-active-ncov-cases-in-a-month/articleshow/79008416.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 3, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Woman kills husband, in-laws||MANDYA: In a shocking incident, a woman killed her husband and in-laws in Hemmadahalli village of K R Pete taluk. According to police, Nagamani attacked her husband Nagaraju (50) and in-laws Venkategowda (70) and Kullamma (60) with lethal weapons a fortnight ago while they were asleep. All three died at a hospital in Mysuru later. “Nagamanti is an adamant woman. She never got along with her husband and in-laws. It is unfortunate that she killed her family members in such a brutal way,” said the villagers. The couple has two male adult children. Nagamani was arrested and she is currently lodged in Mandya prison. A case has been registered in K R Pete police station, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-kills-husband-in-laws/articleshow/79006075.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Madurai||Remand prisoner dies by suicide in Madurai||Madurai: B Thirupathi, 36, a remand prisoner from the Madurai Central Crison died by suicide inside the prison premises on Sunday. Thirupathi, a native of Dr Ambedkar Colony in Vadapalanji in Madurai district was arrested and lodged in prison last year in connection with the murder case registered in the Nagamalai Pudukottai police station. Police sources said that Thirupathi was suffering from a severe skin problem and had recently suffered chest pain and was undergoing treatment for that as well. He hanged himself using a dhoti at the rehabilitation centre inside the prison. Prison guards found him hanging and rushed him to the Government Rajaji Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. A case was registered with the Karimedu police station under CrPC Section 176 and a magisterial inquiry was under way. Sudalai Mariappan, a remand prisoner from Virudhunagar district, ended his life inside the prison by hanging last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/remand-prisoner-dies-by-suicide-in-madurai/articleshow/79008419.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Finally, fishermen call off agitation at Vizhinjam||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The fishermen at Kottapuram, who have been protesting at the worksite of the Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd for a month, have finally called off their agitation. Fr Michael Thomas, vicar of Our Lady of Good Voyage Church, Kottapuram, who was leading the agitation, said that the decision to call off the agitation is not permanent. “We will be closely monitoring how the government is going to work on fulfilling the promises made to us in the next 30 days. If we feel that they are going back from their words, we will be relaunch the agitation in a stronger manner,” the vicar said. He said that the decision was taken after holding meeting with the action council, following the meeting held with ministers Kadannappally Ramachandran and Kadakampally Surendran on Wednesday. “We have taken the decision to call off the agitation acknowledging the fact that the government have already issued three orders to address some of our key concerns,” he said. Following a meeting convened by secretary (ports) Sanjay M Kaul with the agitators on October 16, the government issued three orders concerning the renovation and repair of Gangayar drain at port site, replacement of old drinking water pipelines under KWA and distribution of additional kerosene for fishermen. The government has already set a deadline of six months for the drinking water pipeline works. They have also promised that the distribution of kerosene will be completed in a week’s time. The fund needed for repair and renovation of Gangayar drain has already been sanctioned to minor irrigation department. It is these developments that helped the government gain the trust of the agitators. Besides this, the government has also initiated steps to set up a ‘skill park’ to train the local youth in jobs required in the port, addressing local population’s demand for a marine academy here. Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd (VISL) managing director and CEO Jayakumar said that with the hurdles removed, the stalled works of the breakwater of the port will commence immediately, if possible, by Monday itself. The port works were stalled on September 30, when the local fishermen launched an agitation. The construction of the breakwater had just begun when the agitation was launched. The agitation was against the failure of government in fulfilling promises made to them before commencing the works, especially the recommendations in the Livelihood Impact Appraisal Committee. The initial delay from the part of the government had resulted in strong criticism from various corners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/finally-fishermen-call-off-agitation-at-vizhinjam/articleshow/79000868.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha Covid-19 cases cross 2L-mark; recovery rate 91.47%||Nagpur: Overall Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha surpassed 2 lakh mark on Monday. It took 233 days for the region to cross the 2 lakh cases after reporting its first Covid case on March 11. However, major respite is that the last 50,000 cases came in 31 days against the 15 days it took to go from 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh cases. This indicates that cases have reduced nearly by 50% in the region, which is a good sign.On Monday, the region recorded 593 cases, which is lowest since July. Out of these, 279 came from Nagpur alone which means the cases have gone significantly down in other districts of the region. For instance, five districts in Amravati division accounted only 133 cases out of the total 593. Cases came from Nagpur 279, Yavatmal 64, Gadchiroli 62, Chandrapur 53, Buldhana 36, Gondia 28, Bhandara 25, Amravati 14, Wardha 13, Akola 12, and Washim seven. On the other hand, daily recovery count continued to be above 1,200. With Nagpur 470, Chandrapur 202, Bhandara 110, Gadchiroli 105, Gondia 85, Buldhana 61, Amravati 57, Wardha 40, Akola 36, Washim 31, and Yavatmal 10, total 1,207 patients recovered in the day. Now, of the 2 lakh-plus patients, 1.83 lakh have already recovered. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 91.43%, only a few decimal points less than the national average of 91.68%. After reporting lowest daily fatality in the last 96 days on Sunday, Vidarbha continued to report lesser deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday too. In all 16 deaths were reported from five districts of the region. They include Nagpur 10, Bhandara 2, Chandrapur 2, Gadchiroli 1, and Yavatmal 1. Six other districts reported no Covid-19 death. Despite, lower daily toll, the case fatality rate of the region is still high at 2.76%, which is higher than national average of 1.48% and state’s 2.62%.Apart from reporting fewer Covid cases, casualties too have started to come down in the region as six districts in Vidarbha reported no death due to coronavirus infection on Monday, providing much-needed relief to Covid warriors.Washim: Only seven patients, lowest in Vidarbha, were reported in the district on Monday. Total 31 patients recovered and no death was reported. The district now has total 5,718 cases, 5,147 recoveries and 143 deaths. Total 396 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: Two Covid-19 deaths were reported in Bhandara on Monday. This took total Covid-19 toll of the district to 221. The relief factor was only 25 new cases against 110 recoveries. Now, Bhandara has 8,599 total patients, and 7,582 of them recovered. At present, 796 patients are under treatment here.Chandrapur: After reporting over 100 patients every day for 30 days, the Covid-19 cases once again plunged below the century mark on Monday. There were just 53 detections during the day, while two deaths were reported. It was on October 5 when the district had seen less than 100 cases (92). The Covid caseload has now reached 15,990, while toll stands at 236. The day also registered 202 recoveries, taking the total of cured patients to 13,001. There are now 2,753 patients under treatment. Yavatmal: The district recorded one Covid death (64-year-old man from Pusad) which took the toll to 350 on Monday. In the last 24 hours, 354 test reports were received of which 64 were positive. As on Monday, 363 patients are under treatment. The day also saw 10 patients recovering. As on date, 10,290 Covid patients were detected in the district, of whom 9,097 have recovered. Gadchiroli: With death of a Covid-19 patient, the district’s toll reached 60 on Monday. Total 62 new cases were reported which took the caseload past 6,000-mark, while 105 patients recovered in the day taking the number of recovered patients above 5,000. Gadchiroli now has 6,016 total cases, 5,098 recoveries, and 858 patients under treatment. Amravati: The district did not report any Covid death for the second successive day on Monday while the number of new cases posted a remarkable low of just 14. A civil surgeon office report said 57 patients staged recovery today to take the number of recoveries to 15,414 for a rate of 94.2%. The caseload reached 16,363, leaving the number of patients under treatment at 585.Wardha: The district saw 13 new coronavirus patients being detected and 40 recoveries on Monday. The total Covid count has now reached 6,359 and recoveries 5,894. No Covid casualty was reported on the second consecutive day on Monday and the toll stands at 212. The number of patients under treatment has also come down to 253 on Monday. Of 173 test reports received on Monday, 13 were positive for coronavirus infection and the cases came from Wardha 8, Hinganghat 3, Deoli and Karanja 1 each.Gondia: Total recoveries crossed 9,000-mark in the district with 85 getting discharge on Monday, which improved recovery rate to 91.91% and dropped under-treatment cases to 6.79% — both are best figures after June 27. The district saw 28 new Covid patients with 300 tests performed on Sunday. Now, Gondia has 9,873 total Covid-19 cases, including 9,074 recoveries, 127 deaths and 672 patients under treatment. Akola: Only 12 new Covid cases were reported in the district out of 300-plus tests done on Monday. On the other hand, 36 patients recovered in the day. No death was reported for the second consecutive day on Monday. Now, 185 patients are under treatment here, which is lowest in Vidarbha. Buldhana: Out of 400-plus tests done on Monday, the district reported 36 new Covid-19 patients. This took total caseload to 9,513. On the other hand, 61 patients recovered in the day taking the total number of recoveries to 8,911. No death was reported on the second day in a row in the district. Total 476 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-covid-19-cases-cross-2l-mark-recovery-rate-91-47/articleshow/79008452.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 3, 2020||Madurai||Woman ends life after killing kids||KANYAKUMARI: A 29-year-old woman murdered her two daughters by giving them an overdose of sleeping pills, and ending her life by setting herself ablaze. The incident took place in Nagercoil town in Kanyakumari district, early on Monday morning. The deceased were identified as R Rasi and her two daughters Akshya, 5, and Aniya, 3. They lived with at East Weavers Colony in Nesamony Nagar. Preliminary inquiries by the Nesamony Nagar police revealed that Rasi’s husband Rajkumar, 32, who was running a pharmacy died of illness last year. Rasi and her children were staying with Rajkumar’s parents. Police said that Rasi suffered from depression due to her husband’s demise and took the extreme step. All three died on the spot. Police retrieved their bodies and sent them to the Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital for autopsy. A case was registered under sections 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code and 174 (unnatural death) of the CrPC. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of Nagercoil sub-division, R Venugopal is investigating the case. Police said that the case would be closed if there is no foul play.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-ends-life-after-killing-kids/articleshow/79008480.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: PCMC focus on areas with less seropositivity||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar on Monday said the civic body would focus on areas where the Covid-10 seropositivity rate was less than 10%. Hardikar told a news conference here that the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had during the serosurvey in October checked 200 pockets in 15 wards. “Many of these pockets showed over 75% of seroprevalence, while the rate in some area was as low as 4%,” he said. Hardikar said the civic body’s health department would focus on such areas where the seropositivity rate was low. “Areas such as Sambhajinagar and Keshavnagar have 4% exposure to the virus. We will focus on these areas to prevent an increase in the Covid-19 positive cases,” he said. The civic chief said the health department has been told to plan a medical strategy within a week for areas with low seropositivity. Hardikar said the timing for the serosurvey was “perfect”, as the number of cases had started to recede in the twin towns. “The results have shown that the civic body is prepared to handle the second wave of the Covid-19, if it happens. The findings will be helpful in strategizing whether to allow the schools to reopen or not, considering there has been 34.9% seropositivity rate in the age group of 12-18,” he said. “Considering the festive season ahead, we are expecting a slight rise in the cases. We expected a rise in cases after Navaratra as well, but the infection rate has been steady. Some may argue that the fall in cases could be due to less testing. But that is not the case. We are still conducting around 2,500 tests a day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-focus-on-areas-with-less-seropositivity/articleshow/79008448.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 3, 2020||Madurai||As monsoon makes a landing, forest dept warns of more snakes in Madurai||MADURAI: Frequent rain in the district has increased the movement of snakes at various places including residential areas as six people including a 13-year-old boy have died following snake bite incidents in Madurai in the last two months. With more rain expected, the number of snake bite cases is only set to increase, warn forest officials. The number of alerts received by the forest department in Madurai to catch snakes has also increased in recent days. Officials from the forest department said that they are rescuing around two to three snakes on an average every day. “There was a day when we rescued six snakes. Most of the alerts are made from the city,” they say. District forest officer S Anand said that killing a snake is a punishable offence under Wildlife Protection Act, hence people should not kill them or try to catch them. They can be alerted on 0452- 2535022. “We have a dedicated team consisting uniformed staff and volunteers on standby round the clock to catch snakes. Fire and rescue services personnel are also trained in catching snakes and can be called for help,” he said P R Vishwanath of Oorvanam, an NGO, said that 24 varieties of snakes can be spotted in Madurai. “However, only four among them - Indian cobra, Russell’s viper, common krait and saw scaled viper - are poisonous. Rat snake, keelback, sand boa, wine snake, bronze back tree snake, kukri snake and wolf snake are commonly found non-poisonous snakes. Since people may not able to distinguish between poisonous and non-poisonous snakes, it is better to call up the forest department to shift the snakes back into their natural habitat. “With the monsoon fast approaching, we are planning to conduct sensitisation programmes in various places starting from Thirupparankundram. It is important to create awareness on snakes to save both human and snake lives,” Vishwanath said. He said that it is important to reach a well-equipped hospital within two to three hours as most of the deaths occur due to delay in getting medical help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-monsoon-makes-a-landing-forest-dept-warns-of-more-snakes-in-madurai/articleshow/79008455.cms||V Devanathan
November 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Two men conquer infection, undergo kidney transplant||BENGALURU: Two fairly young kidney patients on dialysis — one from Tumakuru and another from Belagavi — had a relative each willing to donate an organ, but they contracted Covid-19 in July-August and the infection threatened their lives. However, doctors treated their infection and both underwent renal transplant successfully last month. Patients opting for kidney transplant are put on immunosuppressant medicines, which make them highly vulnerable to infections. But doctors say the two cases have shattered the myth that Covid-19 infections are a deterrent to transplants. The two are the only live organ transplants among people who have recovered from Covid-19 in Karnataka so far. Doctors at Columbia Asia hospital, Yeshwantpur conducted the surgery. “Performing a kidney transplant on such patients is complicated and challenging as it is difficult to say how patients will respond to surgery, partly owing to the immunosuppressive medications,” said Dr Deepak Kumar, consultant nephrologist and transplant physician. “However, both patients have recovered well.” Rayappa Bheemappa Halangali, 29, a teacher from Belagavi, came to Bengaluru in August seeking transplant surgery. His 48-year-old mother was the donor. He was undergoing dialysis in Bengaluru when he contracted the virus. “I was looking forward to years of good health with a transplant when this happened. I have no clue how I got infected although my symptoms were mild,” Rayappa said. “My mother was negative. Though I was initially shattered, I was counselled and developed courage.” He went under the knife on October 19. Doctors at Columbia Asia had already had a similar experience before that. Yogesh HS, 24, a truck driver from Tumakuru, who had arrived in Bengaluru in July seeking transplant surgery, tested positive. Yogesh’s 51-year-old agriculturist father was the donor and he was negative for Covid. On September 28, after complete recovery from Covid, he underwent kidney transplant. “I am on immunosuppressant medication, but I’m absolutely fine. The big fear was whether I would be able to undergo surgery,” said Yogesh. He, however, has been advised to stay away from truck driving for a couple of years. “I will have to think of some other job now,” he said. Dr Manohar T, senior consultant, urology and chief of transplant surgery, says care must be exercised in choosing patients for transplant because the risk of contracting Covid during the procedure is high. “It requires meticulous planning and execution till discharge,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-men-get-new-kidneys-prove-virus-is-no-deterrent-to-transplant/articleshow/79006805.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Top cop plans to reintroduce i-bikes in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Police commissioner Nikhil Gupta, impressed by the utility and concept of investigation bikes (i-bikes) that were an integral part of the police department, is planning to reintroduce them in the city.A senior officer, who is privy to the development, said that while going through the list of all the initiatives that were undertaken in the city in the past few years, the i-bikes caught his attention, who has now ordered to collect all the necessary details so that they could be re-introduced in the city.The concept was introduced by the then Aurangabad range’s special IGP Milind Bharambe in mid-2017. Aurangabad range’s four districts were the first in the country to have i-bikes that are mounted with forensic kits, mobile tablets, wireless sets, batons, among others. However, following Bharambe’s transfer, the initiative ended up getting stalled in the city.These bikes, when launched, turned out to be an effective alternative for the Mobile Forensic Van (MFV) that were given to each of the 35 SP offices and 10 police commissionerates by the government in the state by spending around Rs 27 crore.As per the concept, policemen of the rank of sub-inspectors are trained in collecting of forensic evidences in scientific manner before being deputed as i-bike officers. Soon after receiving any information about a crime of particular category, these officers are tasked to be the first one to reach the crime scene and cordon-off the area before collecting all the forensic evidence in scientific manner. The officers having degree in science were trained by forensic experts, criminal lawyers, to make them understand what needs to be done. In all 27 i-bikes mounted with special tablets were launched, out of which six were allotted to Aurangabad city.The officers are supposed to use the tablets installed with special applications for recording video and photographic evidence at the crime scene. A special application watermarks the recorded video and content with real time, date and exact GPS location, making it a crucial piece of evidence before court of law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/top-cop-plans-to-reintroduce-i-bikes-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79009296.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Restaurateurs go beyond sticking to norms to build customer confidence||PUNE: Restaurant owners are going all out to normalise the dine-out experience for patrons after being operational only for delivery and takeout during the lockdown. They are also going an extra mile to make the experience safe so that patrons feel confident about dining out. “Safe and smart dining is the new normal. Unfortunately, we have to turn away large groups from time to time in adherence to regulations. Despite operating at 50% capacity and the time restrictions, we have been seeing weekly growth in footfall. There tends to be slight difficulty understanding our servers behind masks and visors, but everyone seems to adapt quickly. We are seeing a large number of repeat customers, which is extremely heartening,” said Rachel Goenka Khetarpal, chief executive officer of The Chocolate Spoon Company that owns brands such as The Sassy Spoon, Baraza Bars & Bites, Wicked China. Safety protocols implemented by restaurants include checks on temperature and oxygen level of staff as they report to work. The staff is equipped with gloves, masks and face shields. The entire restaurant space is further sanitized thoroughly. However, customer confidence is built by not only sticking to the norms but going slightly above and beyond, owners said. Meeta Makhecha, chef and owner of The Flour Works, said, “We spray the entire restaurant when we shut at night and before opening for business in the morning. We have got all surfaces, except for the kitchen, coated with an anti-microbial solution that repels contaminated pathogens. It needs to be done once a month. We also stock surgical masks to give to customers if they have forgotten to wear a mask.” Somesh Narwani, operations manager at The High Spirits Cafe, said they maintain a 5-feet distance between every table and don’t reuse the same cutlery or crockery on the same day. “All cutlery and crockery are washed a day prior and used the next day. Considering that we have always been an event venue, the response has been slow in comparison to what it was before,” he said. Kartik Ganesh, head of marketing at Circle of Crust, said they have provided members two masks each which they can wash and use on alternate days. “Every contact point such as tables and chairs is sanitized in two hours or after a guest has finished dining. The seating is spread out and we have placed QR codes on each table so that guests are directed to our website where they can view the menu, place the order and make the payment. Our deliveries have increased three-fold and we’re seeing a steady increase in dine-ins too. We have an open kitchen so guests can see the level of hygiene that we maintain,” Ganesh said. Praful Chandawarkar, owner of Malaka Spice, said that he has gone a step ahead to ensure safety. “In addition to the staff, we also conduct temperature checks on our vendors. We follow MSFHI, which stands for masks, safe distancing, formite disinfection, hygiene and information, to ensure we follow all steps. Our staff is provided with N95 masks while the front of house crew also wear face shields. Along with table distance, our staff follows safe distancing from the guests as well as with each other. Guests can serve themselves, access our menu and pay online to minimize contact with servers. We have installed hand-washing stations and sanitization stands for our guests at various locations in the restaurant,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sticking-to-norms-builds-customer-confidence-say-restaurateurs/articleshow/79008483.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Nedumangad: Man held for sexually abusing minor||T’PURAM: The Nedumangad police here on Sunday arrested a 22-year-old man on charges of sexually abusing a 11-year-old boy. The police identified the accused as Vishnu of Erumala near Panavoor under Nedumangad police station limits. He was booked under relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The police said that the incident related to the case took place on Wednesday. According to the complaint, the accused allegedly took the boy into his residence as the latter was returning home after buying biscuits from a local shop and sexually abused him. The boy told the matter to his mother, who in turn alerted the district Childline authorities. The accused was arrested by a team led by Nedumangad station house officer inspector V Rajesh Kumar and sub-inspector Sunil Gopi. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-held-for-sexually-abusing-minor/articleshow/79000895.cms||---
November 3, 2020||---||Ex-Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi demands probe into Ram Vilas Paswan’s death||PATNA: The HAM(S) caused ripples in the state political circles on Monday after its president and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi demanded a judicial inquiry into the death of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. Manjhi also raised doubts over the LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s role. “I request the Prime Minister to order a judicial probe into the death of Ram Vilas Paswan to unravel the dubious role of Chirag Paswan in the matter,” Manjhi told PTI. Reacting over the development, Chirag claimed it was “a plot hatched by CM Nitish Kumar” to defame him when the assembly election was under way in the state. Talking to mediapersons, Chirag accused Nitish of “scripting a plot to settle political scores with him” and asking the HAM-S to rake up an emotional issue to blunt the LJP's campaign to prevent him from becoming the CM once again. HAM(S) national spokesman Danish Rizwan also wrote a letter to PM Modi on Monday, supporting Manjhi’s demand. TOI has a copy of Rizwan’s letter. Rizwan also demanded a judicial probe into Paswan’s death on the basis of a video of Chirag rehearsing a day after the death of his father where he was purportedly seen joking with the people present and even talking about his hairstyle. Rizwan, in his letter, wanted to know as to who ordered the hospital to not issue regular health bulletins of “such a big leader” like Paswan. Rizwan also claimed people were prevented from meeting the senior Paswan when he was hospitalized in Delhi. Chirag had informed people about the death of his father through a tweet on October 8. “When Manjhi telephoned me, my father was in hospital. I told him everything. He neither called me again nor visited Papa in the hospital,” Chirag told mediapersons in Patna on Monday.  (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/manjhi-demands-probe-into-paswans-death/articleshow/79012559.cms||Madan Kumar
November 3, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks to conduct grama sabha meetings at villages||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Monday ordered notice to the state government in a plea which sought to conduct special grama sabha meetings at all the villages in the state since three such meetings were cancelled owing to Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi ordered notice on the public interest litigation filed by A Arun, an advocate and a resident of Madurai. The petitioner stated that grama sabha meetings are very vital for the panchayat raj and village development. During grama sabha meetings, people discuss local governance and development plans for the village. He stated that such meetings are conducted on Republic Day, May Day, Independence Day and Gandhi Jayanti every year. However, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, except for the meeting on Republic Day, other grama sabha meetings were cancelled. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-to-conduct-grama-sabha-meetings-at-villages/articleshow/79008491.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Patna||Ex-Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi demands probe into Ram Vilas Paswan’s death||PATNA: The HAM(S) caused ripples in the state political circles on Monday after its president and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi demanded a judicial inquiry into the death of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. Manjhi also raised doubts over the LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s role. “I request the Prime Minister to order a judicial probe into the death of Ram Vilas Paswan to unravel the dubious role of Chirag Paswan in the matter,” Manjhi told PTI. Reacting over the development, Chirag claimed it was “a plot hatched by CM Nitish Kumar” to defame him when the assembly election was under way in the state. Talking to mediapersons, Chirag accused Nitish of “scripting a plot to settle political scores with him” and asking the HAM-S to rake up an emotional issue to blunt the LJP's campaign to prevent him from becoming the CM once again. HAM(S) national spokesman Danish Rizwan also wrote a letter to PM Modi on Monday, supporting Manjhi’s demand. TOI has a copy of Rizwan’s letter. Rizwan also demanded a judicial probe into Paswan’s death on the basis of a video of Chirag rehearsing a day after the death of his father where he was purportedly seen joking with the people present and even talking about his hairstyle. Rizwan, in his letter, wanted to know as to who ordered the hospital to not issue regular health bulletins of “such a big leader” like Paswan. Rizwan also claimed people were prevented from meeting the senior Paswan when he was hospitalized in Delhi. Chirag had informed people about the death of his father through a tweet on October 8. “When Manjhi telephoned me, my father was in hospital. I told him everything. He neither called me again nor visited Papa in the hospital,” Chirag told mediapersons in Patna on Monday.  (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-demands-probe-into-paswans-death/articleshow/79008494.cms||Madan Kumar
November 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Soon, Kiera and Ruby to join duty at Poojappura central prison||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Poojapura central prison will soon get a ‘canine task force’ to detect smuggling of narcotic substances into the premises. Two sniffer dogs, which have recently completed training at Kerala Police Academy at Thrissur, will soon be brought to the prison. They are expected to join duty in the first week of December. According to prison officials, the central prison here will be getting two female labradors, Kiera and Ruby, both aged around nine months. They are trained to detect substances such as ganja, morphine and heroine. Four prison officers attached to central prison have also undergone a nine-month training at the academy along with Kiera and Ruby as their handlers. Assistant prison officers Umesh U and Sajith S are the handlers of Kiera. Deputy prison officer Anand Raj R S and assistant prison officer Santhosh P are the handlers of Ruby. Among the two, Kiera had even won a gold medal during the passing out parade for excellence displayed in detection of narcotic substances. “Even though she did not win any medals, Ruby, too displayed a commendable performance,” said assistant prison officer Umesh U. Deputy inspector general of prison (south zone) S Santhosh said that as per revised prison rules of 2014, the department was allowed to use the service of sniffer dogs to detect narcotic and explosive substances. Accordingly, sniffer dogs were assigned on duty at Viyyur and Kannur prisons in the previous years. “Having said so, those dogs were on deputation there and did not belong to the prison department,” the DIG said, adding that Kiera and Ruby will be the first dogs to offer their services exclusively to the department. It was in January this year that prison director general Rishiraj Singh issued an order to appoint sniffer dogs at the central prison here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/soon-kiera-and-ruby-to-join-duty-at-poojappura-central-prison/articleshow/79000946.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
November 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Day’s Covid toll least since first week of July, 715 recover||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 372 cases on Monday, almost half of its recoveries (715) for the day, taking its tally above 3.24 lakh. Besides, 20 more fatalities, the region’s least since July 06, pushed up PMR’s toll to 7,927 in the last 24 hours. The recovery count in PMR rose above 3.05 lakh on Monday. Among the discharges, the council areas recorded most recoveries (287) in the last 24 hours, followed by the PMC limits (154), the rural areas (145) and the PCMC limits (119). Among the new cases, the PMC limits added 133, followed by the Pimpri Chinchwad areas (113), the rural areas (80) and council limits (37), among others. As on Monday, as many as 11,638 active cases were recorded in PMR. These included 5,232 patients in hospitals and 6,406 in home isolation. As per PMC data, the municipal areas had 1,443 patients on oxygen beds till Monday night. PMC’s daily report stated that critical patients admitted in hospitals across municipal areas were 546, including 324 on ventilator support. As for the day’s fatalities, the PMC limits recorded 16, while the PCMC areas added one. The death reports of the patients issued by civic, district and private hospitals, stated that deceased patients had other health problems like high blood pressure and heart problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-fatalities-drop-to-4-month-low/articleshow/79008457.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on feasibility of airport at Rameswaram||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Monday sought a response on the feasibility of establishing an airport at either Rameswaram or Ramanathapuram, taking into account that a large number of devotees from across the country visiting Rameswaran. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi also sought a response from the central government in a public interest litigation which sought to take immediate steps to renovate the runway located at Karaikudi in Sivaganga district as mentioned in the Udan scheme. S Ramesh Kumar, in his petition stated that Karaikudi is one of the tourist places in the state with many attractions such as the Chettinad Palace and Pilliyarpatti temple. He stated that he came to know that a runway was established at the Chettinad region at Karaikudi on 32 acres during the World War II. Since the runway is not in use, it is not being maintained properly. He stated that the central government had launched the Udan scheme with an objective to provide connectivity to the unserved airports by reviving the existing airstrips and airports. The central government had identified 13 unserved airstrips or airports under the Udan scheme in Tamil Nadu including the one at Chettinad. Though the airstrip at Chettinad was identified, no further steps were taken. He stated that if the airstrip is renovated and converted as an airport, then it would be of great benefit to the residents of Sivaganga and also for people visiting Rameswaram, a pilgrim town in Ramanathapuram district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-feasibility-of-airport-at-rameswaram/articleshow/79008486.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Deaths back at pre-Aug levels, but experts say its too early to celebrate||Bengaluru: In what could be the beginning of a positive trend, Karnataka reported less than 50 deaths due to Covid-19 on each day of the last three days in October. While only 28 were reported dead on Saturday (Oct 31), the state did even better on the first day of November with just 24 deaths. On Monday, the state reported 29 deaths. The fatalities reported on the weekend were the lowest in several months. While Karnataka had reported less than 30 deaths daily in May and June — when the pandemic was yet to spike in most districts — it consistently reported more than 30 deaths thereafter. After June, the least number of deaths in the state were recorded on the first three days of July — seven, 19 and 21 deaths respectively. On July 7, there were 15 deaths, following which the numbers rose and was consistently more than 50 in the last week of the month. August and September saw a record number of deaths with most days recording an average 100 fatalities. On Monday, K Sudhakar, health minister, who has not lost an opportunity to point out how increased testing has resulted in a drop in the number of new cases, said Karnataka conducted 78,496 Covid tests on Sunday, of which 65,015 tests (83%) were RT-PCR. The state normally conducts more than one lakh tests on weekdays and the number drops on Sundays. “State’s positivity rate stands at 3.3% and case fatality rate is less than that of the national average,” Sudhakar tweeted. Karnataka’s case fatality rate has been lower than the national average for a while now, and experts, while expressing relief, also pointed out that the state is aiming to bring it below 1%. But experts caution that it’s too early to say the pandemic is nearing the end. “Testing is skewed since it’s mostly concentrated in urban areas,” Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force, said. “So we cannot be sure of the trajectory in rural and remote areas. It is a dynamic process and there has to be constant reprioritization of areas. We cannot exponentially increase testing forever due to limited resources; hence redistribution of testing rates depending on changing dynamics of transmission is necessary.” Another expert said the decline in daily deaths must remain constant over a period of time before celebrations can begin and one must wait for a couple more weeks at least before being able assess if there is a new trend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/deaths-back-at-pre-aug-levels-but-experts-say-its-too-early-to-celebrate/articleshow/79006829.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Vijayawada||PPA agrees to look into revised cost of project submitted by Andhra govt||Amaravati: The Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) has agreed to consider the state government’s request to revise the cost of the project. The PPA also expressed the need to take the second revised estimates into consideration. The emergency meeting, however, is said to have given its nod to the project cost at 2013-14 price levels following instructions from the Union Jal Shakti ministry. State officials have reportedly registered their dissent and demanded for project cost approval of Rs 47725.74 crore, at 2017-18 price level. The meeting was chaired by PPA chief executive officer Chandrasekhar Ayyar in Hyderabad on Monday. Jal Shakti ministry joint secretary Jagmohan Gupta, AP irrigation special chief secretary Dr Adityanath Das, irrigation engineer-in-chief Narayana Reddy and PPA member secretary Rangareddy were present at the meeting. Sources said that senior officials present at the meeting told AP officials that they would surely look into the issue of revising the project cost at 2017-18 price level as they were aware of the facts. At the same time, they explained that it was their duty to follow the instructions of the ministry and hence were granting approval of project cost at 2013-14 price level. “All officials, including the Union joint secretary, were convinced with our contention to take estimations submitted by the Revised Cost Committee (RCC) of Jal Shakti ministry and promised to get the revised estimations cleared in due course,” engineer-in-chief Narayana Reddy told TOI. The disagreement started last fortnight after the Union finance ministry directed the Jal Shakti ministry to get the formal approval of PPA for the project cost at 2013-14 price level as it was cleared by the Union cabinet in 2017. “Since we can’t go against the Union cabinet’s resolution, the approval will be given to the 2013-14 price of Rs 20,398.61 crore. Given it is our responsibility to complete the project, we will definitely request the Jal Shakti ministry as well as finance ministry to give approval to the revised estimations,” a PPA functionary is said to have told AP officials. Special CS Dr Adityanath Das and engineer-in-chief (irrigation), Narayana Reddy made a presentation at the meeting to highlight the need to revise the cost as per the approval granted by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and also Central Water Commission (CWC). They have put up a strong argument at the meeting by citing many instances of the revision of costs of projects taken up by the Jal Shakti ministry across the country. Andhra Pradesh officials insisted that the meeting should pass a resolution seeking interference of the ministry without granting its approval to the old rates. Turning down Telangana’s objections, AP said that the study on the submergence is a closed chapter and they were ready to take all measures to protect the areas from getting submerged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ppa-agrees-to-look-into-revised-cost-of-project-submitted-by-andhra-govt/articleshow/79007299.cms||Samdani MN
November 3, 2020||Madurai||642 students join govt NEET coaching in Madurai||MADURAI: As many as 642 Class XII students in the district have so far enrolled for the free government coaching classes for NEET 2021, according to district education officials. Officials said the classes will be for both freshers and government school student who are willing to repeat the exam. “Last year, we had only around 500 students enrolled for the programme, but this year we are seeing more enrolment. As the classes begin, more students are expected to get enrolled,” said an official. Officials added that one of the main reasons for the increase is the 7.5% quota for government school students in getting medical seats through NEET. “It boosts the confidence of government school students pursuing NEET. Definitely, in the next few years, the performance of government schools will improve in NEET,” said a headmaster of a government higher secondary school. With schools expected to reopen for classes IX to XII from November 16, officials said that even if schools don’t reopen, the free NEET coaching classes will be held online starting this month. During the lockdown period, for government NEET coaching, the e-box platform was used and this is expected to continue for the following year as well. “All students have their free laptops. The e-box mainly provides course materials and mock tests for students to practice. Both live classes and video lessons will be conducted,” said a coordinator for the programme. District education officials are also helping students get internet data packs as and when required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/642-students-join-govt-neet-coaching-in-madurai/articleshow/79008495.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Madurai||57% of Covid patients who died in Madurai had diabetes||MADURAI: Out of the 420 Covid-19 deaths reported in the district, 57% had diabetes as a comorbid condition. Doctors said that diabetic patients, both during treatment and post recovery, are at high risk of developing complications and there is need for strict monitoring and follow-ups. Among diabetic Covid-19 patients who died, 72 had only diabetes as a comorbid condition. Diabetologists said that now there is enough evidence proving that the SARS-CoV-2 virus can attack the beta cells of pancreas, responsible for producing insulin. “In case of a diabetic patient, the blood glucose levels become highly erratic, especially when Covid-19 becomes acute. They may become more insulin-dependent and require higher doses. In some Covid-19 patients without diabetes previously, it has been found they can become diabetogenic. Consumption of steroids may also be one of the factors, mostly temporary, in patients developing states of hyperglycemia when affected by Covid-19,” said Dr R Ramesh, a general physician and diabetologist. As there is still much to know about the effects of Covid-19 on diabetic patients in the long run, doctors have urged follow-ups post recovery. “Rhinocerebral mucormycosis is a fungal infection that commonly affects some diabetic patients. Though rare, we are finding that during and post recovery, there is high incidence in diabetic patients. This condition can also turn fatal even with treatment. Diabetic patients can also develop vascular issues and are more prone for stroke and heart attack after recovery,” said Ramesh. Rhinocerebral mucormycosis is a rare opportunistic infection of the sinuses, nasal passages, oral cavity and brain caused by saprophytic fungi, which can rapidly result in death. “A person with diabetes, hypertension or any comorbid condition must always take even the slightest of Covid-19 symptom seriously and immediately go to a Covid care hospital instead of waiting for severe symptoms. Diabetics are at high risk and their condition can become life-threatening even. Prevention and early identification is very important,” said Dr V N Alagavenkatesan, IMA (Madurai) president. He also advised people above 40 years, who may or may not have been infected, to go in for a check-up for diabetes especially if they have a family history of diabetes or are obese or have a sedentary lifestyle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/57-of-covid-patients-who-died-in-madurai-had-diabetes/articleshow/79008500.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||600 beds were vacant every day in Covid peak: Govt to HC||Nagpur: District collector Ravindra Thakare on Monday said in an affidavit before the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court that over 600 beds were available at any time in Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) across the district during peak of Covid. The revelation is in sharp contrast to the agonizing ordeal citizens faced while trying to save their loved ones.Prolonged discharge formalities, delay in clearing bodies from beds, and reserving some beds for in-house critical patients have been cited as reasons for depriving needy patients of hospital beds. On September 10, a resident of Friends Colony was unable to find a bed in a Covid hospital despite a 24-hour search after his father tested positive. Much before this, there were many cases of harassed citizens who couldn’t find a Covid hospital bed in Nagpur and rural parts for days on end beginning mid-August to end of September. Many patients reportedly even passed away after failing to get treatment in time due to bed shortage.Thakare’s affidavit before the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court stated exact bed occupancy rate and vacancy data for the last six months at DCHs.The affidavit pertains to the period from May to October 31 for 14 DCHs, including AIIMS, Military Hospital Kamptee, Shalinitai Meghe Hospital and Research Centre, Lata Mangeshkar Hospital Wanadongri, and private hospitals from Wadi, Kamptee, Khapri and Jamtha, having capacity of 1,330 beds in all. The vacancies at these hospitals fell to 632 on September 22, but remained above this figure since May, as per the affidavit filed in response to a suo motu PIL based on a TOI report.Both the tertiary care medical colleges — GMCH and IGGMCH — too had beds available during peak Covid phase in the city. However, the submission for IGGMCH is from August to October period while for GMCH the data is from September to October. As per the affidavit, only IGGMCH had no beds on 10 days in August while vacancy remained between one to 462. Except September 4, when just four beds were available, GMCH never ran out of beds and had an average of 40 beds in the said period.Collector Thakare attributed the situation to procedural delays in documentation. “Even when a bed fell vacant, the patient had to stay for formalities, thus delaying occupancy by next patient.On paper it appears that beds are available, but in reality it may not be so,” Thakare told TOI.Top officers from both GMCs said not a single patient was refused bed, but admitted that those requiring ICU beds couldn’t be accommodated for many days. As per the affidavit, IGGMCH had no ICU bed between August 1 and September 14. Yet, it had a sizeable number of oxygenated beds during the same period. Regarding vacancies at other 14 hospitals, sources said, “The trust-run hospitals had committed more beds but couldn’t service more than 70-80 at the most. This affected the availability and vacancy figures,” they said.Top officers said that on some occasions they were forced to send back Covid patients not requiring critical care, which led to an outcry among masses regarding bed shortage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/600-beds-were-vacant-every-day-in-covid-peak-govt-to-hc/articleshow/79007295.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 3, 2020||Pune||YCM to start non-Covid functioning||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital will resume non-Covid functioning at the facility at 50% capacity from Tuesday. The hospital’s dean, Rajendra Wabale, on Sunday said they were ready to resume non-Covid functioning at the hospital. Shravan Hardikar, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) commissioner, said the YCM hospital reviewed the situation for regular patients on Monday and announced that the availability of medical services for regular patients would resume from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ycm-to-start-non-covid-functioning/articleshow/79008489.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Nashik||Citizens shiver at season’s lowest of 12.5°C in Nashik||Nashik: The minimum temperature in the city dropped to two degrees below normal to stand at 12.5 degrees celsius on Monday — the lowest temperature recorded so far this season. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 12.6 degrees celsius. Nashik city stood fourth in the state in terms of lowest minimum temperature recorded on Monday. At 8.6 degrees celsius, Chandrapur recorded the lowest temperature in the state followed by Parbhani (10.3 degrees celsius) and Gonde (11. degrees celsius).There has been a nip in the air that can be felt during the morning as well as at night. In the last one week, the minimum tenmperature in the city dropped from 18.3 degrees celsius on November 2 to 12.5 degrees celsius so far. The maximum temperature in the city on Monday stood at 30.3 degrees celsius compared to 29.4 degrees celsius on Sunday. Morning walkers and those going out for work early in the morning are not stepping out of their homes without woollens. According to sources in the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature in the city will remain the same on Tuesday but will drop further to 11 degrees celsius between November 11 and 15. Citizens will continue to feel the nip in the air during Diwali. “We have been feeling cold since the past few days. I have been wearing warm clothes while going out for a walk in the morning,” said Suhas Kale, a business consultant.Meanwhile, the grape-growing area of Niphad taluka in the district recorded a minimum temperature of 11 degrees celsius on Monday. Malegaon recorded a minimum temperature of 13.8 degrees celsius—one degree below the normal. Jalgaon city in north Maharashtra recorded a minimum temperature of 12.6 degrees celsius—three degrees below the normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/citizens-shiver-at-seasons-lowest-of-12-5c-in-nashik/articleshow/79135509.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 3, 2020||Vijayawada||T calls for fresh studies on submergence of areas||Amaravati: The Telangana government requested the PPA to take up further studies on submergence due to the Polavaram project. They also demanded a proper drainage system be readied before completion of the project to prevent inundation of areas in Telangana. In a letter to PPA on Monday, Telangana engineer-in-chief for irrigation, C Muralidhar, observed that AP was planning to divert additional water during the flood season in addition to its demand of 450 tmc, which includes the Godavari downstream delta requirement. For this, he said, AP will have to maintain full reservoir level (FRL) for longer periods which would cause inundation of areas in Bhadrachalam and Dummugudem. “A detailed operational schedule along with certain restrictions should be in place. A detailed study will also require to do so,” said Muralidhar and added that issues related to stagnation of local streams and Kinnerasani river may cause flash floods in Telangana which was not properly studied either by AP or PPA. “According to IIT-Hyderabad study, a whopping 45,000 acres are coming under submergence not mere 200 acres as stated by AP. Hence, we request PPA to take up a serious study on the issue,” the Telangana ENC said. The ENC said they wanted to a fresh study into Central Water Commission (CWC) assessments on Polavaram project as CWC reports had several inconsistencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/t-calls-for-fresh-studies-on-submergence-of-areas/articleshow/79007304.cms||Samdani MN
November 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Excess rain replenishes groundwater levels in Marathwada after a decade||Aurangabad: This year, excess rainfall across Marathwada region has increased the groundwater levels by 2.28 metres as compared to the average of the last five years by the end of September. As per the official data available with the Groundwater Surveys and Development Agency (GSDA), all 76 talukas in the eight districts of the region have shown an increase in the water levels. Deputy director of GSDA Megha Deshmukh said on Monday Marathwada has witnessed a record increase in the groundwater levels after almost one decade.“The October rain, coupled with the possible showers during the withdrawal phase of monsoon, is further expected to raise the groundwater levels in Marathwada. While the overall situation of groundwater level is encouraging, meticulous planning and judicious use of water could help the region at large to become water-sufficient, in terms of groundwater, at least till the end of next year,” said Deshmukh. Expressing concerns over the chances of regulated extraction of groundwater during the rabi season, Deshmukh said the water literacy should become a norm among the farming sector. “Same is the case with domestic borewells and dug wells, which is one of the main sources of excess groundwater extraction,” she said. Thi year, the eight districts of Marathwada recorded average 834mm rainfall (123%) between June and September as compared to the normal rainfall of 679mm. The GSDA survey inspected water levels in 875 wells across the eight districts in Marathwada, which has further received around 111mm showers (172%) post September till around the end of October.Water right activist Abhijt Dhanorkar said the encouraging news about the groundwater levels in Marathwada should not lead to uncontrolled extraction of water for different purposes. “The groundwater must be used judiciously and different government departments should work in conjunction to ensure the same,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/excess-rain-replenishes-groundwater-levels-in-marathwada-after-a-decade/articleshow/79009302.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Finance min ready to release Rs 2,234 crore for Polavaram project||Amaravati: In what could be a boost to the state government’s efforts to get the revised costs of Polavaram project approved, the Union finance ministry has agreed to release a part of the payment without referring to the cabinet resolution which approved only costs based at 2013-14 price level. In a communication sent to the Union Jal Shakti ministry secretary, LK Trivedi, deputy secretary in the finance ministry (expenditure), said they have no objection to release Rs 2234 crore to Polavaram Irrigation Project (PIP) without insisting on the condition stated in para 2 (V) (i) of office memorandum (OM) issued by the ministry on October 10. He further said that they have taken the decision keeping in view the request made by the state government and also in the larger public interest in expediting the project work. “It is learnt that the department of water resources and Ganga Rejuvenation (Jal Shakti ministry) has sought a written confirmation from PPA regarding OM (which actually directed the Jal Shakti ministry to get the PPA to approve the project cost at 2013-14 level). This is delaying the release of funds to Polavaram project. In order to expedite the project, we have no objection to release Rs 2,234 crore without taking clauses mentioned in OM,” said Trivedi. The finance ministry has asked the water resources ministry to get the approval from the PPA at the earliest and send the same to the department of expenditure. The ministry has also made it clear that confirmation from PPA will be a condition for all future releases. The finance ministry’s latest directive is likely to play big role in the state government getting full funds for the Polavaram project in the coming days as the PPA has also agreed to revise the project cost in due course. Making PPA as the single point authority for getting financial support from the Centre will also help the state government get the fund releases early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/finance-min-ready-to-release-rs-2234-crore-for-polavaram-project/articleshow/79007308.cms||Samdani MN
November 3, 2020||Vadodara||Illegal structures on road razed||Vadodara: The compound wall and entrance of 10 duplex houses of a society on the New VIP Road were razed on Monday. The structures were in line for a road in the area. According to Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials, a town planning scheme had been cleared in the area. The houses were encroaching on a 7.5metre road planned there. VMC’s director of security and encroachment Dr Mangesh Jaiswal said that a road line in the Tarsali area of the city connecting Ravi Park there to the national highway on the outskirts of the city was also cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/illegal-structures-on-road-razed/articleshow/79005025.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bareilly||Body of 4-year-old lies ‘unattended’ on mortuary floor, eaten away, says family||BAREILLY: The body of a four-year-old boy who died in a road accident was found lying on the floor of the mortuary a day later, partially eaten away by animals, his family has alleged. The health department has ordered an inquiry into the charges of negligence. The boy from Bhatpura in Asmoli, Sooraj Kumar, was hit by a vehicle when he was walking along the road. He sustained severe head injuries and died right there. This was on Saturday. Because it was an accident case, there would be an autopsy. “We took the body to the postmortem house of Sambhal district hospital at Bahapur Patti. The staff there told us the autopsy would be conducted the following morning. A person who claimed to be a member of the staff there asked me to pay Rs 200 so the body could be kept in a freezer,” said Titu, the boy’s uncle. “When I reached the postmortem house the next morning, I saw his body on the floor. Animals had eaten away at it.” He was then told by the staff at the mortuary that the refrigerator was not working “because of a glitch.” No doctor had come by till then. “The freezer often malfunctions. It has to be fixed frequently,” a staffer there said. In response to the allegation of negligence by the family, Sambhal chief medical officer Dr Amita Singh said, “We have taken cognizance of the matter. The postmortem has been conducted, a probe has been ordered and action will be taken on the basis of its findings.” As to how an animal could have entered the room, police said the doors don’t seal shut. “The room where the body had been kept was inspected. There were some gaps between the door and the floor. The walls were also damaged in places,” SHO of Bahjoi police station RP Singh told TOI. The mortuary is in a deserted area, surrounded by overgrowth. “This is the first case that has come to light where a corpse kept in a locked mortuary room was attacked by an animal … But it is possible a mongoose entered the room.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/body-of-4-year-old-lies-unattended-on-mortuary-floor-eaten-away-says-family/articleshow/79005021.cms||Maria Khan
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||Actor Vijay Raaz arrested on molestation charges, gets bail||Nagpur: Bollywood actor Vijay Raaz, who is also known for his Kauwa Biriyani scene in the movie ‘Run’, was arrested by Gondia’s Ramnagar police in eastern Maharashtra on Tuesday morning, on charges of allegedly molesting a colleague in the under-production film ‘Sherni’ in a hotel lobby and also on the set. He was released on bail by a local court the same day. Raaz has been booked under section 354A and 354D of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for which imprisonment can be up to three years along with a fine. The offence had been registered late on Monday evening. The police did not disclose the place from where Raaz was arrested. SP Vishwa Pansare said action permissible under the law has been duly taken. It’s learnt that the Vidya Balan-starrer ‘Sherni’ had resumed shooting at Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh after the pandemic break. The cast and crew of the film was staying at a hotel in Gondia, which is around 40km away from the shooting location. Sources from Gondia police said Raaz’s colleague said she was targeted by the actor on a number of occasions between October 25 and 29. The woman is learnt to have narrated her plight to her family members, who shared it with an acquaintance, who is a senior officer in Mumbai. DIG, Naxal range, Sandip Patil said the offence was registered immediately after the complaint was lodged. “We acted promptly due to the sensitivity of the case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/actor-vijay-raaz-arrested-on-molestation-charges-gets-bail/articleshow/79025751.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 3, 2020||Coimbatore||13-year-old boy dies of electrocution near Mettupalayam Road||COIMBATORE: A 13-year-old boy died of electrocution near Mettupalayam Road on Sunday. The deceased, M Harshavarthan, 13, son of R Madan Sekar from Rajeshwari Nagar at Thoppampatti near Thudiyalur, was playing cricket along with his friends when the accident happened. The ball had got stuck on the balcony of his house. Harshavarthan attempted to retrieve it from his balcony using an iron roadm and in the process came in contact with a live wire. The minor was a student of Class VIII at a private matriculation school at Vattamalaipalayam, while his father Madan worked as a driver. The boy was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. His body, after a postmortem at Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, was handed over to his family. Thudiyalur police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/13-year-old-boy-dies-of-electrocution/articleshow/79007349.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Thrift is the new buzzword in fashion||BENGALURU: The pandemic has altered the way youngsters perceive fashion and their shopping choices. From buying only what they need (mindful buying) to eco-friendly choices, the last few months have thrown open ideas and options that were unheard of before. In the past couple of months, there has been a surge in the number of thrift stores on Instagram and even the number of people opting to purchase clothes from these small businesses that sell factory seconds and hand-me-downs. Kiran Gowdara, 20, a student, said: “My generation doesn’t care too much about buying second-hand clothes as thrifting is popular even in western cultures and it is easier on our pockets. Most thrift profiles [Instagram thrift stores] have a mix of both second-hand and factory rejects. They sell second-hand ones only if they are in perfect condition. They are cheap compared to branded stores and trendy. Some people also buy vintage luxury items that are not officially on sale any more.” She says the pandemic has shifted everyone’s attention to sustainable living. “The fashion industry is highly reliant on water for production. Around 10,000 litres of water are used to generate like 1kg of cotton. So, by reusing clothes we save a lot of water,” she said. Chaitali Matkar, a business analyst, says she thinks twice before making any purchases. “Before Covid, I quite frequently shopped for clothes, sometimes impulsively. Now, I don’t go out much and I have realised that I have a lot of clothes which I hardly wear. I don’t need so many and have decided to shop only when I need something.” Kavya Baskar, a business analyst, who works in an MNC in Amsterdam says she has stopped shopping for trousers and skirts. “I do buy business casual tops and blouses to dress smart for video conferences and meetings. I have also become extra conscious about my carbon footprint, thanks to encouragement from David Attenborough,” she said. Aryan Anup, 19, a student, says youngsters are catching up with fashion on Instagram Reels. “The trends are now highly influenced by 1990s aesthetic wear and Korean fashion,” he said. However, there are also some who are splurging on ‘home’ clothes. Arshiya Dakhani, 23, a GTS analyst, says she ended up spending a lot on clothes to wear at home. “Earlier, I would not shop for clothes to wear at home,” she said. Faisal Dakhani, Arshiya’s brother and an MBA student, on the other hand, says he hardly cares about his wardrobe now. “I mix and match with whatever is available and don’t feel the need to shop any more,” he says. Indu Pradeep, 20, took inspiration from social media platforms and has revamped her wardrobe. “I wanted to emerge from this pandemic with a new sense of style,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/thrift-is-new-buzzword-in-fashion-as-new-gen-opts-for-conscious-choices/articleshow/79006714.cms||Farheen Hussain
November 3, 2020||Nagpur||No free treatment to Covid patients in pvt hosps: Govt tells HC||NAGPUR: After holding back its stand in a couple of hearings, Maharashtra government on Monday indirectly refused to provide free treatment to Covid-19 patients in private hospitals stating a majority of them were already insured under various government schemes or private insurers. In an affidavit submitted in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, deputy director of health services in Nagpur circle, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, also clarified there was no government scheme for paying compensation to heirs of Covid-19 deceased under Section 2 (10) of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Ravi Deshpande then adjourned the hearing a suo motu plea based on TOI report on beds shortage where Shreerang Bhandarkar was appointed amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani, till Friday. The affidavit was submitted through additional government pleader Deepak Thakre in response to HC’s queries on whether the government was ready to bear all hospitalization expenses of Covid patients and also for paying compensation under EDA’s Section 2(1) to the family of deceased who succumbed to coronavirus in the government and private hospitals. According to Jaiswal, till October 26, there were 613 Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs), 1,040 dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs) and 1,942 Covid Care Centres (CCCs) across the state. Free treatment was being provided to both Covid and non-Covid patients in hospitals operating under government’s Public Health Department, municipal corporations, railways, and also private establishments empanelled under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MPJAY). Out of total Covid patients in the state, 60-70% are asymptomatic or have minimal symptoms that don't need any major intervention and can be treated at home or at CCCs established by the government in college hostels, hotels or community halls. Till October 30, out of 1.25 lakh active patients, 84,136 were hospitalized and 41,282 were in home isolation. Of them, 12,767 were required to be put on oxygen and only 1,384 required ventilators. Till October 26, over 16.48 lakh Covid cases were detected in the state, of which over three lakh were treated in the empanelled hospitals under integrated MPJAY and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) and another 9.31 lakh at CCCs. Out of 3.72 lakh patients treated in private hospitals, many had insurance from private firms, group health insurance provided by their employers or reimbursement of health expenses. Quoting a report of General Insurance Corporation of India, the government said in Maharashtra 1.78 lakh Covid claims were reported by the citizens availing private insurance. Many urban local bodies and various Zilla Parishads have their own cashless schemes for patients in private hospitals. Some municipal corporations like Pune, Navi Mumbai and Panvel had specific agreements for free and cashless treatment with hospitals. According to the government, it was first in the country to regulate rates of private hospitals for Covid and non-Covid patients’ treatment through its May 21 and August 31 notifications. The provisions were implemented by civic bodies with help of auditors appointed in hospitals. There is a comprehensive treatment policy that gives options to citizens to choose the schemes. “MPJAY and PMJAY are one of the biggest schemes in India and Maharashtra is only state to offer free and cashless universal health insurance coverage to all citizens through a network of 1,000 empanelled public and private hospitals,” Jaiswal mentioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-free-treatment-to-covid-patients-in-pvt-hosps-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/79008557.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||Cops seal fake call centres in Bidhannagar||KOLKATA: Over a dozen illegal call centres — more than 80% of them are located in various residential areas, like Salt Lake, Lake Town and Baguiati — where several men and women had been making fraudulent calls to people, alluring them to make investments in insurance policies and install mobile towers on terraces or vacant properties — were sealed by Bidhannagar police in the last few weeks. Cops had busted a similar racket last year in Sector V and closed many such offices. Probing into the current complaints, cops found that several employees of these offices, which had been sealed last year, honed their skills during the lockdown, opened new fake call centres themselves and started duping people, whose contacts they got from their old database. “Over the last few weeks, we have sealed five call centres at Lake Town, Bangur Avenue and Chinar Park, in residential areas. We also sealed four offices at Salt Lake’s DN, CF, BJ and FE blocks. Sonarpur police also sealed another call centre in Sector V. Several people have been arrested from all these fake call centres. We are investigating to find whether there is any other such call centre in our area,” said another senior officer of the commissionerate. “The callers would introduce themselves as representatives of telecom operators and randomly call people, asking whether they have vacant plots or empty places on their terraces, where mobile towers can be installed. On other occasions, they would pose as IRDA officials willing to settle a disputed insurance bond or sometimes as officials who would arrange easy personal loans against minimum documents. Once the victims fell into their traps, they would lure them into paying a slew of fraudulent fees, including fake registration charges,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. Cops said all the sealed offices were opened recently and mostly being operated by the members of a fraudulent firm that was sealed last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-seal-fake-call-centres-in-bidhannagar/articleshow/79007397.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 3, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC notice on plea against NEET aspirants removing thaali||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has ordered notice to the National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts NEET, on a public interest writ petition to restrain it from demanding women candidates to remove jewellery including thaali and metti (toe ring). Admitting the plea on Monday, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice D Krishnakumar directed the NTA to file its response in four weeks. According to petitioner, advocate S Aravind Raj, who was represented by senior advocate A Thiyagarajan, such a demand was unconstitutional and arbitrary. The rules stipulated by NTA for students writing NEET are very vague, leaving students, particularly in Tamil Nadu, in great agony in the name of frisking to prevent malpractice, he said. “Just before the stressful examination even calm and composed students are pushed to a very uncomfortable and disturbed state of mind,” the petitioner said. Married women were forced to remove thaali, metti, studs, nose stud that are sacramental ornaments for Hindu women, he said, adding that the rules are liable to be declared as unconstitutional, unreasonable and violative of the fundamental rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-notice-on-plea-against-neet-aspirants-removing-thaali/articleshow/79007407.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid protocol helps devout observe a safe All Souls’ Day||KOLKATA: The city’s Christian community observed All Souls’ Day on Monday, following Covid-19 safety protocols and the specific norms issued by the Archdiocese of Calcutta. All Souls’ Day — a day after All Saints’ Day on November 1 — is observed by Christians to pray for the dead. It is also called the ‘Feast of All Souls’, dedicated to all those who have passed away. Since the Archdiocese of Calcutta specified the time — 6am to 6pm — for visiting the cemeteries, people started going to the graves of their kin only after 6am. To avoid crowding, visitors were divided into batches in various time slots. As per the guidelines issued by the Archbishop Thomas D’Souza, those aged over 65 were discouraged from visiting the cemeteries. . Caroline Ghose, a 75-year-old resident of Ekbalpore, said, “Every year, I go to St Stephen’s, Kidderpore, on All Souls’ Day. This time, I remembered my late husband by posting his pictures on the Facebook.” Catholic Association of Bengal (CAB) president Angelina Mantosh Jasnani said, “Many came without masks. So, our youth members gave out masks to the visitors. They also gave away candles.” Her mother, Sumita Mantosh, who is a Lay Missionaries of Charity, prayed with the sisters of the Missionaries of Charity at the Sealdah cemetery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-protocol-helps-devout-observe-a-safe-all-souls-day/articleshow/79007405.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Cinema halls gear up to welcome movie buffs||COIMBATORE: After remaining closed for eight months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, cinema halls here are getting ready to welcome patrons ahead of Diwali on November 10. The halls will function with only 50% occupancy, said M Subramaniam, president of the Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association. “Even members of a family will be allowed to sit only on alternate seats. We have upgraded our software to allow people book only such seats,” he told TOI. There are 169 screens in Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Erode and Tirupur. While small theatres have 500 to 600 seats, multiplexes have 200 to 300 seats. People will be admitted into the halls only after screening their temperature and ensuring that they wear face masks. “We have decided to give free mask to those who are not wearing one,” Subramaniam said. There will be four shows a day, said K Rajamannar, president of the Coimbatore, Tirupur, Nilgiris and Erode Distributors Association. “No matter what, all of us would open on November 10. Till Diwali, we will screen old movies and if the producer council decides to release new movies on Diwali, then we would screen those also. If not, we would continue playing old movies.” Only packed items will be sold at eateries in the theatres. “The cost of tickets will be the same. The halls as well as toilets will be disinfected after every show,” Rajamannar said. “Even though we won’t be able to make profit by operating with 50% occupancy, we hope to get enough to meet our expenses. For the last eight months, we have been paying electricity bill, salary to our employees and cost of maintaining machineries from our pockets,” he added. Meanwhile, school managements are waiting for the standard operating procedure (SOP) to reopen schools from November 16. “It is high time we reopen the schools for the sake of students appearing for board examinations, as they are struggling during online classes. After a few months, we could consider reopening for other classes,” said R Visalakshi, president of the Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association. Deep cleaning is not required at schools as teachers have been visiting schools regularly, an official from the office of chief educational officer (CEO) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cinema-halls-gear-up-to-welcome-movie-buffs/articleshow/79007384.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Plasma therapy: 100 up at KIMS, Hubballi||HUBBALLI: The Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi has compiled a century of sorts, treating 102 Covid patients with plasma therapy until Monday. Since the first plasma donation and transfusion on June 28, the hospital said 88 patients who received antibody-rich plasma recovered, while 14 died. This despite the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) saying convalescent plasma has no effect on treating the disease. Dr Ramalingappa Antaratni, director, KIMS, said the state-run facility will continue to collect plasma and treat patients through transfusion, regardless of ICMR’s reservations on the line of treatment. “We have results to show,” Dr Antaratni said. “We have noticed a dramatic improvement in the health of patients who receive the therapy. We believe we have saved many Covid-infected patients. It is up to the government to decide whether to allow the therapy or not in the future, but the results we have got are good.” Dr Ram Kaulgud, who is in-charge of plasma therapy at KIMS, echoed the director’s views. He said the facility will continue with the treatment until it receives a formal order from the government to stop. He said plasma has been helpful in moderate cases, although it has to be transfused to patients at the right time. “It did not work in very few patients and in some of these cases the transfusion was done under pressure from patients’ relatives,” Dr Kaulgud said. He said many people are coming forward to donate plasma, which shows “the importance of the treatment”. Another doctor said the ICMR study was based on limited trials. “ICMR should look at figures of plasma transfusion and recovery rate now,” the doctor said, adding that since cases have dropped, plasma donated will be collected and stored. It can be used for up to one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kims-hubballi-treats-more-than-100-covid-patients-with-plasma-therapy/articleshow/79006744.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 3, 2020||Kolkata||Speed guns to read number plates in less than a second||KOLKATA: Beware if you are speeding on the road and slowing down only near a speed gun. The police recently completed the tender process for contract buying of 11 state-of-the art speed laser guns. These machines will be able to detect the registration number and speed of a vehicle from as far as 250 metres in the morning and 150 metres at night in less than a second. The move comes after police found drivers slowing down only near the speed guns to avoid challans. The new ones are likely to be installed on the EM Bypass, Garden Reach and AJC Bose flyovers and the Maa flyover. The fresh set of cameras are being procured at an estimated cost of Rs 74.6 lakh. Another 30 speed radar signs (that display the speed) have been ordered for a total of another Rs 57.8 lakh. Each speed gun, weighing less than 1.6 kg, will come with a minimum of three years of warranty. Earlier in November last year, Kolkata Police had set up 20 cameras covering roads like Uday Shankar Sarani in Golf Green, the Lake Gardens flyover, Patuli off EM Bypass and Basanti Highway, which are accident-prone. According to senior officers at Lalbazar, the cops have chosen the spots after careful deliberation and feedback. “We have ensured that the entire city is adequately covered,” said an officer. “We have worked a lot to check dangerous driving. We chose stretches with history of rash driving. But there is a notion that you have to be careful only near the cameras. So, we decided to increase the reach of these speed guns,” explained a senior officer. The tender document mentions that these speed cameras will eventually be connected with automatic licence-plate readers. Some of the other requirements being asked for are high quality photo evidence, user friendly operations, enhanced security with encrypted photos, long range night operation and wifi field printing function. The cops are also looking at a system that should have the video shooting facility which allows to control illegal activity immediately on the road, such as signal violations. Ever since the cameras were activated on Maa flyover, AJC Bose flyover, Kidderpore Road, BT Road and parts of EM Bypass, they have recorded motorists clocking 130kmph-150kmph, especially past midnight. The speed limit set on the stretches is 50kmph-60kmph.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/speed-guns-to-read-number-plates-in-less-than-a-second/articleshow/79007412.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 3, 2020||Ranchi||Threatened over loan dues, Hazaribag farmer ends life||HAZARIBAG: A farmer, allegedly under debt and threatened that he would be arrested as he was unable to pay off the loan on time, committed suicide in Hazaribag district on Sunday night. Sources said Awadhesh Kumar Singh (39) from Dandai village under Hazaribag mufassil police stationwas threatened by Ujjivan Finance and Small Bank for the delay in repayment. Singh’s brother Nitesh Kumar on Monday filed an FIR against the bank officials in this regard. Mufassil police station in-charge Manoj Kumar Singh said Singh had taken a farm loan of Rs 75,000 in August 2019 and it was due to be cleared in 19 months with a monthly installment of Rs 3,937. “Singh had cleared Rs 43,000 until May 2020, but could not pay further installments due to a financial crisis aggravated by the lockdown,” he said. “His family has alleged that on October 31, a team from the bank visited his house with a notice of payment of Rs 51,000 immediately and threatened him of stern action in case of failure,” said the OC, adding that the family also accused the bank officials of humiliating them in full public glare. “This could be the trigger behind suicide,” Singh said, adding that they have launched a probe into the case. Hazaribag DC Aditya Kumar Anand said that the matter has come to their notice and an inquiry has been ordered. “I have asked team of officials the details about the loan, the bank concerned and if any undue pressure was put on Singh for the recovery of the amount. I will be in a position to share the details once the report is submiied,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/threatened-over-loan-dues-hbag-farmer-ends-life/articleshow/79008633.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Jamshedpur||Firecrackers seized in Jamshedpur raids||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum district authorities have seized huge quantities of illegal firecrackers and sealed the shops selling them ahead of the Diwali festival. Acting on a tip-off, teams led by Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh and DSP Alok Ranjan conducted six-hour-long raids on Sunday and Monday on many shops and warehouses located at Bata Chowk, Station Road, Dispensary Road and other areas under Jugsalai police station area and which were hoarding the illegal item and selling garments, hand sanitizers and other anti-Covid items as a front. Officials said the shopkeepers and warehouse owners fled after seeing the raiding teams. Later, the teams found eight to nine mini truckloads of firecrackers stocked up without any licence. So far, the government has not released any guidelines for Diwali and sale of firecrackers for safety and prevention of the Covid virus. Lochan Magotia, a shopkeeper, said, "The festival of lights is round the corner and we should be given proper guidelines for sale of firecrackers instead of harassing us and taking punitive actions."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/firecrackers-seized-in-steel-city-raids/articleshow/79008026.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
November 3, 2020||Ranchi||138 of 403 new Covid cases in Ranchi||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded a marginal rise in new Covid cases with 403 fresh infections reported on Monday. With one death – in Ranchi – and 512 recoveries, the cumulative caseload stood at 1,02,490 cases, of which 5,119 are active, 96,485 have recovered and 886 have died. Only a select few districts reported a large number of new cases -- Ranchi reported 138 cases followed by Dhanbad with 90 cases and East Singhbhum with 65. Of the death toll, the state capital accounts for 176 and Jamshedpur for 333.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/138-of-403-new-cov-cases-in-ranchi/articleshow/79008848.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: No norms yet, fireworks expected||RANCHI: While the state government is yet to clear its stand on firecrackers and notify Covid-19 guidelines ahead of Diwali and Chhath later this month, Ranchi’s airwaves have already begun to crackle with the sound of fireworks even after health experts said the Covid-19 situation will worsen due to excessive pollution in days ahead. On Sunday, the Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan joined the league of states that have banned firecrackers this year, but in Ranchi, cracker shops have started mushrooming across the city with traders appealing to the state government to refrain from taking any stringent call in the interest of the econ0my and trade and livelihood. Zafar Shah, president of Chotanagpur Fireworkers Dealers Association (CFDA), said thousands of people are directly and indirectly dependent on the fortnight-long Diwali business for their annual livelihood. “At a time when everyone is struggling economically due to the pandemic-induced slowdown, banning crackers completely will push hundreds further towards ruin,” he said. CFDA secretary Kamal Singhania, owner of Trade Friends, one of the biggest firecracker traders in Ranchi, however predicted a dim Diwali for them this year. “Sales haven’t picked up yet and we don’t expect a good market this time due to the negativity around the virus coupled with low cash flow in the market. Considering all these, we are not ordering large consignments of crackers this year,” he said, echoing Shah’s view that any ban will be a hammer blow on livelihoods. He said, “Banning crackers will not solve the Covid crisis and this festival provides a great opportunity to dispel all the negativity surrounding us for eight months. Unlike other festivals that bring large crowds on the streets, Diwali is a family affair and does not involve pandal hopping or festive feasts. Hence, we appeal to the government than a ban will not lead to any solution and will only complicate matters for those involved with this trade,” he said. Ranchi has 20-odd firecrackers wholesalers while the figure for the entire state is about 200, traders said. Weeks before Diwali, several retailers and makeshift shops crop up across cities and towns. At Morhabadi ground, traders have already started putting up stalls, claiming they have the got permission from the district administration. While the state’s Covid growth rate has plummeted drastically in the last month and Durga Puja too seems to have passed without a spike in the outbreak, health experts are still wary of the situation and have advised people to maintain restrain during Diwali on November 14. With winter setting in, doctors fear that the additional pollution load will be lethal for not just people with breathing ailments but also for those who have defeated Covid-19 and are still be low on immunity. Dr A K Singh, President of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Jharkhand chapter, said, “We have already appealed for a smoke-free Diwali this year and are urging the people and the government to take a judicious call to keep Covid spread in check. Public health should be everyone’s responsibility and we just hope that the situation does not go out of hands with mindless bursting of crackers.” A senior doctor at Rims has also appealed political parties to refrain from bursting crackers after the outcome of the twin bypolls in Jharkhand. “Results of Dumka and Bermo bypolls will be out on November 10, just four days before Diwali. I appeal to the political party, whichever wins the elections, to refrain from bursting crackers to set an example before the public,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-norms-yet-fireworks-expected/articleshow/79008182.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 3, 2020||Jamshedpur||In Covid season, suspected polio case sparks new concern in W Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: A day after a suspected case of poliomyelitis emerged in West Singhbhum, district civil surgeon O P Gupta said on Monday that the administration will wait for the lab examination report of the minor’s faeces before making any confirmation. Notably, the last case of polio in the country was reported in January 2011, and India was declared polio-free by the WHO in 2014. The six-year-old boy, Vishnu Singh, who developed symptoms of polio, is currently undergoing treatment for cerebral malaria at the Indira Gandhi Hospital in Rourkela, Odisha. Gupta added that officials from the regional office of the World Health Organization (WHO) were closely following the case. WHO surveillance medical officer Dr Suman Kandulina, said the symptoms found in the boy were similar those of acute flaccid paralysis and poliomyelitis. The patient’s stool sample has been sent to the Kolkata-based Institute of Serology for examination. “It would take about two weeks for the lab report to arrive,” said Kandulina. The minor, a resident of Anandpur block of the district, was admitted to the government hospital in Manoharpur on October 16 with complaints of high fever, but was referred to the Rourkela hospital on October 26 after his health condition did not improve. Notably, on World Polio Day observed around the globe amid the Covid-19 pandemic last Saturday, experts underlined the need for continuing the polio immunisation programme to help maintain India's polio-free status. Since March 2020, the pandemic has disrupted life-saving immunisation endeavours around the world, putting millions of children at risk of diseases like polio, diphtheria, and measles. The disruption of such routine immunisation services may be unprecedented since the inception of the expanded programme on immunisation (EPI) in the 1970s, in both government and private sectors. This may significantly decrease the immunity level of the population against polio, healthcare experts had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/in-covid-season-suspected-polio-case-sparks-new-concern-in-w-singhbhum/articleshow/79008826.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 3, 2020||Ranchi||28 candidates in fray for 2 bypolls in Jharkhand today||RANCHI: In the first litmus test for the 10-month-old JMM-led coalition government in the state, two of its candidates face the electoral trial on Tuesday. The two young debutants, Basant Soren (JMM) and Kumar Jaimangal (Congress), were among the 28 nominees, including two veterans from opposition BJP, vying for the Dumka and Bermo seats. Their fate will be sealed by around 5.63 lakh electors in the two constituencies. The successful candidates will represent their respective constituencies for the remaining term of the fifth Jharkhand assembly and the Election Commission has made elaborate arrangements for free, fair and smooth conduct of the polls by following the Covid guidelines Voting begins at 7am in both the constituencies, but it will be concluded an hour earlier in Bermo at 4pm. While 16 candidates are in the fray for the Bermo seat where 3,12,507 electors are eligible to exercise their franchise in 468 booths, there are 12 candidates for the Dumka seat and 2,50,720 electors will cast their votes in 368 polling booths. In both the constituencies, the number of polling booths has been increased so that the voters can have enough space to maintain social distancing. Polling authorities have added 112 booths in Bermo and 82 in Dumka for the purpose. While the Bermo seat fell vacant after the demise of its incumbent MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh, the bypoll was necessitated in Dumka after chief minister Hemant Soren vacated it. In Bermo, Jaimangal is fighting to retain the seat his father had represented and Basant is making an electoral debut from Dumka to win his party’s “legacy” seat vacated by his brother. It drew criticism from BJP which said both JMM and Congress are indulging in dynastic politics. Though 28 candidates are in the fray, it is expected that both the bypolls will see a direct fight between the ruling mahagathbandhan and the BJP-led NDA. The saffron camp, which is fighting with a renewed vigour after Ajsu-P and JD(U) joined the NDA fold in the state, has put up former minister Lois Marandi in Dumka and former MLA Yogendra Mahto in Bermo. Meanwhile, state police spokesperson Saket Kumar Singh said adequate deployment of personnel from district armed police and Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) has been ensured at both the places. “There are 100 hyper-sensitive and 255 sensitive booths in Bermo but with proper security deployment, a free, fair and peaceful election will be ensured,” he said. The polling booths in Bermo are mostly in suburban and urban areas and because of some incidents in the past, a decision was taken to complete the voting before evening so that the polling parties can return to their clusters before the darkness sets in, Singh added. In Dumka, district election officer cum deputy commissioner Rajeshwari B sai d altogether 19 polling booths have been identified as hypersensitive as they are located in Maoist-hit areas. “Apart from the security aspect, we have also sanitised the polling booths and the machinery. Every booth has been provided with sanitizers, thermal guns and masks to keep the virus at bay,” she added. (With inputs from Divy Khare in Bokaro and Rajesh Kumar Pandey in Dumka)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/28-candidates-in-fray-for-2-bypolls-in-jharkhand-today/articleshow/79008260.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
November 3, 2020||Ranchi||After 7 months, bars in Jharkhand to reopen today||RANCHI: After over seven months of closure, bars across the state will finally reopen from Tuesday, the Jharkhand Bar and Restaurant Association (JBRA) said on Monday after the state excise department gave in-principal nod to the organisation’s demand for waiving the annual licence fee in view of the Covid-19 lockdown. Although the state government had allowed reopening of bars and gyms from November 1, bars remained closed on Sunday and Monday to protest against the non-fulfilment of the fee-waiver demand. “All bars will reopen from Tuesday after the government assured us to waive 50% of the annual licence fee. Rs 9 lakh is charged annually by the state excise department for licence renewal of each bar. But as the bars remained closed ever since the imposition of the lockdown in March, we were demanding a slash in the licence fee. The government has given us a positive assurance now,” JBRA state president Ranjan Kumar said, following a meeting of bar owners with the state excise department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey on Monday evening. Kumar claimed that they have been assured that each bar will have to pay only half the licence fee now. “It seems we would have to initially pay the entire licence fee for this fiscal, but it will be adjusted later on during the next renewal,” he added. State excise secretary Choubey said that the proposal will soon be put before the state cabinet for its nod. “Since the decision will impact revenues, the proposal will have to be vetted by the state cabinet,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-7-months-bars-in-state-to-reopen-today/articleshow/79008841.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 3, 2020||Jamshedpur||After 7 months, bars in Jharkhand to reopen today||RANCHI: After over seven months of closure, bars across the state will finally reopen from Tuesday, the Jharkhand Bar and Restaurant Association (JBRA) said on Monday after the state excise department gave in-principal nod to the organisation’s demand for waiving the annual licence fee in view of the Covid-19 lockdown. Although the state government had allowed reopening of bars and gyms from November 1, bars remained closed on Sunday and Monday to protest against the non-fulfilment of the fee-waiver demand. “All bars will reopen from Tuesday after the government assured us to waive 50% of the annual licence fee. Rs 9 lakh is charged annually by the state excise department for licence renewal of each bar. But as the bars remained closed ever since the imposition of the lockdown in March, we were demanding a slash in the licence fee. The government has given us a positive assurance now,” JBRA state president Ranjan Kumar said, following a meeting of bar owners with the state excise department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey on Monday evening. Kumar claimed that they have been assured that each bar will have to pay only half the licence fee now. “It seems we would have to initially pay the entire licence fee for this fiscal, but it will be adjusted later on during the next renewal,” he added. State excise secretary Choubey said that the proposal will soon be put before the state cabinet for its nod. “Since the decision will impact revenues, the proposal will have to be vetted by the state cabinet,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/after-7-months-bars-in-state-to-reopen-today/articleshow/79015588.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 3, 2020||Ranchi||Lalu Prasad’s ‘trouble engine’ not ‘double engine’ remark sparks war or words||RANCHI: RJD and BJP in Jharkhand engaged in a verbal duel on Monday after the jailed president of the former party, Lalu Prasad, tweeted that the NDA governments at the Centre and in Bihar are not a “double engine”, as stated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Sunday’s campaign in Bihar, but a “trouble engine”. Notably, the counsel of Lalu, who is serving multiple jail terms in Jharkhand for the fodder scam, on Monday moved a “mention slip” before the high court to expedite his client’s bail hearing in the Dumka treasury case. The counsel said Lalu should now be allowed to come out on bail as he had served half the sentence imposed on him in the case. RJD sources said they are seeking Lalu’s release before the Bihar election is over. Reacting to Lalu’s tweet, Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo questioned how a person convicted for scams and currently in jail could be active on social media and interact with his supporters. Earlier, Lalu had posted a message in his Twitter account stating that since he is in jail, his account would be managed by his office in consultation with his family members. Lalu’s message further said his views would be conveyed through the visitors and added that the fight to protect the Constitution and the right of people would go on. However, Shahdeo said, “The JMM-Congress-RJD government has surrendered to the scam-tainted person for political gains. Ever since the Hemant Soren-led administration came in, it has been extending a red-carpet welcome to Lalu, which is enough proof of its surrender.” He claimed that the government shifted Lalu from the paying ward of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) to the luxurious bungalow of the Rims director citing Covid risk but the jail manual is being violated day in and day out without any checks. The BJP leader added, “Since announcement of the Bihar polls, the place where Lalu is living has turned into his political ‘akhara’ but none in the administration has dared to crack the whip on anyone. It exposes the government patronage to a scam-tainted and convicted person.” RJD’s Jharkhand vice-president Rajesh Yadav refuted BJP’s allegations, saying there has been no violation of the jail manual in shifting Lalu to the bungalow. He said, “Ever since Lalu was shifted, the BJP leaders have been continuously raising one allegation or the other against him but RJD does not pay much attention to it.” He claimed that as BJP is sensing defeat in the Bihar election and the bypolls in Jharkhand, its leaders are anxious and overreacting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lalus-trouble-engine-not-double-engine-remark-sparks-war-or-words/articleshow/79008291.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 3, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi admin kicks off 3-day drive to clean & conserve water bodies||RANCHI: A team of senior administrative officials, led by Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan, on Monday participated in a cleanliness drive in Rukka Dam on the outskirts of the city as part of the administration’s awareness drive on conserving water bodies in the state capital. The drive is inspired by the National Mission for Clean Ganga’s (NMCG) Ganga Utsav. The three-day festival is celebrated by NMCG every year from November 4 in order to promote stakeholder engagement and ensure public participation in Clean Ganga Mission’ under aegis of Ganga Knowledge Centre. Meanwhile, addressing the senior officials present at the drive, Ranjan said, “I would urge everyone visiting the scenic waterbodies and picnic spots in and around the district to carry a garbage disposal bag so that they aren’t spilling trash near the waterbodies.” He hoped that the three-day programme will help in creating awareness on conserving water bodies and on protecting them. When asked about the events lined up for as part of the programme, Ranjan said, “We will conduct a similar cleanliness drive near dams at Kanke, Dhurwa and other areas of the city. We are also organising a debate and painting competition virtually.” The participants will have to send their paintings and write-ups on a WhatsApp number (8651514821) by Tuesday and the winners will be awarded by the district administration. Meanwhile, when TOI asked if the ongoing cleanliness drive is being done because of the upcoming Chhat Puja festival, a senior administrative official said that they do not have any directions from the government about the celebrations, so they cannot comment on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-admin-kicks-off-3-day-drive-to-clean-conserve-water-bodies/articleshow/79008138.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 3, 2020||Jamshedpur||Covid situation improving but maintain restraint, Jamshedpur doctors tell people||JAMSHEDPUR: The pandemic situation in East Singhbhum — the district that accounts for almost 38% of all Covid-19 deaths in the state — has improved steadily in the last month and a half. Whereas the district recorded a seven-day average growth rate of over 2% in Covid cases in mid-September, the rate fell to 0.27% by the last week of October. And for the first time since the district witnessed a Covid-19 death in July, its monthly casualty tally in October was lower than that of Ranchi. East Singhbhum registered 33 Covid deaths in October, against Ranchi’s 59. When TOI contacted civil surgeon R N Jha for his opinion on the development, the latter said that increased testing, timely treatment and compliance with Covid guidelines have primarily contributed to the decline in the number of cases in the district lately. From a high of 3,017 on September 16, East Singhbhum on Monday had only 1,330 active cases. The additional chief medical officer (ACMO) of the district, Sahir Pal, said health workers across the board worked diligently and helped the administration in containing the spread of the disease. “We have conducted over three lakh tests so far,” said an official at the district health department. Meanwhile, health department officials said they were awaiting a comprehensive report on Covid tests conducted during and after Durga Puja. “The number of pandal hoppers this year was substantially low compared to the huge turnouts of past years. Through this the people have demonstrated that they have self-control and they want to arrest the pandemic,” the president of the Jamshedpur chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Umesh Khan, said. He added that the district administration’s move to impose penalty on Covid violators could have also forced some people to wear masks and follow social distancing. Senior urologist Harpreet Singh said since it would be some time before a Covid vaccine was available, the best way to fight the pandemic was to follow safety protocols. Civil surgeon Jha also advised people to remain alert for the next couple of months and not slacken adherence to guidelines assuming that the virus was on its way out. Till Monday afternoon, East Singhbhum had 16,286 Covid cases, with 14,623 recoveries. The recovery rate has improved to 89.79%, but it is still the lone district in the state with a recovery rate of less than 90%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/covid-situation-improving-but-maintain-restraint-steel-city-docs-tell-people/articleshow/79008863.cms||B Sridhar
November 3, 2020||Business||RP-SG group enters gifting solutions biz||Kolkata: RP-Sanjiv Goenka (RP-SG) group is foraying into gifting solution space through its high-end retail arm Nature’s Basket. Gifting solutions segment is now a $30 billion industry in the country mostly controlled by unorganised players. The other organised players in the field include Indian Gifta Portal, Ferns and Petals. Shashwat Goenka, the sector head retail of RP-SG group, told TOI that the new venture, named The Gift Studio, is starting its journey with 120 products across different categories in two cities — Mumbai and Kolkata. Goenka pointed out that the gifting was always a big business in India and growing at a healthy rate. According to Goenka, it is starting the business with online platform considering the Covid-19 situation but gradually there would be offline footprints through Nature’s Basket stores. “Lot of people are not very techno-savvy and want to see the product physically so we would eventually have counters in Nature’s Basket outlets,” he added. Elaborating on the new venture, Shashwat said that the idea came during lockdown period. It would offer gifts ranging from Rs 250 to Rs 15,000. “One can choose the gift from our site and also can choose the person whom to deliver. The products can be booked in seven days in advance or within the same day also. There is an option for mid-night delivery, which is very popular for birthday gifting. We have tied up with a couple of celebrities also for curative hampers,” he added. The group has already roped in noted designer Anamika Khanna, actor Sonam Kapoor for curative gift hamper. The Gift Studio would also offer products like copy of paintings of M F Hussain along with other innovative product lines. “There will be gift hamper like Sonam Kapoor Collection which are personally chosen by the actor,” he added. He pointed out that after Diwali, it would introduce ‘experience gifting’ along with products. “Lot of people want to gift holiday package, stay in five-star hotels to near and dear ones. We shall offer that too,” he added. According to him, for the gifting solution business it has tied up with some speciality product players like The Body Shop, Kiehl’s, Mother Care. “We shall tie up with more such companies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rp-sg-group-enters-gifting-solutions-biz/articleshow/79008721.cms||---
November 3, 2020||India||Pakistan continues to support cross-border terrorism taking advantage of Covid-19 pandemic: India at UN||NEW YORK: India on Monday took on Pakistan regarding the issue of cross-border terrorism at the United Nations, saying that the world has come to a standstill due to the Covid-19, but Pakistan has continued to "support cross-border terrorism" taking "advantage of the pandemic". Speaking at the Interactive Dialogue with Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, and other related intolerance, Indian diplomat Ashish Sharma, said, "While the world has come to a standstill due to the pandemic, but Pakistan has only enhanced support to cross-border terrorism taking advantage of the pandemic." "Pakistan has resorted to unbridled hate speech trying to foment violence and intolerance in our country. The hate speech by Pakistan is not merely directed towards one community in India but also against organisations, individuals and even against high ranking political leaders," he said. The Indian diplomat also said that Pakistan is trying to create divisions among the religious communities as well. "Fortunately, their provocation is falling on deaf ears since India has had a tradition of pluralism and co-existence where all communities live in harmony under a democratic framework," he added. Furthermore, the Indian envoy called on Pakistan to practice co-existence in their own country and eschew all sectarian violence, discrimination, and intolerance against their own people. "Today, the world is confronted not only by the challenge of tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, but also the challenge of 'infodemic' which in many cases has been responsible for rise in hate speech and seeding hatred within communities," Sharma said. He also said that this year in June, India along with 12 countries co-sponsored the Cross-Regional Statement on "Infodemic" in the Context of Covid-19 - first of its kind statement by the UN Member States to counter the increase in hate speech and misinformation during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-continues-to-support-cross-border-terrorism-taking-advantage-of-covid-19-pandemic-india-at-un/articleshow/79010165.cms||---
November 3, 2020||---||LJP worries JD(U) in phase 2 of polls||As the largest of the three phases in Bihar assembly elections, the 94 seats that will go to the polls on Tuesday could be make or break for both alliances. The fact that the home districts of both chief minister Nitish Kumar and his long-standing rival Lalu Prasad are part of this phase adds an extra edge to the contest. In 2015, BJP, JD(U) and RJD had all got a higher share of the vote in this area than in the state as a whole, an indication that this is really the territory of the big three parties in Bihar politics. BJP’s 25.9% vote share did not quite yield a commensurate bag of seats with the alliance logic working against it and the saffron party had to settle for just 20 seats here, half of those coming from Patna district alone. Considering that this phase is the most urbanised of the three — including Patna, Bhagalpur, Danapur, Chhapra, Begusarai and Barauni — BJP would normally be expected to do much better. It would hope that last time was an aberration and the alliance with JD(U) and some smaller parties will add significantly to its tally. For the JD(U), this was the area where it had its strongest showing five years back, winning 30 seats and a 17.3% vote share. Several of its ministers too are in the contest in this phase. Reports from the ground suggest that the CM is facing a tough battle against anti-incumbency and that LJP candidates are in many seats playing spoiler for JD(U) candidates, an intent that Chirag Paswan has made no secret of. It would hope that the alliance with BJP would compensate for these. This phase is, for Congress, the one with the least at stake. The party won only seven of its 27 seats in 2015 from this area and had a vote share of under 5%. To that extent, there is not much to lose here. Among the smaller parties, the one that would view this phase as most crucial would be LJP. It includes the areas that Ram Vilas Paswan had come to view as family pocket burroughs — Hajipur and Rosera — the two seats that the party won in 2015 both came from this part of the state. Its vote share of 6.7% in this phase was also significantly higher than its state-wide vote share of 4.8%. If LJP is to be more than a spoiler and win a good number of seats, this is where the bulk of them will have to come from. For the Left too, there are key pockets here, like Begusarai for CPI and Siwan for CPI(ML). The consolidation of Left votes for the first time in a single alliance, they would hope, will give them a better yield than in the last few polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ljp-worries-jdu-in-phase-2-of-polls/articleshow/79010194.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Mumbai||Kamala Mills fire: Culpable homicide among draft charges submitted||MUMBAI: Almost three years after the Kamala Mills fire claimed 14 lives, the prosecution on Monday submitted drafts charges invoking several offences, including culpable homicide not amounting to murder, against the accused. The prosecution made the submission a day before the court is likely to decide on the discharge pleas of the accused. They are currently out on bail . Among the 15 accused booked in the fatal blaze case are Kamala Mills Ltd directors Ravi Bhandari and Ramesh Govani; 1Above's owners Kripesh Sanghvi, Abhijeet Mankar and Jigar Sanghavi; Mojo's Bistro partners Yug Tuli and Yug Pathak; 1Above managers Kevin Bawa and Libson Lopez; and Mojo's Bistro waiter Sayyed Ali. Fire officer Rajendra Patil and Utkarsh Pandey who supplied hookah to 1Above and Mojo's Bistro are also named as accused. On December 29, 2017, the fire started at rooftop restaurants, 1Above and Mojo's Bistro, where several patrons were enjoying a night out. The prosecution had accused Ali of having left the burning coals of the hookah unattended at Mojo's Bistro, causing the fire. It was alleged that when Ali served the hookah to the customers, he left the fan on due to which embers of coal flew on the curtains causing it to catch fire and this led to the fire in the restaurant. The fire is believed to have spread rapidly to combustible material and tarpaulin of 1Above. The prosecution alleged that due to illegal construction, the passage and staircase towards the emergency exits were blocked. Fourteen people died and more than 30 were injured in the fire, Among other charges invoked in the case are Indian Penal Code sections 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 197 (issuing or signing false certificate), 198 (using as true a certificate known to be false), 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), and 119 (public servant concealing design to commit offence which it is his duty to prevent). The defence lawyers have submitted extensive arguments in the discharge pleas over the inapplicability of the charges. The prosecution has opposed the pleas. The court will now decide which charges, if any, are to be framed against the accused or if they are to be dropped. Subsequently, if the court does frame charges, the accused then plead either not guilty or guilty. In case they plead not guilty, trial commences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kamala-fire-culpable-homicide-among-draft-charges-submitted/articleshow/79010199.cms||Rebecca Samervel
November 3, 2020||India||SC: EC can’t take away star campaigner status||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday expressed serious reservations over the Election Commission’s power to strip the member of a political party of the status of “star campaigner” and stayed the EC’s October 30 order divesting Congress functionary Kamal Nath of the status for bypolls to 28 Madhya Pradesh assembly seats. A bench of chief justice of India SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told the EC, “We are staying the order. Where do you get the power to decide who should be the member of a political party to enjoy star campaigner status? We will examine the issue.” The bench issued notice to the EC and sought its response to Nath’s petition. Appearing for the EC, senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi said the petition had become infructuous as campaigning had ended and voting was scheduled for Tuesday. He said the EC took the decision under the model code of conduct which was in force during electioneering. Nath had moved the SC on Saturday seeking quashing of the EC’s October 30 order revoking his “star campaigner” status for Congress. In his writ petition, he termed the EC’s decision “arbitrary and illegal” and passed behind his back on the complaint of BJP. He said though the EC had given notice to him alleging repeated violations of model code of conduct, the decision to revoke his “star campaigne” status was taken unilaterally by the commission without giving him a chance to explain the frivolity of the charges||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-ec-cant-take-away-star-campaigner-status/articleshow/79010208.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 3, 2020||Mumbai||Maratha quota: Maharashtra seeks formation of larger bench||MUMBAI: The state government on Monday through senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi made an oral plea before the bench of the Chief Justice of India S A Bobde for the urgent constitution of a larger, five-judge bench to hear the Maratha reservation matter and its plea to vacate the stay on the quota. The CJI orally directed Rohatgi to make an appropriate application before the Supreme Court for it to consider the bench formation request. The Bombay high court had last June upheld the validity of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018, but reduced the original 16% quota to 12% for education and 13% for public jobs. State government advocate Sachin Patil within hours sent a new plea citing the "grave urgency" and sought that it be placed before the Chief Justice of India for the constitution of the larger bench. The plea saiud that the September 9 stay on enforcement of the Maratha quota in education and state jobs had "affected ongoing admissions and recruitment processes in the entire state and thousands of students and candidates are suffering". Cabinet minister and head of the cabinet-sub committee on Maratha reservations Ashok Chavan on Monday said: "This is a very positive development. We are hoping that a constitutional bench is set up and the matter is heard at the earliest." He said there were some people who were trying to pit one community against another. "Maratha reservation will be given without touching the reservation that the OBC community already has," Chavan said. The state had on October 21 written to the Supreme Court registry with a request to place its application for lifting of the stay granted on September 9 before a larger, five-judge bench as the appeal against the Bombay high court judgment which upheld the validity of the SEBC Act was referred to a constitutional bench. It had asked that its plea to vacate the stay be deleted from the three-judge bench where it was scheduled for a hearing on October 27. On October 27, Rohatgi had appeared for the state government in the plea before a three-judge bench, which had adjourned it by four weeks and orally directed the state to seek steps for setting up of the larger bench for a hearing. On October 28, the state made an urgent plea to the Supreme Court registry to place its plea before the Chief Justice of India for securing orders for the larger bench formation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maratha-quota-maharashtra-seeks-formation-of-larger-bench/articleshow/79010213.cms||---
November 3, 2020||India||Gujarat speaker’s ‘gag’ on MLAs triggers row||GANDHINAGAR: A controversial decision of the Gujarat assembly speaker to curb MLAs from asking questions in the legislative assembly has fuelled a controversy with the opposition Congress calling it “undemocratic” and demanding a rollback. By an order dated October 28, Gujarat assembly secretary D M Patel issued a fresh set of guidelines for MLAs to ask questions — both starred and unstarred. According to the order, the gap for asking a question on a subject which has been discussed has been increased from six months to one year. Another contentious part of the order is that MLAs can now seek data and figures for three years instead of five years. Starred questions are those where MLAs seek information from departments for the previous two years. Unstarred questions are those where information is sought for a longer period and generic information is sought. Earlier too, there was an order, restricting MLAs to asking only three unstarred questions per week. When contacted, assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi said, “The decision is not new. However, I will look into this.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gujarat-speakers-gag-on-mlas-triggers-row/articleshow/79010216.cms||Kapil Dave
November 3, 2020||Vijayawada||40% students turn up at school in AP as campuses reopen after 7 months||VISAKHAPATNAM/VIJAYAWADA: After a seven-month long shutdown, school and college campuses in Andhra Pradesh resumed conventional face-to-face academic instruction on Monday. The first day saw nearly 40-45% students turn up for classes. Many private educational institutions, however, chose to stick to the remote learning framework as conducting physical classes has not been made mandatory. In adherence to standard operating procedures laid down for conducting classes amid the Covid-19 pandemic, institutions allotted only one student per bench and seated students in a zigzag pattern. A maximum of 16 students were allotted per room. Students, meeting their peers for the first time in months, had a new experience attending classes with masks on and following physical distancing norms. On their first day back in campus, students took a pledge in the morning on wearing masks and maintaining hand hygiene and physical distancing. Students were sent home after being served the mid-day meal in accordance with the standard operating procedure issued by the state education department. What came as a damper to the high spirits surrounding campuses reopening was that two students of Zilla Parishad High School, Patha Vellanti of Nellore district tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. When TOI visited the GVMC School at NGGOS Colony in Visakhapatnam, school headmaster Srinivasa Rao said that around 40 per cent students attended school on Monday. “We adhered to all Covid-19 guidelines prescribed by the education department. Consent from parents is mandatory to attend classes,” the headmaster said. T Suresh Kumar, a representative of Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions, said that their institutions will continue with remote learning as physical presence of students has not been made mandatory as per guidelines. Educational institutions in Andhra Pradesh shut down on March 19 in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. More than one crore students in the state remained confined to their homes for months. It was only on September 21 that the government allowed students of classes 9 to 12 to go to school, that too, to only clear doubts. Students of classes 6-8 are scheduled to start face-to-face instruction from November 23. Primary sections are scheduled to start from December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/40-students-turn-up-at-school-as-campuses-reopen-after-7-months/articleshow/79014568.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 3, 2020||Amaravati||40% students turn up at school in AP as campuses reopen after 7 months||VISAKHAPATNAM/VIJAYAWADA: After a seven-month long shutdown, school and college campuses in Andhra Pradesh resumed conventional face-to-face academic instruction on Monday. The first day saw nearly 40-45% students turn up for classes. Many private educational institutions, however, chose to stick to the remote learning framework as conducting physical classes has not been made mandatory. In adherence to standard operating procedures laid down for conducting classes amid the Covid-19 pandemic, institutions allotted only one student per bench and seated students in a zigzag pattern. A maximum of 16 students were allotted per room. Students, meeting their peers for the first time in months, had a new experience attending classes with masks on and following physical distancing norms. On their first day back in campus, students took a pledge in the morning on wearing masks and maintaining hand hygiene and physical distancing. Students were sent home after being served the mid-day meal in accordance with the standard operating procedure issued by the state education department. What came as a damper to the high spirits surrounding campuses reopening was that two students of Zilla Parishad High School, Patha Vellanti of Nellore district tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. When TOI visited the GVMC School at NGGOS Colony in Visakhapatnam, school headmaster Srinivasa Rao said that around 40 per cent students attended school on Monday. “We adhered to all Covid-19 guidelines prescribed by the education department. Consent from parents is mandatory to attend classes,” the headmaster said. T Suresh Kumar, a representative of Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions, said that their institutions will continue with remote learning as physical presence of students has not been made mandatory as per guidelines. Educational institutions in Andhra Pradesh shut down on March 19 in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. More than one crore students in the state remained confined to their homes for months. It was only on September 21 that the government allowed students of classes 9 to 12 to go to school, that too, to only clear doubts. Students of classes 6-8 are scheduled to start face-to-face instruction from November 23. Primary sections are scheduled to start from December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/40-students-turn-up-at-school-as-campuses-reopen-after-7-months/articleshow/79014567.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||40% students turn up at school in AP as campuses reopen after 7 months||VISAKHAPATNAM/VIJAYAWADA: After a seven-month long shutdown, school and college campuses in Andhra Pradesh resumed conventional face-to-face academic instruction on Monday. The first day saw nearly 40-45% students turn up for classes. Many private educational institutions, however, chose to stick to the remote learning framework as conducting physical classes has not been made mandatory. In adherence to standard operating procedures laid down for conducting classes amid the Covid-19 pandemic, institutions allotted only one student per bench and seated students in a zigzag pattern. A maximum of 16 students were allotted per room. Students, meeting their peers for the first time in months, had a new experience attending classes with masks on and following physical distancing norms. On their first day back in campus, students took a pledge in the morning on wearing masks and maintaining hand hygiene and physical distancing. Students were sent home after being served the mid-day meal in accordance with the standard operating procedure issued by the state education department. What came as a damper to the high spirits surrounding campuses reopening was that two students of Zilla Parishad High School, Patha Vellanti of Nellore district tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. When TOI visited the GVMC School at NGGOS Colony in Visakhapatnam, school headmaster Srinivasa Rao said that around 40 per cent students attended school on Monday. “We adhered to all Covid-19 guidelines prescribed by the education department. Consent from parents is mandatory to attend classes,” the headmaster said. T Suresh Kumar, a representative of Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions, said that their institutions will continue with remote learning as physical presence of students has not been made mandatory as per guidelines. Educational institutions in Andhra Pradesh shut down on March 19 in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. More than one crore students in the state remained confined to their homes for months. It was only on September 21 that the government allowed students of classes 9 to 12 to go to school, that too, to only clear doubts. Students of classes 6-8 are scheduled to start face-to-face instruction from November 23. Primary sections are scheduled to start from December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/40-students-turn-up-at-school-as-campuses-reopen-after-7-months/articleshow/79006660.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 13 Covid-19 deaths, lowest in 110 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,916 new Covid-19 positive cases on Monday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,27,882, while the toll rose to to 6,719 as 13 more people succumbed to the virus. This was the lowest single-day casualty count in over 110 days after witnessing 15 deaths on July 10. For the second time in the past one week, AP logged less than 2,000 cases after it last recorded 1,933 cases on July 12. While 3,033 patients were declared cured, there are currently 22,538 active cases with 7,98,625 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 96 %. Despite reporting nearly 60,000 cases, there are only 115 active cases in Nellore district with a 98 % recovery rate. West Godavari reported 426 new cases, followed by East Godavari (354) and Guntur (179). Five districts added less than 100 cases to the table with Kurnool recording as low as 22 infections. Among the 13 deceased, three each are from Anantapur and Krishna, and one each from Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur, West Godavari, Kadapa, Prakasam and Srikakulam. West Godavari touched the 500 Covid-19 casualty mark on Monday. Eight districts have now recorded at least 500 Covid-19 deaths, including West Godavari. Vizianagaram has the lowest death load of 230. Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 82 lakh samples, including the 64,581 people tested on Monday. The overall case positivity rate stands at 10.12%, while the mortality rate is at 0.81%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-13-covid-19-deaths-lowest-in-110-days/articleshow/79006695.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh reports 13 Covid-19 deaths, lowest in 110 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,916 new Covid-19 positive cases on Monday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,27,882, while the toll rose to to 6,719 as 13 more people succumbed to the virus. This was the lowest single-day casualty count in over 110 days after witnessing 15 deaths on July 10. For the second time in the past one week, AP logged less than 2,000 cases after it last recorded 1,933 cases on July 12. While 3,033 patients were declared cured, there are currently 22,538 active cases with 7,98,625 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 96 %. Despite reporting nearly 60,000 cases, there are only 115 active cases in Nellore district with a 98 % recovery rate. West Godavari reported 426 new cases, followed by East Godavari (354) and Guntur (179). Five districts added less than 100 cases to the table with Kurnool recording as low as 22 infections. Among the 13 deceased, three each are from Anantapur and Krishna, and one each from Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur, West Godavari, Kadapa, Prakasam and Srikakulam. West Godavari touched the 500 Covid-19 casualty mark on Monday. Eight districts have now recorded at least 500 Covid-19 deaths, including West Godavari. Vizianagaram has the lowest death load of 230. Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 82 lakh samples, including the 64,581 people tested on Monday. The overall case positivity rate stands at 10.12%, while the mortality rate is at 0.81%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-reports-13-covid-19-deaths-lowest-in-110-days/articleshow/79010912.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh reports 13 Covid-19 deaths, lowest in 110 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,916 new Covid-19 positive cases on Monday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,27,882, while the toll rose to to 6,719 as 13 more people succumbed to the virus. This was the lowest single-day casualty count in over 110 days after witnessing 15 deaths on July 10. For the second time in the past one week, AP logged less than 2,000 cases after it last recorded 1,933 cases on July 12. While 3,033 patients were declared cured, there are currently 22,538 active cases with 7,98,625 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 96 %. Despite reporting nearly 60,000 cases, there are only 115 active cases in Nellore district with a 98 % recovery rate. West Godavari reported 426 new cases, followed by East Godavari (354) and Guntur (179). Five districts added less than 100 cases to the table with Kurnool recording as low as 22 infections. Among the 13 deceased, three each are from Anantapur and Krishna, and one each from Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur, West Godavari, Kadapa, Prakasam and Srikakulam. West Godavari touched the 500 Covid-19 casualty mark on Monday. Eight districts have now recorded at least 500 Covid-19 deaths, including West Godavari. Vizianagaram has the lowest death load of 230. Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 82 lakh samples, including the 64,581 people tested on Monday. The overall case positivity rate stands at 10.12%, while the mortality rate is at 0.81%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-reports-13-covid-19-deaths-lowest-in-110-days/articleshow/79010913.cms||---
November 3, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Will seaplanes fly at Prakasam Barrage?||VIJAYAWADA: Two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated India’s first seaplane service at the Sabarmati riverfront in Gujarat, the Centre has shifted its focus on setting up similar services elsewhere in the country, including near Prakasam Barrage. The idea of bringing seaplane services to the state was first conceptualised by former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu in December 2017. Naidu had launched a test flight on the Krishna river and held discussions about the proposal with a Mumbai-based private air service provider. However, with no civil aviation policy on seaplane services from the Union government, the idea was shelved. Presently, the central government has taken up the idea and plans to build water aerodromes under the Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS)—Udan scheme. In this regard, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Union ministry of civil aviation had asked the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) to conduct a hydrographic survey. According to officials, they found Prakasam Barrage ‘suitable’ for constructing a water aerodrome, that is, an airport on water that will enable passengers to board and deboard the seaplane. The Centre is also exploring the option of installing water aerodromes in Assam, Uttarakhand, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Maharashtra. AP tourism officials recollect that the earlier proposal had considered launching pilot seaplane services between Vijayawada and Vizag for a suggestive price of Rs 3,000 per ticket. At the time, private players had shown an interest in providing a nine-seater amphibian aircraft. “The only problem was that we need the civil aviation ministry’s approval, for which they need to come up with a policy on what is required to run such operations, be it joy rides or transportation. Due to this, the project was shelved,” a senior APTDC official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/will-seaplanes-fly-at-prakasam-barrage/articleshow/79006710.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 3, 2020||---||With just eight rallies, Rahul not quite visible||PATNA: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who has so far addressed four election rallies in the state, will campaign in four more assembly constituencies on Tuesday and Wednesday. These four constituencies will go to the polls in the third and final phase on November 7. On Tuesday, Rahul will address election rallies in Korha (Katihar) and Kishanganj assembly constituencies. The next day, he will campaign in Bihariganj (Madhepura) and Araria assembly constituencies. If all rallies are put together, Rahul will be touching only eight constituencies. His sister, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, has so far not addressed any rally in the state. PM Modi, who is 70, has already addressed 10 rallies. He is scheduled to address two more rallies for the third phase of polling on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/with-just-eight-rallies-rahul-not-quite-visible/articleshow/79010229.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Travel restrictions bug AP Tourism Development Corporation hotels, occupancy down to 30%||VISAKHAPATNAM: Only 30 per cent of the 300 hotel rooms under the tourism department were filled this October, the first month of the three-month-long tourism season, as against 80 per cent occupancy for the corresponding period last year. Further, a survey shows that Borra Caves reported a footfall of 17,000 this October against 1,00,500 for the corresponding period last year. AP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC), Visakhapatnam divisional manager TG Prasad Reddy attributed the fall in number of tourists and check-ins to the lack of supportive transport facilities, such as an adequate number of trains, and facilities like the Vistadome train between Visakhapatnam and Araku. “Nearly 80 per cent of the check-ins and domestic tourists are from West Bengal. The remaining 20 per cent are from Odisha, Telangana and Rayalaseema. Locals don’t prefer to stay, their number is negligible,” Prasad Reddy told TOI. Reddy further said that their department recently started a camp in Kolkata to publicise the reopening of tourism services in Visakhapatnam. “As per our feedback from West Bengal, proper trains and reopening of the Vistadome coach or a normal train between Visakhapatnam and Araku this tourism season, which ends in December, may improve the situation,” Prasad Reddy said. When contacted, railway officials said tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has also submitted a request to the railways for the reopening of the Visakhapatnam and Araku train attached with the Vistadome coach. “We have forwarded the minister’s letter to our higher-ups for their notice. We have not received any kind of communication regarding the request so far,” a railway official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/travel-restrictions-bug-aptdc-hotels-occupancy-down-to-30/articleshow/79006735.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Patients’ feedback to affect hospital grades||Visakhapatnam: For the first time in state, patient feedback will be part of the grading structure of Aarogyasri network hospitals in addition to other parameters. The state government has given six months to hospitals to upgrade healthcare infrastructure. According to doctors of Aarogyasri Network Hospitals Association of Navya Andhra Pradesh (ANHAAP), there are 575 Aarogyasri network hospitals in the state of which around 150 are catering to Covid-19 patients. Speaking to TOI, ANHAAP president Dr B Narendra Reddy said that hospitals are to be graded as A, A plus or B on the basis of various parameters such as infrastructure and equipment, sanitation and cleanliness, availability of doctors and quality of medicines and food. “Those (hospitals) with grade B will have six months to upgrade to A or A plus. The ones failing to upgrade will have their Aarogyasri empanelment cancelled,” added Dr Narendra Reddy. The ANHAAP president further said, “One interesting feature of this grading system is inclusion of patients’ feedback about hospital and treatment facility which will be taken over phone calls or Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS). Thus, any lacunae would get addressed and it would enhance patient satisfaction.” An executive meeting with heads of network hospitals was convened recently to discuss improving infrastructure, patient care, satisfaction and increased expenditure post Covid-19. “We are also trying to overcome challenges of treating electives and other surgeries in times of the pandemic. For this, all patients will have to undergo a Covid-19 test (RT-PCR) and rapid antigen test (in case of emergencies),” Dr Narendra Reddy added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/patients-feedback-to-affect-hospital-grades/articleshow/79006750.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Covid-19 deaths at pre-August levels, but experts advise caution||BENGALURU: In what could be the beginning of a positive trend, Karnataka reported less than 50 deaths due to Covid-19 on each day of the last three days in October. While only 28 were reported dead on Saturday (October 31), the state did even better on the first day of November with just 24 deaths. On Monday, the state recorded 29 deaths. The fatalities reported on the weekend were the lowest in several months. While Karnataka had reported less than 30 deaths daily in May and June — when the pandemic was yet to spike in most districts — it consistently reported more than 30 deaths thereafter. After June, the least number of deaths in the state were recorded on the first three days of July — seven, 19 and 21 deaths respectively. On July 7, there were 15 deaths, following which the numbers rose and was consistently more than 50 in the last week of the month. August and September saw a record number of deaths with most days recording an average 100 fatalities. On Monday, K Sudhakar, health minister, who has not lost an opportunity to point out how increased testing has resulted in a drop in the number of new cases, said Karnataka conducted 78,496 Covid tests on Sunday, of which 65,015 tests (83%) were RT-PCR. The state normally conducts more than one lakh tests on weekdays and the number drops on Sundays. “State’s positivity rate stands at 3.3% and case fatality rate is less than that of the national average,” Sudhakar tweeted. Karnataka’s case fatality rate has been lower than the national average for a while now, and experts, while expressing relief, also pointed out that the state is aiming to bring it below 1%. But experts caution that it’s too early to say the pandemic is nearing the end. “Testing is skewed since it’s mostly concentrated in urban areas,” Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force, said. “We cannot be sure of the trajectory in rural areas. It is a dynamic process and there has to be constant reprioritization of areas. We cannot exponentially increase testing forever due to limited resources; hence redistribution of testing rates depending on changing dynamics of transmission is necessary.” Another expert said the decline in daily deaths must remain constant over a period of time before celebrations can begin and one must wait for a couple more weeks at least before being able assess if there is a new trend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-covid-19-deaths-at-pre-auguest-levels-but-experts-advise-caution/articleshow/79010212.cms||---
