November 4, 2020||Business||Stores, businesses across NY board up amid fear, anxiety over elections||NEW YORK: Rows of plywood covered the facades of luxury stores and small businesses across New York City on the eve of the US presidential election as America braced for possible unrest and violence in a bitter and divisive race to the White House. Stores along the posh 5th Avenue in Manhattan as well as across the city boarded up and workers were seen drilling plywood onto the stores' facade late in the night, amid fears that Election Day could bring violence, looting and clashes, similar to the chaos seen in the summer during protests over the death of George Floyd. The 2020 US Presidential Election is being touted as the “election of a lifetime” and is seeing an unprecedented level of anxiety and fear across America in the wake of a bitter election campaign. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said Monday that he has spoken with Police Commissioner Dermot Shea and there is no specific reports or specific threats of violence at this point. “Everyone, of course, is concerned about the election results and what plays out after. But I want to emphasise, at this moment, we don't see a specific challenge. We are ready for all sorts of challenges. A lot of preparation has been happening over the last few weeks,” de Blasio said during a press conference. Responding to a question on concerns about violence in the city on and after election day and stores boarding up, he said every store owner has to make their own decision and he respects the decision of each store owner. “We are not giving guidance to store owners to do that, but if that's what they choose to do, we certainly understand.” “I want to talk about Election Day and the aftermath. Everyone's thinking about this deeply. Everyone's concerned,” he said adding that the city should be prepared for the fact that the election results will not necessarily be a 100 percent clear on Tuesday night or even on Wednesday. “And, right now, we're all very troubled, seeing the President of the United States question in advance the validity of the election. We've never seen that before from a president. We've never seen a president encourage voter suppression and harassment in this kind of fashion. The American people are going to have the final say here,” he said. De Blasio added that over 95 million Americans have voted early but “we are in an unprecedented time, there's a reason people are so worried, but I want folks to know this city is prepared. I want folks to know that for those who want to express themselves about the results, the way to do that is peacefully. That will always be honored.” A report in The New York Times said retailers and banks across the country have taken steps to prepare for potential disturbances and have even hired extra security. It said federal officials would erect a “non-scalable” fence around the White House and about 600 National Guard troops have also been designated to help respond to protests around the country if requested. After looters ransacked luxury stores in Manhattan in June, during protests over Floyd's death, “some businesses in New York City are particularly on edge and bracing for another potential blow.” The report added that last month, Shea had said in a memo to police officers that they should prepare for larger and more frequent protests around Election Day and continue through the end of the year. “We are on the dawn of a new era in this country, obviously something is going to happen tomorrow that's going to frame the future of our lives, whatever it is. We are – all of us concerned about what happens tomorrow night and, in the aftermath, we have to be ready, but we also have to feel that we'll be able to manage it, whatever it is,” de Blasio said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/stores-businesses-across-ny-board-up-amid-fear-anxiety-over-elections/articleshow/79028475.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Pune||K-Pop and Manga enthusiasts get themselves tooned at Korean webtoon exhibition||Hundreds of enthusiastic youngsters from Pune and across India participated in the Korean Webtoon Cartoon Online Exhibition, an event organised recently in collaboration between Kiwa Enterprises, India- and Rockin’Korea. The Koreaboos, who are avid fans of K-Pop and Manga joined in the session via Zoom and got “tooned” by some of the most celebrated webtoon artists. The exhibition started with an exciting autograph session with four leading Korean webtoon creators -Jimmy, Myung-hyi Noh, Back Sang-eun and E.HAE. Jimmy’s, "Exchanged Hearts" recorded more than 800 million views through an exclusive contract with Kuaikan, and she held a drawing show and autograph session in Asian countries last year. In addition, "The Crush of Spring" of No Myung-hee recorded more than 600 million views, and E.HAE exported her works to various countries, including the U.S., Thailand, and Indonesia. Regarding ‘Back Sang-eun’, her various works have received favourable responses abroad, and recently, "The Prince of Thorn Castle" has been renewed and launched as a colour scroll webtoon. Through this online exhibition site, Rockin'Korea will introduce some 20 Korean webtoons English introduction books as well as a webtoon trailer and drawing videos, etc. Rockin'Korea along with their partner Kiwa Enterprises, India hope to introduce Korean webtoons in India and spread it not across the world but also believe that it will provide comfort to many people who are feeling low in the pandemic. The exhibition was planned since early this year, in conjunction with the 2020 "Hangul Day”. It was originally planned to hold a physical event in India, but due to the pandemic, it got converted into an online exhibition, considering the increase of Covid-19 cases. Marking the 20th anniversary of its establishment, the CEO of Rockin'Korea -Lee Hwa-shin held this exhibition to globalise Korean webtoons this year, after a successful event last year in other countries. Dr Eunjoo Lim and her husband Sanjib Ghatak, MD of Kiwa Consultants kept the mood of the event light by engaging the youngsters in fun-filled conversation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/k-pop-and-manga-enthusiasts-get-themselves-tooned-at-korean-webtoon-exhibition/articleshow/79029672.cms||Rishabh Deb
November 4, 2020||World||US 'entitled to know' winner on election day: Trump||ARLINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Tuesday again sought to sow doubt over the counting of ballots beyond election day, saying the country was "entitled" to know who won on the day of the vote. "You have to have a date, and the date happens to be November 3," he said during a visit to Republican National Committee offices in Arlington, Virginia. "And we should be entitled to know who won on November 3."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/us-entitled-to-know-winner-on-election-day-trump/articleshow/79029690.cms||---
November 4, 2020||World||US Elections 2020: Donald Trump Jr goofs up, shows J&K separate from India in map to indicate dad's victory||WASHINGTON: In a goof-up, Donald Trump Jr, the eldest son of US President Donald Trump while predicting poll results of the 2020 presidential elections shared a distorted map of India with the entire country in blue shade while Kashmir was in red colour, indicating a divide. The map shared also showed regions of northeastern India in red. Predicting a "red wave" Donald Trump Jr posted a world map with the majority of countries filled in with red, the Republican Party's colour to indicate that his father will emerge victorious in the election, which is underway in the United States. The map, predicting poll results posted by Trump Jr on his Twitter handle shows a predominantly red world map with the exception of India which he has shown in blue, meaning it will vote for Biden. The map showed India in blue while region of Jammu and Kashmir was shown in red and voting for Donald Trump. Trump jr tweeted, "Okay, finally got around to making my electoral map prediction. #2020Election #VOTE" Okay, finally got around to making my electoral map prediction. #2020Election #VOTE https://t.co/STmDSuQTMb— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) 1604411985000The tweet received over 8,000 retweets and 45.2k likes. It is worth mentioning that the US President Donald Trump had expressed that Washington would support New Delhi in its efforts to combat the threat of the Chinese People's Liberation Army. "I know that China and India are having difficulty and very substantial difficulty. And hopefully, they will be able to work that out," Trump told reporters at a briefing in September. "If we can help, we would love to help," he added. China and Sri Lanka have been in painted in blue while Pakistan, Myanmar, Bhutan, Bangladesh are all in red.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/us-elections-2020-donald-trump-jr-goofs-up-shows-jk-separate-from-india-in-map-to-indicate-dads-victory/articleshow/79028843.cms||---
November 4, 2020||India||US Elections 2020: Donald Trump Jr goofs up, shows J&K separate from India in map to indicate dad's victory||WASHINGTON: In a goof-up, Donald Trump Jr, the eldest son of US President Donald Trump while predicting poll results of the 2020 presidential elections shared a distorted map of India with the entire country in blue shade while Kashmir was in red colour, indicating a divide. The map shared also showed regions of northeastern India in red. Predicting a "red wave" Donald Trump Jr posted a world map with the majority of countries filled in with red, the Republican Party's colour to indicate that his father will emerge victorious in the election, which is underway in the United States. The map, predicting poll results posted by Trump Jr on his Twitter handle shows a predominantly red world map with the exception of India which he has shown in blue, meaning it will vote for Biden. The map showed India in blue while region of Jammu and Kashmir was shown in red and voting for Donald Trump. Trump jr tweeted, "Okay, finally got around to making my electoral map prediction. #2020Election #VOTE" Okay, finally got around to making my electoral map prediction. #2020Election #VOTE https://t.co/STmDSuQTMb— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) 1604411985000The tweet received over 8,000 retweets and 45.2k likes. It is worth mentioning that the US President Donald Trump had expressed that Washington would support New Delhi in its efforts to combat the threat of the Chinese People's Liberation Army. "I know that China and India are having difficulty and very substantial difficulty. And hopefully, they will be able to work that out," Trump told reporters at a briefing in September. "If we can help, we would love to help," he added. China and Sri Lanka have been in painted in blue while Pakistan, Myanmar, Bhutan, Bangladesh are all in red.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-elections-2020-donald-trump-jr-goofs-up-shows-jk-separate-from-india-in-map-to-indicate-dads-victory/articleshow/79029791.cms||---
November 4, 2020||India||NHAI probing promotion of 55 internal candidates to rank of GM in 2018||NEW DELHI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is investigating the allegations of bypassing the experience norms for the promotion of 55 internal candidates from deputy general manager rank to general managers in 2018. Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari in his recent speech at an NHAI function had raised questions on the promotion of officials. The highways authority had set up a panel in October 2018 to look into the allegations after two complaints were referred from the PMO. According to details accessed by TOI, the NHAI had invited applications for only 20 GM (technical) posts in January 2018. It had received 230 applications including 66 internal candidates. Four months later the executive committee of NHAI approved creation of additional 28 GM (technical) posts. Though the eligibility conditions in the advertisement for promotion of internal candidates specified five years service in the grade of DGM (technical), the cadre controlling authority decided later that such service period should be three years for internal promotion, which was a condition in the old recruitment rules. Subsequently, the selection committee recommended the appointment of 24 internal candidates as GM (technical). But barely two days later following a letter from the ministry flagging the concerns of some already serving officers, the screening committee examined the applications of 42 officers who were earlier found ineligible. Finally, on April 27, 2018, the selection committee approved promotion of 55 internal candidates. The committee constituted to investigate the charges of malpractices was reconstituted thrice as some of the panel members were repatriated to their parent departments after completing the tenure. One member of the panel submitted his report to the NHAI flagging how the promotions were illegal as this bypassed the prevalent recruitment rules, which was advertised while inviting applications. He has also flagged how the selection process of more candidates without issuing fresh advertisement was a gross violation of norms. Meanwhile, members of the selection committee have submitted their response to the vigilance wing of NHAI. One of them said the selection process was done as per the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nhai-probing-promotion-of-55-internal-candidates-to-rank-of-gm-in-2018/articleshow/79030055.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 4, 2020||India||No statutory sanction for test ID parade: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday said test identification parade (TIP) had no statutory sanction either under the Criminal Procedure Code or the Indian Evidence Act, demolishing the importance investigators and prosecutors have accord to TIP, which for decades was considered to be integral to criminal prosecution. “There is no specific provision either in the CrPC or the Evidence Act, which lends statutory authority to an identification parade,” a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee said as it acquitted two men who were convicted for a murder in Rohtak (Haryana) and sentenced to life imprisonment. “Identification parades belong to the stage of investigation of crime and there is no provision, which compels the investigating agency to hold or confers a right on the accused to claim a TIP,” the bench said. It also ruled that, conversely, refusal of an accused to undergo TIP may not have any adverse consequence for him in the trial. Writing the judgment, Justice Chandrachud examined SC judgments of the last 50 years on TIP, starting with the 1971 judgment in Matru aka Girish Chandra vs UP and ending with Nirbhaya gangrape-cum-murder case judgment of 2017. Culling out the important elements of SC rulings in all these cases, Justice Chandrachud said, “Since a TIP does not constitute substantive evidence, the failure to hold it does not ipso facto make the evidence of identification inadmissible." The bench said identification of the accused in a TIP or in court was not essential in every case where guilt was established on the basis of circumstances, which lent assurance to the nature and the quality of the evidence, thus relegating the evidentiary value of TIP to that of circumstantial evidence. The bench said it was for the trial court, in the context and circumstances of each case, to determine whether an adverse inference should be drawn against the accused for refusing to participate in a TIP. “However, the court would look for corroborating material of a substantial nature before it enters a finding in regard to the guilt of the accused,” it said. Explaining the purpose of conducting a TIP, the SC said it was to examine the reliability of the evidence of those who claimed to have seen the offender at the time of the occurrence and their ability to identify them from among other individuals without tutoring or aid from any source. “An identification parade, in other words, tests the memory of the witnesses, in order for the prosecution to determine whether any or all of them can be cited as eyewitness to the crime. A TIP should ordinarily be conducted soon after the arrest of the accused, so as to preclude a possibility of the accused being shown to the witnesses before it is held,” the bench said. “A TIP may lend corroboration to the identification of the witness in court, if so required. The weight that is attached to such identification is a matter to be determined by the court in the circumstances of that particular case,” it added. “As a rule of prudence, the court would, generally speaking, look for corroboration of the witness’s identification of the accused in court, in the form of earlier identification proceedings. The rule of prudence is subject to the exception when the court considers it safe to rely upon the evidence of a particular witness without such, or other corroboration,” the bench clarified. Rajesh alias Sarkari and Ajay Hooda were convicted for the murder of one Sandeep Hooda, an LLB student of Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, on December 26, 2006. They were sentenced to life imprisonment. The SC found the evidence unreliable and acquitted them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-statutory-sanction-for-test-id-parade-sc/articleshow/79030108.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 4, 2020||India||Covid-19: India records 46,000 fresh cases, highest in last 3 days||NEW DELHI: For the third straight day, India reported slightly higher number of coronavirus cases than on the corresponding days of the previous week, in what could be early signs of a flattening of the Covid curve, which had been falling sharply for seven weeks running. The country recorded 46,333 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the highest in the past three days, and higher than the count reported last Tuesday (43,107). Covid-19 case counts on the previous two days, Sunday and Monday, were also slightly higher than the tallies recorded on the same days of the previous week. Covid-19 cases usually follow a cyclical weekly pattern, with the lowest counts always coming on Mondays, and cases generally rising gradually through the week thereafter — although this pattern may not hold on all weeks. Therefore, a day-on-day comparison with the previous week does give a hint on which way the curve is likely to move. The day’s death toll crossed 500 for the second successive day, with 503 fatalities reported on Tuesday. The toll was 502 on Monday, while the count had fallen below 500 on Saturday and Sunday. While Maharashtra continued to log the highest toll in the country with 120 deaths on Tuesday, Chhattisgarh posted the second highest number of fatalities at 58. Deaths have spiked sharply in the state over the past two weeks. After leading the daily case counts from March till the middle of October, Maharashtra fell to the third spot in fresh infections on Tuesday. Kerala had the highest number of new cases at 6,862, followed by Delhi with 6,725. This was the highest singleday surge in cases in the capital, and the first time that the count had crossed 6,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-records-46000-fresh-cases-highest-in-last-3-days/articleshow/79030237.cms||---
November 4, 2020||---||With 54% turnout, Bihar beats Covid||PATNA/DELHI: The second phase of assembly polling in Bihar on Tuesday saw voters replicate the enthusiasm of the first one to post a turnout of 54.4%, marginally less than the 55.7% reported on October 28 but enough to take the combined voting percentage past the corresponding 2019 Lok Sabha figure of 54.9%. The cumulative 55% turnout so far is only a shade below the 2015 assembly election figure of 55.35%, officials said. Bypolls to 54 constituencies across 10 other states, including 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh alone, saw a moderate to high turnout. MP reported a voting percentage of 69%, Chhattisgarh 77%, Gujarat 58% , UP 53 %, Haryana 68%, Jharkhand 62%, Karnataka 57%, Odisha 69%, Telangana 82% and Nagaland 88%. “Buoyed by safe conduct of the elections on October 28, the voters again overcame their fear of Covid and came out to exercise their franchise,” EC secretary general Umesh Sinha said at a post-poll briefing. In Bihar, Muzaffarpur recorded the highest turnout of 59.9% while Patna’s was the lowest at 48.2%, reflecting the rural-urban disparity that has been a feature of both phases of polling. The urban areas are known to be BJP strongholds. Though BJP spokesperson Prof Nawal Kishore Yadav said the trend was the same in every election, RJD’s Mritunjay Tiwary termed it a rejection of the saffron party. “BJP voters were disappointed with their MLAs in Patna as the people’s representatives failed to help them in the period of crisis when the city remained waterlogged for so many days last year. The low turnout in urban areas reflects people’s anger against the BJP, which has its MLAs in all the seats in the state capital for almost a decade,” Tiwary said. JD(U) general secretary and spokesperson Dr Suheli Mehta admitted that the low turnout was a matter of concern. Four ministers of the Nitish Kumar government, the opposition’s CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav and his father-in-law Chandrika Rai are among the 1,463 contestants whose electoral fate was sealed in this phase. Actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha’s son Luv Sinha is contesting the Bankipur seat against BJP MLA Nitin Navin. Voter Mritunjay Kumar (28), who was waiting for his turn at a polling booth in Parsa constituency of Saran district, said, “Bihar is in a transition phase. We want change. We want young leaders to come to power. This poll is being fought on issues.” Election observers said the two phases of polling so far had been possibly the most peaceful electoral exercise in Bihar in many years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/with-54-turnout-bihar-beats-covid/articleshow/79030285.cms||---
November 4, 2020||---||Win polls because I care for mothers, daughters, says PM||FORBESGANJ/PATNA: PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday gave away his secret sauce for electoral success: ensuring “mothers and daughters” are taken care of. “People in the opposition wonder how Modi wins election after election,” the PM said during a poll rally at Forbesganj near the India-Nepal border in Bihar. “Modi wins elections because he takes care of mothers and daughters.” Wrapping up NDA’s campaign for the third phase of polling in north Bihar’s Araria district, PM said he had protected the dignity of women across the rural heartland by providing them toilets, in return for which they had extended their unflinching support to “this son of a poor mother”. “It is due to polls that I have become PM of the country and its pradhan sewak. I have taken command of the country to give it a new direction.” Modi called upon the poor, deprived and backward castes to prevent “jungle raj” from making a comeback in Bihar. He reminded them of how RJD once governed the state and what NDA did to “restore voting rights in the face of loot of ballot papers” and “establish the rule of law after gundagardi (crime)”. He also spoke of eliminating “ghotala (corruption)” and putting “democracy over family rule”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/win-polls-because-i-care-for-mothers-daughters-says-pm/articleshow/79030612.cms||---
November 4, 2020||India||Covid-19: To fast-track shots, India eyes rolling reviews||NEW DELHI: India may also consider rolling reviews for Covid-19 vaccine, particularly the Oxford-AstraZeneca developed candidate which is already under accelerated review of the UK health regulator, to further fast-track the approval of the shots in the current pandemic situation. A rolling review will enable the regulator to examine the data generated through clinical trials on a real-time basis instead of waiting for the trial to be over and full data to be available for evaluation at once. While the option of emergency authorisation is open, the rolling review can speed this up as the regulator may not need to wait till the end of the Phase 3 trials and data collated thereafter. “We are watching the global developments closely. Serum is doing only immunogenicity trials in India. They will have to submit the Phase 3 clinical trial data generated in UK and Brazil to us for review. We are aware that UK is now conducting accelerated review. We too can consider the same if the company makes an application for the same,” a senior official working with the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) said. Serum Institute is conducting immunogenicity trials in India primarily to check the presence of antibodies and their duration. These trials are also conducted on relatively smaller size of people. AstraZeneca – which has developed the candidate along with Oxford University – is doing Phase 3 trials in UK and Brazil to check safety and efficacy of the vaccine. The data generated from these studies will also be shared with the Indian regulator to seek approval. Now, that the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is conducting a rolling review for the potential vaccine, it is possible that the company may seek the same process in India. “This approach will help speed up evaluation of the vaccine candidate and the approval process,” a regulatory official said. Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla had recently said that the vaccine is showing some preliminary good results in terms of immunogenicity responses. However, the authorities are more keen on knowing how the vaccine is progressing in Phase 3 trials being conducted outside India. Watch Covid-19: India eyes rolling reviews to fast-track shots||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-to-fast-track-shots-india-eyes-rolling-reviews/articleshow/79030729.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 4, 2020||India||Govt shores up capacity to store and supply Covid vaccines even in remote areas||NEW DELHI: With vaccine candidates progressing swiftly and entering advance stages of clinical trials, the government is gearing up to ensure there is adequate capacity to store and supply them even in remote corners of the country once they are approved for use. Health ministry said under the universal immunisation programme (UIP), it utilises over 28,000 cold chain points, 700 plus refrigerator vans and more than 78,000 vaccinators to assist in vaccine administration. “We have already utilised them under the universal immunisation programme and they would be used in the administration of Covid vaccine as well,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Besides, the existing capacities available with the government under UIP, the national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19 is also engaging with corporate healthcare providers to take assistance of their workforce which could help in vaccine administration. “The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 is engaging with corporate healthcare providers to see what is their claim in respect of availability of vaccinators in private hospital chains and their cold chain equipment,” Bhushan said. Bhushan also said that all states and Union Territories (UTs) have been asked to only follow the directions given by the national expert group and not to act upon themselves. "All states and UTs have assured their compliance to our directions," he added. The Centre has also asked states to prepare databases of different priority population groups. “We have guided them about the methods and templates to prepare the databases," he said. Another direction given to the states is to constitute a group under the chief secretary to check the compliance of the guidelines issued by the Centre. The ministry has already written to all the states and UTs to constitute three-tier committees to check the distribution of the Covid vaccine once it rolls out. The Centre has also asked the states and UTs to take stock of the cold chain and deep refrigerators as well. "This will reveal granular details and would enable us to plan and execute the administration program more efficiently," Bhushan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-shores-up-capacity-to-store-and-supply-covid-vaccines-even-in-remote-areas/articleshow/79031009.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘If we don’t have anything to eat, what’s the point in roads’||MOLLEM: Babu Shelke has just returned home to Palaskata in Mollem after a 4km trek with his cattle. This is his routine for years. But it may not last long if the state government goes ahead with the three Centre-funded infra projects, including the four-laning of road, that cuts across the protected area. Shelke and his 10-odd family members, belonging to Goa’s cowherd community or dhangars, survive on agriculture and dairy farming. “The government says it is constructing roads for development. If we do not have anything to eat, then what is the point of having a road. Where should we go if these new projects shut access for us to the land we cultivate and the streams we use for agriculture,” said Shelke. The permission by the environment ministry shows the loss of 14.16 ha of forest land at Mollem, while another 12.27 ha at Sangod will be required for the project. Altogether, 31.53 ha of forest land will be taken up by the highway expansion project. A Sangod-resident and an aerospace engineer by profession, Krishna Zore, points to the approval of the Union environment ministry for the four-laning project on its website Parivesh, even as the state government’s stand has been that this road expansion project has not yet been finalised. “The permission shows the Goa stretch of the road for four-laning is 97km in length and the rest has been shown as falling in Karnataka. If the Goa stretch was shown as 100km, then they would have to hold a public hearing, as mandated by law. Also, the permission shows Sangod as a different village, when it is part of the Mollem panchayat. This shows the forest loss in Mollem to be much lower than the actual figure,” says Zore. Senior citizen Saraschandra Khandeparkar, who will lose his house and liquor store attached to it, questions the state government’s decision to widen the road to 40m. “When the Karnataka government, citing that wildlife will be affected, has restricted widening of the highway to 12m, why has our government agreed to widen the same highway to 40m?” asks Khandeparkar. Reforestation efforts by the forest department has already begun in Mollem, as a replacement for the lost cover due to the power transmission line and substation work. But locals point to the rocky terrain where the saplings have been planted and raise doubts about the government’s seriousness in compensatory reforestation. “Rocky terrain has been drilled to plant the saplings. I doubt they can survive here. There is a reason trees have not grown here naturally. Also, the forest being lost is part of the Western Ghats, which is older than the Himalayas. It is like killing your blood relative and replacing it with a stranger. Same has been done by the forest department by cutting endemic trees to plant jackfruit trees,” says botanist Swasha Khandeparkar. Meanwhile, Shelke and his Dhangar community have another worry. Though they have headstones here to prove their ancestors have been living in the forest since 1816, they do not have land ownership documents to the forest land. “We do not have land rights to the plot as the government declared it a protected area. Now, the same government is giving several hectares for a project in the protected area. And our MLA told us at a recent public meeting that it will generate only 12 jobs for a village of 20,000 population. Why should we not object to such a project?” says Kanta Shelke. “The chief minister and the ministers will set up a project here today and they will be gone tomorrow. But we will be left to live with it. Yet they did not ask us even once if we want the project,” says Kanta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/if-we-dont-have-anything-to-eat-whats-the-point-in-roads/articleshow/79031071.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 4, 2020||India||Rajasthan & Odisha ban crackers for safety of Covid patients||BHUBANESWAR/BENGALURU: The Odisha government on Tuesday banned the sale and use of firecrackers from November 10-30, worried over the impact it may have on Covid-19 patients. Karnataka, meanwhile, is mulling a similar prohibition on the lines of Rajasthan government’s firecracker ban on Sunday. Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar told TOI: “The final decision (on a ban) will be taken after discussions with the CM.” Odisha chief secretary AK Tripathy issued the direction to prohibit sale and use of firecrackers. “Any person found violating this order shall be punished under the provision of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and other relevant laws,” the order said. Rajasthan has banned crackers this year following concerns over their impact on the health of Covid patients while Delhi has allowed only “green firecrackers”. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients have raised concerns over the possible effect of smoke emanating from bursting of crackers on patients in home isolation. Covid-19 pneumonia can worsen with the air pollution caused by bursting of crackers, they point out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-odisha-ban-crackers-for-safety-of-covid-patients/articleshow/79031118.cms||---
November 4, 2020||India||SC gears up for live streaming of sessions||NEW DELHI: Following the baby steps taken by Gujarat High Court a week ago to live stream its proceedings, the Supreme Court is preparing to take a giant technological leap by undertaking a comprehensive exercise for live streaming of court proceedings of all courts in the three-tier justice delivery system. Two years and two months after a three-judge SC bench, through a judgment, agreed in principle for early start of live streaming of apex court proceedings, the E-Committee headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud has set up a sub-committee to frame rules for video-conferencing proceedings for all HCs and subordinate courts as well as to evolve a mechanism for possible live streaming of proceedings with safeguards. A bench headed by Gujarat HC Chief Justice Vikram Nath on October 26 live streamed its proceedings through YouTube. Though Justice Chandrachud termed it a bold step, he believed it was more of an ad hoc arrangement. "We need to evolve a permanent mechanism governed by rules and regulations for live streaming of court proceedings," he told TOI. The panel set up by the E-Committee will give its report on four important aspects — infrastructure required for live streaming of proceedings from all HCs and nearly 20,000 trial courts; funds needed for this gigantic project that will have to be broken up state-wise; software suitable for this endeavour; and the central assistance required through budgetary allocations. Justice Chandrachud said it would be ideal to have e-cloud for every state with dedicated servers that would be manned by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) or any dedicated organisation. "Finding the right kind of software is key to the success of the endeavour," he added. The pandemic caused closure of courts and their shifting to virtual mode saw the E-Committee frame rules for judicial proceedings through video-conferencing. "Most HCs have adopted the model rules framed by the E-Committee for virtual hearing of cases," Justice Chandrachud said. On September 26, 2018, a bench of then CJI Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud had allowed the plea of PIL petitioner Swapnil Tripathi for live streaming of SC proceedings. Justices Misra and Khanwilkar had said, "We reiterate that Supreme Court Rules, 2013, will have to be suitably amended to provide for the regulatory framework as per the contours delineated hereinabove (for live streaming). We may hasten to add that it would be open to frame such regulatory measures as may be found necessary for holistic live streaming of court proceedings, without impinging upon the cause of administration of justice in any manner." Writing a concurring but separate judgment, Justice Chandrachud had said, "Our legal system subscribes to the principle of open justice. The prayer for live-streaming of courtroom proceedings has its genesis in this principle. Live streaming will allow real-time access to courtroom proceedings to litigants and to every member of society. Not all cases may be live streamed. Certain sensitive cases like matrimonial or sexual assault cases should be excluded from the process of live streaming. "The final authority to regulate suspension or prohibition of live streaming in a particular case where the administration of justice so requires, must be with the presiding judge of each court; Live streaming will be carried out only by persons or any agency authorised under the directions of the Chief Justice of India, or as contemplated in the rules. The streaming and broadcasting will be hosted by this court on its website with the assistance of the National Informatics Centre and the ministry of electronics and information technology.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-gears-up-for-live-streaming-of-sessions/articleshow/79031146.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 4, 2020||India||Narco-dollars funded biz empire of CPM neta’s son, finds ED||NEW DELHI: The Left Front government in Kerala is in for more embarrassment with the Enforcement Directorate’s investigation allegedly finding a massive underground business enterprise of Bineesh Kodiyeri, the younger son of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, built from “proceeds of crime” from the narcotics trade and transfer-posting of bureaucrats. The probe has turned up a chain of shops and car dealerships in Thiruvananthapuram, multiple luxury cars (at least two of them worth Rs 2 crore each), hotels, showrooms of electrical fittings etc which allegedly belong to Kodiyeri junior, although registered in others' names. Bineesh was remanded to five days of ED custody on Tuesday for further questioning. Sources claimed that Mohammed Anoop, the Bengaluru-based drug peddler arrested earlier, has shared a lot of details against Bineesh and his vast business operations with the ED. Preliminary mapping of money trail has led the investigators to a network of his investments in properties and assets created allegedly with drug money, using a ring of peddlers, sources claimed. Bineesh’s dealings with the UAE consulate in the state are also under investigation, with the probe finding that he was in regular touch with consulate officials through some middlemen. Kodiyeri’s elder son, Binoy Balakrishnan, is already an accused in Dubai and has been slapped with a penalty of 7 million dirham (around Rs 14 crore) in a cheating case, ED sources said. The agency is likely to question senior members of the Kodiyeri family which may bring further embarrassment to the Left Front government already battling serious money laundering allegations against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s close aide, IAS officer M Sivasankar. The ED’s money trail in the Kerala-UAE gold smuggling case has found alleged payoffs of around Rs 4 crore in the CM’s pet project, Life Mission. Sivasankar has been arrested and is being questioned after the anti-money laundering agency found alleged evidence of payoffs stashed in a bank locker and laundered with the help of those now accused in the gold smuggling racket. Sivasankar has been questioned about the bribes received in the Life Mission project and contract awarded to Kochi-based Unitac builders, according to sources. The ED has found that Sivasankar operated a bank locker through his chartered accountant Venugopal and gold smuggling main accused Swapna Suresh at SBI’s Thiruvananthapuram branch. The agency has found details of Rs 1 crore laundered by Suresh from the alleged payoffs received in the Life Mission project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/narco-dollars-funded-biz-empire-of-cpm-netas-son-finds-ed/articleshow/79031260.cms||Pradeep Thakur
November 4, 2020||India||IIMC revises results multiple times, triggers fresh row||NEW DELHI: Days after making headlines over controversial appointments to its teaching staff, the Indian Institute of Mass Communication is in another controversy over entrance tests due to multiple revisions of results which, the institute said, were caused by inadvertent glitches. Online entrance tests to IIMC’s eight PG diploma courses in New Delhi and five regional campuses were conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on October 18. In the results notified by the institute on October 30, at least five students identified by NTA for indulging in malpractices and debarred from appearing in IIMC’s entrance test for one year, were granted admission. The results also included several overlaps, with the same students being granted admissions in more than one category, and also has one candidate topping three categories of exams. Following furore by students online, where they alleged foul play in conducting the entrance exam and gross mismanagement by IIMC, and which trended as hashtag ‘IIMCEntranceScam’, IIMC on Monday revised its results for the third time in four days. When contacted for comment, additional director general (administration), K Satish Nambudiripad, told TOI, “It shouldn’t have happened. But these were inadvertent, clerical mistakes which we have since revised. As we have also said in the notice we put out on the IIMC website, all admissions being granted are provisional in nature and any mistakes identified will be rectified.” While Nambudiripad acknowledged “HR issues” that led to the anomalous results, he added that IIMC was hamstrung by the paucity of time — admissions were delayed by several months — and a “convoluted kind of” online mode of testing. But even as the management skirted questions about whether the third set of results released on Monday were finally all correct and maintained it would take all steps to rectify genuine mistakes, students continued their demand for a re-test. One complainant, who spoke to TOI anonymously, said, “Multiple login attempts were allowed... some students were not asked to show IDs or admit cards and WhatsApp and telegram groups were formed to tally answers... Our fight is against the flawed system which prompted the students to use these (unfair) tactics. We want the exam to be re-conducted in a fair manner, just like other universities are doing. Or take personal interviews and hold group discussions as well, if you can't.” Nambudripad, however, defended the NTA test as a professionally held exam where both questions and answers were randomised for each student so that no two question papers or answers appeared in the same order. “That is why we couldn’t give out answer keys, because they would be different in each case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iimc-revises-results-multiple-times-triggers-fresh-row/articleshow/79031363.cms||Swati Mathur
November 4, 2020||India||23 HCs for special courts to try netas, Madras HC dissents||NEW DELHI: Supreme Court's idea for setting up enough number of Special Courts for the speedy trial of sitting and MPs and MLAs facing criminal charges has gathered momentum with the endorsement of as many as 23 , although Madras HC has reversed its 2018 backing for the SC directive.  Amicus curiae and senior advocate Vijay Hansaria and advocate Sneha Kalita have filed a report in the SC, which is scheduled to hear the matter on Wednesday, saying 23 High Courts - Allahabad, Bihar, Bombay, Chhattishgarh, Calcutta, Delhi, Gauhati, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Orissa, Punjab and Haryana, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Telangana and Uttarakahand - have responded to SC orders and given details on various queries raised by the bench. On October 6, a SC bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy, tasked to implement the earlier orders passed by the court on this issue ,had sought details from HCs about pending criminal cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs and subsequently inquired about the adequacy of Special Courts to deal with the backlog of such cases in each state. Times ViewThere’s a popular perception that politicians are able to circumvent or delay judicial proceedings using clout. Speedy closure to such cases is important to change the perception. The setting up of special courts should happen as quickly as possible. This will be good for politicians too. Either way, their careers would no longer be on hold. They, and the public, will know whether the cases against them are legitimate or politically motivated.He said the Madras HC, which had in September 2018 endorsed the setting up of special courts to expedite snail-paced trial against tainted netas, has submitted a report if the "Criminal Rules Committee" of the HC comprising Justices P N Prakash, G Jayachandran and N Sathish Kumar questioning the constitutionality of special courts and recommending that for Tamil Nadu be exempted from this SC devised mechanism for speedy trial against tainted politicians. The Madras HC committee said that "Special Courts can only be 'Offence Centric' and not 'Offender Centric'... The existing Court structure in Tamil Nadu, which is robust, is more than enough to deal with the cases involving MPs and MLAs. The HC Chief Justice is requested to bring this fact to the notice of the Supreme Court and get exemption from establishing Special Courts for trial of cases involving MPs and MLAs and permit restoration of status quo ante." The Committee also noted a peculiar scenario prevailing in the state and the role of judiciary including the HC. It said, "The two principal political parties DMK and ADMK, whenever they come to power, file defamation cases against opposition leaders in the Court of Session. These cases will invariably be stayed by the High Court. When there is change in Government, all the cases filed by the previous Government will be withdrawn." Restoration of status quo ante, as sought by Madras HC, would mean the influential politicians would enjoy a protracted trial, to which the age-old adage 'justice delayed is justice denied" will apply. The amicus termed the madras HC Committee's view as erroneous and said, "The legislators are lawmakers who lay down policies for socio-economic development of the country and are responsible for upholding constitutional morality. It is on record that a large number of cases, including heinous offences, are pending in the courts not only for years but for decades." "In such circumstances a special mechanism for speedy trial of these cases cannot be flawed. No special procedure less advantageous to the accused persons has been prescribed for trial of cases involving MPs/ MLAs; these cases are tried as per general procedure prescribed under CrPC. All that has been done is to designate a particular officer to try cases in an expeditious manner, who otherwise has jurisdiction to conduct the trial," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/23-hcs-for-special-courts-to-try-netas-madras-hc-dissents/articleshow/79031272.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 15,434 get nursing, physiotherapy seats||AHMEDABAD: For the ongoing round of admissions to paramedical courses of physiotherapy and nursing, 15,434 seats have been allotted to the candidates. The merit list for admission to these two courses has seen 33,615 candidates being enlisted. On the basis of this choice filling done by the candidates, 18,457 candidates have been allotted colleges. Those who have been admitted have been instructed to confirm their admission by the November 11 by paying up the tuition fees. The admission committee had initiated the process for 20,633 seats across 518 colleges. As many as 2,118 seats across 55 colleges that were not approved by All India Medical Council have not been included in the first round. Out of the 2,612 seats in government colleges, all the seats were filled in the first round. The seats lying vacant are of self-financed colleges. GU to hold online PhD entrance exam today Gujarat University will conduct entrance test in online format for doctoral programmes on Wednesday. There are 802 PhD seats this year for which 4,246 candidates are in fray. The varsity had earlier planned to hold the exam in pen and paper format but given the Covid-19 situation, it has decided to conduct it online. Students who have cleared MPhil, NET and GSAT are exempted from taking the PhD entrance test, according to sources. This year, 612 students have been exempted from one of these three examinations as they have passed the examination. This will result in 3,186 students appearing in the examination slated for tomorrow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15434-get-nursing-physiotherapy-seats/articleshow/79028183.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Business||Amazon files caveat in HC against Future||BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: The fight between Amazon and Future Group has intensified. According to sources, Amazon has also filed a caveat in the Delhi high court in a bid to pre-empt Future’s move to challenge the Singapore arbitration ruling, which granted an interim stay on the Reliance-Future deal last month. In fact, Amazon’s caveat was filed before Future Group approached the high court earlier this week with a caveat against the US-based e-tailer, sources confirmed. A caveat is a notice submitted in anticipation by a person or an entity, informing the court that another person or entity may file a lawsuit or application against them. It says that the court should give the caveator (the person who has filed the caveat) a fair hearing before deciding on the matter brought in front of it. For now, both the parties have submitted caveats and neither of them have filed a case officially. In an exchange filing on Sunday, Future Group had said it was considering all legal options to protect its rights. “Amazon had already filed the caveat to make sure Future does not get an interim ruling from the high court in their favour with regards to the emergency international arbitration award,” a person aware of the matter said. TOI had previously reported that sources close to Amazon believe there are enough provisions to enforce the Singapore interim order in India without getting a similar direction from a court here. When contacted, spokespersons of Amazon India and Future Group declined to comment on the matter. The latest development is only adding to the rift playing out between the Kishore Biyani-led Future Group and Jeff Bezos-led Amazon. While Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries is not party to any of the proceedings yet, it has issued a statement saying it wants to close the Rs 24,713-crore deal to acquire Future Group’s assets “without any delay”. The international arbitration order, which has asked Future Group to hold on to the merger process before proceeding further, is valid for 90 days. A final order is expected to come before this deadline expires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-files-caveat-in-hc-against-future/articleshow/79030004.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Colleges chalk out plans for possible December reopening of campuses||KOLKATA: A day after education minister Partha Chatterjee announced the possibility of college and university campuses reopening in December, several institute heads started chalking out plans to resume physical classes. Also, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has convened a meeting with all the departments on November 5. “A decision on a date to resume physical classes in schools is likely to be announced. Along with it, reopening of colleges and universities will be decided. Though education institutions are likely to reopen in December, a date has to be fixed,” said a senior education department official. Colleges are chalking out plans for resuming on-campus lectures. “Classes in arts and science can meet on alternate days. Another proposal is to allow 50% of students to attend classes a day,” Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar said. Shukla Hazra of East Kolkata Girls’ College said they were primarily waiting for a government order on resuming physical classes. “If the situation is under control, we will hold theory classes online and those who are attending practical classes and need access to the laboratory will visit the campus. We plan to keep both online and offline mode of teaching available for students,” she said. Tapan Poddar, principal of Vivekananda College, said a meeting with senior teachers was to be held, likely on Wednesday. “We have some initial plans in place. Either students of three streams—humanities, commerce and science—will be asked to attend classes on separate days or the different semesters will be uniformly distributed,” he said, adding the institute would wait for a guideline from Calcutta University before resuming on-campus classes. Surendranath College principal Indranil Manna pointed out that going by initial discussions, around 50% students would be called to the campus on each day. “We will continue the online mode of teaching as a support system,” he added. Earlier, chief minister Banerjee had indicated reopen of school campuses would be decided only after Kali Puja. “While several other states have already permitted educational institutes to function with limited capacity, Bengal is far behind. The SOP is ready, which will be put in place before classes resume,” said the education official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-chalk-out-plans-for-possible-december-reopening-of-campuses/articleshow/79029922.cms||---
November 4, 2020||---||Young first-time voters get inked with jobs, education in mind||PATNA: Unsurprisingly, for most young first-time voters, employment and development issues have taken centre stage. On Tuesday morning, when young voters headed for their polling stations in Patna, many of them shared that apart from these two issues they kept in mind the candidate and not their political parties. Ayesha Maryam (19) and her sister Wreesha Rahman (21) at a polling station in Raja Bazaar were elated after casting their votes for the first time. Wreesha said, “Even a single vote matters a lot in the selection of the right leader for the state.” Her sister Ayesha said she voted for good governance and development. Another first-time voter, Sumit Sharma (23), said luckily he is in Patna to cast his first vote. “I read and watched political news and the manifestos of parties then I made my own decision. I voted for young leadership,” said Sumit, a resident of Rajbanshi Nagar. With issues ranging from women’s safety to job opportunities, higher education and health care, the young generation voters have a long list of expectations from the parties in the poll fray. Ashutosh Ranjan, a 20-year-old college student and a resident of Mahendru, said some leaders appear to be promising with their new outlook while others are sticking to their old agendas. “We need a government to encourage higher education, adopt modern teaching methods, provide fund for infrastructure development and quality teachers,” he said. A resident of Boring Canal Road, 19-year-old Juhi Shrivastava believes that quality education and employment opportunities in the state should be the topmost agenda for any young voter. “If we have a good education system and job opportunities then nothing can stop the overall growth of the state. The quality of life will also improve,” Juhi said. “We have IIT, NIT, NIFT and IIM in Bihar but only these four institutes are not enough. We need more such good institutes or develop the existing one as grand institutes,” said Prachi Aggarwal (21), another first time- voter at a polling station in Kankerbagh. She added, “We also need a leader who encourages higher education institutes to collaborate with domestic and international institutes. This would churn out more employment opportunities for Bihari students.” Describing her feeling as a first-time voter, Sanjali Kumari, a resident of Gola road said, “I felt like a responsible citizen who has taken part in the democratic process. I also captured the memory of getting inked for the first- time. The key issues for youths are clear we need safety, education and job.” As per official data, there are 3,44,370 voters in Patna in the age group of 18-19, while 11.8 lakh voters are in the age group of 20 and 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/young-first-time-voters-get-inked-with-jobs-education-in-mind/articleshow/79028348.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 4, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: Covid fear fails to dampen voting spirit of electorates in Bankipur||PATNA: Setting all apprehensions of poor turnout owing to Covid-19 pandemic aside, the electorate of Bankipur constituency turned out in large numbers to cast their votes on Tuesday. Polling was held peacefully at almost all the booths while strictly adhering to all the precautionary measures. The widespread fear of the pandemic did not dampen the spirit of the overenthusiastic electorates, cutting across their age and sex. Eighty-one-year-old Nagendra Prasad Sinha, a retired government employee, was the first to cast his vote at Kidzee Pre-School polling booth located on East Boring Canal Road. He had turned up at the booth much before the polling started and waiting patiently till he was allowed to move in. Sinha, who has been exercising his right to franchise for the last six decades, was quite satisfied with the arrangements made by the polling officials at the booth. “They had marked circles at a distance of two metres where voters were supposed to stand and gradually move. Besides, they also sanitised our hands and gave us gloves to wear before touching the EVM,” he said. At the same booth, 21-year-old Harshita, a student of mass communications, was quite thrilled to cast her vote for the first time. “The experience wasn’t as stressful as I imagined, so the whole process was really enjoyable. It took a matter of seconds and it felt really good to know that I have a voice. I have enjoyed this election, especially as it was my first,” she added. Seventy-year-old Ajay Kisore Sharan, a retired university teacher, cast his vote at about 7.30am at A N College booth. “There is no excuse not to go and vote; it takes a few minutes. I always felt it’s our country, our elections. It is our duty to go and elect our candidate. I have not missed a single election till date,” he said. Sharan appreciated the polling arrangements, particularly for the senior citizens. E-rickshaws were carrying older people from the college gate to the polling booths and some wheelchairs had also been pressed into service for the physically challenged and very old electorates, he added. “I believe voting is fundamentally important — politics affects us all every single day and by voting, our voice can be heard,” said 63-year-old Renuka Shukla, a retired bank employee, after casting her vote at S K Puri Community Centre booth. “I have been exercising my right to vote regularly since 1977 general elections and I always vote for development,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/covid-fear-fails-to-dampen-voting-spirit-of-electorates/articleshow/79028385.cms||B K Mishra
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||Was shy of visiting Lucknow University's canteen, recalls Kathak maestro||LUCKNOW: She was a shy girl who often wanted to sit in Lucknow University’s canteen but was always hesitant to enter as it was overcrowded. As a BA student, she had never though that one day, she would be performing in front of thousands of people and achieve legendary status. Recipient of hundreds of awards, Kathak genius Kumkum Dhar will join Lucknow University’s centenary celebrations, four decades after she graduated from here. “It would be nostalgic for me to perform at the historic arts quadrangle where I had last performed in 2002 when the Indian Science Congress was held and missile man APJ Abdul Kalamji was present. The campus reminds me of the golden days of my life when my friend Anup Jalota and I used to enjoy the beauty of the PG block which was the most happening block of the campus,” said Dhar, who is also the former vice-chancellor of Bhatkhande Music Institute Deemed University. Dhar completed BA in 1974 and MA in 1976 from LU. She recalled how she used to carry her ‘ghungroo’ to the campus and after lectures, would rush to Kathak Kendra for her training. “Anup would sing Kishore Kumar songs and I aspired to become a dance artist. I had never thought that I would become an international-level Kathak performer,” said Dhar, whose mellifluous voice has resonated on radio for four decades. “I will be back on campus to present one of my finest Kathak performances since it’s the special day of my university. It will be a tribute to the 100 glorious years of LU and the millions of successful students it has produced. I would love to see my campus again,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/was-shy-of-visiting-lu-canteen-recalls-kathak-maestro/articleshow/79030558.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 4, 2020||---||Bihar polls: Displaced people travel 30km to cast votes in Raghopur area||RAGHOPUR DIARA: Nature’s fury failed to dampen the spirit of some people of the Raghopur diara as they travelled close to 30km to reach their polling booth on Tuesday to cast their votes. Almost 30% of the 1,617 voters of Rampur Karari Barari had been displaced by the erosion from the Ganga water way back in 2013 and shifted to places like Mahnar and Vaishali since then. But they travel to their village polling booth every time to vote and this time was no exception. Their houses and farmland immersed into the Ganga, which still erodes part of the village every year. Parshuram Singh (36) carried his deceased younger brother’s wife on his bike from Mahnar to reach Rampur’s upgraded middle school after crossing two pontoon bridges over the Ganga on Tuesday to cast their votes. The school had booth numbers 325 and 326 with total 1617 voters. Singh said his house subsided into the Ganga in 2013 due to massive erosion and his family shifted to Mahnar and constructed a new house there. “We also lost almost all our farmland. We owned 15 acres of land but are left with only 2 acres due to erosion,” he said. Singh said their farm produce and other items still reach Mahnar from Rampur. He said at least 500 houses and hundreds of acres of land have submerged in the Ganga since 2013. “The displaced families are living on rent after shifting to Mahnar, Hajipur and other places. Those who were financially strong purchased land and constructed houses at the new places. But poor villagers constructed small huts on the land of others to live in the village,” he added. Singh showed a concrete road passing in front of the school. It ends in the Ganga due to erosion. “From Jimdari ghat to Lanka Tola, the embankment requires repair immediately. Otherwise, this school building will also submerge in the Ganga by next year,” he said. Upender Rai, who looks after the pontoon bridges, said Chak Singar, Paroha and Jorawanpur are the other villages where large number of families got displaced due to continuous erosions. Rai said a massive erosion at around 9am on Monday at Jorawanpur Chakosan located on the mainland Vaishali slightly damaged the starting point of pontoon bridge. He said fast repair helped restore traffic on the bridge by 5pm. “Several polling parties waited for an hour to reach the diara area due to erosion,” he said. Jitan Rai of Bishunpur Saidali said boats are the only mode of transportation to reach Vaishali or Patna during most part of the year. “It takes at least an hour to cross the river in monsoon. Several patients die while being transported,” he added. Rajdeo Rai (81), former sarpanch of Paharpur panchayat, said youths are jobless. “They need jobs. Children need good education and proper school. Teachers are from Vaishali. They can’t come half the time due to the geographical condition,” he said. he said there is only a referral hospital and a primary health centre in the entire diara region with a population of one lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/displaced-people-travel-30km-to-cast-votes-in-raghopur-area/articleshow/79027992.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: High turnout recorded in all five Darbhanga seats||DARBHANGA: The Covid pandemic could not deter people from exercising their franchise in five assembly constituencies of the district – Darbhanga rural, Alinagar, Benipur, Gaura Bauram and Kusheshwar Asthan (SC) – which went to polls in the second and penultimate phase on Tuesday. Women voters standing in long queues at polling booths and septuagenarians and octogenarians reaching the booths taking help from their family members was witnessed in all the constituencies. Prabhunarayan Mishra (90), who exercised his franchise at booth number 264 in Darbhanga rural constituency taking help from his grandson, said he would continue to vote as long as he is alive. At booth number 80 in Kusheshwar Asthan, 87-year-old Mahavir Jha and 89-year-old Mohd Idrish enthusiastically voted for the candidates of their choice. Large number of voters turned up at the Middle school Uchhti and Biraul booths too in Kusheshwar Asthan. Women voters were seen standing in queues braving scorching sun at the Karpoori Sabha Bhawan booth in Benipur assembly constituency. JD(U) candidate from the seat Shashi Bhushan Hazari claimed people in large number voted for him on the basis of the performance of CM Nitish Kumar and PM Narendra Modi. “I am a local person unlike Congress’s Ashok Kumar, who is an outsider,” Hazari, who had represented this constituency in 2010 as BJP candidate and in 2015 as JD(U) candidate, said. First-time voter Shatwik Jha of Maubehat village under Darbhanga rural constituency was thrilled for exercising his franchise. Mohd Ali Ashraf Fatmi, father of JD(U) candidate Faraj Fatmi from Darbhanga rural constituency, said large number of minorities have come out to vote for his son. The Kusheshwar Asthan (reserved) constituency, lying in remote area, led from the beginning in registering high poll percentage. Youths were seen carrying their elderly parents on bikes for voting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/high-turnout-recorded-in-all-five-darbhanga-seats/articleshow/79037632.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
November 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: BJP, opposition parties claim victory in second round||PATNA: Major political parties started making claims and counter claims over winning more seats in the second phase of the state assembly polls soon after the voting ended on Tuesday. RJD MP Manoj Jha said his alliance would win over 65 seats out of the 94, which went to the polls on Tuesday. Taking a jibe at PM Narendra Modi’s ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chant at an election meeting in Bihar, Jha said it was a reflection of the party (read BJP) about the outcome of the assembly polls. He also criticized PM Modi for not responding to the letter written by the RJD seeking clarifications on 11-points related to the state. Congress national spokesperson Pawan Khera said the farewell of CM Nitish Kumar led NDA government in the state is imminent on November 10. He said the double-engine NDA government in Bihar has failed to deliver the desired results. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the wind of change is blowing across the state. LJP chief Chirag Paswan also claimed that the second phase of elections has paved the way for removal of Nitish from the CM’s post. “I can give you in writing that Nitish will not remain in power after November 10,” he said in Khagaria. But senior BJP leader and state road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav said the NDA would be able to retain power in the state. “People are voting on the basis of development and not on caste lines,” he said. Union home minister Nityanand Rai said at Hajipur that people voted in favour of the NDA candidates. “Election ke baad NDA ki sarkar banana tai hai (NDA is going to form government),” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-oppn-claim-victory-in-second-round/articleshow/79037739.cms||Ramashankar
November 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: A festival-like scene in rural areas of Patna district||PATNA: Even though there was heavy downpour of poll promises in the state ahead of the assembly elections, the excitement on voting day was missing among city voters. However, in rural areas of the district, people were seen heading to polling booths since morning. According to the data available with Patna district administration, voting percentage was much less in urban areas of the district. For instance, four constituencies which come under Patna Municipal Corporation – Bankipore, Patna Sahib, Digha and Kumhrar – had lesser turnout of voters when compared to constituencies in rural Patna. Altogether nine constituencies had gone to polls in Patna district in the second phase. Digha had the least turnout of voters, just 34.5%, followed by Bankipur (35.9), Kumhrar (36.4), Danapur (49.8), Patna Sahib (50.6), Bakhtiyarpur (59.2), Fatuha (59.7), Phulwari (59.76) and Maner (61.8). Ratneshwar Singh, a writer, recalled how there used to be long queues of elderly people in earlier polls. Singh, a voter from Bankipore constituency, said, “I reached my booth at 6.55am and none was there, except my family members. Earlier, at least 60 to 70 people would reach the polling booth early in the morning. It seems Covid-19 has taken toll on voting percentage in the constituency.” Fifty-year-old Shaheena Imam, a voter from Digha constituency, said there was no rush at her booth. However, there were many who braved pandemic to exercise their voting right. Tara Devi, a 90-year-old voter, reached her polling booth at St Xavier’s High School on a wheelchair. “I make sure everyone in my family comes out and votes,” Tara, who was accompanied by her two granddaughters and grandsons, said. A couple from Krishna Nagar, Pintu Kumar and Saloni Kumari, said they cast their votes before starting their daily chores. “Pehle matdaan, phir jalpaan,” said Saloni. Sharmistha Tiwari, who had come all the way from Noida to vote, said, “During elections, I make sure to come to Patna to exercise my franchise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-festival-like-scene-in-rural-areas-of-patna-dist/articleshow/79037435.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 4, 2020||Bhopal||BU students flunk the online open book exam||Bhopal: In a bizarre incident, some of the students of Barkatullah University students have not even been able to pass the open book examination conducted recently. After CM Chouhan's order, BU organised an open book exam wherein students were given question paper online and asked to write answers in a week sitting at home only. Results were declared on Monday. There were many students who were shocked to see the result. "I have been scoring good marks till now. It is shocking that even after writing answers from books, I’m shown as failed," said a student, Priyanka Sahu. Students lamented that they have to appear for another exam next week and fail result has totally demotivated them. "I have to appear for an important exam for which the last date to submit the form is November 5. Now, what to do is a big question for me," said another student, requesting anonymity. Some of the students met the higher authorities and presented a memorandum, explaining their dilemma. Students claimed that higher ups have given them assurance to conduct a thorough probe in this issue. When contacted, BU registrar, Ajeet Shrivastava said that he was not contacted by the students. "A few students were roaming on the campus premises, but they did not approach me, formally. I can't comment without having any complaint," said Shrivastava. Barkatullah University had conducted open book exams for final year students in September. Question papers were uploaded on the official portal of the university on September 10. Students were asked to submit the answersheets at the collection centre on September 15 and 16. As many as 5.71 lakh students of final year graduation and 4th semester post-graduation. had appeared for the exam. BU had also issued guidelines for the students, which are available on the official portal of the university. BU had provided the list of the collection centres. Students also had the option of sending answer sheets by post .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bu-students-flunk-the-online-open-book-exam/articleshow/79048620.cms||Ramendra Singh
November 4, 2020||Patna||Moderate polling recorded in Phulwari areas||PATNA: Peaceful but moderate polling was recorded from the Phulwarisharif reserved assembly constituency in the second phase of assembly election held on Tuesday. Polling was rather slow in the morning hours at various booths located in the Phulwari area. However, it gathered some pace in the second half of the day when elderly people and women of all age groups turned up at their respective booths to exercise their franchise. Muslim voters and women in particular, reached the Phulwari block office to cast their votes . Though social distancing norms were hardly followed at most of the booths in Phulwari, voters with masks were seen standing in queue at various booths. They were, however, allowed to enter the booths only after sanitizing their hands. “Hand gloves were not given in any of the Phulwari booths,” said Saurav Prasad, who was a first time voter. Octogenarian Sushma Gupta, who had come to cast her vote at the Phulwari polling booth, was given a certificate of appreciation by the Election Commission at the Phulwari block booth. “The State Election Commission also felicitated the first timer voters with certificates of appreciation,” Phulwari block circle officer (CO) said. At the Chuharmal Nagar polling booth in Phulwari, voters faced some difficulty as they had to find out the exact location of their polling booths in absence of any voting slip usually given to voters one day in advance. “No social distancing norms were followed at the Chuharmal Nagar polling booth number 118,” said voters Vikash and Anshu . In urban area of Danapur cantonment, voting was rather slow in the morning hours. However, voters, especially youths, were enthusiastic. “Several Army personnel who are posted outside had come to Danapur to cast their votes,” an official posted at Danapur SDO office said adding, “The turnout of young voters in Danapur was by and large impressive.” At Khagaul, polling was held peacefully amid tight security arrangements. There were long queues of voters at several booths in Khagaul. “Railway employees and their family members turned up in large numbers to cast their votes,” said a static magistrate on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/moderate-polling-recorded-in-phulwari-areas/articleshow/79028133.cms||Kumod Verma
November 4, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi asks people to vote for lantern, silently||PATNA: In his rallies for the third and last phase of assembly elections on November 7, the Mahagathbandhan chief minister candidate, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, hit out at chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday for not visiting the flood affected areas recently. He also took up the issue of unemployment and problems faced by migrant workers while they were returning home during the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. Tejashwi addressed 12 rallies in Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Supaul, Madhepura and Saharsa. “Nitish ji was hiding inside his bungalow when migrants were returning home. Where was he when 18 districts of the state were affected by floods? But now he is roaming around in a chopper and asking for votes. Where has coronavirus gone now?” Tejashwi said at Keoti where he was seeking votes for senior RJD leader Abdul Bari Siddiqui. He then reiterated his poll promises, including 10 lakh government jobs, increase in honorarium of ASHA workers, Anganwadi sevikas and other self-help group members, apart from regularizing their jobs. He also repeated the claims made by RJD in its manifesto of providing equal pay for equal work and increasing the amount of old-age and other pensions. “Chup chaap, lalten chaap,” he appealed to people. In Triveniganj, Tejashwi said his party has given tickets to a young person like Santosh Sardar, who comes from an extremely backward class. “In fact, we have given 23-24 tickets to EBC candidates,” said Tejashwi while smartly playing the caste card. Tejashwi said he will work for people of all castes and religions. “What we need is good education and health infrastructure, jobs and irrigation facilities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-asks-people-to-vote-for-lantern-silently/articleshow/79028691.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 4, 2020||Business||TN on radar for electric mobility cos||Chennai: Tamil Nadu is on the radar for electric vehicle manufacturers who are looking to expand capacity and scale up with tax concessions rolling their way. Among the companies that have evinced immediate or long term interest are the likes of electric two wheeler company Ampere, now a subsidiary of Greaves Cotton, e-two wheeler major Okinawa and swappable battery and charging infrastructure company SUN Mobility. “We are talking to several electric vehicle manufacturers for investment including Ampere,” said N Muruganandam, principal secretary, government of Tamil Nadu. Ampere is planning to invest around Rs 400 crore for a 2,50,000 unit expansion in electric wheeler production capacity. The company’s current capacity is around 50,000 units per annum. Ampere will finalise the decision on the investment depending on the incentive package on offer by the government. “We remain committed to invest at the right opportunity and grow the business. At this juncture we are in silent period,” said a Greaves Cotton spokesman. Ampere is not the only electric mobility company planning to invest in the state. The state government’s just-announced decision to offer 100% tax exemption to all electric vehicles has attracted similar plans from other electric vehicle and charging companies as well. “Tamil Nadu is one of the biggest markets for us. For Okinawa, the south comprises 60% of all e-two wheeler sales and TN comprises 20% of that market. So as we look for a factory in the south, we can think of putting an assembly line in TN,” said Jeetender Sharma, founder MD, Okinawa. Okinawa sold 1,000 electric vehicles in TN in October. Currently the company has a factory in Bhiwadi, Rajasthan. Others like Sun Mobility are also looking at TN for investments in charging infrastructure. “We have not invested in charging infrastructure in Chennai but now with this latest announcements will be exploring this further. Given our partnerships with IOCL and multiple OEMs, we will work to instal appropriate battery swapping infrastructure in the coming months,” said Chetan Maini, co-founder Sun Mobility. The state government has just announced MOUs with Li Energy for Rs 300 crore and Grinntech for Rs 90 crore. According to SMEV (Society of Manufcturers of Electric Vehicles) Tamil Nadu’s total EV sales are around 5,000 units per annum with two wheelers dominating the pie. “The tax exemption will translate into more than Rs 2,400 off for a Rs 60,000 two wheeler and an additional Rs 50,000 off for an electric car,” said Sohinder Gill, director general SMEV. Ather, for instance, has said that the removal of 4% road tax will mean Rs 6,900 off on Ather scooters lie 450X in TN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tn-on-radar-for-electric-mobility-cos/articleshow/79027762.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
November 4, 2020||Business||PE-VC firms look beyond Reliance, edtech in October||Chennai: Private Equity (PE) and Venture Capital (VC) firms looked beyond the Reliance group and the booming edtech sector to deploy funds in October. In an indication of a diversified investment strategy among PE-VC investors since the pandemic struck in April, consumer tech segments such as e-commerce, healthcare, fintech and food tech dominating the large deals tally. October recorded $3.1 billion in PE-VC investments across 54 deals with Reliance Retail’s fundraise of around $2.6 billion from Mubadala, ADIA, TPG Capital and GIC included, data from research firm Venture Intelligence shows. This is a dip from $4.1 billion of PE-VC funding across 63 deals recorded in the month of September. With the frenzy surrounding edtech tapering down this month, meat and seafood delivery startup FreshToHome raised the largest ever Series C round for a consumer tech venture garnering $121 million from the Investment Corporation of Dubai and other investors. Payments provider Razorpay entered the unicorn club with a $100 million raise from Singapore’s GIC, existing investor Sequoia Capital and others. Raising $55 million from Insight Partners, Steadview Capital and others, subscription billing software Chargebee also found a place among the top investment deals in October. In healthcare, PE firm PAG-led consortium acquired a controlling stake in active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) maker Anjan Drug for over $70 million.Arun Natarajan, founder, Venture Intelligence, said October was a rare month when investment action showed more diversity with consumer tech ventures other than the education technology sector drawing in large funds. “We will see a spill over of the overall digital transformation boost in other sectors too. As long as we don't go into another set of lockdowns, we should be seeing a more holistic investment momentum going forward,” he said.Thanks to RIL’s fundraising spree, 612 PE-VC investment deals worth $30.5 billion were recorded in January-October 2020 compared to $31 billion from 847 deals in the same period last year. PE-VC exits continue to underperform this year. October saw just four exits worth $142 million compared to 19 PE-VC exits worth $352 million in the same month last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pe-vc-firms-look-beyond-reliance-edtech-in-october/articleshow/79027593.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
November 4, 2020||Business||D-St may see short-term volatility over US polls||Mumbai: Indian markets could witness short-term volatility due to the outcome of the US presidential election. Over the long run, however, it’s the domestic economy that has usually dictated the course of the Indian market and this time too not much could change, fund managers and brokers said. In addition to the US poll outcome, if the currently rising Covid infection numbers lead to another dip in global growth, that could lead to volatility in the Indian markets. Most traders on Dalal Street are predicting a Joe Biden win, which is expected to be less harmful to the market, unlike Donald Trump, who’s known for his disruptive tweets at odd hours. According to SBI Mutual Fund ED & CIO Navneet Munot, the outcome of the US election assumes much greater importance in the wake of a more prominent role for fiscal policy and fragile geopolitics.  Additionally, future fiscal policies will have to play the dominant role now to reflate the global economy. “Fiscal expansion and redistributive policies are therefore the need of the hour to revive growth and inflation. A democratic sweep appears to be the most favourable outcome in this regard,” Munot wrote in a note. According to an Axis MF report, since 1932, in 19 out of 22 times, the market has correctly predicted a presidential outcome: When it goes up in the last three months to the election day, the incumbent party was re-elected. But if it was down, the incumbent was defeated. Since August this year, the S&P 500 is up 4%, increasing the probability of a Trump win. On the other side, however, the odds in the betting relating to the poll outcome are favouring a Biden win and lately “Biden trade” has started to outperform, the report said. On Dalal Street on Tuesday, banks and financials led a 504-point rally in the sensex to 40,261, despite a 1.5% slide in Reliance Industries. ICICI Bank, HDFC, HDFC Bank and SBI led the gains, while selling in RIL and Infosys limited the gains in the benchmark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/d-st-may-see-short-term-volatility-over-us-polls/articleshow/79030319.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Business||Cos must take steps to reduce financial stress for employees||By M MuneerGreat leaders rise to the occasion, like Germany’s Angela Merkel or New Zealand’s Jacinda Ardern. They assess the situation in the wake of a crisis, make clear plans and initiate decisive action in a transparent manner. They are open about what they are going to do and what they expect others to do. They lead by example and explain what they are going to do to address the crisis and then request people to follow. With management frameworks like scenario planning and risk heat maps, most leaders are equipped today to handle predictable chaos such as faulty products, a PR disaster, me-toos and so on. But nothing prepares them for situations like the current one. Here are a few leadership skills for the turbulent times, that have been gleaned from a multitude of leadership actions: * Accept the reality and embrace open communication. It is the duty of the leadership to reassure stakeholders that the organisation is doing everything possible to take care of their anxiety. Stay calm. An open communication is most essential to avoid rumours and superstitions of the kind we have seen in the last five months. * Take categorical steps to alleviate mental and financial stress. Like Tata and Premji, announce a no-layoff policy and advance pay dates. Bring sanity for WFH employees and the community around them. Do not make a show of donating to charity while denying salaries. * Include diversity at the strategic leadership level, instead of a set of homogenous yes-men in the leadership team. Have a diversified set, that’s well-represented by gender, region and experience. * Avoid confirmation bias. How many times leaders have encountered dissent within the enterprise? Is everyone saying aye and finding data to prove the leader’s view? Is there anyone entrusted with finding data that disconfirm? * Pick oneself up fast. If a new initiative fails, how quickly can the situation be saved with the least damage to the worker morale? See how Jio has unlocked value from its platform in the current turbulence. * Be roughly right and fast. Leaders at all levels should be empowered to take quick decisions within certain limits and they can course-correct as data emerges amid uncertainty. No one can wait for precise data because by the time that comes, the opportunity will be lost. * Stop defending fading markets and start seizing opportunities. Leaders today need to have the talent to spot and seize opportunities before these become obvious to others. Mahindra seized the opportunity in ventilators as soon as pandemic curves began rising. The above skills require time to acquire, but practice and preparation will make leaders turbulence-ready. Here are some steps to prepare for any crisis: * Compile all possible social harm that could confront the employees & the enterprise, and examine them from all sides. Plan for typical issues such as earthquakes, the death of a key executive and the unexpected ones such as brand firestorms in social media, fake news, and rumour stories. Create scenarios for each part of your plan, practise and revise this monthly or quarterly. * Prepare a team with diversified expertise from across the enterprise in order to drive issues to the right leader within. The extended team should have all the strategic leadership positions — outside experts where internal talent is not available, legal and HR. In the scenario planning, assign responsibilities for different stakeholders. * Classify the crisis into categories of priority. A level-1 incident can be something that, if handled in time and correctly, will not turn into a crisis. A level-6 one will require multiple-level involvement and the team members cannot rest until it is resolved. * Finally, prepare responses. Draft responses in different templates for each scenario with a clear responsibility chart: What to speak to which stakeholders, who will speak, how to speak, and so on. Also prepare the timing for each action and the counselling by the legal team wherever necessary. A few transformational leadership lessons from former US President Abraham Lincoln are still relevant: Assume full responsibility for pivotal decisions, understand the emotional needs of the team, refuse to let past resentments fester and shield colleagues from blame, among others. A crisis such as the Covid-19 does not wait for normal business hours or a leadership that is ready. There is no question 2021 will discard those who don’t take charge now — therein lies the opportunity for many of us. (The writer is MD, CustomerLab Solutions, and co-founder of the non-profit Medici Institute Foundation)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-must-take-steps-to-reduce-financial-stress-for-employees/articleshow/79030121.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Goa||Civic polls can only be held next yr: Mapusa MLA||Saligao: BJP’s Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza, who is also a councillor of the Mapusa Municipal Council, has said it would not be feasible to hold the municipal elections soon “as the people are still recovering from the Covid-19 pandemic”. “People are scared and apprehensive, and as they are recovering from the pandemic they will not be in right frame of mind to vote,” D’Souza said on Tuesday. “Only if the situation improves, can we think of having the elections in January, February or March next year,” he said. Stating that the the spike in Covid-19 cases in Goa occured “much late and now the cases are slowly going down”, the Mapusa MLA said, while adding the holding the civic polls will all depend on the situation. “I am focussing on building the confidence of the community, as the people getting worried about their health and employment. Rather than focussing on elections, we are trying to see how we can get the system back to normal,” he said. Reacting to the opposition parties stating that the BJP government is still silent on the Covid-19 vaccine, D’Souza said that the virus was itself “mutating everyday, and that once the vaccine is ready the government will launch it”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/civic-polls-can-only-be-held-next-yr-mapusa-mla/articleshow/79029898.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Patna||Villagers boycott polls in Bettiah||BAGAHA/KHAGARIA: Voters of booth number 131 and 132 of Gonauli panchayat and 274 (ka) and 275 of Karmawa Bharawalia panchayat in Bettiah assembly segment boycotted the polls to protest the lack of development in their area. They were demanding road and bridge over Chandrawat river. Polling was disrupted for an hour at booth no 251 of Syampur Kotaraha panchayat in Nautan segment, when enraged voters smashed the EVM after police reportedly thrashed a particular party worker, who was issuing slips with serial numbers to the voters. DM-cum-district returning officer of West Champaran, Kundan Kumar, and his wife cast their votes at the Govt Primary School booth in Bettiah. By and large polling was peaceful in Chanpatia, Bettiah and Nautan assembly segments. Elaborate security arrangements were made in Khagaria. Mounted military police personnel patrolled the riverine areas, including the Maoist-prone areas in Alouli (SC) constituency. The paramilitary forces and the district armed police personnel encouraged the voters to queue up while maintaining social distancing. Thermal screening, sanitisers, gloves and bins for throwing used gloves were arranged at the polling booths. “Covid-19 pandemic has failed to dampen the voting spirit of youngsters,” said Navin Kumar, a young advocate at booth number 66 in Sanhauli village adjacent to Khagaria town. Poll boycott owing to some local issues, however, were reported from a few places. “No untoward incident, however, was reported from anywhere,” said Khagaria DM-cum-election officer Alok Ranjan Ghosh. The overall poll percentage in Alouli (SC) and Beldaur was 52.90% and 50.34%, respectively, as voting in the two constituencies ended at 4pm, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/villagers-boycott-polls-in-bettiah/articleshow/79028589.cms||Thirthraj Kushwaha
November 4, 2020||Patna||103-yr-old votes in Sitamarhi booth||SITAMARHI: The voting in Sitamarhi, Runnisaidpur and Belsand passed off peacefully barring a few stray incidents. The voter turnout was a bit poor owing to several reasons, including lack of enthusiasm in urban and semi-urban areas, though Covid-19 pandemic did not put its long shadows on election in the three segments. People stepped out of their houses wearing masks and underwent thermal screening and were provided hand sanitisers before the polling process, but there was not sufficient number of gloves available at polling stations. Sanjay Kumar, an LIC executive, said it was a novel experience of casting vote during pandemic amid safety measures. The 103-year-old Bechan Sah cast his vote at booth number 254 in Runnisaidpur with confidence while taking all coronavirus safety measures. He said officials cooperated with him like anything. Voters without masks were not allowed to enter the polling stations. Village women were spotted using their stoles or dupatta to cover mouth and nose while many men opted for light towels. Many co-villagers were active in assisting others in covering the face and nose areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/103-yr-old-votes-in-sitamarhi-booth/articleshow/79028526.cms||Shyam Kishore Singh
November 4, 2020||Patna||Seven more Covid deaths take Bihar’s toll to 1,108||PATNA: The number of Covid cases in the state increased to 2,18,964 on Tuesday with 846 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Seven more people succumbed to the virus in the state in the last 24 hours. With this, the state’s Covid toll has mounted to 1,108. However, with 2,10,855 recovering from Covid so far, active cases in the state stand at 6,999. As per the data shared by the state health department, Patna, Bhojpur, Nalanda, Munger, Nawada, Muzaffarpur and Vaishali recorded one death each on Tuesday. AIIMS-Patna has recorded four fresh Covid deaths. The deceased included a 54-year-old man from P Gupta Road in Begusarai, a 60-year-old man from Lachikatikua village in Saran, a 76-year-old man from Thawe Road in Gopalganj and a 50-year-old man from Durgapur in Purnia. As per the information shared by hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar, 16 patients were admitted and nine discharged on Tuesday. Those admitted to the hospital included the ones from different localities of Patna like Lodipur, Lohiyanagar, Nageshwar Colony, East Chanmari Road and Phulwarisharif. Nalanda Medical College did not report any fresh death. Of 846 new Covid-19 cases registered on Tuesday, Patna accounted for 203. With this, the district’s Covid tally has increased to 36,575. However, with 34,268 recoveries and 270 deaths, there are 2,037 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Saharsa recorded 76, Araria 75, Purnia 46, Muzaffarpur 35, Bhagalpur 31 and Jehanabad 27 cases on Tuesday. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 875 people have recuperated from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate was 96.30%. “Altogether 1,43,642 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. So far, 1.13 crore samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/seven-more-covid-deaths-take-bihars-toll-to-1108/articleshow/79028832.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 4, 2020||Business||BoB rolls back cash charges||TNN Mumbai: Bank of Baroda (BoB) on Tuesday withdrew charges on cash deposit and withdrawals at branches beyond three transactions a month each. Other public sector banks (PSBs) also informed the RBI that they will not hike bank charges “in the near future” in view of the pandemic. The roll-back of charges, which came into force only a couple of days ago, followed a social media and political backlash that compelled both the RBI and the finance ministry to respond to the criticism. The ministry of finance in a statement said that although, according to RBI guidelines, all banks including PSBs can levy charges for their services in a fair, transparent and non-discriminatory manner, based upon costs involved, PSBs have intimated that they do not propose to raise bank charges in the near future in view of the Covid pandemic. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, an official at a public sector bank said that these charges were not intended to generate revenue but to discourage small businesses from using current account for business transactions. The finance ministry also clarified that no service charge is applicable on the 60 crore basic savings bank deposit accounts, which include the 41 crore Jan Dhan accounts opened by the poor and unbanked segments of society, for the free services prescribed by the RBI. “Bank of Baroda had made certain changes with effect from November 1, 2020, with regard to the number of free cash deposits and withdrawals each month. The number of free cash deposits and withdrawals have been reduced from 5 each per month to 3 each per month, with no change in the charges for transactions in excess of these free transactions. Bank of Baroda has since informed that in the light of the current Covid-related situation, they have decided to withdraw the changes. Further, no other PSB has increased such charges recently,” the finance ministry statement said. The RBI statement was on similar lines as the finance ministry. Bank of Baroda pointed out that no new charges have been added to the existing ones and that for senior citizens charges are lower than what is charged to normal customers. The bank in a circular to all branches across the country said that the cash-related service charges which was to come in force from November 1, has been withdrawn because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bob-rolls-back-cash-charges/articleshow/79029891.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: High turnout recorded in all five Darbhanga seats||DARBHANGA: The Covid pandemic could not deter people from exercising their franchise in five assembly constituencies of the district – Darbhanga rural, Alinagar, Benipur, Gaura Bauram and Kusheshwar Asthan (SC) – which went to polls in the second and penultimate phase on Tuesday. Women voters standing in long queues at polling booths and septuagenarians and octogenarians reaching the booths taking help from their family members was witnessed in all the constituencies. Prabhunarayan Mishra (90), who exercised his franchise at booth number 264 in Darbhanga rural constituency taking help from his grandson, said he would continue to vote as long as he is alive. At booth number 80 in Kusheshwar Asthan, 87-year-old Mahavir Jha and 89-year-old Mohd Idrish enthusiastically voted for the candidates of their choice. Large number of voters turned up at the Middle school Uchhti and Biraul booths too in Kusheshwar Asthan. Women voters were seen standing in queues braving scorching sun at the Karpoori Sabha Bhawan booth in Benipur assembly constituency. JD(U) candidate from the seat Shashi Bhushan Hazari claimed people in large number voted for him on the basis of the performance of CM Nitish Kumar and PM Narendra Modi. “I am a local person unlike Congress’s Ashok Kumar, who is an outsider,” Hazari, who had represented this constituency in 2010 as BJP candidate and in 2015 as JD(U) candidate, said. First-time voter Shatwik Jha of Maubehat village under Darbhanga rural constituency was thrilled for exercising his franchise. Mohd Ali Ashraf Fatmi, father of JD(U) candidate Faraj Fatmi from Darbhanga rural constituency, said large number of minorities have come out to vote for his son. The Kusheshwar Asthan (reserved) constituency, lying in remote area, led from the beginning in registering high poll percentage. Youths were seen carrying their elderly parents on bikes for voting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/high-turnout-recorded-in-all-five-darbhanga-seats/articleshow/79028752.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand ‘successfully’ retains returning migrants as 71% stay back for work||DEHRADUN: In what has been described as a positive sign for the efforts put in by the Uttarakhand government to encourage self-employment in the state, about 71% of the 3.57 lakh people who had returned during the Covid-19 lockdown have stayed back and are looking for work opportunities. The government has credited the CM Swarojgar Yojana for the “positive trend”. The yojana was launched this year to provide self-employment opportunities to the youth and returning migrants. According to a study done by the government’s Rural Development and Migration Commission team, about 3.57 lakh had returned to Uttarakhand when the lockdown was announced in March this year. From September end to October end, a total of 1.04 lakh, that is 29 % of the total returnees, have again moved to other states in search of work. The remaining 71%, which is 2.52 lakh, stayed back and have decided to seek work in the state. The study pointed out that out of the 2.52 lakh returnees, 12 % of them have started their own venture, 33 % have taken up agriculture, 38% turned to animal husbandry and 17 % enrolled themselves under the MGNREGA scheme. “This is a major achievement and a positive outcome of the efforts put in by the state government in the last six months,” said vice-chairman of the commission S S Negi. Notably, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had on Monday instructed the senior state officials to work on ‘mission mode’ to ensure that the returnees are provided due assistance in finding employment or getting self-employed in the state. The CM said the works related to employment and self-employment of the returnees should be taken up on a mission mode. The secretaries of different departments have been given the responsibility to keep an eye on the updates and take the timely decision to encourage self-employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-successfully-retains-returning-migrants-as-71-stay-back-for-work/articleshow/79026896.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||DMC to organise fair to mark state foundation day||DEHRADUN: Dehradun Municipal Corporation will be organising a mini fair on the occasion of the state foundation day celebrated on November 9 where women from over 70 self-help groups (SHGs) will exhibit their art work. The officials said that these women have shown their handicraft work and will put up stalls for three days beginning November 9. A committee of three members will also rate the best stall and the participants will be rewarded. Deputy municipal commissioner Rohitash Sharma told TOI, “The women from the SHGs have been doing exceptional work and we have decided to provide them with a platform to showcase their work. The mini fair before Diwali will give a boost to their livelihood. We will also be inviting women from SHGs under other municipal corporations like Mussoorie, Selaqui and Doiwala.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-organise-fair-to-mark-state-foundation-day/articleshow/79026894.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Patna||‘We have voted for change’||PATNA: Voters from minority-dominated areas like Sabzibagh, Phulwarisharif, Alamganj and Raja Bazaar exercised their franchise in large number on Tuesday. Maulana Mohd Alam Quasmi, convenor of Tanzeem Tehreek Aiemma Masjid, said, “In Patna, the voting percentage was average. However, there was unity among all the minorities when it comes to selection of candidates. Now, we have to wait for the results.” Anjum Ara (48), a resident of Sabzibagh, said, “We all voted with a hope that the state will develop under good leadership. There are so many issues that need to be addressed. We need change and we are ready for it.” A software engineer and a residnet of Raja Bazaar, Md Irfan Khan (23), said for youths, education and job matter the most.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/we-have-voted-for-change/articleshow/79028107.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 4, 2020||Patna||Prominent personalities exercise voting rights||PATNA: The second phase of Bihar assembly elections not only had some high-profile candidates in the fray but also prominent many personalities, who exercised their franchise with common citizens in different segments of Patna on Tuesday. Actor-turned politician Shatrughan Sinha (Shotgun) and his wife Punam Sinha cast their votes for their son Luv Sinha, who is contesting from Bankipur assembly seat on a Congress ticket against sitting BJP MLA Nitin Navin. Noted folk singer and Padma Shri awardee Sharda Sinha, who visited the polling booth in her area to vote, also enthralled the others present there with her song ‘Chunav ka parv hai ...’ She appealed the people to come out of their homes and exercise their voting rights by following Covid protocols. “We all want development,” she added. Bhojpuri star Kunal Singh landed in Patna on Tuesday and cast his vote at a polling station in Bankipur. “I have come to exercise my voting rights and participate in this biggest festival of democracy. I also appeal people to do the same and vote for the candidate of their choice,” he said after exercising his franchise. After casting his vote, Sharad Vivek Sagar, founder and CEO of a company, tweeted: “Showed up at my polling booth at 6:45am. .” Mathematician and founder of Super 30 Anand Kumar, along with his family members, reached the polling station at Chand Bela in Patna around 3pm and they cast their votes. He told this newspaper that everyone has the right to vote and they should exercise this power. “Voting is important for the democracy and growth of the state. All my family members exercise their voting rights. Our voting power can transform and decide the future of Bihar. ,” said Anand, who returned from Mumbai on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prominent-personalities-exercise-voting-rights/articleshow/79028226.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 4, 2020||Surat||High turnout in two tribal constituencies of south Gujarat||SURAT: With 73.71 % voting till 5pm, voters’ turnout in the bypoll for Dang seat is not only likely to be highest-ever in this tribal-dominated constituency in the recent years. In 2017, Dang had recorded 72.64% voting. Congress candidate Mangal Gavit had retained the with a thin margin of 768 votes. Traditionally a Congress bastion, it was only once in 2007 that BJP candidate could wrest it from the opposition. This time, Congress has pitted Suryakant Gavit against BJP’s Vijay Patel in the seat that was vacated after sitting Congress MLA Mangal Gavit resigned as an MLA. Poll pundits attributed the high voter turnout to the fact that migrating labourers are still stuck at their homes this time around and those who had gone to work in the sugarcane fields were given transportation on voting day. Kaprada seat in Valsad district too registered huge turnout of 69.23% voters till 5 pm. The bypoll here is significant for both the rival parties -- BJP and the Congress, while total four candidates are in the fray. After heavyweight tribal face and four-time MLA from Kaprada, Jitu Chaudhary shifted allegiance to the BJP recently, he is gunning for the fifth consecutive term as a BJP candidate this time. In 2017, Chaudhary managed scrape through with just 170 votes against BJP’s Madhu Raut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/high-turnout-in-two-tribal-constituencies-of-south-guj/articleshow/79026990.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Rajkot||Two new roads to connect Rajkot AIIMS||RAJKOT: Commuting to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which is proposed to come up on Jamnagar Road, is set to get smooth before the prestigious institute comes up. Tenders for two roads leading to Khandheri, the location for AIIMS, were approved on Wednesday by the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) and Rajkot Urban Development Authority (RUDA). A railway over bridge (ROB) on the New Ring Road, which is a must for access to AIIMS, will also supplement the travelling ease later. Chetan Ganatra, CEO, RUDA said, “One 4.7 km four-lane road from Morbi bypass to Ghanteshwar is 30 m wide and the width of other 3.5 km six-lane road from Ghanteshwar to AIIMS is 90 m.” The estimated cost of both roads are around Rs 28 crore. The target is to construct both these roads within a year of selecting the contractor. For now, the stretch from Ghanteshwar to AIIMS will be 45 m wide, which can be later expanded to 90 m along with a BRTS track as per the future need. At present, there are two roads leading to the location, but there are railway tracks there. Meanwhile, it’s still unclear as to whether RUDA or roads and building department of the state government will allot the budget for the ROB. It will be constructed by the railways and it is expected to take at least four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-new-roads-to-connect-rajkot-aiims/articleshow/79027256.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Patna||Polls in Madhuban and Pipra peaceful||MOTIHARI: The voters in six assembly constituencies of Madhuban, Pipra, Kesaria, Kalyanpur, Gobindganj and Harsidhi cast their votes at 2,386 booths without any fear Covid fear. All the booths were sanitised and gloves were provided by district administration. Most of the people were seen covering their faces with gamchha. A large number of women voters were seen in queue outside many booths in Madhuban, Gobindganj and Pipra since early morning. The 70-year-old Sarita Devi had difficulties in walking but reached the booth in Madhuban on the cycle of her grandson to cast vote. As soon as the poll started at 7am, 46 EVMs were found defective and replaced by the administration, said DM-cum-returning officer Shirshat Kapil Ashok. A violent scuffle took place between supporters of JD(U) candidate Shalini Mishra and workers of Rajesh Kumar, an independent candidate, on booth number 109 at Sarrotar village in Kesaria constituency. A case was lodged in this connection with Dumariya ghat police station. According to district control room, the voters of booth number 158 in Madhuban boycotted the poll till 2pm. They were shouting slogans like ‘Road nahi to vote nahi’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/polls-in-madhuban-and-pipra-peaceful/articleshow/79028789.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
November 4, 2020||Business||High home loan demand triggers interest rate war||̥MUMBAI: A surge in demand for home loans in October has triggered a rate war. Kotak Bank is now offering home loans at 6.75% — the second reduction in less than a month. A host of banks are offering loans at 6.8% to 7%, resulting in the spread between these and government bonds narrowing down to 80 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). Banks say that home loans are a safe bet and this is the only segment growing in double digits. Demand has been triggered because of work from home (WFH) needs, discounts by builders, reduction in stamp duty rates and interest rates being at an all-time low. The frequent changes in pricing among lenders seem to indicate that a rate war is brewing as the banks compete to grow the home loan book, which is seen as the safest category of loans. In the last few days, Bank of Baroda and Union Bank of India had slashed their home loans to 6.8% and 6.9%. SBI recently announced discounts of up to 25bps on loans above Rs 75 lakh for customers applying from its app Yono. HDFC also offers loans at 6.9%. Speaking to TOI, Kotak Bank group president (consumer banking) Shanti Ekambaram said that the lender was seeing an increase in demand for housing as the shift to WFH had resulted in homeowners looking for larger accommodation. Also, developers and state governments were offering additional incentives to home buyers. “We are seeing demand back at pre-Covid levels and we want to open our doors to home loan customers as part of our acquisition strategy for long-term customers,” she said. According to Ekambaram, home loans were the best asset class, and offering the lowest rate enabled the bank to attract top quality customers. While announcing the results, Punjab National Bank MD & CEO S S Mallikarjuna Rao said that home loans have gained momentum and are heading to pre-Covid levels. Home loans have been a major driver of credit, growing nearly 10% on a year-on-year basis to Rs 84,000 crore. For HDFC, home loan disbursements in October 2020 have been the second-highest in any month in the institution’s history. Mumbai saw the highest demand followed by Delhi and Bengaluru, while Hyderabad and Chennai were a bit slow. “The demand that we are seeing is largely transactions that were initiated post-Covid and is not pent-up demand. We hope that this will be sustained,” said HDFC VC and CEO Keki Mistry. Ekambaram says that the renewed demand for housing is an opportunity for Kotak Bank, which was not part of the top-five home loan lenders. The bank now offers home loans at 6.75% for salaried borrowers with a Cibil score of over 750 and loan-to-value of 80% and below. For self-employed borrowers, the rate is 6.85%, all other conditions being similar. The same rates will be available for borrowers seeking balance transfers. Watch Surge in home loan demand sets-off interest rate war||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/high-home-loan-demand-triggers-interest-rate-war/articleshow/79030041.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 4, 2020||Patna||Women voters throng polling booths in city||PATNA: At polling stations across the city, women from all ages turned up in large numbers to exercise their franchise on Tuesday. At several polling booths, the voters arrived much before the polling began. In Patna, elections were held in eight constituencies – Bankipur, Bakhtiyarpur, Danapur, Digha, Fatuha, Kumhrar, Maner, Patna Sahib and Phulwari (SC) – in the second phase on Tuesday. Women voters made a beeline for polling booths amid Covid pandemic. Akira Singh (31), who exercised her franchise at a polling station in Lohia Nagar, said she cast her vote for the betterment of and progress of Bihar. Hema Sinha (49), a resident of S K Puri, said, “We have seen development in Bihar in the last few years. There was a time when women would avoid leaving home after sunset. However, situation has changed now and women feel much safer in the state. This atmosphere should continue. I am hopeful that more development will take place in the state, especially in Patna, in the years to come.” Shweta Prasad (37), a teacher, said mass unemployment is a major poll issue this time. “We need a young leader who can understand the needs of youths. There are leaders who only talk on communal lines. I have voted against hatred in the society,” she said. Ankita Kumari (35), who works in a private firm, said the elected leader should ensure security and safe environment for women. “It is sad that there are very few women candidates in the poll fray. Proper representation of women in assembly is required in a state like Bihar,” she said. Nisha Singh (42), a resident of Ashiana Colony, said, “Inflation and unemployment are some of the important issues this time. We are hopeful that young faces will usher in development in the state.” Meanwhile, the district administration took special measures to ensure high turnout of women voters. Over 250 model booths and all-woman booths were set up in the district to woo the women voters. Even security personnel at these polling booths were women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/women-voters-throng-polling-booths-in-city/articleshow/79028359.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 4, 2020||Business||Tamil Nadu clinches top spot, gets highest investments in April-Sept||Chennai: Tamil Nadu received the highest share of investment proposals during the first half of the current fiscal, moving up two notches from the third position it held a year ago, a ratings agency report said on Tuesday. Ratings agency Care Ratings said that Tamil Nadu had the highest share of 16% in the investments proposed during April-September period with Rs 20,000 crore, while Andhra Pradesh had the highest share of 23% in the capex projects announced. Andhra Pradesh garnered 11%, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Karnataka have garnered 7% each, while the balance went to the other states. Care Ratings said that it sourced data from CMIE, an economic think tank. “It has been our constant endeavour to reach out for investments. The efforts are showing results,” said Neeraj Mittal, managing director and CEO, Tamil Nadu Industrial Guidance and Export Promotion Bureau. He said the investment pipeline remained robust and expects the current momentum to continue. “Tamil Nadu has been fortunate as investors continue to flock,” he said and with elections a few months away, he does not foresee any dip in inbound investments. “I do not see any intar seasonal variations impacting investments,” he added. On a pan India basis, there was a sharp drop in investments as the Covid pandemic induced lockdown put sharp stress in economic activity including investments into new projects. Projects announced for H1 FY21 fell sharply by 69% to Rs 1.5 lakh crore compared with Rs 4.8 lakh crore last year. Private investment tracker Projects Today too said that Tamil Nadu topped fresh investments in the first quarter (April-June).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tamil-nadu-clinches-top-spot-gets-highest-investments-in-april-sept/articleshow/79027735.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Business||Ind directors, audit panel to certify M&As||TNN Mumbai: Sebi has decided to put greater responsibility on independent directors of a listed company by asking them to recommend that a scheme of merger, demerger or amalgamation is not detrimental to the shareholders of the company. Sebi has also changed some rules that will now require the audit committee of the board to approve any such scheme only after going through its rationale and after taking into account a cost-benefit analysis, a circular from the regulator said. Sebi further said that the stock exchanges will provide the ‘no objection’ certificate for such a scheme “in co-ordination with each other”. And the regulatory clearance could come only after the receipt of such a letter. All merger, demerger and amalgamation schemes will require a report from the committee of independent directors “recommending the draft scheme, taking into consideration, inter alia, that the scheme is not detrimental to the shareholders of the listed entity,” Sebi said. According to J Sagar Associates partner Vikram Raghani, the new rule relating to independent directors’ responsibilities about such a scheme is “quite different from open offer situations where independent directors are merely required to give their recommendations on the offer”. Independent directors may now find it “challenging to provide such a recommendation virtually signing off on a scheme on such unequivocal terms”, Raghani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ind-directors-audit-panel-to-certify-mas/articleshow/79029965.cms||---
November 4, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: A festival-like scene in rural areas of Patna district||PATNA: Even though there was heavy downpour of poll promises in the state ahead of the assembly elections, the excitement on voting day was missing among city voters. However, in rural areas of the district, people were seen heading to polling booths since morning. According to the data available with Patna district administration, voting percentage was much less in urban areas of the district. For instance, four constituencies which come under Patna Municipal Corporation – Bankipore, Patna Sahib, Digha and Kumhrar – had lesser turnout of voters when compared to constituencies in rural Patna. Altogether nine constituencies had gone to polls in Patna district in the second phase. Digha had the least turnout of voters, just 34.5%, followed by Bankipur (35.9), Kumhrar (36.4), Danapur (49.8), Patna Sahib (50.6), Bakhtiyarpur (59.2), Fatuha (59.7), Phulwari (59.76) and Maner (61.8). Ratneshwar Singh, a writer, recalled how there used to be long queues of elderly people in earlier polls. Singh, a voter from Bankipore constituency, said, “I reached my booth at 6.55am and none was there, except my family members. Earlier, at least 60 to 70 people would reach the polling booth early in the morning. It seems Covid-19 has taken toll on voting percentage in the constituency.” Fifty-year-old Shaheena Imam, a voter from Digha constituency, said there was no rush at her booth. However, there were many who braved pandemic to exercise their voting right. Tara Devi, a 90-year-old voter, reached her polling booth at St Xavier’s High School on a wheelchair. “I make sure everyone in my family comes out and votes,” Tara, who was accompanied by her two granddaughters and grandsons, said. A couple from Krishna Nagar, Pintu Kumar and Saloni Kumari, said they cast their votes before starting their daily chores. “Pehle matdaan, phir jalpaan,” said Saloni. Sharmistha Tiwari, who had come all the way from Noida to vote, said, “During elections, I make sure to come to Patna to exercise my franchise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/a-festival-like-scene-in-rural-areas-of-patna-dist/articleshow/79028042.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 4, 2020||Patna||Young first-time voters get inked with jobs, education in mind||PATNA: Unsurprisingly, for most young first-time voters, employment and development issues have taken centre stage. On Tuesday morning, when young voters headed for their polling stations in Patna, many of them shared that apart from these two issues they kept in mind the candidate and not their political parties. Ayesha Maryam (19) and her sister Wreesha Rahman (21) at a polling station in Raja Bazaar were elated after casting their votes for the first time. Wreesha said, “Even a single vote matters a lot in the selection of the right leader for the state.” Her sister Ayesha said she voted for good governance and development. Another first-time voter, Sumit Sharma (23), said luckily he is in Patna to cast his first vote. “I read and watched political news and the manifestos of parties then I made my own decision. I voted for young leadership,” said Sumit, a resident of Rajbanshi Nagar. With issues ranging from women’s safety to job opportunities, higher education and health care, the young generation voters have a long list of expectations from the parties in the poll fray. Ashutosh Ranjan, a 20-year-old college student and a resident of Mahendru, said some leaders appear to be promising with their new outlook while others are sticking to their old agendas. “We need a government to encourage higher education, adopt modern teaching methods, provide fund for infrastructure development and quality teachers,” he said. A resident of Boring Canal Road, 19-year-old Juhi Shrivastava believes that quality education and employment opportunities in the state should be the topmost agenda for any young voter. “If we have a good education system and job opportunities then nothing can stop the overall growth of the state. The quality of life will also improve,” Juhi said. “We have IIT, NIT, NIFT and IIM in Bihar but only these four institutes are not enough. We need more such good institutes or develop the existing one as grand institutes,” said Prachi Aggarwal (21), another first time- voter at a polling station in Kankerbagh. She added, “We also need a leader who encourages higher education institutes to collaborate with domestic and international institutes. This would churn out more employment opportunities for Bihari students.” Describing her feeling as a first-time voter, Sanjali Kumari, a resident of Gola road said, “I felt like a responsible citizen who has taken part in the democratic process. I also captured the memory of getting inked for the first- time. The key issues for youths are clear we need safety, education and job.” As per official data, there are 3,44,370 voters in Patna in the age group of 18-19, while 11.8 lakh voters are in the age group of 20 and 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/young-first-time-voters-get-inked-with-jobs-education-in-mind/articleshow/79036122.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: Covid fear fails to dampen voting spirit of electorates in Bankipur||PATNA: Setting all apprehensions of poor turnout owing to Covid-19 pandemic aside, the electorate of Bankipur constituency turned out in large numbers to cast their votes on Tuesday. Polling was held peacefully at almost all the booths while strictly adhering to all the precautionary measures. The widespread fear of the pandemic did not dampen the spirit of the overenthusiastic electorates, cutting across their age and sex. Eighty-one-year-old Nagendra Prasad Sinha, a retired government employee, was the first to cast his vote at Kidzee Pre-School polling booth located on East Boring Canal Road. He had turned up at the booth much before the polling started and waiting patiently till he was allowed to move in. Sinha, who has been exercising his right to franchise for the last six decades, was quite satisfied with the arrangements made by the polling officials at the booth. “They had marked circles at a distance of two metres where voters were supposed to stand and gradually move. Besides, they also sanitised our hands and gave us gloves to wear before touching the EVM,” he said. At the same booth, 21-year-old Harshita, a student of mass communications, was quite thrilled to cast her vote for the first time. “The experience wasn’t as stressful as I imagined, so the whole process was really enjoyable. It took a matter of seconds and it felt really good to know that I have a voice. I have enjoyed this election, especially as it was my first,” she added. Seventy-year-old Ajay Kisore Sharan, a retired university teacher, cast his vote at about 7.30am at A N College booth. “There is no excuse not to go and vote; it takes a few minutes. I always felt it’s our country, our elections. It is our duty to go and elect our candidate. I have not missed a single election till date,” he said. Sharan appreciated the polling arrangements, particularly for the senior citizens. E-rickshaws were carrying older people from the college gate to the polling booths and some wheelchairs had also been pressed into service for the physically challenged and very old electorates, he added. “I believe voting is fundamentally important — politics affects us all every single day and by voting, our voice can be heard,” said 63-year-old Renuka Shukla, a retired bank employee, after casting her vote at S K Puri Community Centre booth. “I have been exercising my right to vote regularly since 1977 general elections and I always vote for development,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-fear-fails-to-dampen-voting-spirit-of-electorates/articleshow/79036242.cms||B K Mishra
November 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls: Displaced people travel 30km to cast votes in Raghopur area||RAGHOPUR DIARA: Nature’s fury failed to dampen the spirit of some people of the Raghopur diara as they travelled close to 30km to reach their polling booth on Tuesday to cast their votes. Almost 30% of the 1,617 voters of Rampur Karari Barari had been displaced by the erosion from the Ganga water way back in 2013 and shifted to places like Mahnar and Vaishali since then. But they travel to their village polling booth every time to vote and this time was no exception. Their houses and farmland immersed into the Ganga, which still erodes part of the village every year. Parshuram Singh (36) carried his deceased younger brother’s wife on his bike from Mahnar to reach Rampur’s upgraded middle school after crossing two pontoon bridges over the Ganga on Tuesday to cast their votes. The school had booth numbers 325 and 326 with total 1617 voters. Singh said his house subsided into the Ganga in 2013 due to massive erosion and his family shifted to Mahnar and constructed a new house there. “We also lost almost all our farmland. We owned 15 acres of land but are left with only 2 acres due to erosion,” he said. Singh said their farm produce and other items still reach Mahnar from Rampur. He said at least 500 houses and hundreds of acres of land have submerged in the Ganga since 2013. “The displaced families are living on rent after shifting to Mahnar, Hajipur and other places. Those who were financially strong purchased land and constructed houses at the new places. But poor villagers constructed small huts on the land of others to live in the village,” he added. Singh showed a concrete road passing in front of the school. It ends in the Ganga due to erosion. “From Jimdari ghat to Lanka Tola, the embankment requires repair immediately. Otherwise, this school building will also submerge in the Ganga by next year,” he said. Upender Rai, who looks after the pontoon bridges, said Chak Singar, Paroha and Jorawanpur are the other villages where large number of families got displaced due to continuous erosions. Rai said a massive erosion at around 9am on Monday at Jorawanpur Chakosan located on the mainland Vaishali slightly damaged the starting point of pontoon bridge. He said fast repair helped restore traffic on the bridge by 5pm. “Several polling parties waited for an hour to reach the diara area due to erosion,” he said. Jitan Rai of Bishunpur Saidali said boats are the only mode of transportation to reach Vaishali or Patna during most part of the year. “It takes at least an hour to cross the river in monsoon. Several patients die while being transported,” he added. Rajdeo Rai (81), former sarpanch of Paharpur panchayat, said youths are jobless. “They need jobs. Children need good education and proper school. Teachers are from Vaishali. They can’t come half the time due to the geographical condition,” he said. he said there is only a referral hospital and a primary health centre in the entire diara region with a population of one lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/displaced-people-travel-30km-to-cast-votes-in-raghopur-area/articleshow/79036851.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 645% increase in chikungunya cases in September-October this year||AHMEDABAD: Chikungunya cases in Ahmedabad registered a 645% increase in September and October as compared to 2019. The city reported 410 cases of chikungunya in the two months. The figure was 55 during the same period in 2019. The city in 2020 has so far reported 481 cases of chikungunya. In first eight months, the city reported 71 cases which increased to 125 in September and in October it rose by 285. A senior official from the department said that the city in September reported nearly four cases of chikungunya per day which increased to six in the first 10 days of October. In the remaining 21 days of October the cases were registered at an average of nearly 11 cases per day. The officials are still wondering as to why the cases of chikungunya are increasing in the city. The AMC health department is yet to zero in on the causes of the increase as both chikungunya and dengue belong to the same vector family. In September and October there were 130 cases of dengue against 410 of chikungunya. “It comes as a surprise as we see a ratio of one case of dengue against 10 cases of chikungunya. I feel that the virus has mutated,” said Dr Manoj Vithalani, a city-based consulting physician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/645-increase-in-chikungunya-cases-in-sept-oct-this-year/articleshow/79028206.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 4, 2020||Business||PMC Bank seeks investors, may convert into small fin bank||MUMBAI: In a first, the RBI-appointed administrator of Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank has come up with a revival strategy where private investors can take over and convert the failed cooperative into a small finance bank and possibly capitalise part of deposits into equity. Small finance banks, unlike cooperatives, have promoters and can be listed. Small finance banks, like cooperatives, are allowed to lend only to individuals and small businesses, but have more flexibility in term of products they offer. Most small finance banks started out as microfinance institutions. Under the revival plan, potential investors will have to bring in capital and can explore options of converting part of deposits into equity, besides getting support from the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC), which can compensate up to Rs 5 lakh per depositor. It is the first time that deposits are sought to be capitalised and this would be one of the early cases where DICGC’s enhanced compensation of Rs 5 lakh is extended. “We are working on finding a way out to resolve the bank in the best interests of all stakeholders, particularly the depositors. Various models/options are being considered, and discussions are continuing with different entities in this regard,” said the RBI-appointed administrator A K Dixit in a letter to depositors. The investors have to submit expressions of interest (EoIs) by December 15, 2020. There is no explicit offer to the investor of a small finance bank licence. But the document inviting EoIs states that it will be open for the investors to convert the bank into a small finance bank by making an application to the RBI for the voluntary transition into such an entity. It also points out that under RBI guidelines, a small finance bank is eligible to transition into a universal bank after five years, subject to meeting the prescribed eligibility conditions. “The investors may explore the option of restructuring a part of deposit liabilities into capital/capital instruments,” the EoI document said. Eligible investors could be financial institutions, including banks and NBFCs, and individuals or groups of individuals/companies, societies, trusts or any other such entities having adequate net worth.For potential investors, the attraction of PMC bank would be a 137-branch network with several in prime areas of Mumbai suburbs and a depositor base that include high net worth individuals. However, the downside would be the fact that the bank is embroiled in several legal cases as the earlier management had allegedly connived with the HDIL group and made available a large chunk of its deposits to the developer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pmc-seeks-investors-may-convert-into-small-fin-bank/articleshow/79030093.cms||---
November 4, 2020||---||Bihar elections: BJP, opposition parties claim victory in second round||PATNA: Major political parties started making claims and counter claims over winning more seats in the second phase of the state assembly polls soon after the voting ended on Tuesday. RJD MP Manoj Jha said his alliance would win over 65 seats out of the 94, which went to the polls on Tuesday. Taking a jibe at PM Narendra Modi’s ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chant at an election meeting in Bihar, Jha said it was a reflection of the party (read BJP) about the outcome of the assembly polls. He also criticized PM Modi for not responding to the letter written by the RJD seeking clarifications on 11-points related to the state. Congress national spokesperson Pawan Khera said the farewell of CM Nitish Kumar led NDA government in the state is imminent on November 10. He said the double-engine NDA government in Bihar has failed to deliver the desired results. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the wind of change is blowing across the state. LJP chief Chirag Paswan also claimed that the second phase of elections has paved the way for removal of Nitish from the CM’s post. “I can give you in writing that Nitish will not remain in power after November 10,” he said in Khagaria. But senior BJP leader and state road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav said the NDA would be able to retain power in the state. “People are voting on the basis of development and not on caste lines,” he said. Union home minister Nityanand Rai said at Hajipur that people voted in favour of the NDA candidates. “Election ke baad NDA ki sarkar banana tai hai (NDA is going to form government),” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-oppn-claim-victory-in-second-round/articleshow/79028708.cms||Ramashankar
November 4, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: No trace of body in second attempt||VADODARA: The second attempt by the CID (crime) sleuths to trace the body of custodial death victim Sheikh Babu Nisar also yielded nothing as teams conducted a search operation in the Narmada canal passing from the city. An intensive search operation was carried out in the seven-kilometre stretch between Chhani, Sevasi and Khanpur. “We didn’t get any clues about the missing body,” said a CID official. The operation began at around 7am on Tuesday and was called off at 5pm. Fire officer Om Jadeja said that the water in some portions of the canal was full of garbage, making the search a bit difficult. The CID team had also searched the ravines of Mahi River near Sevasi village three days ago and tried to ascertain if some suspicious burning had happened in the area in December last year. The operation was undertaken after investigators got information that his body may have been disposed of in the canal. However, all that the cops found from the canal was a skeleton of an animal. Sheikh’s missing body has been causing embarrassment for the investigators as all the six accused cops have already been arrested. Sheikh was picked up as a suspect in a theft case by the Fatehgunj police in December last year The police filed a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against the six cops identified as Dharmendrasinh Gohil, PSI Dashrath Rabari, LRD personnel Yogendrasinh Jilansinh, Rajesh Savjibhai, Pankaj Mavji and Hitesh Shambhu in July. All the six cops disappeared soon after before landing up in police custody on August 31. The high court also directed the city police to register a complaint of murder against all the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-trace-of-body-in-second-attempt/articleshow/79026352.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||HC tells LDA not to raze mart at Lalbagh||LUCKNOW: The high court on Tuesday directed state authorities and LDA not to take any further coercive step to demolish the commercial complex constructed on the land of Lalbagh Christian Educational Society in Kaiserbagh. A bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Saurabh Lavania passed the order on a writ petition filed by Mohammad Saleem Khan. The petitioner pleaded that the prescribed authority had passed an order against the complex on October 15, 2019, but against the said order, he filed a statutory appeal before the commissioner on November 14, 2019, which is pending. Opposing the plea, LDA lawyer Ratnesh Chandra argued that the constructions raised by the petitioner were illegal inasmuch as the petitioner took permission for the construction of hostel/residence of the principal, but instead a commercial complex has been raised. The bench directed the chairman of the LDA/commissioner of the division to consider and decide the appeal of the petitioner most expeditiously, in accordance with law, preferably by the end of this month. “And in case, for any reason, it is not possible for him to decide the appeal by the above period, at least his stay application shall be considered and decided, in accordance with law, within the above period,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-tells-lda-not-to-raze-mart-at-lalbagh/articleshow/79030601.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||Day 2: LDA hammer on illegal residential colony||Lucknow: A under-construction residential colony and a guest house were among several unauthorised buildings demolished by the Lucknow Development Authority in association with the district administration on the second day of the three-month-drive against land sharks in the city on Tuesday. The drive freed about 0.5 hectare encroached land with a market value of nearly Rs 1 crore. The total value of the bulldozed units was estimated to be Rs 58 crore, said district magistrate Abhishek Prakash, who also holds an additional charge of LDA vice-chairperson. The biggest defaulter in the Tuesday’s exercise was a developer, who was constructing a residential colony on a 8,000sqm land in Kakori area in violation of norms, LDA officials said. The developer had been served notices to dismantle the property on his own, but he did not pay heed, they said. A 15x20ft hall constructed on a green belt adjacent to an apartment in Gomtinagar Extension was knocked down on the complaints of the residents. Also, a two-storey guest house constructed on a 2,500sqft land in Saraswatipuram near SGPGI was razed as its map was not approved by the LDA. Similarly, an unauthorised structure in Naubasta Kala on Dewa Road was pulled down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/day-2-lda-hammer-on-illegal-residential-colony/articleshow/79030592.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||Bring plastic waste, take face mask: DMC launches new initiative||DEHRADUN: In an initiative to fight against the menace of plastic waste and contain the spread of Covid-19, Dehradun Municipal Corporation along with some social organisations distributed 5,000 face masks in exchange for plastic waste generated from the household. The initiative was launched by municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey, who was the first to bring plastic waste from his house and receive a face mask. The initiative has been named ‘plastic lao mask le jao’ (bring plastic, take mask). Talking to TOI, Pandey said, “We are creating awareness for waste segregation so that the waste which can be recycled is sorted at the source of collection. The initiative will further emphasise the importance of waste segregation and also motivate people to wear face masks during the Covid-19 pandemic.” During the initiative, city residents were given free cloth face masks at the kiosk placed at the Dehradun Municipal Corporation office in exchange for plastic waste like multi-layered packaging, PET bottles, and single-use polythene bags, among others. Social organisation ‘Waste Warriors’ has said that such kiosks will also be installed at Gandhi Park, and several residential colonies across the city to facilitate the exchange of plastic waste for face masks. Naveen Sadana, member of Waste Warriors, told TOI “The plastic waste collected at these kiosks will be sent to our plastic recycling plant at ISBT. The plastic will then be used to make various goods, including furniture.” Surjit Singh, a doctor who also came to drop the plastic waste generated from his household, said, “Tonnes of plastic waste is generated in our city every day. When I heard about the initiative, I also came here to do my bit. Recycling of waste will help us achieve a sustainable future. If we do not segregate the waste at the source, it becomes practically impossible to segregate it later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bring-plastic-waste-take-face-mask-dmc-launches-new-initiative/articleshow/79026918.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kochi||Don’t disrupt probe by central agencies, BJP chief tells CM||KOTTAYAM: BJP state president K Surendran warned the state government of serious repercussions if it tried to sabotage the investigation by central agencies. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, Surendran said that the state government has no right to question the powers of the investigation agencies. He also said that the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who earlier said that the probe is progressing in the right direction, is now issuing threats against the agencies. Public will react if he tries to obstruct the investigation through threats and bullying, he said. Agreements should be transparent. The CM is worried when the probe agencies are nearing the truth, he said. “The CM is saying that the investigation agencies are torpedoing the development projects of the state. He is threatening that the agencies will be dealt with if they come to places unnecessarily,” he added. Surendran also said that the stand of the state government in the Life Mission project failed badly as vigilance and anti-corruption bureau made former principal secretary M Sivasankaran an accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dont-disrupt-probe-by-central-agencies-bjp-chief-tells-cm/articleshow/79028199.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Goa||Learn sustainable living, recycling at 3-day Panaji fest||Panaji: A unique three-day festival celebrating sustainability and making recycling fun, will welcome citizens with their dry waste and give them a first hand experience of 16-way segregation. The festival, Revival 2020, a joint initiative by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) and Sensible Earth, will be held from November 6 to 8 at Garcia de Orta Garden in Panaji. Cycle trips around the city to see where and how the state capital’s waste is being segregated, recycled, composted and managed will also be a prominent part of the festival. “The city will be moving from dual to 16-way segregation and there will be demonstrations on this at the festival. Citizens will also be taken on tour to see the different methods the corporation adopts to treat Panaji’s waste and how the city functions as far as waste is concerned,” CCP commissioner Sanjit Rodrigues told TOI. Although it is being called a ‘festival’, it is a serious three-day programme on popularising and incentivising recycling and upcycling, he added. “People interested in taking up recycling and upcycling professionally or looking for opportunities in the field will benefit from the festival,” Rodrigues said. “Everything from upcycled and remodelled bicycles, sustainable fashion, local food products reflecting sustainability, glass ware, candle holders from discarded bicycles along with zero waste tooth brushes, shampoo bars, dish washing coir, will be available at the festival where those practising sustainable living will share their experiences,” founder of Sensible Earth Sanjiv Khandelwal said. The festival will also popularise vegetables and plants that grow locally and that have nutritional value. “We aim to have ‘made in Goa’ shelves with all Goan products and produce in stores across the state and presently working out the other logistics. There are 2,500 self-help groups in the state and we will be able to collect important consumer feedback. The festival will be a launch pad for them,” Khandelwal added. Homemade Diwali sweets, an eco-friendly Diwali lamp making workshop and a repair corner with cobblers and tailors, the festival will also see people bringing in dry non compostable waste walking away with a little cash in return. A special section on kabbadiwallas/ raddhiwallas who are at the forefront of getting waste off the streets, will share their experience and stories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/learn-sustainable-living-recycling-at-3-day-panaji-fest/articleshow/79029927.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Goa||Narkasur effigies: City corp revokes height, sound curbs||Panaji: Less than a week after issuing standard operating procedures (SOPs) with an ‘absolute’ ban on amplified sound systems on November 13 and 14 and restricting the height of Narkasuras to 8 feet with the intention of drawing in less crowds, the corporation of the city of Panaji has withdrawn these restrictions. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said changes in the SOPs have been brought in on people’s request and after the government has opened for tourism and announced Sunburn would take place in the capital city. “There is no height restriction anymore for the Narkasur effigy. People can apply for sound permission from the deputy collector,” Madkaikar said. He said all the other conditions in the SOPs continue to stand including a ban on fireworks at the site of the installation of the Narkasur effigy on the eve of Diwali and on Diwali day taking into consideration those who are under home isolation and recovering from Covid. No burning of the Narkasur effigy on the road will be permitted he said. “This will block traffic and social distancing will also be a problem. Those doing narkasur should wear masks and follow proper social distancing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/narkasur-effigies-city-corp-revokes-height-sound-curbs/articleshow/79029923.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Vaibhav Global’s Q2 PAT grows 44%||Jaipur: The Pink City-headquartered electronic retailer of fashion jewellery and lifestyle products Vaibhav Global Ltd reported a PAT growth of 44% at Rs 71 crore in the second quarter compared to Rs 49 crore achieved in the same quarter last year. One of the earliest companies from Jaipur to be listed on BSE and NSE, Vaibhav Global’s revenues also rose by 23% to Rs 599 crore in the said quarter, while EBITDA margins improved by 220 basis points (bps) to 16.5% and PAT margins increased by 170 bps to 11.8%. The retailer, which caters to the US and UK markets through TV shopping channels, online and ecommerce platforms, said that its non-fashion jewellery segment that includes accessories, lifestyle, beauty and essential products grew by 90%. Even as the fashion jewellery segment grew by 15%, the strong growth in non-fashion jewellery vertical has raised its revenue contribution to 32% from 22% at the end of last financial year. Vineet Ganeriwala, Group CFO, said, “We are a vertically integrated business model which works on deep discount. This model works across all economic cycles. Our retail businesses in the US and UK have been operational throughout the pandemic supported by the robust supply chain. Our omnichannel sales platform has helped us create a niche for ourselves. In the Covid-19 environment, we saw an opportunity to serve our customers better.”  On the outlook for the rest of the year, the company said it expects 18-20% retail growth in the second half of the current financial year in constant currency scenario. With a market cap of Rs 6,200 crore, Vaibhav Global declared a dividend of Rs 5 per equity share for the second quarter. It had given a similar dividend in the first quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vaibhav-globals-q2-pat-grows-44/articleshow/79029960.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid review: CM to visit Ooty on Friday||Udhagamandalam: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will visit Ooty on Friday to review the Covid-19 situation in the district. During a two-hour session, Palaniswami will hold a review meeting with the district officials and meet members of farmers’ groups, self-help groups and the tea industry representatives. The chief minister will also inaugurate new buildings, lay foundation for new schemes and distribute government aids to beneficiaries. He will then leave for Tirupur district in the afternoon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-review-cm-to-visit-ooty-on-friday/articleshow/79029980.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||16 minors rescued by RPF; three booked for trafficking||LUCKNOW: The crime branch of Railway Protection Force (NER-Lucknow division) rescued 16 minors from Jhansi intercity, while they were being taken to Karnataka by three men allegedly for child labour. The apprehended men – Rafi Ahmad (29) and Anwar Ahmad (19) of Shravasti, and Abdul Wahid (39) of Balrampur – were booked by GRP under Section 370(6) (trafficking of minor) and by RPF under sections 145 (nuisance) and 146 (obstructing railway servant from executing duties) of the Railway Act. According to RPF, a six-member crime branch team, led by inspector Amit Kumar Rai, found children travelling in reserved berths of D1 and D2 coach of Lucknow-Jhansi intercity. “The rescued children hail from Shravasti, Bahraich and Balrampur. The accused were planning to take minors to Karnataka by another express train,” said senior commandant, RPF, Amit Prakash Mishra. The children were handed over to ChildLine who presented them before the child welfare committee (CWC), Lucknow. Speaking to TOI, CWC member Sangeeta Sharma said, “All the minors were in the age group of 12-15 years and hailed from underprivileged families. They claimed that the trio had assured their parents that they would facilitate fruit juice selling work in Karnataka which will fetch Rs 5,500 per month.” “All the children were handed over to their parents after counselling and an oath letter was also taken from their guardians, in which they promised that they would not send their children for work until they attain the age of 18,” she added. Talking to TOI, SP (GRP-Lucknow division) Saumitra Yadav said, “A written complaint was shared by RPF, following which an FIR is being lodged under Section 370(6) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/16-minors-rescued-by-rpf-three-booked-for-trafficking/articleshow/79030607.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Tigers stray into human habitation in Wayanad||KOZHIKODE: Panic gripped the residents of Beenachi, situated 3km from the Sulthan Bathery town in Wayanad, on Tuesday after a tigress and its two sub-adult cubs strayed into residential neighborhood of Poothikkad, forcing people indoors and leaving forest officials on tenterhooks the entire day. Forest officials said that the three tigers had strayed into private lands from the overgrown Beenachi estate spread across 500 acres and owned by the Madhya Pradesh government. However, forest officials were able to drive the big cats back to the estate by around 6.30pm by bursting fire crackers and chasing the animals. The tigers were spotted first in the private land behind the mosque opposite the Beenachi government high school at 9am. The people in the area had been complaining of tiger straying incidents for the last one month and some morning walkers had spotted tiger pug marks on Monday morning. Nishad P K, a shop owner at Beenachi, had spotted the carcass of a wild boar behind his shop on Sunday and on Monday morning the carcass was fully eaten. Forest department officials reached the spot and made announcements asking people to remain indoors. On hearing the announcement, the tigers ran to other nearby coffee plantation making it difficult for forest officials to keep track of the animals. Chethalath forest range officer Sashi Kumar said that the tigress and the cubs got separated and the officials waited till evening to allow them to regroup before starting the drive back to the estate at around 6.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/tigers-stray-into-human-habitation-in-wayanad/articleshow/79028244.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Domestic travel bookings fall 70% yet airfares soar||AHMEDABAD: Shrenik Shah, an Ahmedabad-based chartered accountant, travelled to Hong Kong and Macau last Diwali. He takes a trip every year during Diwali holidays. However, this time around, due to the pandemic, he has not just avoided travelling but decided to keep the celebration limited to home. There are many like Shah who have deferred travel plans, denting domestic travel bookings by 70%. Yet, this time, airfares to certain destinations such as Goa, Delhi, Jaipur and Mumbai have soared drastically. Explaining this, Anuj Pathak, secretary, Tour Operators’ and Travel Agents’ Association of Gujarat (TAG), said, “The pandemic has continued to cause apprehensions over air travel. People are travelling to Goa, Delhi, Jaipur and even Mumbai, but it accounts for a little section of population. Instead, travel agents have pre-blocked air tickets using to set off the credit amount made available to them by airlines for cancelled bookings during the summer. Due to this, airfares to these destinations have soared.” According to industry estimates, round-trip airfares from Ahmedabad to Goa during Diwali have soared by 87% from Rs 5,500 to Rs 10,300 per person. Similarly, that to Delhi and Mumbai have increased by 25% when booked for a journey from November 14-17. On the contrary, destinations such as Udaipur, Mount Abu and Kumbalgarh, which are at a driveable distance have seen significantly good demand and bookings are as good as last year. The same for long-haul destinations has drastically declined. Many who have been ardent travellers over the years haven’t preferred to travel this year due to the pandemic. Some people who had pre-planned vacations abroad have shelved their plans and in the wake of the pandemic won’t be travelling anywhere. Hetal Swami, a Vadodara-based writer, said, “I was planning to tour Paris this year with my friends. But the Covid-19 pandemic spoiled our vacation. Now, with too many restrictions and rules in place, we won't be able to fly abroad for next few months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/domestic-travel-bookings-fall-70-yet-airfares-soar/articleshow/79028212.cms||Niyati Parikh
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||New education policy will make students self-reliant: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the focus of the New Education Policy-2020 is not just on teaching but also on the all-round development of students. Discussing NEP-2020 with various stakeholders including members of the Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas and educationists, the CM said the policy would lead to improvement in education and development of the nation. He said changes should be made at all levels including curriculum, reading and writing, and assessment according to future requirements. “For this, advice of all stakeholders from teachers to students and their parents should be taken. Action plan must be linked to a timeline,” the CM said. “The curriculum should be prepared keeping in mind the children’s aptitude, especially in rural areas. At the children’s level, their language, family and environment should be taken into account. The focus should shift from rote learning to increasing knowledge,” he said. The CM added that the new policy focuses on making one self-reliant. “The Covid-19 pandemic has brought focus back on self-reliance. Therefore, along with technical education, skill education and handicraft etc., information about local trades and character-building should become central to curriculum,” he said. Secretary of Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas Atul Kothari said the new policy focuses on “local”, therefore, skill and professional education can be modified as per requirements of each district and area. He suggested that for proper implementation of the policy, all universities should constitute committees at their level. For schools, committees should be set up at district-level. He said subjects like Vedic Mathematics and agriculture should be included in curriculum. It was also pointed out that most aspects of the policy have to be implemented by universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-edu-policy-will-make-students-self-reliant-yogi/articleshow/79030614.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Muslim intellectuals condemn both, Paris cartoon row and ensuing violence||NAGPUR: Muslims intellectuals and scholars have condemned the French cartoon controversy and beheading of an art teacher in Paris, saying there can be no justification for killing and the holy Koran doesn’t endorse such acts by its followers. At the same time, they said religious sensibilities must not be abused and insulted in the name of freedom of speech. Majid Parekh, regional secretary, Society for Communal Harmony, said both incidents threaten to divide the world. “The Koran categorically admonishes any act of deriding or defaming any community or person. They are evil doers who deride or defame another community or person as per the Koran (49/11).” He added that every reaction is the result of an action. “Last verses of Chapter 15 in Koran say ‘We know that your bosom is constricted by their blasphemous act and those who ridicule scriptures such as Old and New Testaments, Psalms, Torah, Evangel; surely such people will be called to their account for their insolence. Therefore, gracefully ignore such blasphemous acts since negativities can never be repelled by the negative itself’. In the light of these admonitions, both the acts are to be strictly condemned, said Parekh, adding, “The concerned government should take care such acts are not repeated in future.” Hamid Qureshi, secretary of Jamiat Islahul Muslemeen, said the French people, and specially its president, seem to assert that they have a right to offend and insult others’ icons as their birthright. “It is cynical,” he said. Qureshi said, “There can never be justification for killing. Koran does not approve it. This is not the way to respond to such acts as per sunnah of the Prophet. As per news reports, Muslims students and parents had complained to the principal. Yet, the same drawing teacher repeated the act, causing provocation.” Qureshi and Parekh also asked why only the Prophet is targeted every time? “They will never dare to behave in same way, though equally condemnable, with other religious figures,” Qureshi said. Lawyer Firdos Mirza said the life of Holy Prophet is full of instances when he was insulted or physically attacked but there is no example while he retaliated with violence in revenge. “To the contrary, he forgave entire citizenry of Mecca, who earlier compelled him to migrate. The act of publication of his caricature is indeed a heinous action of spreading hate against Muslims and provocating them. But the followers of Prophet must keep in mind that there is no space for violence or revenge in his teachings.” Former director at Archaeological Survey of India GS Khwaja said ‘Ishq-e-Rasool’ needs tolerance. “Followers of Muhammad should reflect on Huzur’s ‘sabr’ (tolerance) and ‘darguzar’ (pardon). The blasphemy is a condemnable act, but in the name of Prophet’s love over-enthusiasts are tarnishing Islam’s image.” Khwaja suspects that it was a conspiracy as it all happened on the eve of Prophet’s birth anniversary. Former PCCF (HOFF) SWH Naqvi said while the Prophet was alive, he was subjected to slander, ridicule and all sorts of abuses. “He responded with peace and forgiveness,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/muslim-intellectuals-condemn-both-paris-cartoon-row-and-ensuing-violence/articleshow/79030611.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 4, 2020||Aurangabad||People suffer as post office passport units remain shut||Aurangabad: Hundreds of people in Aurangabad and other parts of Marathwada, who need new passports or want to get the old ones renewed, are being forced to travel to Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur as the Post Office Passport Seva Kendras (POPSKs), which were shut during lockdown, are yet to resume operations here. A notice has been put on display outside the locked POPSK office in Aurangabad asking the visitors to contact the Mumbai passport office. However, the calls made by the applicants on the landline number mentioned on the notice are going unanswered. The external affairs ministry, in association with the post office, in March 2017, had started the POPSKs across India, including in Aurangabad, Beed, Jalgaon, Kolhapur, Pimpri Chinchwad, Ghatkopar, Mumbai North Central and Mumbai South Central in the state. Prior to this, people from different parts of the region were dependent on Passport Seva Kendras located in Mumbai’s Andheri East, Lower Parel, Malad, along with centres in Thane, Nashik, Pune and Nagpur. Naeem Khan, a city-based travel agent, said that people are being forced to go to different cities for getting new passports or renewing the existing ones. Residents of Jalna, Beed, Parbhani are asked to visit Pune, while those in Latur and Osmanabad, Hingoli and Nanded districts need to Nagpur for any passport-related service. “While some POPSKs have resumed operations, the office in Marathwada continued to remain shut, causing problem to the people, especially students and businessmen, who have to go abroad for academic as well as for professional reasons,” Sachin Jadhav, a travel agent, said. Another travel agent, Vijay Kalyankar, said closing down of the POPSKs is leading to physical, mental as well as financial harassment of the applicants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/people-suffer-as-post-office-passport-units-remain-shut/articleshow/79025851.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Rajkot||Modasa sub-jail inmates test positive||PALANPUR: At least 71 inmates of Modasa sub-jail in Aravalli district tested positive for Covid-19, besides two jail staffer on Tuesday. The prisoners, including undertrials and convicts, were tested for the virus using the rapid antegin test (RAT) on Monday. The test results were received by the jail officials on Tuesday, said district development officer Anil Dhameliya. “After result came in all 73 infected persons were hospitalized at Sarvajanik Modasa Corona hospital and Vatrak Corona hospital,” added Dhameliya. Dhameliya added that the remaining prisoners and sub-jail staff is undergoing covid testing. The sub-jail has nearly 150 inmates of which 71 have been found infected with coronavirus. All the jail inmates are under isolation and under the supervision of hospital authority, said chief health officer of Aravalli, Dr Amaranth Varma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/modasa-sub-jail-inmates-test-ve/articleshow/79026978.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||EC to build warehouses to keep EVMs in all dists||Coimbatore: The Election Commission of India (ECI) will build warehouses to keep the electronic voting machines (EVMs), voter verifiable paper audit trial (VVPATs) and control units on the premises of the south taluk office in Coimbatore and on the district collectorate premises in Tirupur. This is part of the EC’s project to set up warehouses across the state. It has instructed officials to complete the work at least by March 2021. The Coimbatore district administration used to store the EVMs, VVPATs and control units at the office of the deputy director, public health department, on Race Course. “We used to keep around thousands of EVMs, VVPATs and control units in the strong rooms in Coimbatore city. The building belongs to the public health department and the ECI decided to set up warehouses exclusively to store equipment,” said an EC official. The poll panel has allotted Rs 4.5 crore for constructing a three-storied building at the south taluk office in the city. In Tirupur district, the EVMs, VVPATs, and control units were stored at Tirupur south taluk and Palladam taluk offices. The EC has started the construction work for a warehouse on the district collectorate premises located on Tirupur- Palladam Road. The EC has allotted Rs 4.95 crore for this project. The official added that the EC has started work to set up warehouses at all the district headquarters in Tamil Nadu. Warehouses will also be constructed in the six newly-formed districts – Tenkasi, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Chengalpet, Kallakurichi and Mayiladuthurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ec-to-build-warehouses-to-keep-evms-in-all-dists/articleshow/79029988.cms||A Subburaj
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Engineering student sends former lover’s obscene photos to her father, imprisoned||Coimbatore: A 22-year-old engineering student from Thoothukudi district has been arrested for sending obscene photos of his ex-lover, a city resident, to her father on WhatsApp. An investigation officer said S Devaneshwar, of Lions Town in Thoothukudi, had befriended the girl from Kovaipudur in the city at a private engineering college at Hosur in Krishnagiri district. “They are classmates and fell in love a few years ago. He had taken intimate photos of them and stored them on his mobile phone. The girl, also aged 22 years, had come home after the lockdown. When her parents came to know about the relationship, they advised her to end the same,” the officer said. The girl subsequently started to avoid him. “He called her up, telling that he wanted to marry her and asked her to come out of her house. When she refused to obey him, he threatened to circulate their intimate photos on social media and WhatsApp them to her father. The girl then revealed all the incidents to her father,” the officer said. Meanwhile, Devaneshwar sent the obscene photos to the girl’s father on October 31. On Monday, the girl lodged a complaint with the Kuniyamuthur police, who registered a case against Devaneshwar and asked her to invite him to the city on the pretext of considering his proposal. When Devaneshwar arrived in the city the same evening, police arrested him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/engineering-student-sends-former-lovers-obscene-photos-to-her-father-imprisoned/articleshow/79029991.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||German shoe company shifts from China, to start operations in Agra||LUCKNOW: In a major boost to industrial activities in the state despite Covid-induced lockdown, Von Wellx, a German shoe brand operating earlier from China, operationalized two shoe making units in Agra on Tuesday. The company, which is collaborating with Iatric Industries Pvt Ltd, had announced in May that it would be shifting its entire production of three millions pairs of shoes from China to India. Ashish Jain, CEO of the Iatric Industries Group, said that the units, being set up in the Export Promotion Industrial Park, would produce 2.5 million pairs across different segments annually and employ about 2,000 people. “It will exemplify the synergy of German technology and demographic dividend of Uttar Pradesh. Iatric Industries will be the exclusive collaborator for technology transfer, research, development, marketing and production,” he said. A new factory is also expected to be set up near Jewar in an area of 10,000 sq m while another manufacturing unit is proposed to be set up in an area of 7.5 acres at Kosi-Kotwan, Mathura. While inaugurating the units, additional chief secretary (industrial development) Alok Kumar said that Von Wellx would be investing around Rs 300 crore in phases in three projects. This would generate about 10,000 jobs while the units would produce up to 5 million pairs of footwear annually. “The vision of chief minister Yogi Adityanath of turning crisis into opportunity has started generating results in building an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. It is an important milestone in the post Covid-19 era that an investment proposal has materialized within a short span of five months,” he said. Kumar added that the state government had brought in several industrial reforms during the Covid-19 lockdown to give a boost to industries. “The new integrated investment and facilitation agency, ‘Invest UP’ is headed by the CM and ministers of Industrial Development and MSME are its vice chairpersons. The steering committee of the new agency is headed by the Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner. As a team, we are working to ensure complete support to entrepreneurs who may face challenges but we are working within the ambit of state policies to resolve all matters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/german-shoe-co-shifts-from-china-to-start-ops-in-agra/articleshow/79030615.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 4, 2020||Agra||German shoe company shifts from China, to start operations in Agra||LUCKNOW: In a major boost to industrial activities in the state despite Covid-induced lockdown, Von Wellx, a German shoe brand operating earlier from China, operationalized two shoe making units in Agra on Tuesday. The company, which is collaborating with Iatric Industries Pvt Ltd, had announced in May that it would be shifting its entire production of three millions pairs of shoes from China to India. Ashish Jain, CEO of the Iatric Industries Group, said that the units, being set up in the Export Promotion Industrial Park, would produce 2.5 million pairs across different segments annually and employ about 2,000 people. “It will exemplify the synergy of German technology and demographic dividend of Uttar Pradesh. Iatric Industries will be the exclusive collaborator for technology transfer, research, development, marketing and production,” he said. A new factory is also expected to be set up near Jewar in an area of 10,000 sq m while another manufacturing unit is proposed to be set up in an area of 7.5 acres at Kosi-Kotwan, Mathura. While inaugurating the units, additional chief secretary (industrial development) Alok Kumar said that Von Wellx would be investing around Rs 300 crore in phases in three projects. This would generate about 10,000 jobs while the units would produce up to 5 million pairs of footwear annually. “The vision of chief minister Yogi Adityanath of turning crisis into opportunity has started generating results in building an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. It is an important milestone in the post Covid-19 era that an investment proposal has materialized within a short span of five months,” he said. Kumar added that the state government had brought in several industrial reforms during the Covid-19 lockdown to give a boost to industries. “The new integrated investment and facilitation agency, ‘Invest UP’ is headed by the CM and ministers of Industrial Development and MSME are its vice chairpersons. The steering committee of the new agency is headed by the Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner. As a team, we are working to ensure complete support to entrepreneurs who may face challenges but we are working within the ambit of state policies to resolve all matters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/german-shoe-co-shifts-from-china-to-start-ops-in-agra/articleshow/79032237.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 4, 2020||Agra||UP: Called ‘aunty’, woman, 40, beats teen black & blue||AGRA: A middle-aged woman lost her cool when she was addressed as “aunty’ by a teenage girl in Etah. Instantly hurling abuses at her, the woman slapped the teenager and a fight broke out between them. Soon a group of people gathered around them and a video showing the women fighting in the busy market with police trying to stop them was shot. The incident took place on Monday evening and the video went viral on Tuesday. According to the police, both parties were brought to the police station. Later, they settled the issue among themselves. No formal complaint was received. Ahead of Karva Chauth, Babuganj market in Etah, which has several shops selling cosmetics, garments and women accessories, has been witnessing heavy rush. Additional police force, especially women constables, have been deployed in the market for crowd management. On Monday evening, a 19-year-old girl, trying to make her way through the crowded market, told a 40-year-old woman, “Excuse me, auntie.” Riled by this, the woman scolded the girl and slapped when the latter questioned her misbehavior. The argument between them soon turned into fight and police had to intervene to separate them. Meanwhile, someone from the crowd shot a video of the incident which later went viral on social media. Station house officer (women’s thana) Kanchan Katiyar said, “The teenager had called the woman 'aunt', after which she burst into an outrage and beat up the girl. The girl also raised hands. Both the parties were taken to the police station. Later, their relatives arrived and they settled the issue among themselves. Both the girl and the woman belonged to well-to-do families. No formal complaint was received.” Watch UP: Woman slaps girl for calling her ‘aunty’, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/indiana-zones-called-aunty-woman-40-beats-teenager-black-and-blue/articleshow/79024972.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Temporary faculties of GMCH seek regularisation||Aurangabad: As many as 40 temporary assistant professors from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Tuesday held a protest as part of the state-level protest to highlight their demand of regularising their services. While the agitating doctors ensured the delivery of essential services was not affected, they have decided to go on leave en masse in the near future if the demands are not met with. Dr Kailash Kagne, one of the protesting assistant professors at GMCH, said the temporary workforce in question has not been absorbed in government health services despite discharging duties for years now. “Around 600 temporary assistant professors exist across Maharashtra who have been appointed on a temporary basis by joint approval from the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) and Divisional Service Board of GMCH. Our demand for regularisation of services have been falling on deaf ears, forcing us to stage an agitation,” he said. The agitating assistant professors, who also offer healthcare services at different departments besides teaching , allege discrimination in remuneration benefits by virtue of their contractual nature of job. When contacted, GMCH administration distanced itself from the demand of regularisation of services of temporary assistant professors. “It is a policy decision which falls under the purview of the state government,” GMCH superintendent Suresh Harbade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/temporary-faculties-of-gmch-seek-regularisation/articleshow/79025897.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Surat||Amid Covid, 58% turnout in byelections for 8 seats||Gandhinagar: Amid Covid-19 scare still looming large, an average 58% turnout was recorded in the byelections held for eight assembly seats on Wednesday with the tribal-dominated Dang smashing its voting records. While Dang clocked nearly 74.71%% turnout, Dhari constituency in Amreli district recorded the lowest i45.74% voting. The results will be declared on November 10. The byelections to these traditional Congress bastions, which were necessitated after the sitting MLAs had switched loyalties to BJP, were also touted to be the leadership test for Navsari MP CR Paatil, the trusted aide of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was appointed state BJP president in July. Paatil had extensively toured all these constituencies. For the Congress turncoats too, the bypolls are said to be an acid test of the people's acceptance of their party allegiance shift. Five turncoats were given tickets by the BJP while the saffron party had fielded two former ministers on three other seats. Also, two FIRs were lodged in Karjan and one each in Morbi and Dang for different poll-related offences. S Murali Krishna, chief electoral officer(CEO) said, "Despite the pandemic, total voting was 58.14% which may increase slightly after final figures.” Meanwhile, Congress lodged a complaint with CEO against chief minister Vijay Rupani's wife Anjali alleging that she campaigned on election day in Morbi city, thus violating the model code of conduct. However, Murali Krishna said the inquiry by Morbi collector revealed that she was in Gandhinagar and the complaint was misleading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/amid-covid-58-turnout-in-byelections-for-8-seats/articleshow/79027019.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: National Dairy Development Board chairman elected to International Dairy Federation board||VADODARA/ANAND: National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) chairman, Dilip Rath, has been unanimously elected to the board of the International Dairy Federation (IDF). Rath is the second Indian to become part of IDF’s board. NDDB’s former chairman Dr Amrita Patel had become the first Indian and the first woman to be elected to the board in December 2010. Established in 1903, IDF is an international non-governmental and non-profit association with a vision of “helping to nourish the world with safe and sustainable dairy”. “It is a privilege for me to represent world’s largest milk producing nation and contribute to promoting dairying and meeting the UN sustainable development goals. I keenly look forward to furthering IDF board’s mandate,” said Rath, who got elected on Monday during the general assembly of IDF. Rath is associated with IDF for the last 10 years as member secretary of the Indian National Committee (INC) and as a member of the standing committee on dairy policy and economics. He had played a key role in signing the dairy declaration at the IDF World Dairy Summit in Rotterdam in October 2016 between IDF and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). The declaration recognises the contribution of the dairy sector to the achievement of key sustainable development goals such as ending poverty and hunger, and protecting the environment. INC had signed the Indian dairy sector’s endorsement to meet UN sustainable development goals with president and director general of IDF at the World Dairy Summit at Istanbul last year. India to host World Dairy Summit 2022 Vadodara/ Anand: As secretary of the Indian National Committee, NDDB’s chairman Dilip Rath has taken the initiative to host the world dairy summit in India in 2022. The country will host the first post Covid-19 IDF World Dairy Summit 2022 in which over 1,000 participants including experts, academicians, dairy professionals are expected to participate from around 55 countries. The summit will be hosted in New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nddb-chairman-elected-to-idf-board/articleshow/79026377.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||FSSAI licence: Only 91 home-based food operators registered in district||Coimbatore: As of November 1, right from maamis frying murukkus for Diwali sales to the Gujarati aunties making teplas based on orders, all home-food sellers must register or get licensed with the food safety department.Three days since the deadline, only 91 home-based food operators have registered or got themselves a licence. But, the food safety department keeping the Covid-19 situation in mind and Diwali coming up, plans to give operators a few more weeks to apply online.Earlier this year, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) made it compulsory for home-based food business operators to register themselves or apply for a license. “While people with an annual turnover of less than Rs 12 lakh can apply to register themselves by paying Rs 100 online, people with a turnover of Rs 12 lakh or more need to pay Rs 2,000 per year online and apply for a license,” said designated food safety officer, Dr K Tamilselvan.To apply online people can log onto foscos.fssai.gov.in, choose home-made food option and fill the forms. A food safety officer will visit the kitchen within 30 to 60 days of the application being submitted. “We will inspect their personal hygiene including clean and cut nails, a hand wash and vessel washing facility in the kitchen, wearing of gloves, masks, aprons and hair nets even without covid-19 in the equation, use of safe raw materials like oil, butter and ghee only from labelled containers, ensure they don’t reuse oil, check refrigeration and freezer temperatures and instruct them on colour usage guidelines,” said Tamilselvan. “If there are issues, we will give them time to rectify it,” he said.To ensure quick compliance, food safety officers will start listing all home-based operators in their area and issue notices to those who are yet to apply for regularization. If it is not done even after a notice has been issued, legal action will be taken against the operator.Most of the younger, educated home-based food operators welcome the move. “I think it helps us scale up our businesses more easily and will allow us to get on to food delivery platforms. Besides this, it will help many people in the field improve their hygiene,” says home-baker Saranya Balu of Happy Jar. Ayisha Ahamed who makes moplah cuisine dishes under her brand “Spice Coast” got registered even before it was made compulsory. “We saw our business growing and we wanted to register our income from it. The food inspector was impressed with our cleanliness and was easy to work with,” she says.However, the uneducated small time murukku, laddoo and chappati experts are expected to be people who may find it hard to conform to the new rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fssai-licence-only-91-home-based-food-operators-registered-in-district/articleshow/79030015.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||Mirzapur SHG to put up products at Japan Fair||Lucknow: UP’s Mirzapur is now set to go international. Recognized for its talent, a women’s self-help group from the district has been invited to Japan Carpet Fair next year where its members will display the footmats and wall hangings made by them. Additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said the women of Poor Motivation Self-Help Group of Khajuri village had applied for participation. “The organisers liked their goods so much that they invited the entire group to Japan. The SHG will get an opportunity to sell its products at the Japan Carpet Fair in 2021,” he said. Sehgal said the ODOP cell would make arrangements for the team to travel to Japan to attend the event. “We have provision under the ODOP rules to financially enable individuals and groups to travel abroad to participate in exhibitions. This will help the SHG members to reach out to a wider market,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mirzapur-shg-to-put-up-products-at-japan-fair/articleshow/79030640.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||One more held in PM-Kisan scam in Salem||Salem: Police on Tuesday arrested one more person from the district in connection with the PM-Kisan scam. With this, the number of people arrested in the case have increased to eight. The accused has been identified as S Kasilingam, 41, of Goundar Thottam area from Sivadhapuram. According to CB-CID officials, he had enlisted nearly 450 ineligible people in the scheme. “He had collected Rs 2,000 each from all the 450 persons,” said an official. Officials said Kasilingam had created bogus documents to include these ineligible persons to join in the scheme. “A few officials from the agriculture department had helped him authorise ineligible persons for bribes,” the official added. CB-CID officials have frozen Kasilingam’s four bank accounts. They also have seized Rs 20,000 cash and two mobile phones from him. “We are collecting other people’s details from the mobile phones,” the official said. An official said nearly Rs 6 crore had been collected from 18,000 ineligible persons in the district. “The district administration has collected Rs 5.43 crore till date from nearly 14,000 ineligible persons,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/one-more-held-in-pm-kisan-scam-in-salem/articleshow/79030020.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||CM for cap on onion stock for retail, wholesale traders||Lucknow: With the price of onion rising in the state, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday announced a cap on stock for retail and wholesale vendors. A government spokesperson said retail vendors would not be allowed to store more than 2 tons of onion while wholesalers could keep stock of 25 tons only. A notification in this connection will be issued shortly. “The decision will help in crack down on hoarding and ensuring that onion is freely available,” he said. On October 23, the central government had issued an advisory on onion prices. Traders will be given three days to prepare for stock restrictions. They will be required to complete sorting and packing within three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-for-cap-on-onion-stock-for-retail-wholesale-traders/articleshow/79030644.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Actor Vijay Raaz arrested on charges of harassment||NAGPUR: Bollywood actor Vijay Raaz, who is known for his Kauwa Biriyani scene in the movie ‘Run’, was arrested by Gondia’s Ramnagar police in eastern Maharashtra on Tuesday morning, on charges of molesting a colleague in the under-production film ‘Sherni’ in a hotel lobby and also on the set. He was released on bail by a local court the same day. Raaz has been booked under section 354A and 354D of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), where a conviction can lead to imprisonment up to three years along with a fine. The offence had been registered late on Monday evening. The police did not disclose the place from where Raaz was arrested. SP Vishwa Pansare said action permissible under the law has been duly taken. It’s learnt that the Vidya Balan-starrer ‘Sherni’ had resumed shooting at Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh after the pandemic break. The cast and crew of the film was staying at a hotel in Gondia, which is around 40km away from the shooting location. Sources from Gondia police said Raaz’s colleague said she was targeted by the actor on a number of occasions between October 25 and 29. The woman is learnt to have narrated her plight to her family members, who shared it with an acquaintance, who is a senior officer in Mumbai. DIG, Naxal range, Sandip Patil said the offence was registered immediately after the complaint was lodged. “We acted promptly due to the sensitivity of the case,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/actor-vijay-raaz-arrested-on-molestation-charges-gets-bail/articleshow/79028362.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Security beefed up along Nilgiris borders||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district police have stepped up security across all eleven border checkposts in the district in the wake of a fire exchange in Wayanad district in Kerala where a suspected Maoist was killed during an encounter on Tuesday. According to a press release from police, there was a fire exchange at Banasuram village in Wayanad district in Kerala, during which a 35-year-old man was killed by the special team. Hence, in the wake of the incident, the Nilgiris police tightened the border checkposts. Armed men and a team of police officers have been instructed to keep a vigil in and around the district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/security-beefed-up-along-nilgiris-borders/articleshow/79030028.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||WPL counsellors resolve 8 marital discord plaints||Lucknow: The family counselling facility started under ‘Mission Shakti’ at Women Power Line 1090 has helped resolve marital discord in eight families within a few days of its inception. WPL 1090 ADG Neera Rawat said all girls, women who faced abuse or are being abused and are unable to discuss it with their parents can seek our free counselling over phone. “Our expert counsellors certified by the United Nations Children’s Fund are counselling victims of domestic abuse, child rape, depression and other issues over phone,” she added. WPL has registered 7,829 complaints since the launch of Mission Shakti. Officials said WPL received 939 calls in the last 24 hours, out of which 559 were resolved by the staff while 380 calls were referred to other departments for action, including 246 to 112-UP for prompt action and 134 to police department for action. Among the 559 callers, 361 complained of harassment on telephones, 149 through social media and internet, 26 of prank calls, eight of stalking, 10 were from hot spots (complaint prone areas) and five of other types. Home department officials said UP 112 service is also spreading awareness among women about the Mission Shakti campaign on women safety, honour and self-reliance. Under the campaign, UP 112 took action on 748 complaints from women in the last 24 hours, out of which 651 complaints were related to domestic violence and 97 of molestation. Anti-Romeo Squad has also taken action to strengthen the sense of security among women and girls. The squads screened 39,534 persons at 10,742 places. In the last 24 hours, 1,585 persons were challaned under various sections by police under Mission Shakti while 115 were booked under Goonda Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wpl-counsellors-resolve-8-marital-discord-plaints/articleshow/79030647.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat’s Pakistan jibe sees SM users have a field day||MANGALURU: “Yekkur Moger Kallap Thokkot Pak Pak Pakisthaan...” the words on a meme with a photoshopped figure of a conductor on a bus footboard told a 1,000 words. This was one among the memes that have flooded cyberspace ever since a speech made by RSS leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat comparing Ullal to Pakistan went viral. Bhat made the observation in the background of what he said was skewed demography of this area. Mangaluru MLA U T Khader of the Congress was quick to thrash his bete noire’s innuendo that Ullal, an area that he represents, had become a Muslim dominated area. “Bhat has grown old and has conveniently forgotten the multicultural religious tolerance that Ullal is known for,” Khader shot back. While Khader was guarded yet unsparing in his criticism of Bhat, the netizens were at their creative best in burying the perceived slur under mountains of memes. Incidentally, the photoshopped figure of the conductor bore the face of Bhat. Hashtags such as #kalladka_comedy abounded on social media, including Facebook and WhatsApp. City bus route number 44D that operates between SBI terminus and Ullal bore a caption – State Bank to Pakistan. Another meme portrayed Khader on the obverse of a $100 bill from the ‘United States of Ullala’ and not Benjamin Franklin seen on the original US greenback. Another meme showed the iconic Ullal police station name board in Kannada read ‘Pakistani Police Tane’. A string of vehicles stationed on the Nethravathi bridge with policemen standing next to it, saw a meme creator insert the words ‘Passport checking at Ullal border’. Even Beary language memes of ‘Bajarangi Bhaijaan-2’ were seen on social media, showing Salman Khan rescue ‘Munni’ lost at Forum Mall, get back safely to her home Kotepura in Ullal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kalladka-bhats-pakistan-jibe-sees-sm-users-have-a-field-day/articleshow/79027029.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Tusker tramples man to death in Gudalur||Udhagamandalam: An elephant trampled an estate worker to death in a forest range in Gudalur late on Monday. Officials said K Balusamy, 52, an estate worker in Gudalur division, accidentally came in the way of a lone tusker when he was heading to a shop one km away from his house on Monday night. The tusker trampled him to death, a forest official said. His body was taken to the government hospital in Gudalur for a postmortem, which was held on Tuesday. Sumesh Soman, district forest officer, Gudalur division said, “Despite several cautionary messages against elephant movement on WhatsApp groups in that area, the victim ventured out late in the night.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tusker-tramples-man-to-death-in-gudalur/articleshow/79030034.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||SIT Hathras report questions victim’s late-night cremation||LUCKNOW: The three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the state government to probe all angles into the alleged gang rape and murder of the Hathras girl and possible role of police and administration in mishandling the case, submitted its findings on Monday. The report raised questions on arrangements made for the late-night cremation and offered solutions to management of crises like this, claimed sources privy to the probe. Sources also claimed action against more cops was likely. The three-member panel headed by UP home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop and comprising DIG Chandraprakash and IPS officer Poonam was constituted on September 30 and was scheduled to submit its findings on October 7. However, it was given two extensions by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. SIT was constituted following allegations of poor handling of the case by the local administration and police and was mandated to investigate the crime and conduct of the district administration and police, particularly allegations of threatening the victim’s family. The team stayed in the village and recorded statements of members of the victim’s family and cops deployed on duty. The 19-year Dalit girl died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29. She had suffered multiple fractures and paralysis after a brutal attack on September 14 in a Hathras village. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-hathras-report-questions-victims-late-night-cremation/articleshow/79030661.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Surat||Surat: All-women polling booths witness rush||SURAT: Electors in the Kaprada assembly constituency had an altogether different experience when they went to polling booths to exercise their franchise in the by-election on Tuesday. For the first time, about five all-women ‘Sakhi’ polling booths were set-up, which were managed exclusively by the women personnel to encourage voter turnout. The Kaprada assembly segment had 374 polling booths, out of which five were ‘Sakhi’ booths. The five booths were set-up at Gavit Falia in Vadkhamba village, Tadfalia in Jogvel village, Nishal Falia in Panas village, Naka Falia in Nanapondha and Rav Falia in Mandva village. “This was first-of-its-kind initiative on the part of the  commission’s instructions. Five polling booths entirely staffed by women were set up in the tribal-dominated area. The female staff handled these booths efficiently and that the election process went off smoothly,” said Valsad district collector, RR Raval. According to Raval, the ‘Sakhi’ polling booths was specially set-up to facilitate the women voters from the rural areas. Right from the presiding officer to security guards and peons, the ‘Sakhi’ booths were manned by women personnel. “All the staff at the polling booth are women. Right from security officers, polling officers, peons etc., all are women. It was a different experience for us to handle the all-women polling booth in this election,” said presiding officer at Gavit Falia in Vadkhambha village, Kavita Tandel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/all-women-polling-booths-witness-rush/articleshow/79027045.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Chennai||The man with a magic bow||By Gowri Ramnarayan Master violinist Tripunithura Narayanan Krishnan, then well past 80 years of age, played a matchless Bhairavi on the stage, anchored in long drawn ‘karvai’ notes that shimmered with ‘gamaka’ glides. When he finished, he mused aloud, "I have played this raga from childhood. The more I play it, the more I realise how much more I have to learn — a stunning and humbling experience." Krishnan, who passed away on November 2 at age 92, saw himself as a student rather than a maestro. His insatiable zest for learning and uncompromising rectitude in music enriched and steeled his art. READ THE STORY ON TOI+ The man with a magic bow||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-man-with-a-magic-bow/articleshow/79031479.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Attack traffic cops, lose driving licence||NAGPUR: Maharashtra government on Tuesday informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court that it would consider amending Motor Vehicles Act, 1998, for provisioning stringent action against those who attack traffic police on duty. In an affidavit filed before the high court, home department deputy secretary Yuvraj Ajetrao said rising incidences of attack on traffic constables were discussed in a meeting chaired by additional chief secretary on October 26. “During the meeting, penal action including suspension/cancellation of license for a certain period, executing a bond of good behaviour and impounding of vehicles in such offences were discussed. “It was decided that the transport department shall examine feasibility of carrying out suitable amendments in the Motor Vehicles Act and rules made thereunder,” he said. Ajetrao said state director general of police (DGP) was requested to issue necessary instructions for undertaking expeditious investigation into offences under IPC’s sections 332 and 353 for filing charge sheet in a time-bound manner. “The DGP was also asked to ensure early disposal of such cases in view of the amended provision under Section 309 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC),” he said. The affidavit was filed while hearing two suo motu PILs (No. 5/2016 and No 7/2019). Shreerang Bhandarkar is amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani. On court’s poser on commissioner of police’s proposal for providing 1,000 body-worn cameras to traffic cops and beat marshals on duty, Ajetrao said the issue was also discussed in the October 26 meeting. “It has been decided to procure 200 such cameras on experimental basis. CP’s proposal is also being considered and necessary sanction is being granted for procurement of the equipment from department’s funds. If the experiment proved effective and practical, further action of procuring and providing such body-worn cameras to the city’s traffic police would be taken in phased manner,” he said. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Ravi Deshpande directed home and finance departments to make their position clear on all the issues, including body cameras, by next hearing on Thursday. The CJ orally stated that if the experiment is successful, it could be replicated across the state. What the affidavit said issues raised in PIL, including attacks on traffic cops on duty, were discussed in home department meeting suspension/cancellation of license, bond of good behaviour & impounding of vehicles mulled transport department to examine feasibility of amending Motor Vehicles Act & rules. It will be done in consultation with law & judiciary department DGP to ensure early disposal of cop attack cases as per CrPC’s Section 309 govt to procure 200 body-worn cameras on experimental basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/attack-traffic-cops-lose-driving-licence/articleshow/79028383.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Farmers stand in Khindsi Lake demanding release of water||NAGPUR: A group of 50 farmers stood in Khindsi Lake for about three hours on Monday demanding release of water from the reservoir to avoid damage to their crops. The farmers had taken land on lease for farming in the catchment area of the lake, but the area got flooded after heavy rains last month. On October 30, the farmers requested the sub- divisional officer to release water from the lake to save their crops. When the water was not released, they stood in the lake to register their protest. Tehsildar Balasaheb Maske and local police officials rushed to the spot to pacify the protesters. Maske assured the farmers that he would arrange a meeting of their representatives with the irrigation department officials to resolve the issue, following which the cultivators ended their protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-stand-in-khindsi-lake-demanding-release-of-water/articleshow/79030691.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Salem||Female elephant shot dead in Krishnagiri district; probe on||Krishnagiri: A female elephant aged around 12 was found dead with bullet injuries in Jawalagiri forest in Krishnagiri district on early Tuesday morning. Forest officials, who reached the spot after being informed by locals, initially thought the elephant died after falling into an elephant proof trench (EPT) dug up on the forest fringe. Only during the autopsy, the officials realized foul play when veterinarians found bullets in the carcass. “A total of 30 elephant had moved from Bannarghatta forests in Karnataka to Jawalagiri forest range and we suspected that this elephant could be part of the herd and died after falling into the trench,” M Nagarajan, ranger of Jawalagiri forest range, said.However, veterinary doctor Prakash and his team found three bullets inside the carcass during the autopsy. “Someone had used a country-made gun to the kill the elephant. We are looking into different angles. We are inquiring farmers whether anyone fired at the elephant when it was eating crops or poachers could have killed it thinking it as a male elephant,” the ranger said. The forest department registered a case. The carcass was later buried in the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/female-elephant-shot-dead-in-krishnagiri-district-probe-on/articleshow/79030037.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||Two MoUs to fetch investment of Rs 75 crore to UP||LUCKNOW: With the signing of two MoUs between the UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) and 20 companies on Tuesday, the fast developing Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor (UPDIC) is attracting huge investment in the production field. Giving this information to reporters here, chief executive officer, UPEIDA Awanish Awasthi stated that the two new MoUs, that were signed on Tuesday, would fetch an investment of Rs 75 crore in Aligarh and Lucknow nodes. Besides, a defence park would be established on 53 hectares in Aligarh as an investment of Rs 1,021 crores has been assured by entrepreneurs there, Awasthi, said, adding that for the speedy development of the UPDIC by the UPIEDA over 1,438-hectare land has been acquired for Aligarh, Jhansi, Kanpur and Chitrakoot nodes. Awasthi further said that signing the MoUs at the UPEIDA headquarters here on Tuesday representatives of 20 companies expressed their willingness to invest Rs 1,021 crore in Aligarh. Out of the 20 companies, 12 have been allotted land for setting up units. These 12 companies have committed an investment of Rs 396 crore, he added. Awasthi said that on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s clarion call for self-reliance and with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s efforts, UP is fast becoming a hub of defence production in the country. Apart from the UPEIDA CEO, defence advisor Col KS Tyagi, ACEO Shrish Chand Verma and media consultant Durgesh Kumar Upadhyay were also present at the signing of the MoUs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-mous-to-fetch-investment-of-rs-75crore-to-state/articleshow/79030689.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Right to education frauds go unchecked as schools, officials don’t press charges||NAGPUR: Cases of parents blatantly forging documents just to secure free school admission under the Right To Education (RTE) quota continue unabated. Seeking a free ride on taxpayers money, many parents from financially sound background have been shamelessly lying to get a free seat meant for the poor for their wards. And parents have been emboldened as they stand virtually zero chance of being criminally prosecuted. Thanks to fear of lengthy paperwork and other hassles that schools and education department wish to avoid. A parent paying EMI of over Rs 18,000 per month submits certificate showing total monthly income of Rs 5,000. Another couple with an obvious ‘open category’ surname, submits caste document claiming to ben OBC, while another set show their home in lower middle class neighbourhood just to qualify under distance criterion. Since its implementation in 2012, RTE admissions have always been riddled with fraudulent applicants. Finally, in current academic session, the government decided to ask parents for a signed affidavit claiming responsibility for genuineness of the documents. In that affidavit, parents are also informed of criminal prosecution if their documents are found to be fake. Shahid Sharif, an education activist and member of RTE verification committee, said “None of these things has stopped inflow of forged documents. Many were submitting affidavit on plain paper, whereas government should have insisted on the same being on a stamp paper. When caught, parents deny their role saying an agent submitted the documents by mistake.” He added that use of agent was being justified by parents by citing various reasons. “Some say they do not understand online application, while others say they do not have time to apply and get documents from government offices. So when anything goes wrong, they say the agent made the mistake,” said Sharif. Though the fraud is being committed against both the school and the education department, neither is very keen on filing an FIR. For schools, it’s obvious because of the legal procedures. A principal said, “I will have to send a clerk to get the complaint registered. Then onus will be on us to keep documents updated and ready. This paperwork will increase once the matter reaches the courts. No school can afford to spend so much time or energy.” Sharif said, “Schools feel candidates are selected by education department’s online software, hence they should take action. Education department says schools check documents physically, hence they should take action. Parents are taking advantage of this confusion only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rte-frauds-go-unchecked-as-schools-officials-dont-press-charges/articleshow/79028400.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Fireworks industry in distress as states ban firecrackers this Diwali||CHENNAI: This Diwali, the chorus to ban fireworks is growing louder. The Rajasthan government on Sunday announced a ban on fireworks this Diwali and the wedding season that follows, citing health concerns of those infected by Covid-19 and announced fines on sale or use. On Tuesday, Odisha imposed a similar ban. The Delhi government has made it clear that only green fireworks will be allowed this festive season and announced fines up to Rs 1 lakh on violators. A petition has also been moved before the Kolkata high court seeking a ban on fireworks in West Bengal. In Tamil Nadu, messages urging people not to light fireworks citing safety of Covid-19 patients are doing the rounds on social media. But all of it means a pall of gloom for the fireworks manufacturing industry comprising eight lakh workers in and around Sivakasi, as Diwali accounts for 70% of the annual business. Ban on the fireworks is the third blow to Sivakasi due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The first was a drop in 30% production due to closure of the units during the initial phases of lockdown. It was followed by drop in demand due to the economic crisis. Rajasthan accounts for 12% of the fireworks consumption in the country and is a major market. Though Odisha accounts for less than 3% of the consumption it is still an issue of concern as continuance of this trend in other states would pose a bigger threat to the industry. Though 80% to 90% of the production for Diwali has been dispatched, wholesalers and retailers in the states that have banned fireworks have started asking units in Sivakasi to take back their stocks and give a refund. Other dealers have made it clear that they would not be able to place orders for at least one year as they would not be able to clear the present stock. Unit owners said this will in turn result in absence of work if there is no demand for the products. This could leave a lasting impact in the livelihood of the industry for more than a year. Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association (Tanfama) president P Ganesan said fireworks will not cause any harm to those affected by Covid-19. "All the 1,070 firework industries in and around Sivakasi in Virudhunagar district dispose of firework waste by burning at the end of the day. There are no breathing difficulties suffered by the workers or the public or harmful effect on those infected by Covid-19 in the area," he said. Virudhunagar district is recording less than 20 cases a day over the past few days. Countering the Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot’s statement, Tanfama claimed that fireworks do not emit poisonous gases. "Only illegally imported fireworks from China have such harmful chemicals. Such chemicals are not used in fireworks manufactured in India. Indian fireworks mainly release nitrogen, which is inert, harmless and non-toxic," he said. Tanfama has written to the Prime Minister, ministry of environment, CMs of Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu and leaders of various political parties explaining that fireworks will not cause complications in people suffering from Covid-19. On Tuesday Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K S Alagiri made an appeal to the Rajasthan CM seeking permission for green fireworks as they are scientifically developed to reduce pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fireworks-industry-in-distress-as-states-ban-firecrackers-this-diwali/articleshow/79031493.cms||M K Ananth
November 4, 2020||Chennai||Chennai’s transport picks up pace but yet to shift gears||CHENNAI: Resumption of limited number of trains, inter-city buses and 100% attendance in offices and a small percentage of people preferring metro instead of other public transport like MTC buses, auto rickshaws or cabs may have boosted metro rail’s daily average patronage which has grown by nearly 53% since resuming service in September. From an average daily patronage of 14,798 in September 2020, the ridership has gone up to an average 22,685, though the present daily average patronage is only 25% of the pre-Covid ridership when it was at 1.16 lakh.A metro rail official said stations like Chennai Airport, High Court, Thirumangalam, Meenambakkam and Alandur are now the top five crowded stations where they see anywhere between 1,200 and 2,100 passengers a day. The average peak hour footfall is at 17,883. "I either use suburban trains to travel between St Thomas Mount and Meenambakkam or MTC buses if I am travelling within city limits. Though MTC buses are available, I fear the buses may be crowded. So I opt to travel in metro as it is the only service available through the day though I cannot afford to use metro trains every day," said S Raju, a resident of Alandur. While Chennai Airport station has more fliers, stations like Thirumangalam and Alandur have private company and airport employees, and the High Court station caters to shoppers from Broadway who do not find MTC buses. "We are not sure if MTC passengers are using our service, but we notice most of our commuters are office-goers and people travelling outstation through buses and domestic flights," an official said. "Majority of the crowds we see during peak hours are office goers and people who travel for business. Also we do not operate on suburban or MRTS routes, so we cannot say we are getting those passengers," the official said. But there are many one-time travellers who take metro trains if their origin and destination are closer to the stations. Between September 7 and October 15, out of the total 6.78 lakh passengers, around 4.9 lakh passengers used smartcards, who may be either regular or one-time users and around 1.5 lakh, who may be one-time users, opted for tokens because they do not want to block their money in a smartcard. Metro rail launched a smartcard reader for commuters to tap and validate their smartcards recharged online, to provide contactless travel. QR-code ticketing which also allows commuters to walk straight to the platform without waiting in ticket counters are also gaining popularity with an average 632 commuters using the service daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/citys-transport-picks-up-pace-but-yet-to-shift-gears/articleshow/79028412.cms||U Tejonmayam
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||All 746 KGBVs in UP to get smart classes||LUCKNOW: Under the ongoing ‘Mission Shakti’ programme, the state government has decided to equip all 746 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) in UP with smart classes. These residential schools are being run in 72 districts of the state where girls are given free education from classes 6 to 8. Besides accommodation, girls are also provided food, books and other facilities free of cost. Basic education officer, Lucknow, Dinesh Kumar said: “Smart classes are already in place in eight KGBVs of eight blocks of Lucknow facilitating quality education to girls through modern facilities like computers and projectors. The initiative will also help girls in connecting with the mainstream of the society.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/all-746-kgbvs-in-up-to-get-smart-classes/articleshow/79030694.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Vadodara||Wheat prices to remain moderate in 2021: Anand Agricultural University||VADODARA/ANAND: Wheat prices may touch Rs 2,150 per quintal in April-May 2021. The price forecast ahead of the rabi season has been done based on the current trend in the commodity prices and historical price data. Anand Agricultural University’s (AAU’s) Centre for Agricultural Market Intelligence has started providing pre-sowing and post-harvest price forecast for five major crops including wheat, cumin, maize, groundnut and cotton under a prestigious World Bank funded project on agriculture market intelligence. The objectives of this project includes price forecasting and behaviours, export competitiveness, evaluation of e-National Agriculture Market (e-NAM), market institutions and capacity building of faculty, students, farmers and other stake holders. Last month, wheat was trading at Rs 1,600 per quintal in the open market against Rs 2,200 per quintal in April this year. The market price is around 15% lower than the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,975 per quintal declared by the government. “As per the fourth advance estimates, the total production of wheat in Gujarat amounts to 4,363 thousand tonnes whereas yield is 3,155 kg per hectare. This is higher as compared to production in 2018-19 which stood at 2,407 thousand tonnes while the yield was 3,019 kg per hectare,” said Dr R S Pundir, professor and head of agribusiness economics and policies at AAU’s International Agribusiness Management Institute (IABMI). AAU’s research team analysed the historical monthly price data of wheat of the last 16 years collected from major markets of Gujarat, considered the current production and yield trends, reviewed the reports from traders. “Our econometric analysis has revealed that the prices of wheat during April-May 2021 (at the time of harvest) will remain in the range of Rs 330-430 per 20 kg. In other words, the price range will be in the range of Rs 1,650 to Rs 2,150 per quintal,” said Pundir, adding that this price range can be termed as moderate. “For farmers, it will be a good price as they will get their remunerative cost and they will not have to suffer by growing wheat,” said Pundir, adding that except an abnormal year, wheat prices do not see major fluctuations. The price forecasts of AAU have so far seen 97 % precision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wheat-prices-to-remain-moderate-in-2021-aau/articleshow/79026400.cms||Prashant Rupera
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Dedicated covid hospitals began in August, collector showed empty beds from May||NAGPUR: District collector Ravindra Thakare’s affidavit on Monday in a suo motu PIL at the high court gives an impression that a large number of beds were available in private Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) since May this year. However, of the 14 hospitals listed with vacancies, 12 were not even authorized to treat Covid patients until August 1. It is not clear why the collector included them in the bed occupancy and vacancy information. It is also not known why the limited data from both medical colleges showed there wasn't any bed shortage as such. On Tuesday, TOI spoke to some of the 14 hospitals listed in the affidavit on Tuesday. They confirmed their Covid centres started between August 1 and October 5. One of them was not even a hospital, though its bed strength and vacancy of 148 beds was shown. Surprisingly, the date-wise tables of occupancy and vacancy don’t even carry a legend stating if these were on standby or yet to become functional. This raises a question if the district administration opted to indicate there were sufficient beds against the popular perception and outcry by the public. The government’s stand on the PIL had also come into question earlier for its comment of ‘private interest litigation’ during an initial hearing in the case. Asked about the collector’s affidavit claiming over 1,300 beds being available since May, amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar said, “This is absolutely wrong, amounts to misleading and betrayal of public faith.” Bhandarkar said, “They can be considered available only from the date when they were designated as Covid hospitals. It appears the respondent intends to show that there was no shortage, and thereby convey that the public outcry was not justified.” Regarding the government’s stand, Bhandarkar said, “It was an attempt to brush the issue under the carpet. A lot of fatalities have occurred due to paucity of beds. Government is aware the people may seek compensation because of lack of infrastructure. So, they want to escape public ire and any claims, if made.” Admitting that there was a mistake, district collector Ravindra Thakare said in May only two trust hospitals from Nagpur rural were taken over and ‘zero’ occupancy is mentioned against others. “The occupancy number is shown from the date when the hospitals were authorized,” he said. As per the affidavit, the two trust hospitals — Lata Mangeshkar Hospital Hingna and Shalinitai Meghe Hospital and Research Centre — had started admitting patients from August 14 and 15 respectively. Not only in this case, citizens seem to have been taken for a ride by the civic body as well. During April-May, NMC had claimed it had made arrangements of 5,000 beds at a religious group’s property on Kalmeshwar Road. Besides, it had claimed to have five hospitals of its own. Yet, when the need arose, the facilities couldn’t be utilized for Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dchs-began-in-aug-collector-showed-empty-beds-from-may/articleshow/79028411.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 4, 2020||Salem||Man dies after granite boulder falls on him||Krishnagiri: A 28-year-old man was killed after a large granite boulder fell on him at Kundukurukki village near Hosur in Krishnagiri district on Tuesday. The deceased, K Muniraj, a native of the village, was an employee of Pacific Granites India Private Limited at Kundukurukki. “On Tuesday, Muniraj was working inside the plant. A granite boulder fell on him suddenly while moving it for polishing. Muniraj was stuck under the rock. Other workers rescued him and took him to a private hospital in Hosur,” a police officer attached to the Soolagiri station said. “Muniraj suffered critical head injuries and died in the hospital.” The body was sent to the government hospital in Hosur for postmortem. Police registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-dies-after-granite-boulder-falls-on-him/articleshow/79030039.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Surat||Ink splashed on Surat Municipal Corporation health officer||SURAT: Ink was splashed on the deputy health officer Dr Kanu Shroff of the Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) north zone on Tuesday allegedly by the leaders of the safai kamdars who accused him of corruption in the appointment of the sanitation workers in the Katargam zone.  After a verbal spat, of the members of the Akhil Bharatiya Safai Kamdar union threw ink on him and shouted slogans. The union’s chairman Kirit Vaghela alleged, “Dr Shroff is involved in the attendance scam at the Katargam zone. He is showing the safai workers on paper and taking the money on their behalf. We had gone to discuss the issue with him but he got furious.” Despite repeated attempts, Dr Shroff was not available for comments. Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital) told TOI, “It is a very unfortunate incident. There is a big question on the security of the SMC staff in such a situation. The health staff is continuously working since March during the pandemic. Still they are facing the ire of the people.” Sources said Dr Shroff started the process of registering a police complaint against the union leaders for throwing ink on him at the Katargam police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ink-splashed-on-smc-health-officer/articleshow/79027035.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Chennai||MK Stalin trembling in fear over BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra, says L Murugan||CHENNAI: BJP Tamil Nadu president L Murugan on Tuesday said DMK leader M K Stalin was “trembling” in fear over the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ of the Saffron party. Instead of directly confronting the BJP, Stalin was using his alliance partners as stalking horses to hit out at the BJP for going ahead with a month-long campaign, Murugan said. He said there were four more days left for the yatra to begin and expressed hope that the state government would give its nod in time. He was speaking to reporters at the party headquarters in the city. The yatra would be a turning point in the history of BJP in Tamil Nadu, he said. Asked whether the BJP would stick to its decision to go ahead with the yatra even if the state government denied permission, he asked, “Why do you (journalists) assume things?” Vice-president K S Narendran told TOI that nothing can stop the yatra. The DMK’s allies – the VCK, the IUML and the CPM – have aired concerns about the BJP’s yatra as they fear it would trigger law and order issues. They have urged the state government to ban it. They have charged that the BJP was planning to whip up communal passion during the yatra. “Our yatra is not their main problem. Their intent is to prevent us from meeting people,” said Murugan and added that the DMK and its allies were bent on creating communal discord during the BJP’s yatra. The government and police should probe their designs, he said. “The yatra is aimed at unmasking the elements behind Karuppar Kootam, which denigrated the sacred hymn Kantha Sashti Kavasam, extolling Lord Muruga,” he said. Murugan said his party would honour corona warriors and distribute N95 masks to them across the state during the yatra. Asked whether his meeting with governor Banwarilal Purohit in the morning was related to the yatra, he said, “I met him to express our greetings to him for giving his nod for 7.5% reservation for government school students in Neet quota”. Later in the evening, a team of BJP leaders led by Murugan called on chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The BJP leader later clarified that the purpose of the meeting was to thank him for providing NEET quota for government school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-trembling-in-fear-over-bjps-vetrivel-yatra-says-murugan/articleshow/79031497.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||Open garbage burning polluting air, locals complain of health issues||DEHRADUN: The menace of open burning of household waste, which contains anything from food waste to plastics to discarded electric items, is leading to a spike in the air pollution levels of the city. In several localities, the waste generated from households is being dumped on vacant plots and is later set afire, causing pollution in the state capital. Also, with the onset of winter, the practice of burning dry leaves has become rampant which is further worsening air quality levels in the city. Locals say that the air is so contaminated in some areas that they have developed respiratory issues. The residents of Vasant Vihar area say that open dumping and subsequent burning of waste is ongoing in several vacant plots of the locality. They allege that that the garbage that is dumped in such areas is simply set afire without anyone bothering about the consequences this will have on the environment or on the health of people. Ranir Pal Saini, a resident of Vasant Vihar Enclave, said, “A few days back, a garbage pile was set on fire near my house and it kept on burning for several hours before I doused it with water. This practice is shockingly rampant and no official seems bothered.” Ankit Agarwal, ward councillor of Vasant Vihar, said, “The problem of open garbage burning is mainly associated with waste generated from gardens as the door-to-door facility only collects the household waste. Besides, the residents who leave for work early or those who try to skip the monthly garbage picking charges dump garbage at several points. The same waste is later burnt. We will take help from residents who have CCTV cameras installed in their homes to identify the ones who burn the garbage pile.” A similar issue has been reported by the residents of Sahastradhara where garbage is being burnt every day at the old trenching ground. Mridul Kumar, a resident of the area, said, “The trenching ground was shifted months ago but the garbage is still being dumped here only to be burnt later. Consequently, the smoke reaches our house. This poses a threat of health issues to residents, especially children and elderly.” Anoop Nautiyal, founder of social organisation 'Social Development for Communities Foundation', said, “The problem of burning garbage in the city is rampant as we do not have a stringent framework to curb the practice. The menace can be controlled if a penalty is imposed on offenders. There is also a need to spread awareness among the residents.” Meanwhile, mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama when apprised of the issue said that “action will be taken if someone is found burning garbage.” "The practice has been banned by National Green Tribunal and there is a provision to levy a heavy penalty on the offenders," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/open-garbage-burning-polluting-air-locals-complain-of-health-issues/articleshow/79027118.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Bombay HC warns govt to reimburse MBBS students’ fees||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday gave an ultimatum to Maharashtra government to reimburse fee of MBBS students from open category, who were admitted into private colleges after Maratha quota was implemented by the previous BJP government. A division bench comprising justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryavanshi warned the government to complete formalities in three weeks or principal secretary of State Medical Education and Drugs Department would be summoned in the court. The directives came while hearing a plea by 19 MBBS students from NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences (NKPSIMS) and Research Centre, and three others from Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College (PDMC), Amravati. The petitioners are among 112 open category students admitted to private colleges after the previous government, under then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, assured to pay their fees over and above the amount charged by Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCH) in the state. Despite securing meritorious marks, all of them had failed to get admissions to GMCHs due to implementation of Maratha (SEBC) and EWS quotas. As a one-time measure, Fadnavis government had granted relief to all of them by agreeing to pay their private colleges fees, including tuition and hostel charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-warns-govt-to-reimburse-mbbs-students-fees/articleshow/79030731.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 case positivity dips to 3% in UP; 1,948 fresh infections push tally near 5 lakh||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 case positivity rate of Uttar Pradesh declined further to settle at 3.1% on Tuesday according to an assessment of data by the state health department. Talking to reporters, medical education minister Suresh Khanna said: “UP’s case positivity rate is well below that for India. Against the national case positivity rate of about 7%, UP’s case positivity rate is hovering around 3%.” Measured in terms of total number of persons turning positive among those tested, case positivity rate is a crucial indicator of the spread of the pandemic. Meanwhile, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Alok Kumar said that 1,948 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state's tally to 4.87 lakh. During the same period, 2,210 patients were discharged. With this the total number of recoveries crossed 4.57 lakh. Stating that the total number of Covid-19 casualties in the state reached 7,089 with 13 new additions, Kumar asserted that though the number of new cases was declining the risk of infection was as much as before. “A number of states are witnessing a second surge. Similar situation will prevail in UP if we will not follow the Covid protocol,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-19-case-positivity-dips-to-3-in-up-1948-fresh-infections-push-tally-near-5-lakh/articleshow/79030721.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Two men end lives after losing money in online gambling||Coimbatore: Two men have committed suicide after facing huge loss in online gambling in the city.In the first incident, S Jeevanantham, 30, from Thiruvalluvar Nagar in Thondamuthur, was found hanging at his residence on Tuesday morning. Police said Jeevanantham was running a computer sales and service shop at Thondamuthur. He had lost money in online rummy.A week ago, his wife fought with him and went to her parents’ house, sub-inspector of Thondamuthur Navaneethakrishnan said.He said Jeevanantham ended his life under the influence of alcohol after losing money in online gambling. The Thondamuthur police sent the dead body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. Based on a complaint lodged by Jeevanatham’s wife, police registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the second incident, P Jayachandran, 32, from Machampalayam near Sundarapuram, committed suicide by hanging at his residence at Machampalayam on Monday. Police said he lost more than Rs 30,000 in online rummy and ended his life.Jayachandran was working as a lathe operator. He was unmarried and living alone. Preliminary inquiry revealed he was under the depression due to loneliness and lost money in online gambling.The Podanur police sent the dead body to the CMCH for postmortem and registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-men-end-lives-after-losing-money-in-online-gambling/articleshow/79030058.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Kochi||Action plan for conservationof local biodiversity released||KOCHI: Going ahead with its sustainable solutions, which could help Kochi get more funds for focusing on green and eco-friendly measures, an action plan for conservation of local biodiversity of the city was released on Tuesday. The city has already been drawing the attention of international agencies following its attempt to look for sustainable solutions even while planning its infrastructure projects. In keeping with the general demand of citizens for open spaces, more greenery and conservation of canal system, the action plan has charted out agencies which would be looped in for specific areas of expertise. The action plan is part of the national biodiversity strategy and action plan (Interact-Bio) project implemented in India by the international council for local environmental initiatives (ICLEI) and supported by the German environment ministry through international klimate initiative (IKI) and central environment ministry. “This report is based on ward-wise requirements and has been done scientifically along with people’s participation. The local body will implement it through centre for heritage, environment and development (CHED), Kochi corporation and technical and funding will be through ICLEI. We have charted a time-frame for most of these action plans and in the second phase, we would be going into it at micro-level. We had earlier developed a city biodiversity index which gave an indicator of what is the present condition at each of these places,” said Rajan Chedambath, director, CHED. According to the report, most of the action plans should get into the implementation stage in the next six to 12 months. Officials said Covid-19 has delayed the travel of experts from other parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/action-plan-for-conservationof-local-biodiversity-released/articleshow/79027108.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
November 4, 2020||Meerut||Teen stages own abduction, 'rescued' in Delhi||MEERUT: A 15-year-old son of a local transporter who allegedly staged his own abduction was "rescued" in Delhi by local police and special task force on Tuesday. A sum of Rs 9.31 lakh which he had taken from the house was also recovered from him, police said. The oldest of three siblings, the teenager had gone missing on Monday afternoon from his house in posh Shastri Nagar area under Nauchandi police station here. According to police, he took the step as he was peeved over repeated reprimands by his step-mother. Police tracked him after he used an old mobile number belonging to his step-mother to book a cab to Delhi, said Suraj Rai, circle officer (Civil Lines). From the beginning, police suspected it was not a case of abduction for ransom. Soon after the boy went missing, his younger sister (12) received an extortion message on her mobile phone. She alerted her parents who were away at their native Radhna village. A handwritten extortion note was also recovered from the house. "The handwriting on the note matched with that of the victim. The note was written on a writing pad belonging to the victim's sister and was kept inside a cupboard. The extortion demand sent on mobile phone and the note were also not coherent," said Akhilesh Narayan Singh, superintendent of police (city).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/teen-stages-own-abduction-rescued-in-delhi/articleshow/79027110.cms||Piyush Rai
November 4, 2020||Chennai||DMK drags poster war to election commission||Chennai: Terming posters of DMK chief M K Stalin that have appeared on street walls in certain parts of Tamil Nadu as being “derogatory” and “in poor taste”, the party turned to the election commission for action. A Coimbatore-based DMK functionary had moved the Madras high court seeking directions to the director general of police to take action.Chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo said the complaint would be looked into. “There is no election code of conduct now. I’ll have to check,” the officer told TOI. DMK organisation secretary R S Bharathi said the posters were in violation of Section 153 of IPC, Section 3 of the Registration of the Books (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act, and Section 4 of the TN Open Places Act. “The posters are illegal. Neither the name of the person nor the details of the printing press are available on the posters,” said Bharathi, who submitted a representation to Sahoo at an all-party meeting regarding conduct of the parties. Bharathi alleged misuse of power by municipal administration minister S P Velumani. The posters sprung up in Coimbatore and Tirupur. On Tuesday, the DMK cadres led by Erode South district secretary and former minister S Muthusamy protested on Erode-Bhavani Road demanding action against the unidentified persons for the posters that denigrated Stalin. The party lodged a police complaint.The posters hailing Palaniswami and belittling Stalin and family had surfaced after the ruling AIADMK announced Edappadi K Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate for the 2021 assembly election. A poster asked “hardwork” (uzhaippa?) or “acting” (nadippa?)” with images of EPS, and Stalin in a torn shirt outside the assembly. Another asked, democracy (makkal atchya?) or family rule (kudumba atchiya?), alluding to ‘dynastic politics’ in the DMK. A caricature of Stalin imitated the protagonist of historical-comedy film, Imsai Arasan 23rd Pulikesi, and dubbed him as king of twaddle (ularal mannana?) and son of king (mannarin magana?).“The model code of conduct may not be in force, but the EC can still act since the posters called for people to vote for the AIADMK,” Bharathi said. Police had registered a case against 12 DMK men in Coimbatore.People aged above 80 years and those with disabilities may not need to visit polling booths to exercise their franchise in the upcoming Tamil Nadu state assembly election in 2021. The Election Commission of India (ECI) is likely to provide postal ballot option to them and instructed the election officials in the state to collect their details. Such a system was followed during the recent Bihar state assembly election. At an all-party meeting at the secretariat, chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo also indicated the commission’s communique on the postal ballot facility. “However, it may or may not take place depending on the situation then,” a senior official told TOI. The ECI is also constructing warehouses to store the electronic voting machines, Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail and control units in each district headquarters across the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-drags-poster-war-to-election-commission/articleshow/79031501.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 4, 2020||Bhopal||Results of Madhya Pradesh bypoll will be surprising, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath thanked voters of the 28 assembly constituencies after polling concluded on Tuesday evening. He said, the bypolls were people’s election and people’s government will be formed. “Bypoll results will be surprising and the sound of it will reverberate throughout the country. People of the state will celebrate Diwali on November 10,” he said on Tuesday evening. “The incidents of violence show how much the BJP is flustered.” He said Congress has demanded repolling in Somawali and Mehgaon seats in the booths where incidents of firing and violence were reported and polling stations where rigging has occurred. He alleged that in the last three days ruling BJP tried all methods including distribution of cash, liquor and misuse of police and administration for its advantage. “In some areas administration and police have distributed cash. But BJP should know that some leaders may be purchasable but not the people,” he said. Nath also said that Congress workers will keep a watch on the strong rooms where EVMs will be kept. “We are also trying to find out the reason why some places have seen low turn-out of voters,” he said. Kamal Nath wondered why Jyotiraditya Scindia’s family did not cast their votes. Regarding BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia who brought down his government in March, Kamal Nath said, “On November 10, Jyotiraditya Scindia will level allegations that BJP persons have defeated his supporters. And BJP will allege that it is because of Scindia that the party has been badly defeated.” Taking to twitter after completion of voting, @Office ofKNath said, “Gratitude to voters of 28 constituencies of bypolls in the state. Despite Corona crisis voters have shown unprecedented enthusiasm and participated in large numbers in the polling, fulfilled their duties and gave a befitting reply to all unethical tactics. This election was people’s election, and they fought it themselves.” In a second tweet, Kamal Nath added, “People’s government is all set to be formed on November 10. Assassins of democracy and Constitution are sure to get their answers. This election will decide the direction of the state. Results will send a message across the country, truth will prevail in every situation.” Speaking to reporters after the polling, Kamal Nath claimed, “This election was a fight between truth and untruth, honesty and dishonesty. This is also an election for the protection of our democracy and Constitution. BJP tried its diversion of issues politics but people now know this political strategy of theirs. The polling percentage that has increased, is a message and indication for the BJP.” State Congress president and LOP Kamal Nath on Tuesday morning reached the Gufa temple here accompanied for mer minister PC Sharma and party workers. He offered prayers to Lord Hanumana and thereafter, proceeded to the temple of Lord Bhairav. Speaking to reporters, he said, “Today is Tuesday, the day of Lord Hanumana when bypolls are being held. Results will also be announced on Tuesday, November 10. Hanumanji’s blessings have always been on the state. I believe this state will always be blessed by Lord Hanumana.” He also said that voters of Madhya Pradesh will give Congress the opportunity to work for the development, future and security of the youth and revolution in the agricultural sector. Taking a dig at chief minister Chouhan, the former Union minister said, “Shivraj Singh Chouhan is compelled by his habits. Polling will end but he will continue to make new announcements. This has become his identity and people understand this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/results-of-bypoll-will-be-surprising-kamal-nath/articleshow/79028449.cms||---
November 4, 2020||---||54% vote in Leg 2: Urban voters cold despite peace and pleasant weather||PATNA: In the crucial second phase of the Bihar election, the voter turnout of 54.4% recorded on Tuesday, is marginally less than the 55.7% registered in the first phase polling held on October 28. However, the latest turnout is marked by a lukewarm response from voters in the urban constituencies while their rural counterparts came out in good numbers despite the pandemic fears. Muzaffarpur recorded the highest 59.9% polling while Patna recorded the lowest at 48.2%. Interestingly, the overall voter turnout in 2015 polls for these seats was 56.2%, which is nearly 2% more than Tuesday’s turnout of 54.4%. Four ministers, the opposition CM candidate, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, elder Yadav scion Tej Pratap Yadav and his father-in-law Chandrika Rai are among the 1,463 contestants in this phase. Observers believe that this election is among the most peaceful state polls in Bihar. The state chief electoral officer, H R Srinivasa, said, “The second phase of polling passed off peacefully amid tight security arrangements and Covid19 norms like the first phase. No incident of violence was reported from any of the constituencies, which went to polls today.” However, the low voter turnout in urban areas, especially in Patna, in the second phase of polling for 94 seats, came as a surprise for poll observers as urban areas are considered to be BJP strongholds. Compared to the 2015 elections, there was a huge gap in turnout percentage in Patna this time to the extent of 8% less than the last time recorded in Digha (34.50% and 42.17%) and almost 5% less in Bankipur (35.90%) compared to 40.25% in 2015. Actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha’s son Luv Sinha is contesting from Bankipur against BJP MLA Nitin Navin. Similar was the trend in Patna Sahib (50.60% against 55.29%) where BJP veteran and minister Nand Kishore Yadav is in the fray against Praveen Singh of Congress. The trend was reversed in Patna rural constituencies like Maner and Phulwari (SC) where turnout was more than the last time. The pattern was no different in the constituencies on the home turf of chief minister Nitish Kumar. While Biharsharif (46.11%) and Nalanda (51.25) had a fall by almost 5%, Rajgir (52%) also had 2% less voting compared to 54.13% in 2015. Even Raghopur (54%), where opposition CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is in the fray, had over 4% less turnout compared to 58.50% last time. Some of the other cities and towns in the second phase had the same pattern like Bhagalpur (42.50% against 48.17%), Hajipur (52% against 57.59%), Marhaura (54% against 57.10%), Gopalganj (51.50% against 57.79%) and Siwan (52.15% against 56.17%). Though BJP spokesman Prof Nawal Kishore Yadav said the trend was the same in every election, RJD’s Mritunjay Tiwary termed it as a rejection of the saffron party. “BJP voters were disappointed with their MLAs in Patna as the people’s representatives failed to help them in the period of crisis when the city remained waterlogged for so many days last year. The low turnout in typically urban areas reflects people’s anger against the BJP, which has its MLAs in all the seats in the state capital for almost a decade,” Tiwary said. But Yadav had a different logic. “Many people residing in urban areas also have voted in their villages and they go there to exercise their franchise. The second reason is most of the urban voters are government employees and remain engaged in the polling process. Also, the areas with more votes have less polling percentage,” he said. However, JD(U) general secretary and spokesperson Dr Suheli Mehta said the low turnout was a matter of concern and unfortunate. “A large number of urban voters comprises those in jobs. Since the polling day is a holiday, many have the psychology of taking rest. The second important thing is that rural voters are more politically aware and discuss the issues at their ‘chaupals’, unlike in urban areas where most people talk things only in drawing rooms. That’s why the polling percentage in urban areas in every election is low compared to the rural segments,” she said. Though initially, the turnout in both urban and rural areas was low, it picked up, especially in the rural areas. “It was pleasant weather. The polling personnel were very cooperative,” said 50-year-old Abhimanyu Kumar Singh after casting his vote at a polling booth located at Sultanpur village in Mohiuddin Nagar assembly constituency in Samastipur district. The women and young voters were more enthusiastic about exercising their franchise. “We are voting on the issue of unemployment and law and order. We are voting to maintain peace here. There is no caste factor here,” said Sanjay Singh (34), a voter at a polling booth located at Chamrahra village in Mahnar assembly constituency in Vaishali district. Mritunjay Kumar (28), who was waiting for his turn at a polling booth in Parsa assembly segment, said, “Bihar is passing through a transition phase. We want change. We want young leaders to come to power. This election is being fought on issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/54-vote-in-leg-2-urban-voters-cold-despite-peace-and-pleasant-weather/articleshow/79030083.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 4, 2020||Patna||54% vote in Leg 2: Urban voters cold despite peace and pleasant weather||PATNA: In the crucial second phase of the Bihar election, the voter turnout of 54.4% recorded on Tuesday, is marginally less than the 55.7% registered in the first phase polling held on October 28. However, the latest turnout is marked by a lukewarm response from voters in the urban constituencies while their rural counterparts came out in good numbers despite the pandemic fears. Muzaffarpur recorded the highest 59.9% polling while Patna recorded the lowest at 48.2%. Interestingly, the overall voter turnout in 2015 polls for these seats was 56.2%, which is nearly 2% more than Tuesday’s turnout of 54.4%. Four ministers, the opposition CM candidate, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, elder Yadav scion Tej Pratap Yadav and his father-in-law Chandrika Rai are among the 1,463 contestants in this phase. Observers believe that this election is among the most peaceful state polls in Bihar. The state chief electoral officer, H R Srinivasa, said, “The second phase of polling passed off peacefully amid tight security arrangements and Covid19 norms like the first phase. No incident of violence was reported from any of the constituencies, which went to polls today.” However, the low voter turnout in urban areas, especially in Patna, in the second phase of polling for 94 seats, came as a surprise for poll observers as urban areas are considered to be BJP strongholds. Compared to the 2015 elections, there was a huge gap in turnout percentage in Patna this time to the extent of 8% less than the last time recorded in Digha (34.50% and 42.17%) and almost 5% less in Bankipur (35.90%) compared to 40.25% in 2015. Actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha’s son Luv Sinha is contesting from Bankipur against BJP MLA Nitin Navin. Similar was the trend in Patna Sahib (50.60% against 55.29%) where BJP veteran and minister Nand Kishore Yadav is in the fray against Praveen Singh of Congress. The trend was reversed in Patna rural constituencies like Maner and Phulwari (SC) where turnout was more than the last time. The pattern was no different in the constituencies on the home turf of chief minister Nitish Kumar. While Biharsharif (46.11%) and Nalanda (51.25) had a fall by almost 5%, Rajgir (52%) also had 2% less voting compared to 54.13% in 2015. Even Raghopur (54%), where opposition CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is in the fray, had over 4% less turnout compared to 58.50% last time. Some of the other cities and towns in the second phase had the same pattern like Bhagalpur (42.50% against 48.17%), Hajipur (52% against 57.59%), Marhaura (54% against 57.10%), Gopalganj (51.50% against 57.79%) and Siwan (52.15% against 56.17%). Though BJP spokesman Prof Nawal Kishore Yadav said the trend was the same in every election, RJD’s Mritunjay Tiwary termed it as a rejection of the saffron party. “BJP voters were disappointed with their MLAs in Patna as the people’s representatives failed to help them in the period of crisis when the city remained waterlogged for so many days last year. The low turnout in typically urban areas reflects people’s anger against the BJP, which has its MLAs in all the seats in the state capital for almost a decade,” Tiwary said. But Yadav had a different logic. “Many people residing in urban areas also have voted in their villages and they go there to exercise their franchise. The second reason is most of the urban voters are government employees and remain engaged in the polling process. Also, the areas with more votes have less polling percentage,” he said. However, JD(U) general secretary and spokesperson Dr Suheli Mehta said the low turnout was a matter of concern and unfortunate. “A large number of urban voters comprises those in jobs. Since the polling day is a holiday, many have the psychology of taking rest. The second important thing is that rural voters are more politically aware and discuss the issues at their ‘chaupals’, unlike in urban areas where most people talk things only in drawing rooms. That’s why the polling percentage in urban areas in every election is low compared to the rural segments,” she said. Though initially, the turnout in both urban and rural areas was low, it picked up, especially in the rural areas. “It was pleasant weather. The polling personnel were very cooperative,” said 50-year-old Abhimanyu Kumar Singh after casting his vote at a polling booth located at Sultanpur village in Mohiuddin Nagar assembly constituency in Samastipur district. The women and young voters were more enthusiastic about exercising their franchise. “We are voting on the issue of unemployment and law and order. We are voting to maintain peace here. There is no caste factor here,” said Sanjay Singh (34), a voter at a polling booth located at Chamrahra village in Mahnar assembly constituency in Vaishali district. Mritunjay Kumar (28), who was waiting for his turn at a polling booth in Parsa assembly segment, said, “Bihar is passing through a transition phase. We want change. We want young leaders to come to power. This election is being fought on issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/54-vote-in-leg-2-urban-voters-cold-despite-peace-and-pleasant-weather/articleshow/79032705.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 4, 2020||Trichy||Trichy health officials step up vigil after spike in abortions||TRICHY: A review meeting on child sex ratio called upon health department officials to take a serious view of the functioning of scan centres in Trichy district to prevent them from indulging in sex determination of foetus and female foeticide through medical termination of pregnancy (MTP). In this regard, collector S Sivarasu pointed out the action taken against two erring private hospitals for excessive number of MTPs done. The district administration pointed out the dip in child sex ratio from 946/1,000 during 2019-20 to 929/1,000 in 2020-2021 till September, which is the number of female babies per 1,000 boys. The meeting by the collector insisted on preventing female foeticide. He also advised the doctors of government and private hospitals to counsel ante-natal mothers to accept the baby of either sex without discrimination. The action against the hospitals was initiated after verifying the records collected by the staff of the primary health centres (PHCs) in the district. Joint director of health services Dr S Lakshmi, who was also part of the meeting, expressed concern at the reduction in the child sex ratio in Trichy. “The comparison of the data shows that the child sex ratio is decreasing and underlines the gap in the process. In order to plug the gap, we have planned to conduct a series of inspections at the scan centres functioning alone as well as the centres attached to the hospitals soon,” Lakshmi told TOI. JDHS said around 400 scan centres have been functioning in Trichy district. “Not all the centres are indulging in the practice. Some may be doing it, but our raids will bring an end to it,” said Dr Lakshmi. In some cases, unmarried pregnant women and pregnant women through illegitimate affair aborted their foetus at some centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-health-officials-step-up-vigil-after-spike-in-abortions/articleshow/79030077.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||City’s biggest dump yard turns into ‘Sanmathi Park’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city corporation made use of 2,567 man days to clear the biggest dump yard in the city and convert it into a park and garden. The new park and garden created after clearing the dump site at Erumakuzhy was inaugurated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Tuesday. The park has been named ‘Sanmathi’ (good sense) and the name was suggested by Class XII student Anakha Roy. Around 1,600 tonnes of waste was removed, which included 600 tonnes of compost; five tonnes of footwear; three tonnes of coconut shells; 900 tonnes of sand, grit, construction debris and compost residual; five tonnes of other materials and 87 tonnes of residual which cannot be recycled and it was sent to sanitary landfilling. The corporation spent Rs 22.47 lakh for processing, segregation and disposal of waste. The corporation had made use of lockdown to engage manual labour to clear the dumpsite at Erumakuzhy. Nearly 30 cents have been reclaimed by corporation at Erumakuzhy through biomining. A park, a material recovery facility and a permanent demonstration corner for decentralized waste management initiatives have come up at Erumakuzhy. The civic body could save crores of rupees in levelling the dump yard owing to the joint efforts by guest workers and corporation cleaning staff. Since April, the civic body had engaged 40 workers pooled from destitute camp and migrant labourer camps at SMV School and Attakulangara School as part of clearing the dump yard. An elaborate project was earlier conceived for the same work. The health wing of city corporation undertook a total station survey to assess the volume of waste that had to be bio-mined at Erumakuzhy. The survey results showed that 2,388 cubic metres of waste had accumulated at Erumakuzhy. Tenders were called for bio-mining of legacy waste and initial estimates went above Rs 1 crore for the entire project. It was then the tender processes were halted following lockdown and corporation thought of engaging people housed in schools depending upon their willingness. The labourers and destitute people took shifts at work and were paid Rs 280 per day; an amount fixed based on employment guarantee scheme wages. The waste was sorted and anything that could be recycled was separated. Beer bottles and glass bottles collected from the debris will be handed over to designated collectors. The civic body also launched a website for Sanmathi Park on Tuesday. The park will be open from 6am to 8pm. Mayor K Sreekumar said that the park is a testimony to corporation’s tryst with decentralized waste management. The civic body has created a new model of handling legacy waste by clearing a dump yard in the most scientific manner, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/citys-biggest-dump-yard-turns-into-sanmathi-park/articleshow/79030734.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Bhopal||Fate of one-third MP ministers sealed in EVMs||BHOPAL: With polling for 28 assembly seats in MP ending on Tuesday, fate of over one third of the Madhya Pradesh ministers and two former ministers have been sealed in the EVMs. Out of the 28 seats where voting for by-election was held in the day, 12 contestants were ministers and two were former ministers, who resigned a month ago, after failing to get elected within six months of being sworn as per law. In a first in the political history of Madhya Pradesh, 12 of the 33 ministers are contesting the by-polls to get elected to the state assembly. The ministers whose electoral fate would be known on November 10, included Prabhuram Choudhary, Pradhuman Singh Tomar, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Bisahulal Singh, Aidal Singh Kansana, Hardeep Singh Dang, Rajyavardhan Singh Dattigaon, Imarti Devi, OPS Bhadoria, Girraj Dandotiya, Brijendra Singh Yadav and Suresh Dhakad. While Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput were former ministers, they resigned as cabinet ministers a fortnight back after completing six months in office without being MLA. Bypolls for 25 assembly seats in MP were necessitated after resignation of Congress MLAs— supporters of Jyotiraditya Scindia, who later switched over to the BJP after toppling the Kamal Nath government. MLAs of the three other seats passed away, taking the total seats where by-election necessitated to 28. After the Scindia supporter MLAs joined BJP, 14 among the 25 were made ministers in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet. Among the 14 ministers, Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput were inducted into the ministry in the first cabinet expansion on April 21 and their six months ended on October 20 after which they resigned in the middle of their by-poll campaign. The remaining 12 ministers have time till January, as they were inducted in the second cabinet expansion held in MP on July 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fate-of-one-third-mp-mins-sealed-in-evms/articleshow/79028467.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Pune||Inter-state gang held for stealing high-end vehicles, selling them in city||Pune: The crime branch of the Pimpri Chinchwad police has busted a three-man inter-state operation and recovered stolen cars, sports utility vehicles (SUVs) and engines from a garage in Ravet. The police have arrested the three men, as well as two of their local accomplices. The recovered loot was worth Rs3.58 crore, police said. The suspects would steal these vehicles/engines from Delhi, Ludhiana, Panchkula, Panipat and other areas of the National Capital Region (NCR) and sell them as “second-hand” vehicles to unsuspecting buyers in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, some of whom had taken out loans. The police noticed suspicious activity at a garage in Ravet, near Dehu Road. On October 26, a team comprising assistant commissioner of police R R Patil, inspector Uttam Tangade, assistant inspector Ganesh Patil and sub-inspector Kaluram Landge raided the garage and took the suspects into custody. “The three main suspects are Chanpreet Harvindarpal Singh (43) of Ravet, Manjitsingh Jogindarsingh Marwa (40) of Walhekarwadi and Deepak Chamanlal Khanna (40) of Delhi. We have also arrested Pratik ‘Nagesh’ Chhagan Deshmukh (28) and Haroon Sharif Shaikh (39), who helped the trio find buyers,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said. In the garage, the police found a few SUVs bearing Maharashtra number plates, as well as several engines of top-end SUVs. inspector Tangade said they checked the chassis number of these vehicles. “These vehicles were reported stolen in Punjab,” Prakash said, adding that they verified this with the Punjab police. The vehicles were recovered from the possession of the current owners and said it was impossible for the victims to recover their money in this case. “We recovered 13 SUVs and cars and 15 engines. The gang would steal these cars outside the state, prepare documentation and sell them as ‘second-hand’ vehicles to the residents. They sold the vehicles for Rs3 lakh to Rs20 lakh,” the commissioner said. “Marwa and Khanna would visit local garages and obtain details of vehicles involved in accidents, which were beyond repair. They would send these details to Singh, who would steal vehicles of a similar make from Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and other areas,” Tangade said. He said Singh would drive the vehicle to the city, hand it over to Marwa and Khanna near the airport and take a flight back to Delhi. “Marwa and Khanna would affix local number plates on the stolen vehicles, prepare documents based on the chassis and engine numbers of the scrapped vehicles and attempted to obscure these details on the stolen vehicles,” Tangade said. “After processing the documents with the RTO, the suspects would sell these vehicles,” he said. Police said the trio earlier operated in Delhi. About four years ago, they shifted base to Pimpri after they were caught by the police in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/inter-state-gang-held-for-stealing-high-end-vehicles-selling-them-in-city/articleshow/79028489.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Chennai||MTC runs ‘more’ buses to obey SOPs||CHENNAI: The situation after November 16, when more lockdown norms would be relaxed and there will still be no suburban train services, would be ideal for the Metropolitan Transport Corporation to operate more buses. But, the corporation has decided to keep one-third of its 3,300-strong fleet idle. A senior MTC official said patronage was better compared to last month. “Still many of our buses, particularly those on uneconomical routes, are running half-empty even during peak hours”. Official data suggests 15 lakh people travelled by 2,100 MTC buses on Monday. The daily average in the third and fourth weeks of September was 12 lakh. “Technically, we need only 1,500 buses to ferry these many people but MTC is operating 600 buses extra to ensure Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) can be adopted,” he added. Besides, on weekends, MTC is operating 50 special buses to clear extra rush for Diwali shopping, connecting suburbs like Avadi, Tambaram and Red Hills with shopping hubs like T Nagar, Purasalwakam and Vallalar Nagar. T Sadagopan, a consumer rights’ activist from Avadi, said only skeletal services were operated in the western suburbs, with people in areas like Thirunindravur, Arani and Vepampattu forced to take share autos to reach Avadi to get an MTC bus. “Every person here has to spend at least Rs 20 – Rs 40 extra every day to work and back,” he said. The MTC official said skeletal services were due to ongoing work on the road over-bridge at Pattabhiram forcing buses to take long detours to travel to areas beyond this. Many commuters said the timings were irregular. Also, there is no clarity on when suburban train services will resume. “When Mumbai is allowed to operate local trains, why not Chennai,” asked Rama Rao of Chennai-based Traffic and Transportation Forum (TTF). Experts say that without adequate public transport options, people had to look for other modes of travel and hence the steep increase in private vehicle growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mtc-runs-more-buses-to-obey-sops/articleshow/79028478.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Minister opens renovated veggie market||Coimbatore: Municipal administration minister SP Velumani on Tuesday inaugurated a renovated daily vegetable market at Ukkamdam in the city. The market was renovated at the cost of Rs 95 lakh. According to a statement from the corporation, the renovation work was carried out based on the request from traders. As the market is situated in a low-lying area, water gets stagnated whenever it rain. To avoid water-logging, basement has been raised at least a few inches above the road level by laying pavement blocks. The total area of the market is 42,850 square feet. “The number of shops in the market has been increased to 303 from 250. The market has drinking water facilities and toilet facilities at both ends. To ensure that water drains quickly, storm water drains are constructed at the cost of Rs 59 lakh in the market,” a corporation source said. Collector K Rajamani presided over the function. He was accompanied by the corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian, city engineer R Lakshmanan, assistant commissioner (central zone) Magesh Kanagaraj and other officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/minister-opens-renovated-veggie-market/articleshow/79030075.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Hi-tech diabetic retinopathy unit at KGMU soon||LUCKNOW: Government medical colleges in Prayagraj and Meerut and the ophthalmology department at King George’s Medical University will soon be home to state of the art facilities for treatment and management of diabetic retinopathy – a leading cause of preventable blindness in the country. “A blue-print for development of the facilities is being drawn. A delegation from UP also paid a visit to the Madurai based Aravind Eye Hospital to study their set-up and working protocols,” said medical education minister Suresh Khanna on Tuesday who led the delegation. Officials in the medical education department revealed that the delegation travelled to Madurai in the first half of February and that the plan could not move forward in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. With situations slowly returning to normal, the project has been revived. Experts believe that that project is of great importance to UP which is home to about 4% of the global blind population of 45 million. Data from the national programme for the control of blindness shows that an estimated 1.85 million (18.5 lakh) people in UP are blind. What is worse is that over three lakh new persons join this population every year. "The saddest part is that loss of vision in majority of these people could have been prevented," said a former government official associated with the national programme for control of blindness and visual impairment. Assessments of data from registrar-general of India suggests that UP could be having over 3.9 lakh persons with diabetic retinopathy. Insiders revealed that under the plan, UP would also be procuring medical equipment to treat the condition so that the service could be provided either free or at absolutely nominal costs to those in need. “An ophthalmologist said: “There are three ways to treat diabetic retinopathy depending on its gravity. This includes injections, laser treatment and surgery. The cost of each injection in a private institution is between Rs 18,000-25,000. As many as three injections are needed making the total cost Rs 75,000 which may not be affordable to many.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hi-tech-diabetic-retinopathy-unit-at-kgmu-soon/articleshow/79030733.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 4, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Hi-tech diabetic retinopathy unit at KGMU soon||LUCKNOW: Government medical colleges in Prayagraj and Meerut and the ophthalmology department at King George’s Medical University will soon be home to state of the art facilities for treatment and management of diabetic retinopathy – a leading cause of preventable blindness in the country. “A blue-print for development of the facilities is being drawn. A delegation from UP also paid a visit to the Madurai based Aravind Eye Hospital to study their set-up and working protocols,” said medical education minister Suresh Khanna on Tuesday who led the delegation. Officials in the medical education department revealed that the delegation travelled to Madurai in the first half of February and that the plan could not move forward in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. With situations slowly returning to normal, the project has been revived. Experts believe that that project is of great importance to UP which is home to about 4% of the global blind population of 45 million. Data from the national programme for the control of blindness shows that an estimated 1.85 million (18.5 lakh) people in UP are blind. What is worse is that over three lakh new persons join this population every year. "The saddest part is that loss of vision in majority of these people could have been prevented," said a former government official associated with the national programme for control of blindness and visual impairment. Assessments of data from registrar-general of India suggests that UP could be having over 3.9 lakh persons with diabetic retinopathy. Insiders revealed that under the plan, UP would also be procuring medical equipment to treat the condition so that the service could be provided either free or at absolutely nominal costs to those in need. “An ophthalmologist said: “There are three ways to treat diabetic retinopathy depending on its gravity. This includes injections, laser treatment and surgery. The cost of each injection in a private institution is between Rs 18,000-25,000. As many as three injections are needed making the total cost Rs 75,000 which may not be affordable to many.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hi-tech-diabetic-retinopathy-unit-at-kgmu-soon/articleshow/79035313.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 4, 2020||Chennai||Taxis count on festive crowd, autos on shared rides||CHENNAI: The festive crowd has handed a lifeline to cab and autorickshaw drivers. Increased bookings have helped many vehicle owner repay their pending dues. T Ramanujam of Tamil Nadu Call Taxi Owners Association said there has been a 10% increase in the number of bookings per day. Every day, at least 7,000 drivers log in to various cab apps for daily trips in the city, he said. “Though it hasn’t gone back to the original figures reported last January, with more relaxations and Diwali round the corner we are optimistic that we could earn at least Rs 20,000 per month,” he said. However, those who own more cabs and lease them out on a daily basis are struggling to make profits as they have to pay their EMIs with the available income. A Manikandan, a taxi driver from Perungudi, said: “Most of the cabs were attached to IT firms and industries on the outskirts. Many of the employees who opt for cabs to travel for their office are working from home.” Some city residents are making outstation trips on auspicious days. “But they prefer local travel agents as they can bargain on the rates and waiting time. App-driven services charge tax and additional fee even if there was an hour’s delay while travelling outstation,” said Manikandan. Autorickshaw drivers, especially those in the suburbs, have converted their vehicles as share autos and started making shuttle trips between interior areas and bus terminuses. K Chandran from CITU auto union said drivers choose routes which MTC has neglected recently. “Rather than waiting for hours at Egmore or Koyambedu, the share auto option fetches us at least Rs 1,000 at the end of the day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/taxis-count-on-festive-crowd-autos-on-shared-rides/articleshow/79028512.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||4 fined Rs 3L for trying to dump waste from Kerala||Coimbatore: Malumichampatti panchayat officials on Tuesday slapped a penalty of Rs 3 lakh on four people for attempting to dump plastic and medical waste from Kerala in their panchayat limits in the district. V Karthik, 27, a resident, said a truck bearing Kerala registration number was spotted entering the panchayat dump yard around 10pm on Monday. “We felt something was amiss and went to the dump yard, where the truck driver and helper were trying to dispose of waste that was filled in sacks.” He said there was a sticker on the truck that read ‘on PDS ration duty, Kerala state’. The residents stopped them from unloading the truck and handed them over to the panchayat officials, who summoned the vehicle owner, Askar Ali, of Malappuram district in Kerala, and held an inquiry with them on Tuesday morning. The remaining three include Abdul Mujeeb, Nasar and Rafiq. “During the inquiry, it was revealed that they were involved in clearing waste from a panchayat in Kerala. We don’t know how they managed to cross the state border and entered the district unnoticed. We have fined them Rs 75,000 each and asked them to take the waste back to their state,” said a panchayat official. He said a similar incident had taken place some time ago and they had set up a gate in front of the dump yard to prevent unauthorized entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-fined-rs-3l-for-trying-to-dump-waste-from-kerala/articleshow/79030080.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Phase 1 of APJ Abdul Kalam park project completed||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Corporation has accomplished a major milestone in creating city’s biggest green space by completing first phase works of APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial Park at Poundukadavu, for which corporation had to secure no-objection certificates from 11 departments. It was former mayor V K Prasanth who had pitched the idea of utilising the abandoned, bushy spread of land near Parvathy Puthanar when it came to finalising a project under green spaces as part of Amrut scheme. The proposed site for corporation’s prestigious green space project at Poundukadavu was demarcated under no development zone (NDZ) of CRZ-3, according to Kerala coastal zone management authority. KCZMA had concluded that the area fell under NDZ while considering an application filed by city corporation seeking CRZ clearance for the project at Poundukadavu. KCZMA had cited that the proposed construction was at a distance of 8.8m (agro bazaar) and 11m (amenity pavillion) from the high tide line of Parvathy Puthanar. The issue was later resolved. The planned green space project in Poundukadavu proposes construction of park in Poundukadavu-Stationkadavu road. The project planned at a cost of Rs 5.5 crore comprises an agro bazar and entry pavillion with a plinth area of 1,720sqm spread over a plot area of 6.95 acres. “Many of our parks are located in the centre of the city. The park at Poundukadavu has so many features like gender neutral toilet and it addresses serious need of open spaces in the city,” said Prasanth. The green space project has been designed to create an arboretum by conserving around 500 species of plants and trees in the area. Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre had handed over 16 cents of land to city corporation for the project. A 1.5km-long cycle track, a pathway, toilet complex and exhibition centre will be added features of the park. The first phase was inaugurated by minister for tourism Kadakampally Surendran here on Sunday. Mayor K Sreekumar said the park will turn out to be a major hangout for people in the IT sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/phase-1-of-apj-abdul-kalam-park-project-completed/articleshow/79030743.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Pune||Pune eatery operator duped of Rs 8,888||PUNE: A woman posed as an Army personnel and duped an eatery operator (48) to the tune of Rs8,888 by luring her to reveal the details of her debit card, on the pretext of placing a food parcel order for 15 people on June 9. The eatery operator lodged an FIR with the Alankar police on Monday, stating that she had received a call from the fraudster posing as an official of the Indian Army.The fraudster wanted to place a food parcel order during the lockdown. The caller told the woman she would depute a vehicle to collect the parcel. The fraudster called the woman telling her to share the eatery’s address. She also sent a photo of her identity card and bank details and lured the eatery operator to reveal the details of her debit card to transfer money in her bank account. A police officer said, “The fraudster lured the woman to reveal her one time password (OTP) twice, and transferred Rs8,888 in two transactions. After the woman realized that she was tricked, she refused to share the OTP the third time. She told the suspect to refund the money and collect the food parcel, but the latter refused” “The woman had initially filed a complaint application with the cyber police station on June 10. The cyber police officers conducted a preliminary inquiry and transferred the application to Alankar police to register an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC and IT Act,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eatery-operator-duped-of-rs-8888/articleshow/79028507.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: MahaMetro hands over Zero Mile to collector||NAGPUR: After being censured by the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, collector Ravindra Thakare has taken back possession of Zero Mile monument from MahaMetro. In the last hearing, the HC had directed MahaMetro to hand over the charge of the iconic milestone to the government after it refused to maintain it. A statement in this regard was made by additional government pleader Anand Fulzele on Tuesday. He further informed that public works department (PWD) has been asked to maintain the monument and work would commence in a couple of days. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Ravi Deshpande then adjourned the hearing till November 25. The bench was hearing a suo motu PIL on neglect of Zero Mile monument by authorities. Kartik Shukul has been appointed as amicus curiae. “The monument has been lying in neglect for several years. People blame us for it. When you will be starting the maintenance work,” Justice Deshpande had said. The amicus suggested that the structure should be maintained and monitored on a day-to-day basis after which the judges endorsed his stand. Expressing disappointment over MahaMetro’s failure to look after the monument, a division bench of Justice Deshpande and Justice Pushpa Ganediwala had, on October 28, directed to remove all structures/constructions near the Zero Mile, including Metro bogie, within eight days and construct a wall around it. Earlier, collector had clarified that it was MahaMetro’s responsibility to look after the maintenance of the iconic structure as the area was in its possession. However, MahaMetro opposed his contention stating that it was becoming difficult for them to maintain cleanliness and they were hiring persons from outside for the job. In one of the hearings, NMC counsel Gemini Kasat informed the HC that Zero Mile is a Grade-I heritage structure, foundation of which was laid in 1907. A notification in this regard was issued in 2003 by the civic body. Quoting points from the city's Development Plan, he added that the triangle adjacent to the monument was reserved for park. State’s urban development department (UDD), Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner, NMC’s Heritage Conservation Committee chairman, and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) chairman, beside MahaMetro have been made respondents in the PIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahametro-hands-over-zero-mile-to-collector/articleshow/79030740.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 4, 2020||Pune||Airport director to ask airlines’ station managers to address flyers’ problems||Pune: The city’s airport authorities would tell the station managers of all airlines to coordinate with higher officials and address the problems of flyers related to ticket bookings and last-minute cancellations after the flight operations were restricted to 12 hours at the facility from October 26 because of the runway re-carpeting work.Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI, “I shall advise the airport managers of all the airlines to coordinate with their respective regional managers or their headquarters to resolve the issues at the earliest. The booking of tickets on websites are done at the headquarters of the airlines. The airport managers of the airlines do not have any control over the computer software.”G Chandramouli, the regional director (western regional) of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), said, “I shall check with the Pune airport director on the issue as no complaints have reached me yet. It is tough to adjust anything in a defence airfield because slots are tough. Airlines are also going through a bad patch. The state authorities can only help us in the present circumstances. The airport director is also collaborating with airlines in this regard.”This is the first time the airport officials have reacted to the flyers’ hassles. Several e-mails sent to all the airlines on different occasions remained unanswered despite flyers being hassled.Software engineer Nikhil Dudhbaware got a rude shock on Tuesday morning in connection with his Pune-Nagpur flight. “I had to fly to Nagpur with my family on November 4 and had booked tickets of a GoAir flight 10 days ago. I had bought return tickets for December 12 on the same day. On Tuesday, I received a message from GoAir that the outbound flight stands cancelled. I checked an IndiGo flight but the fare for Wednesday stood at Rs10,000 per passenger. The total cost of tickets for the GoAir flight I had booked came to around Rs11,500,” Nikhil told TOI.He said, “I had booked the tickets via a travel portal. GoAir claimed that the money for the cancelled tickets had been refunded. But the portal says that it has not received it and I am yet to get the refund.”Nikhil said the flights to Nagpur of other airlines were extremely costly now. The family-of-three would now go to Nagpur via Mumbai. “The total cost of tickets now rests at around Rs14,000, which is still high. I shall have to spend Rs3,000 extra for travelling to Mumbai from Pune in a cab.”Nikhil also said the airline (GoAir) was not sharing any information about his return flight on December 12.Another flyer, booked in a flight to Jaipur in December, said. “It seems no one has got any clues as to what is happening. The websites of travel portals as well as airlines are still taking booking for the evening- and night-time flights from Pune. Whenever queries on social media are being raised, the airlines are just saying changes would be intimated, if at all. Most of them are informing passengers about changes a day or two before the flight date. This is nothing but cheating.”The representative of an airline operating in Pune said they were facing several queries from frustrated passengers. “We have informed our headquarters about them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/airport-director-to-ask-airlines-station-managers-to-address-flyers-problems/articleshow/79028500.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 4, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn musn’t collect SWM user fee, say residents||Trichy: Frustrated with the inordinate delay in collecting garden waste, which is getting accumulated on roads and vacant plots, residents have urged the Trichy Corporation to refrain from collecting the solid waste management (SWM) user fee, which ranges between Rs 150 and Rs 1,000. Residents of Srirangam, the area with the maximum green cover in Trichy, claimed that the delay in collecting waste discouraged them from growing more trees. Until 2019, the corporation was deputing a truck each for the four zones to exclusively collect garden waste. However, for about a year now, the recyclable waste was not being collected regularly, they said. “The sanitary workers also refused to collect the waste despite our requests. Residents are forced to dump the waste on roads, which remains there for weeks,” T Santhanakrishnan, a resident of Thiruvalluvar street in Srirangam said. The waste is removed only after several complaints are lodged. Corporation sources said that the mini trucks used for waste collection at doorsteps are inadequate to collect even the kitchen waste. A civic body official said the issue shall be sorted out soon, but added that residents with adequate space have been encouraged to implement home composting mechanism to recycle the waste into manure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-musnt-collect-swm-user-fee-say-residents/articleshow/79030086.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 4, 2020||Bhopal||High voter turnout would help BJP sweep bypolls: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that the impressive turnout of voters in the by-polls suggest that BJP will have a clean sweep. Now that the by-polls are over, the BJP government would begin implementation of the roadmap for a self-reliant Madhya Pradesh, said Chouhan. "The public has participated enthusiastically in the by-elections on 28 seats in the state. People have expressed their faith in democracy and considered voting as a sacred duty. I am thankful to the voters. The BJP will win this election," said Chouhan in a statement. Chouhan said that the massive turnout of voters even suppressed the fear of the Covid-19 pandemic. "The fear and impact of Coronavirus is nowhere to be seen. In some places voting percentage was recorded more than 2018 assembly elections. This is the strength of our democracy," said Chouhan. The chief minister said that Congress aggression was visible during the poll process. Congress leaders even mocked the poll process. "Congress is upset. The party is making fun of democracy and questioning the EVMs. When the Congress government was formed in 2018 then EVM was right," he said. Chouhan also said that Congress is threatening the officials. "I want to make clear to the Congress that officers and employees have their dignity and respect. Threatening officers of dire consequences is the mockery of democracy and also an insult to the officer and the employee, which cannot be justified," he said. Chouhan said that Congress' frustration shows that the old party has accepted its defeat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/high-voter-turnout-would-help-bjp-sweep-bypolls-chouhan/articleshow/79028485.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||Centuries old structure found in Har-Ki-Pauri||HARIDWAR: A centuries-old flight of steps emerged on Brahmakund Ghat during renovation work at the banks for Kumbh Mela. According to local priests, a ‘mysterious script’ was written on the stones. Meanwhile, the Kumbh Mela administration stopped the work at the site and asked the administration to call a team of Archeological Survey of India (ASI) for further investigation. Teerth Purohit Ujjawal Pandit told TOI, “Renovation work of the Har Ki Pauri Ghat is on in which old tiles of the steps were removed to replace with the new ones. During construction at Brahmakund Ghat, where royal baths take place during Kumbh by the akharas, some old steps surfaced on which a mysterious script was written. It is not yet confirmed what exactly it is about, but we are happy about this discovery as it rejects the rumours that said the actual Brahmakund is at Neeldhara on Chandighat.” Additional Mela officer Harbeer Singh meanwhile said that the script which is present on the steps is being studied by experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centuries-old-structure-found-in-har-ki-pauri/articleshow/79027153.cms||MS Nawaz
November 4, 2020||Trichy||Loadmen want Gandhi market to be reopened||Trichy: The loadmen attached to three major trade unions of the Gandhi Market staged a rally in the city on Tuesday demanding the district administration to reopen the market. The head load workers fear that the deadlock between the traders at the closed Gandhi market and the district administration, which wants to utilize the facility at Kallikudi as a wholesale vegetable market, may lead to formation of yet another private market where their job security will be compromised. While the Madras high court had directed the district administration to keep the Gandhi market closed, the wholesale vegetable traders are hesitant to relocate to Kallikudi market, a replacement facility. A couple of years ago when a private market was set up at Palpannai in the city exclusively for onion, the loadmen claimed that they had lost jobs as the private market employed cheap labour bypassing them. Fearing job loss, the loadmen attached to DMK’s Labour Progressive Front (LPF), VCK’s Labour Liberation Front (LLF) and CITU took out a protest rally from Major Saravanan roundabout to the district collector office. “If Gandhi Market is kept closed for a long time, traders may establish their own market where jobs for us are not assured,” G K Ramar, urban district president, CITU, said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/loadmen-want-gandhi-market-to-be-reopened/articleshow/79030089.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Pune||PMPML to set up fuel pumps for revenue in Pune||Pune: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will set up 22 fuel stations by early next year to earn additional revenue. “Companies like the Indian Oil Corporation, Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited have approached us and also made site visits. The petrol and CNG pumps will be set up by them on the plots owned by the PMPML and we will also get dealership from them,” PMPML chairman-cum-managing director Rajendra Jagtap told TOI. “These fuel stations will be operated by PMPML workers welfare board. The signing of the agreement will be done shortly, and we are looking to start these pumps by March next year. We hope to earn an additional Rs30crore annually,” Jagtap said. The state-run Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has also entered into an agreement with oil and CNG companies to set up 50 fuel stations in different parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-set-up-fuel-pumps-for-revenue/articleshow/79028543.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 4, 2020||Surat||Surat: Teenager ends life after being scolded||SURAT: A 14-year-old boy ended life by hanging self at his residence in Punagam area of the city on Monday. Police said that the deceased Laksh Hirpara, a student of Class VIII, was upset on being scolded by his parents for not studying. Body of Laksh was found hanging in his room on Monday evening. His family members told police that Laksh was not study and used to play outside throughout the day. His parents had scolded him on Monday for not studying. It is suspected that the boy might have taken the extreme step as he was upset after the scolding, police said. Laksh’s father is a diamond artisan. Police said that they were yet to question the family of the deceased in detail as they were occupied in performing last rights of the teenager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/teenager-ends-life-after-being-scolded/articleshow/79027190.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Beat marshals told to reach crime spot within 5-7 mins||NAGPUR: The top brass of the city police has instructed the bike-borne patrolling cops, also known as ‘beat marshals’, to ensure that they reach the crime spot within five to seven minutes after getting a call from the control room. In the two-day workshop, the 182 beat marshals from 33 police stations across the city were updated about the pattern of policing expected from them in public places. Apart from senior officers from the crime branch like Additional CP Sunil Phulari, DCP Gajanan Rajmane and ACP Sudhir Nandanvar, personnel from the wireless department also guided the beat marshals regarding the functioning of walkie-talkies. The beat marshals have been specially asked to attend to issues pertaining to senior citizens, women and minors on a priority basis. They have also been tasked to play a proactive role to prevent chain snatching, robberies and street fights which could snowball into bigger crimes. “The beat marshals were not visible and hence, they were re-energized and asked to play a more proactive role in preventing and detecting crimes. They are also expected to have inputs about local criminals and illegal activities,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/beat-marshals-told-to-reach-crime-spot-within-5-7-mins/articleshow/79030748.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 4, 2020||Chennai||IIT’s Krishna gate to remain shut||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday refused to direct the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras to reopen Krishna Gate – one of the four entrances to the campus. In December last, the IIT-M administration closed the gate citing security reasons as one of the girl’s hostels is located close to the entrance. Refusing the relief sought by D Hari Krishnan, a resident of the area, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha directed the petitioner to give a representation to the institute. “Such a representation shall be disposed of by the institute by disclosing the decision to the petitioner in four weeks,” the bench said. According to the petitioner, the gate which was used by the students, teachers and the residents of the area for more than 50 years has been closed suddenly by the IIT-M without any justification. “The gate was primary access to two schools on the campus,” the petitioner said. Besides the residents of the area, even students and teachers of IIT have been affected by the closure and they are continuously demanding for reopening of the gate, he added. Refusing to accept the contention, the court wondered whether the petitioner was espousing the cause of hotels and other shops that would benefit if the gate was opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iits-krishna-gate-to-remain-shut/articleshow/79028542.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kochi||Council gives nod to dig roads for Kochi gas project||KOCHI: The Kochi corporation on Tuesday gave permission to the Indian Oil Adani Private Pvt Ltd (IOAGPL) to dig up roads in the local body limits for the city gas project. The application for digging up roads was submitted to the corporation around three years ago. A couple of months ago, the state government had issued orders asking all the local bodies to give approval for digging up roads for the city gas projects. The government had asked all the local bodies to issue sanction within 21 days of submitting the application. Otherwise, IOAGPL and other agencies — which implement city gas projects in each district — can start digging up roads for the project. While LDF opposition used the council meeting to file chargesheet against the ruling front, the latter tried to pinpoint their achievements in the past five years. The opposition alleged that the ruling front failed to implement projects which are beneficial to the public. While all other local bodies in the state have effectively implemented e-governance projects, Kochi corporation authorities failed to implement the project, alleged the opposition. As per the agreement signed with TCS in 2011, the e-governance project should have been completed within 52 weeks. But the project is incomplete even after nine years. The corporation authorities delayed implementation of the city gas project in the limits of the civic body. Corruption related to Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) project, failure in completing the construction of the corporation’s main office, inefficient way in which the Ro-Ro services are being operated, etc were other allegations raised by the opposition. After levelling the charges, the opposition staged a walkout. Mayor Soumini Jain pointed out RAY project, introduction of Ro-Ro services, Gandhi Square Park, open stage in Panampilly Nagar, the walkway at Thaikkodam as the achievements in the past five years. Deputy mayor K R Premakumar also termed the allegations by the opposition as baseless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/council-gives-nod-to-dig-roads-for-city-gas-project/articleshow/79027177.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Pune||Pune man arrested on charge of rape||PUNE: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Monday arrested a 20-year-old youth on the charge of allegedly raping a woman and making her photographs viral on social networking sites between June 1 and October 27 this year. Inspector Vishnu Tamhane (crime) from the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said on Tuesday the man and woman were doing small-time jobs. They got friendly and started talking over phone and exchanged messages on a social networking site, the officer said. Tamhane said, “The woman in her FIR stated that the suspect placed a knife on her neck and took her to a lodge on September 29 after she met the suspect near a hospital in Katraj. He then raped her and clicked her photographs in a comprising situation.” The officer said the suspect had forced her to maintain physical relations with him by threatening to make her photographs viral. “The suspect also threatened to kill the woman’s husband,” Tamhane said. “The woman was fed up with the harassment and took a call to register a complaint against the man under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act after he made the photographs viral on social networking sites,” Tamhane added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-arrested-on-charge-of-rape/articleshow/79028535.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Pune||Steady increase in online food orders in Pune thanks to festive season||PUNE: Though restaurants are now offering dine-in services, many people are still sceptical about going out to eat. With special discounts, cloud kitchens offering specialities and the convenience of relishing items in the safety of one’s home, ordering in is the way to go for a lot of people. “When we were kids, my father would bring evening snacks on the way back from work. Samosas, vada pav, bhajji, or even momos. As we grew up, our timings were different and the tradition faded. My father is retired now and, since we are working from home, we have restarted the family tradition of evening snacks. We often order online and introduce them to new western items such as nachos, chicken wings, and so on,” said 25-year-old Junaid Shaikh. As birthday parties have moved to video calls and virtual cake-cutting sessions, a food delivery service said it delivered over 1.25 lakh cakes last month across Pune. Restaurateurs say that the sale of such items through online orders has superseded their predictions and some have even launched delivery-only sub-brands due to the high demand. Karan Khilnani, partner of Elephant and Co, said, “We have launched two brands, Canteen and Kathi Roll Inc, that are delivery-focused with emphasis on packaging and freshness.” “Although a lot of folks started cooking during the lockdown, the process of baking a perfect pizza isn’t as easy as it looks. So, we always had orders coming in and we also saw the ticket size increasing as people were not stepping out but meeting up at home,” said Kartik Ganesh, head of marketing, Circle of Crust - Pizzas, Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/steady-increase-in-online-food-orders-thanks-to-festive-season/articleshow/79028550.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Two booked for forging evidence||VADODARA: Two persons were booked for producing forged invoices as original ones to get custody of a mobile phone seized by police in a gambling raid. The accused Ankita Soni, who lives on Waghodiya Road, had approached the court last month to get back the mobile phone which police had seized as ‘muddamal’. Soni had produced three invoices of the mobile phone to claim her ownership during the court hearings. When court asked police to give a report in response to the invoices, the investigating officer told the court that the invoices were not original. An owner of a mobile phone shop was examined and he too supported the police report. When Soni’s lawyer was asked who had given the copies of invoices to him, he said that one of her family members Praful Soni had sent through WhatsApp and he had taken a print of it. The court not only turned down Soni’s plea but also directed the court registrar to file a complaint with police. Based on the registrar’s complaint an offence of forgery was registered at Gotri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-booked-for-forging-evidence/articleshow/79026418.cms||---
November 4, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: NaMo, Nitish did nothing for migrants, says Rahul||PATNA: Campaigning for the third phase of polling on Tuesday in Katihar and Kishanganj, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi kept the focus firmly on the Mahagathbandhan’s core issues of unemployment, migration and farmers’ problems and launched a blistering attack on both PM Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar for failing to help hapless migrants during the lockdown. “Do you remember how Modi Ji and Nitish Ji had left the people of Bihar, UP and Jharkhand to walk barefoot without food and water? He did not even give a five-hour notice and announced the lockdown, promising the problem will be solved in 22 days. When he failed, he made you bang plates and light your mobile flash,” Rahul said. He added, “And what was he doing, he was then waiving off loans of big businessmen. He had betrayed you, just like the way he cheated you all with the promise of two crore jobs and Rs 15 lakh in everyone’s account.” He praised the work done by his party for the migrants during the lockdown and said even though they were not in power, they had arranged for buses and did whatever little they could. Rahul said farmers of Bihar were not getting the right price for their produce. “When a farmer can get Rs 2500/quintal for paddy in Chhattisgarh, why is he given Rs 1200 in Bihar? In Chhattisgarh, farmers directly get money in their account and what we have done for the farmers there, we will do the same in Bihar.” Rahul promised to sort out the issue of annual floods in Bihar and assured that if the Mahagathbandhan government is formed, farmers will get a better price for their paddy and corn and there will be food processing units in the state. He also slammed the three new farm laws saying they will deteriorate the condition of farmers across the country while giving benefit to only two big middlemen, Ambani and Adani. Rahul said the biggest question for the country is how youths will get employment. “When youths are asking this question to Nitish Ji in his rallies, he starts abusing them.” As the rallies were held in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region, along with raising the issue of the farm laws and unemployment, Rahul asked people to remain conscious of the BJP’s “B team”. In Muslim-dominated Kishanganj, Rahul said there are NDA and Mahagatbandhan in the fight and there is the BJP’s ‘B’ team. “A team and B team tries to create hatred and division. But we have to remain united and this will give benefit to all,” said Rahul, adding he had always been the target of RSS and PM Modi. “I tread the path of truth. Let them say whatever they want, we don't mind. We will defeat them. If anyone is fighting with Narendra Modi, it is me.” He is scheduled to hold two more rallies on Wednesday at Bihariganj in Madhepura and in Araria assembly which are going to polls in the third phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/namo-nitish-did-nothing-for-migrants-says-rahul/articleshow/79030109.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 4, 2020||Surat||All-women polling booths witness rush||Surat: Electors in the Kaprada assembly constituency had an altogether different experience when they went to polling booths to exercise their franchise in the by-election on Tuesday. For the first time, about five all-women ‘Sakhi’ polling booths were set-up, which were managed exclusively by the women personnel to encourage voter turnout. The Kaprada assembly segment had 374 polling booths, out of which five were ‘Sakhi’ booths. The five booths were set-up at Gavit Falia in Vadkhamba village, Tadfalia in Jogvel village, Nishal Falia in Panas village, Naka Falia in Nanapondha and Rav Falia in Mandva village. “This was first-of-its-kind initiative on the part of the election commission’s instructions. Five polling booths entirely staffed by women were set up in the tribal-dominated area. The female staff handled these booths efficiently and that the election process went off smoothly,” said Valsad district collector, RR Raval. According to Raval, the ‘Sakhi’ polling booths was specially set-up to facilitate the women voters from the rural areas. Right from the presiding officer to security guards and peons, the ‘Sakhi’ booths were manned by women personnel. “All the staff at the polling booth are women. Right from security officers, polling officers, peons etc., all are women. It was a different experience for us to handle the all-women polling booth in this election,” said presiding officer at Gavit Falia in Vadkhambha village, Kavita Tandel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/all-women-polling-booths-witness-rush/articleshow/79027057.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Gali files discharge plea in CBI court||Hyderabad: Obulapuram Mining Company (OMC) founder and ex-Karnataka minister Gali Janardhan Reddy has filed a discharge petition before the CBI court urging it to discharge him from the case on the ground that he had committed no wrong in the alleged illegal mining case filed against him and OMC. CBI which filed this case, took time to file its counter. The case was posted to Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gali-files-discharge-plea-in-cbi-court/articleshow/79028546.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kudumbashree online shopping fest from today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Taking a cue from the online shopping majors like the Amazon and Flipkart, the Kudumbashree Mission will organise an online shopping festival this festive season. Titled Utsav, the festival will be held from November 4 to 19 through its online shopping portal www.kudumbashreebazaar.com. As many as 1,020 products of 350 self-entrepreneurs will figure in the festival, that will offer several discounts on various products. Local self-government minister A C Moideen will inaugurate the festival. “Kudumbashree has three types of markets at present — trade fairs, permanent markets and online market. To sustain business and reach out to more people in online markets, we need to continuously give publicity, which is one of the reasons behind the online shopping festival,” Kudumbashree executive director S Harikishore said, adding that Kudumbashree intends to meet a turnover of Rs 40 lakh in the two-week-long festival. The products for sale in the online festival include handicrafts, jewellery, bag, face-masks, umbrella, curry powders, chips and kitchen utensils. Kudumbashree has tied up with India Post for delivery of products to buyers. No delivery charge will have to be paid for all those who purchase the products online during the shopping festival, and products will be delivered anywhere across the country. Discounts up to 40% will be offered on as many as 600 products. On selected products, there would be special discount from manufacturers themselves. For those purchasing for more than Rs.1,000, there will be an additional discount of 10%. In addition, gift vouchers will also be offered proportionate to the purchase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kudumbashree-onlineshopping-fest-from-today/articleshow/79030764.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: NaMo, Nitish did nothing for migrants, says Rahul||PATNA: Campaigning for the third phase of polling on Tuesday in Katihar and Kishanganj, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi kept the focus firmly on the Mahagathbandhan’s core issues of unemployment, migration and farmers’ problems and launched a blistering attack on both PM Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar for failing to help hapless migrants during the lockdown. “Do you remember how Modi Ji and Nitish Ji had left the people of Bihar, UP and Jharkhand to walk barefoot without food and water? He did not even give a five-hour notice and announced the lockdown, promising the problem will be solved in 22 days. When he failed, he made you bang plates and light your mobile flash,” Rahul said. He added, “And what was he doing, he was then waiving off loans of big businessmen. He had betrayed you, just like the way he cheated you all with the promise of two crore jobs and Rs 15 lakh in everyone’s account.” He praised the work done by his party for the migrants during the lockdown and said even though they were not in power, they had arranged for buses and did whatever little they could. Rahul said farmers of Bihar were not getting the right price for their produce. “When a farmer can get Rs 2500/quintal for paddy in Chhattisgarh, why is he given Rs 1200 in Bihar? In Chhattisgarh, farmers directly get money in their account and what we have done for the farmers there, we will do the same in Bihar.” Rahul promised to sort out the issue of annual floods in Bihar and assured that if the Mahagathbandhan government is formed, farmers will get a better price for their paddy and corn and there will be food processing units in the state. He also slammed the three new farm laws saying they will deteriorate the condition of farmers across the country while giving benefit to only two big middlemen, Ambani and Adani. Rahul said the biggest question for the country is how youths will get employment. “When youths are asking this question to Nitish Ji in his rallies, he starts abusing them.” As the rallies were held in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region, along with raising the issue of the farm laws and unemployment, Rahul asked people to remain conscious of the BJP’s “B team”. In Muslim-dominated Kishanganj, Rahul said there are NDA and Mahagatbandhan in the fight and there is the BJP’s ‘B’ team. “A team and B team tries to create hatred and division. But we have to remain united and this will give benefit to all,” said Rahul, adding he had always been the target of RSS and PM Modi. “I tread the path of truth. Let them say whatever they want, we don't mind. We will defeat them. If anyone is fighting with Narendra Modi, it is me.” He is scheduled to hold two more rallies on Wednesday at Bihariganj in Madhepura and in Araria assembly which are going to polls in the third phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/namo-nitish-did-nothing-for-migrants-says-rahul/articleshow/79032780.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 4, 2020||Pune||BMI no longer defines obesity, abnormal body fat does||Pune: The rigid fixation with body mass index (BMI) as a defining measure for obesity has finally crumbled with fresh Canadian guidelines spelling out obesity as 'the presence of excess or abnormal body fat (adiposity) that impairs health'. The new norm has reinforced the views of two senior doctors in Pune, one who backs surgery, and the other who believes in treating the cause through maternal nutrition. But both have been emphasizing on body adiposity as a true measure than merely calculating body fat based on height and weight (BMI) for more than two decades now. The guidelines, perhaps the first-of-its-kind, were developed over three and a half years by a committee of 62 professionals. The document advocates approaching obesity as a complex chronic disease rather than an issue of weight loss. They were released in the Canadian Medical Association Journal on August 4. “Asians are more prone to develop obesity, insulin resistance, and related complications even at lesser BMI than Caucasians,” Pune-based senior bariatric surgeon Shashank Shah. He is the director of Laparo-Obeso Centre, an centre of excellence for metabolic and bariatric surgery in Pune. In 2006, Shah had proposed that bariatric surgery may be a better treatment option for diabetes than medical therapy and lifestyle management alone. His study caught the attention of researchers in America and Europe, prompting them to undertake similar studies on their population. “When I would perform surgery for treating diabetes among patients with low BMI but high body fat, it was looked at rather skeptically,” Shah said. When the American Diabetes Association included metabolic surgery as an option for treating type II diabetes in the treatment guidelines in 2017, it changed the method to treat diabetes worldwide. Senior diabetologist Chittaranjan Yajnik from Pune has been championing the cause of controlling adiposity and diabetes through the mother's nutrition way before the child is conceived. “An Indian baby weighing 2.7 kg has more body fat than a British baby weighing 3.5 kg,” Yajnik said. His study spanning three generations shows that improved nutrition in mothers can help prevent obesity and diabetes in future generations. Controlling fetal adiposity may be the only solution to the vicious intergenerational cycle of obesity and diabetes, Yajnik, who heads the diabetology department at KEM Hospital in Rasta Peth, said. Both Pune doctors' views have been justified in the Canadian Clinical Practice Guidelines for Obesity Management in Adults which focused on improving health and well-being rather than falling numbers on the scale. “The time for simplistic measures of calculating obesity based on BMI is over. Now India must incorporate this new definition in policy and practice,” Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bmi-no-longer-defines-obesity-abnormal-body-fat-does/articleshow/79028595.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 4, 2020||Pune||40-day closure of Swargate underpass to aid waterproofing, concreting work||Pune: The Swargate underpass will be closed to traffic for 40 days after Diwali to facilitate waterproofing and concreting work. The work would be undertaken and funded by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC).This is a welcome move for regular commuters — especially two-wheeler riders — as there have been regular complaints about the stretch which is constantly pockmarked and slippery from constant water leakage. MSRDC’s Abasaheb Nagargoje said the work would begin after Diwali. “We are narrowing down on the best technology to waterproof the stretch,” Nagargoje said, terming the water leakage as the prime reason for the poor road conditions. “We had carried out waterproofing earlier too, but that did not solve the problem. Now, we are looking for a better technology and then plan to lay a concrete road to ensure potholes do not pop up again,” he said. Pune Municipal Corporation said MSRDC would carry out the repairs and also foot the bill as the underpass was still under the defect liability period. “We held many meetings with MSRDC officials to figure out a permanent solution to the problems. It should take around 40 days to complete all the work,” a PMC official said.Prashant Kanojia, who founded a citizens’ group called Help Riders, said the potholes and the slippery surface caused many an accident. “This repair work is necessary, but I feel they also need arrest the water seepage by installing proper drainage lines and stormwater lines. Once the leakage is plugged, the roads will be fine. I don’t see the need to waste money on concreting,” Kanojia said, predicting increased traffic chaos in Swargate, already beset by congestion. Suraj Rajguru, assistant police inspector of the Swargate traffic division, said they have yet to receive a traffic diversion proposal from MSRTC in this regard. “We will decide on traffic diversions once we meet the site engineer and understand the scope of work,” Rajguru said. He further said it was high time these problems were tackled head-on. “We had sent multiple letters to MSRDC to repair this perennially pothole-riddled stretch. They have finally decided to find a permanent solution, and we are sure the commuters would benefit from it,” Rajguru said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/40-day-closure-of-swargate-underpass-to-aid-waterproofing-concreting-work/articleshow/79028603.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 4, 2020||Agra||Bypoll on Tundla seat: Over 54% votes cast, hundreds boycott poll over no road||Agra: UP’s Tundla (SC) assembly seat in Firozabad district recorded a turnout of 54% during the bypoll held on Tuesday. In six villages, people staged protests over "lack" of development and declared to boycott election.Senior district administration officials and policemen tried to convince them. Some of them agreed, but people of Rudhau Mustakil village ignored all the pleas of the authorities. No vote was cast at the polling station of the village. A local, Vinod Kumar, said, “We had taken a decision to boycott voting as public representatives failed to construct roads. For the past 50 years, leaders from all parties have come here. But no one constructed a road here.”The voting started at the majority of the 558 polling centers in the constituency at 7am. As compared to the urban areas, villages saw higher voter turnout. Large queues of women voters were seen at polling booths in rural areas.Tundla is among the seven assembly seats where the by-election was held. District magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh said, “The voting for by-election remained peaceful. No untoward incident or disturbance to law and order situation took place. 54% voter turnout was recorded. After voting, all the EVMs were transferred to the Mandi Samitti and safely stored in strong room. The vote counting exercise will be conducted on November 10. By-poll results will be declared on the same day."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bypoll-on-tundla-seat-over-54-votes-cast-hundreds-boycott-poll-over-no-road/articleshow/79027201.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||53.6% turnout in bypolls to 7 UP assembly seats||LUCKNOW: Held under the shadow of pandemic, bypolls to seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh passed off peacefully on Tuesday with an average turnout of 53.6%, which was lower than 2017 assembly elections, when these seats clocked a turnout of 64.07%. Also, voting percentage in UP bypolls matched the turnout in Bihar’s second phase of assembly elections. Counting would be held on November 10. Naugaon Sadat with a significant Muslim population recorded the highest 61.50% voting. The turnout, however, was much less than in 2017 assembly elections when 76.3% voting was recorded. Here BJP fielded Sangeeta Chauhan, wife of late cricketer-turned-politician Chetan Chauhan, while SP and BSP relied on Muslim candidates – Maulana Javed Abidi and Furqan Ahmad respectively. This paved way for a keen triangular contest. In Tundla, 54% voting was recorded, which was way lower than 69.66% turnout clocked in 2017 assembly elections. The seat fell vacant following the election of BJP MLA SP Singh Baghel to Lok Sabha in 2019. A direct contest is expected between BJP and SP which fielded Prem Pal Dhangar and Maharaj Singh Dhangar respectively. Bulandshahr seat that fell vacant following the death of BJP veteran Virendra Sirohi recorded 52% polling. This was much lower than 64% in 2017 assembly elections. Here also, BJP played on the sympathy factor by fielding Sirohi’s widow, Usha. SP gave the seat to RLD which fielded Praveen Singh. Bangarmau seat registered 49% polling against 59% in 2017. The seat had fallen vacant following disqualification of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, convicted for rape. The seat, which has a significant Muslim and Pal population, is expected to see a direct contest between BJP and SP which have fielded Srikant Katiyar and Suresh Pal respectively. BSP fielded Mahesh Pal while Congress fielded Aarti Bajpai. Ghatampur recorded 51% polling against 2017’s 62%. The seat fell vacant following the death of BJP minister Kamal Rani Varun, who had contracted coronavirus. BJP had fielded Upendra Nath Paswan while SP banked on former MLA Indrajit Kori. BSP and Congress have fielded Kuldeep Shankhwar and Kripa Shankar, respectively. Polling percentage was 51% in Deoria against 57% of 2017. The seat, which fell vacant following the death of senior BJP MLA Janmejai Singh is expected to see a multi-cornered contest with all four major parties fielding Brahmin candidates. While BJP fielded Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi, SP fielded former MLA Brahma Shankar Tripathi. BSP is banking on Awadhnath Tripathi, while Congress has fielded Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi. Malhani recorded 57% polling against 60% in 2017. This seat was won by SP leader Parasnath Yadav, who passed away. SP played on the sympathy factor by fielding Yadav’s son, Lucky. He is up against BJP’s Manoj Singh. BSP and Congress fielded Brahmin candidates Jai Prakash Dubey and Rakesh Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/53-6-turnout-in-bypolls-to-7-up-assembly-seats/articleshow/79030766.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Karunya kiosk opened at MCH||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health minister K K Shailaja inaugurated the high-tech kiosk of Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP) at the OPD block of the Medical College Hospital on Monday. The minister said the kiosk has been set up to provide services of the Karunya scheme. Similar kiosks will be set up in the hospitals which are in the panel of the Karunya scheme. Shailaja said medical coordinators will be appointed in these kiosks to provide help to the beneficiaries. Registration in the scheme, beneficiary identification, distribution of health cards and discharge and settlement of bills will be done at these kiosks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/karunya-kiosk-opened-at-mch/articleshow/79030769.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: BJP corporator booked for blackening official’s face||NAGPUR: BJP corporator Pradeep Pohane and his 25-30 supporters have been booked for smearing boot polish on the face of the regional officer of national highway authorities of India (NHAI) Rajeev Agrawal at his office in Civil Lines on Monday. The accused were protesting the delay in work at Pradhi where roads have been partially blocked. They were also booked for violating Covid norms. It’s learnt that Pohane and his supporters had barged into the cabin of Agrawal and ransacked it. The protesters also threatened to create a scene at Agrawal’s residence. Agrawal’s secretary, who was filming the illegal act, was also threatened of dire consequences and forced to delete the clips from his cell phone. An offence was registered against Pohane and his supporters at Sadar police station. Offence registered against Buddhist leaderIn another case, an offence was registered at the Gittikhadan police station against Vijay Meshram, convener of the Buddhist international network, for organizing a protest at the office of the Archeological Survey of India at Seminary Hills. Meshram and his 130 supporters had assembled for the protest rally by violating Covid norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-corporator-booked-for-blackening-officials-face/articleshow/79030791.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Varsity okays proctored backlog exams despite students’ dissent||PUNE: Students have taken to social media to oppose the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s decision to conduct proctored online examinations for non-final year backlog subjects. Vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar had told TOI about the university’s plans a few days ago. The academic council that met on Tuesday ratified the proctored examination proposal. Students said there were many technical problems during the final-year examinations even without proctoring. They have been complaining that the delay in the conduct of the backlog examination has made it difficult for placement and internship interviews generally conducted in the final year. There will be security features in the app as well as in the web-based module which will prevent cheating, Karmalkar said. The proctoring will be done by the software itself and not by human intervention, he added. ‘ “After a minimum number of alerts, the answer sheet will get auto-submitted. As for the claim that more data will be required, it is not true. The data will be comparable to what is currently required. We need certain quality control in the online examination system and hence proctoring is required. The academic council has ratified the proposal,” Karmalkar told TOI. Some senior officials of the university supported the students. They said proctored online examination for over two lakh students is not possible. There are 2.70 lakh students who will appear for various backlog examinations in all streams and non-final years from all the affiliated colleges and departments. “It is not possible to hold a proctored examination for them. It takes about 250-300 MB data for a non-proctored one-hour examination. With the camera on, the data required would be over 600 MB which cannot be supported by the current system. The examination will be held online in the MCQ pattern, but proctored examination may not be successful when the network connectivity is a problem in many areas,” the official added. A student organisation has pointed out that the examination would be biased against the rural students where stable internet connection is a problem. With higher bandwidth required, and the need for a laptop with camera, a proctored examination would be difficult for rural students, the students’ union said. Students, who had applied for the class improvement scheme, will appear for the examination along with the backlog examinees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/varsity-okays-proctored-backlog-exams-despite-students-dissent/articleshow/79028607.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 4, 2020||Trichy||Vendors at temporary markets in schools, colleges worried||Trichy: Tamil Nadu government’s decision to reopen schools and colleges from November 16 has left more than 100 retail vegetable vendors in Trichy in the lurch as two temporary vegetable markets have been functioning from school and college grounds. The vendors have sought a clarification from authorities on whether they will be allowed to function from the same venue or given alternative space. After the closure of the Gandhi Market, the district administration established markets in East Boulevard Road’s Mathuram school ground and SIT College ground, and a few other places. However, with the government’s announcement, the vendors have expressed concern over relocation saying that they have no other space left, with the Gandhi Market still shut due to a directive from the high court. “We have started looking out for space in case if we were asked to vacate the ground,” K Ramachandran, a vendor from Mathuram ground said. “We are yet to decide the further course. Unfortunately, we do not have adequate alternative space beside Mathuram school ground,” an official source with the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vendors-at-temporary-markets-in-schools-colleges-worried/articleshow/79030111.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||Stubble burning kills birds, hits biodiversity in New Town||KOLKATA: Four red munia chicks, who were growing up in a nest on the vacant land along side the road leading towards Eco Urban Village in New Town, were burnt to death after the stubble there were set on fire by some locals. “Many people and bird lovers visit this place in the morning to click pictures of birds. A spot next to Silicon Valley which is a paradise for birds was burning today afternoon in front of my eyes,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of New Town Forum and News, a local NGO. “We have already informed the police about the matter. We plan to file a written complaint by Wednesday,” Das added. Narayan Sarkar, a software developer who has a passion for photography said that for the last three weeks before Puja he had been observing and taking photos of red munias, also known as red avadavat, that were growing up in a nest on a vacant land close to Eco Park. “A few days after Puja, I went to that spot again and was shocked to see that the place burnt by some people. I was searching for the nest in which the birds were in and when I found it, I was speechless to see that the four chicks were burnt to death,” he said. Locals and morning walkers who take a stroll along the large vacant areas of New Town close to Eco Park and the upcoming Silicon Valley said stubble burning has become a regular affair which is not only causing nuisance but also affecting the environment that is rich in natural bio-dioversity and is known as birds’ paradise. “This is very unfortunate that some birds were burnt to death due to callousness. Not only this, waste material, including items such as used PPE kits that should be properly disposed off, are getting accumulated on the road-side vacant places, not only affecting the surrounding environment but also causing nuisance as many people like morning walkers, joggers, cyclists and bird lovers come here,” said Sujan Chatterjee, secretary of Birdwatchers’ Society. Locals also said that plastic, PPE kit and other waste can be seen piling up on the road-side near the upcoming Silicon Valley. “The New Town Kolkata Development Authority’s (NKDA) waste disposal management system is one of the best and very effective. Those who are dumping the waste are not residents of New Town,” said Subho Dasgupta, a local resident. NKDA officials said they would look into the issue of waste dumping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stubble-burning-kills-birds-hits-biodiversity-in-new-town/articleshow/79028685.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 4, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Congress is going down because it has no vision, says PM Modi||FORBESGANJ/PATNA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave away his “secret mantra” of winning elections at a rally for the last phase of polling in north Bihar’s Araria district on Tuesday. “People in the opposition wonder how Modi wins elections after elections. Modi wins elections because he takes care of mothers and daughters,” the PM said in a bid to woo women voters, at a rally in Forbesganj near the Nepal border. In the last leg of his campaigning for the third phase, Modi also called upon the poor, deprived and backward caste sections to prevent the “jungle raj” forces from coming to power, and help him give “a new direction to the country” by making NDA win in the state. Calling himself the “son of poor people and poor mothers”, Modi stressed the importance of elections in a democracy. He pointed out, “It is due to the elections that this son of a poor mother has become PM of the country and also its Pradhan Sewak. It is due to the elections that I have taken command of the country to give it a new direction.” Incidentally, while the PM’s rallies were on, the second phase of polling in 94 constituencies were being held on Tuesday. Polling for the third phase in 78 constituencies is due on November 7 and the counting of votes will be held on November 10. Modi promised voters of Simanchal (Araria, Kishanganj, Purnea and Katihar) that countless possibilities for the development of Bihar exist. From water ports, airports, medical colleges, engineering colleges in each district under the New Education Policy (NEP) to roads and new railway lines. He then launched a scathing attack on RJD and Congress, reminding voters of the RJD rule and how NDA restored voting rights against the loot of ballot papers, rights of people against Ghotala, rule of law against ‘gundagardi’ and people’s democracy over the family rule. “The state was earlier known for all the negative things but NDA has changed it and now this state is getting a new identity. NDA is fighting for developments,” Modi said. He highlighted the gas pipeline projects passing through Araria, Kishanganj, railway lines projects from Araria to Galgalia, Forbesganj to Biratnagar in Nepal, new roads and construction of Kosi Mahasetu among others. After Forbesganj, he addressed a rally at Saharsa both of which lie in the Seemanchal and Kosi regions bound by Nepal on the north and West Bengal on the east. Politically, the area has a significant chunk of OBC, EBC sections, Dalits, Muslims and tribals and have been the traditional seedbed for RJD and Congress. Wracked by annual floods, both areas see out migration of skilled and unskilled youths to other states across the country. The migration to Gulf countries has also become a trend. Modi taunted Congress for its claims on poverty removal, farm loan waiver, and tax relief for shopkeepers. “Documents show they did not do even a single thing,” Modi said, adding it was for this reason that Congress had become a shrinking party. “Today, even if you add their (Congress) Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members it won’t come to 100 MPs. There are half a dozen states that have not given it even a single MP,” Modi said, adding in UP and Bihar, it has been forced “to hold on to the coat of other parties,” while the NDA has been expanding and doing things that it promises to people. Modi said he had given dignity to “women and daughters” by providing them toilets, and also promised to give pucca houses to every needy person under PM Awas Yojana. “The cooking gas grid connectivity to every household will make Bihar a talking point in the country,” Modi said, adding youths will be provided jobs in IT hubs, software parks, and hardware manufacturing units in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/congress-is-going-down-because-it-has-no-vision-pm/articleshow/79030116.cms||L P Nayak
November 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Congress is going down because it has no vision, says PM Modi||FORBESGANJ/PATNA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave away his “secret mantra” of winning elections at a rally for the last phase of polling in north Bihar’s Araria district on Tuesday. “People in the opposition wonder how Modi wins elections after elections. Modi wins elections because he takes care of mothers and daughters,” the PM said in a bid to woo women voters, at a rally in Forbesganj near the Nepal border. In the last leg of his campaigning for the third phase, Modi also called upon the poor, deprived and backward caste sections to prevent the “jungle raj” forces from coming to power, and help him give “a new direction to the country” by making NDA win in the state. Calling himself the “son of poor people and poor mothers”, Modi stressed the importance of elections in a democracy. He pointed out, “It is due to the elections that this son of a poor mother has become PM of the country and also its Pradhan Sewak. It is due to the elections that I have taken command of the country to give it a new direction.” Incidentally, while the PM’s rallies were on, the second phase of polling in 94 constituencies were being held on Tuesday. Polling for the third phase in 78 constituencies is due on November 7 and the counting of votes will be held on November 10. Modi promised voters of Simanchal (Araria, Kishanganj, Purnea and Katihar) that countless possibilities for the development of Bihar exist. From water ports, airports, medical colleges, engineering colleges in each district under the New Education Policy (NEP) to roads and new railway lines. He then launched a scathing attack on RJD and Congress, reminding voters of the RJD rule and how NDA restored voting rights against the loot of ballot papers, rights of people against Ghotala, rule of law against ‘gundagardi’ and people’s democracy over the family rule. “The state was earlier known for all the negative things but NDA has changed it and now this state is getting a new identity. NDA is fighting for developments,” Modi said. He highlighted the gas pipeline projects passing through Araria, Kishanganj, railway lines projects from Araria to Galgalia, Forbesganj to Biratnagar in Nepal, new roads and construction of Kosi Mahasetu among others. After Forbesganj, he addressed a rally at Saharsa both of which lie in the Seemanchal and Kosi regions bound by Nepal on the north and West Bengal on the east. Politically, the area has a significant chunk of OBC, EBC sections, Dalits, Muslims and tribals and have been the traditional seedbed for RJD and Congress. Wracked by annual floods, both areas see out migration of skilled and unskilled youths to other states across the country. The migration to Gulf countries has also become a trend. Modi taunted Congress for its claims on poverty removal, farm loan waiver, and tax relief for shopkeepers. “Documents show they did not do even a single thing,” Modi said, adding it was for this reason that Congress had become a shrinking party. “Today, even if you add their (Congress) Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members it won’t come to 100 MPs. There are half a dozen states that have not given it even a single MP,” Modi said, adding in UP and Bihar, it has been forced “to hold on to the coat of other parties,” while the NDA has been expanding and doing things that it promises to people. Modi said he had given dignity to “women and daughters” by providing them toilets, and also promised to give pucca houses to every needy person under PM Awas Yojana. “The cooking gas grid connectivity to every household will make Bihar a talking point in the country,” Modi said, adding youths will be provided jobs in IT hubs, software parks, and hardware manufacturing units in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-is-going-down-because-it-has-no-vision-pm/articleshow/79032847.cms||L P Nayak
November 4, 2020||Meerut||UP bypoll: BJP candidate in Naugawan Sadat slams admin over 'fake votes by burqa-clad women'||BIJNOR: UP’s Naugawan Sadat assembly seat, where the bypoll was called after the death of Chetan Chauhan, saw a decent 62% voter turnout amid allegations of bogus voting. BJP’s Sangeeta Chauhan, wife of the former cricketer, alleged that women in ‘burqa’ were not checked for their identification. “Fake votes were cast in some areas under the garb of ‘burqa’. The face of the women wearing ‘burqa’ should have been matched with their voter IDs. I told officials about it. But the administration did not pay heed to my complaint,” the former banker-turned-politician said. It was not just the BJP’s, but SP candidate Javed Abdi was also upset with the administration and police. SP’s Javed Abdi alleged that several workers of his party were taken to police stations and beaten. “Police detained several SP workers. Some of them were thrashed. In some parts voters were stopped from reaching booths,” Abdi said, adding, “I filed a complaint with the DM and the SP. But they did nothing.” The administration has, meanwhile, denied the charges of both the candidates. District magistrate of Amroha, Umesh Mishra, said, “Polls were fair and peaceful. Screening of all the voters was done for identity and for the Covid-19 also.” The fates of 14 candidates were locked in EVM machines on Tuesday evening. Counting of votes will take place on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-bypoll-bjp-candidate-in-naugawan-sadat-slams-admin-over-fake-votes-by-burqa-clad-women/articleshow/79027220.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Number of Covid-19 cases crosses 60,000 in district||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district crossed 60,000 on Tuesday with the addition of 654 new positive cases. The total number of cases reported in the district till date is 60,527. The recovery rate in the district has crossed 85% and active cases have shown a variable trend over the last few days. The district now has 8,457 active cases. As many as 563 people recovered from the disease on Tuesday. A total of 20 healthcare workers were confirmed with Covid-19 on Tuesday. As many as 150 wards/areas within wards in places like Chirayinkeezhu, Kattkada, Nedumangadu, Neyyatinkara and Varkala are now declared as containment zones. In the past seven days, as many as 33,836 tests were conducted in the district and test positivity rate has been 13.5%. For Kerala, the test positivity rate in past seven days was 12.8%. Even while active cases have dropped to below 14% in the district, 38 deaths were reported in the district in last seven days. The case fatality rate in past seven days in the district is 0.83%. A total of 2,632 people were brought under isolation on Tuesday. As many as 262 people were hospitalized. A total of 27,882 people are under observation in the district. The recovery rate in the district has increased from 82% to 85% in the past one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/number-of-covid-19-cases-crosses-60k-in-dist/articleshow/79030793.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Pune||Industry experts can be research guides at SPPU||PUNE: A multiple exit strategy for the five-year law course, industry experts as doctoral research guides, and a new course in gemmology were approved by the academic council meeting at Savitribai Phule Pune University on Tuesday. Vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said as per the new National Education Policy, multiple exit strategy should be an option for students. “We will start this with a five-year law course. These students will be given a certificate after three years to acknowledge their law education of three years which will help them get internships or other opportunities. We have not yet decided on the terminology of this certificate but we are hoping that more students will benefit with this policy,” he said. Industry experts with more than ten years’ experience and a doctorate will be inducted as research guides for PhD students. “These experts will be adjunct professors in the university and will not be limited to engineering or professional courses, but allowed in all streams. If there is a non-governmental organisation with required expertise and doctorate degrees, they can become guides for research students in MSW or related courses. For this, the industry needs to have a memorandum of understanding with the department or the university. It will help students as they will get exposure to the industry perspective during their research years,” Karmalkar added. A degree course in gemmology and jewellery design will also be started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/industry-experts-can-be-research-guides-at-sppu/articleshow/79028644.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 4, 2020||Pune||Extortion case against ex-sarpanch||Pune: The Shikrapur police on Monday night filed an extortion case against the former sarpanch of the village on the charge of demanding Rs 25,000 from a medical practitioner after issuing threats of dire consequences to him. Four local residents kidnapped the 28-year-old medical practitioner after he lodged a complaint with the police and took him to Pune city. Police rescued him on Tuesday from a hotel near Pune railway station. Assistant inspector Mayur Vairagkar of Shikrapur police station said, “We have arrested Ganesh Lokhande (30) of Shikrapur for kidnapping and confining the medical practitioner.” He said, “We are looking for the former sarpanch and three of his associates.” Vairagkar said, “They had threatened the medical practitioner that they will not allow him to run his clinic unless he paid a monthly hafta of Rs25,000. After kidnapping the medical practitioner they issued threats to him and asked him to withdraw the complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/extortion-case-against-ex-sarpanch/articleshow/79028649.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Youth ties knot with woman he saved from abusive relatives 7 years ago||KOLKATA: Seven years ago, Suvankar Mondal had rescued a 13-year-old girl who was being allegedly trafficked to Delhi by her maternal aunts. On Monday night, the girl, now a young woman of 20, tied the knot with Mondal. Mondal had helped in rescuing the girl from her grandfather’s clutches by lodging a police complaint against him with Kultali police station. Cops arrested her grandfather on charges of regularly raping his granddaughter who had just stepped into her teens then. Mondal lives in the same Kultali village, where she spent her childhood. Circumstances went beyond her control, prompting her to spend her childhood with her maternal uncles and maternal grandparents. Her mother died when she was born and her father fled after that. Back in 2013, the girl did find at least one person Mondal, a village neighbour, with whom she shared the ‘ordeal’ she had been regularly undergoing at home because of her grandfather. Mondal earns by driving taxi in the city now. After Mondal lodged a police complaint that put the woman’s grandfather behind the bars, her Delhi-based maternal aunts came down to Kultali and allegedly rebuked her severely. These aunts allegedly had links with a flesh trade racket in Delhi, where they tried to take and then sell her. As the aunts were dragging her away, she screamed and Mondal gave a chase. The aunts had managed to drag her up to Patuli in a car. Mondal, who was following them in his taxi, called up the Patuli police station. The woman was rescued from her aunts’ clutches and sent to a home in Sonarpur. She recently passed her Madhyamik examination from the home, from where she got out a week ago. “We counselled her and she expressed a desire to join the mainstream of the society, set up a home and have a family. She repeatedly expressed her gratitude to the youth who had saved her,” said Tapati Bhowmik, secretary of Sanlap, an NGO that runs the home where she stayed. OC Kultali Suman Das said, “I am happy to know that the youth, with whose help cops had rescued the woman, has now agreed to marry her. She spent seven years in a home and has now been socially re-integrated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/youth-ties-knot-with-woman-he-saved-from-abusive-relatives-7-years-ago/articleshow/79028709.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
November 4, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: This super cop helped solve 47 cases in 6 years||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Since the day she started out as a constable in 2014, Tinki had a stellar record. And it was her spectacular ability to sniff out crime that got her six promotions in six years, becoming an ASP in double quick time. Muzaffarnagar Police was not quite prepared for the way the health of the eight-year-old member of the dog squad deteriorated. In a matter of days, she died of an intestinal infection. On Tuesday morning, they bade farewell to their fallen friend. Tinki, a German Shepherd, was a recruit from the National Dog Training Centre at the BSF Academy in Gwalior. Muzaffarnagar was her first posting as a sniffer dog. “She was clever, brave and brilliant. The department was able to solve 47 criminal cases because of her,” said Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav. On Tuesday, the Muzaffarnagar Police unit organised a funeral and saw her off, he tweeted. Since the day Tinki got sick and was referred to the Meerut veterinary hospital, her handler constable Mahesh Kumar had been worried. On Monday night, when he was told she didn’t make it, he was inconsolable. “I had been with her for all six years. We were inseparable,” he said. Off the field, she was a friendly canine. “She loved playing with children.” When it came to her “police skills”, she would often surprise them with what she could pull off. “It is not possible for a dog to be able to trace a scent beyond 24 hours of a crime. That’s usually the case. One time in 2017, after a murder had been reported at Parsoli village in Muzaffarnagar’s Bhopa area the body could not be found. Tinki picked up a scent and we followed her,” said assistant handler constable Dharam Singh. “She led us to a pond, dived in and pulled out a body from the bed of the pond. It had been nine days since the murder. The case baffled experts.” In fact, many of the theft, loot and murder cases she helped solve were blind cases — that is, cases where there are no leads to go on. “Once, a man had gone missing for 10 days. There was no trace. Tinki sniffed out where he was and we found his beheaded body,” SSP Yadav said. In 2017, when police were giving chase to thieves who had stolen railway property, Tinki did something extraordinary. “She followed that trail for 10km. We finally caught up with the thieves at Mansoorpur,” Singh said. “Her loss is irreparable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/final-salute-for-super-sleuth-an-officer-and-gentle-dog/articleshow/79027235.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||ACE to boost electronics startups||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Touted as the next major leap towards fuelling the growth of startup companies, Accelerator for Electronics Technologies (ACE) was launched at Technopark here on Monday. It is a first-of-its-kind initiative in the state. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the facility in a virtual meeting. The facility is expected to turn Technopark into a preferred location for electronics startup companies. “ACE would help startups to grow up as sustainable enterprises. Kerala continues to be the state with the best IT climate in the country, which is demonstrated even during the time of the pandemic,” said the chief minister in his inaugural speech. ACE, as a joint initiative of Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) and Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC), is expected to develop itself as a leading accelerator in the country’s electronics technologies. This will nurture the development of high-tech startups in electronics and allied disciplines. The accelerator would be complementary to the KSUM-supported incubator in electronics technologies established in Kochi with the assistance of the Union ministry of electronics and IT, the chief minister pointed out. CDAC would mentor the startups for a specific period by providing them access to the new facility’s physical and intellectual infrastructure. Mandated to facilitate software infrastructure that support the research and development of high-end electronic systems, tools and services, the 50,000sq.ft facility would provide 1,000 direct employment opportunities immediately, said the chief minister. Pinarayi said that restrictions to check the spread of the coronavirus have not impeded the prospects of Kerala’s growth in the IT sector. “There is a large demand for KSUM’s scale-up space in Technopark, with 20 startups having already been allotted space recently. The plug-and-play space will be offered at subsidized rates. The Future Technology Lab will catalyze the accelerator programme,” he said. While KSUM is the state’s nodal agency for entrepreneurship development and incubation activities, CDAC is a premier research and development institution under the Union ministry of electronics and IT. CDAC executive director Shri Magesh E said the autonomous scientific body was keen to partner with any rising startup in Kerala to take the entrepreneurs to the next level by guiding them till hitting the market with their product. K Mohammed Y Safirulla, secretary, IT & Electronics, government of Kerala, said in his welcome speech that Kerala currently has 3,000 startups and a space of 4 lakh sq.ft for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ace-to-boost-electronics-startups/articleshow/79030797.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Patna||‘Angry’ at price rise, onions thrown at Nitish Kumar in Madhubani||PATNA: In a first-of-its-kind incident in the election campaigning so far, onions were hurled at Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday at a rally in Madhubani district’s Harlakhi constituency. The projectiles, which JD(U) later claimed were stones, did not hit the CM as the security personnel were alert and foiled the attempt. According to those attending the CM’s rally at the high school ground in Gangaur, some young boys in the crowd hurled onions at the CM to draw his attention towards skyrocketing onion and potato prices. A visibly upset CM told the offenders “Khoob Phenko, Khoob Phenko” and asked the policemen, who had nabbed the boys, to let them throw whatever objects they wanted towards the dais. He said let the young boys go, don’t take notice of such elements. The incident took place around 1.30 pm. Contacted over the phone soon after the incident, Harlakhi’s sitting MLA Sudhanshu Shekhar, who was on the dais when the objects were hurled targeting the CM, said, “They were some young boys who hurled some onions towards the dais. As the boys were very young, the CM asked the policemen to let them go.” Later in the evening, the JD(U) national general secretary and state’s water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, who was accompanying the CM during the election tour, posted a tweet on his official Twitter handle in which he said, “The opposition showed its disappointment by throwing stones at Bihar’s popular CM Nitish Kumar at his election rally at Harlakhi.” “I was watching from the dais that people of Harlakhi were ready to give a reply of stones through votes,” Jha further said in his tweet. Taking a cue from Jha’s tweet, the JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narain Singh, in a statement, condemned the incident of “stone-throwing” on the CM at Harlakhi and demanded a high-level probe into the incident, saying, “It could have led to a big incident.” Singh also said people who are disappointed because of likely defeat in the assembly polls committed such acts of “cowardice” of throwing stones at the CM. A local who attended the rally said, “Some young boys were enraged over the sharp rise in the prices of vegetables in the recent days and they threw onions towards the CM just to draw his attention towards unprecedented rise on the process of potato and onions in the markets across Bihar,” Onions are being sold at the rate of Rs 65 to 70 per kilogram in different places in Bihar while potatoes at the rate of Rs 50 to 55 per kilogram. Nitish on Tuesday addressed a series of seven election rallies in different assembly constituencies of Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Madhubani and Madhepura district. He took a night halt in Madhepura. Watch Bihar polls 2020: Onions hurled at CM Nitish Kumar during rally in Madhubani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/angry-at-price-rise-onions-thrown-at-nitish/articleshow/79032976.cms||Madan Kumar
November 4, 2020||---||‘Angry’ at price rise, onions thrown at Nitish Kumar in Madhubani||PATNA: In a first-of-its-kind incident in the election campaigning so far, onions were hurled at Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday at a rally in Madhubani district’s Harlakhi constituency. The projectiles, which JD(U) later claimed were stones, did not hit the CM as the security personnel were alert and foiled the attempt. According to those attending the CM’s rally at the high school ground in Gangaur, some young boys in the crowd hurled onions at the CM to draw his attention towards skyrocketing onion and potato prices. A visibly upset CM told the offenders “Khoob Phenko, Khoob Phenko” and asked the policemen, who had nabbed the boys, to let them throw whatever objects they wanted towards the dais. He said let the young boys go, don’t take notice of such elements. The incident took place around 1.30 pm. Contacted over the phone soon after the incident, Harlakhi’s sitting MLA Sudhanshu Shekhar, who was on the dais when the objects were hurled targeting the CM, said, “They were some young boys who hurled some onions towards the dais. As the boys were very young, the CM asked the policemen to let them go.” Later in the evening, the JD(U) national general secretary and state’s water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, who was accompanying the CM during the election tour, posted a tweet on his official Twitter handle in which he said, “The opposition showed its disappointment by throwing stones at Bihar’s popular CM Nitish Kumar at his election rally at Harlakhi.” “I was watching from the dais that people of Harlakhi were ready to give a reply of stones through votes,” Jha further said in his tweet. Taking a cue from Jha’s tweet, the JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narain Singh, in a statement, condemned the incident of “stone-throwing” on the CM at Harlakhi and demanded a high-level probe into the incident, saying, “It could have led to a big incident.” Singh also said people who are disappointed because of likely defeat in the assembly polls committed such acts of “cowardice” of throwing stones at the CM. A local who attended the rally said, “Some young boys were enraged over the sharp rise in the prices of vegetables in the recent days and they threw onions towards the CM just to draw his attention towards unprecedented rise on the process of potato and onions in the markets across Bihar,” Onions are being sold at the rate of Rs 65 to 70 per kilogram in different places in Bihar while potatoes at the rate of Rs 50 to 55 per kilogram. Nitish on Tuesday addressed a series of seven election rallies in different assembly constituencies of Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Madhubani and Madhepura district. He took a night halt in Madhepura. Watch Bihar polls 2020: Onions hurled at CM Nitish Kumar during rally in Madhubani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/angry-at-price-rise-onions-thrown-at-nitish/articleshow/79030131.cms||Madan Kumar
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Solar-powered miniature train flagged off at Veli Tourist Village||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The country’s first solar energy-driven miniature rail system was inaugurated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan at the Veli Tourist Village here on Monday. It is a part of a string of projects implemented at a cost of Rs 60 crore to elevate the facilities at the panoramic tourist destination to international standards. CM also opened the urban park and swimming pool at the tourist vlllage. “The eco-friendly solar-powered 2.5km miniature railway system will enable visitors to enjoy the beauty of nature. The Rs 10-crore project is the first-of-its-kind in the country,” the chief minister said in his address via video conference. “Artificial steam coming out from the engine of the train, modelled after the vintage steam locomotive, will stir nostalgic feelings. The station house is also designed in a traditional style. The surplus energy generated by the system will be routed to KSEB’s grid,” said the chief minister. A tourist facilitation centre, convention centre and an art cafe will also be opened at Veli. The convention centre will have an art gallery, digital display facility featuring tourism and cultural centres in state and an open air theatre. Tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran, who presided over the function, said that the government had allotted around Rs 120 crore for tourism sector in one year alone. Of these, administrative sanction has been given to Rs 60-crore worth of projects for Veli. The miniature rail has all the features of a fully-equipped rail system including a tunnel, station and ticket office. The train, which will be an attraction for children especially, has three bogies that can accommodate around 45 people on board at a time. The urban park has been built at a cost of Rs 5 crore, and the swimming pool at Rs 2.5 crore. V S Sivakumar MLA, mayor K Sreekumar and KTDC chairman M Vijayakumar, were present on the occasion. Tourism secretary Rani George welcomed the gathering and tourism director P Bala Kiran presented the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/solar-powered-mini-train-flagged-off/articleshow/79030804.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||Protect same-sex couple facing opposition, Allahabad HC tells cops||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court, while directing the superintend of police (SP), Shamli, to give protection to a same-sex couple which alleged resistance from family and society, observed that “a constitutional court is duty-bound to monitor and observe the constitutional morality as well as rights of a citizen which are under threat only on account of sexual orientation”. Disposing of a writ petition filed by Sultana Mirza and Kiran Rani of Shamli, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Pankaj Bhatia also directed the SP to ensure that the couple is not harassed by anyone. The petitioners claimed that they were in a live-in relationship for a long time but were facing resistance from their families and society because of their sexual orientation. In the petition, they apprehended harassment and threat to their life because of their relationship. The petitioners relied on Navtej Singh Johar case whereby the Supreme Court considered the plight of the LGBT community. Passing the above directives, the court relied on principles laid down in Johar case that any kind of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation of a person is unconstitutional. Further, sexual orientation is an intrinsic element of liberty, dignity, privacy, individual autonomy and equality and intimacy between consenting adults of the same sex is beyond the legitimate interests of the state. The court while disposing of the petition said that a constitutional court is duty-bound to monitor and observe the constitutional morality as well as rights of a citizen which are under threat only on account of the sexual orientation. The court observed, “We direct superintendent of police, Shamli to extend suitable protection to the petitioners in the event they approach for necessary protection and ensure that no harassment is caused to them.” The direction was passed on November 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/high-court-orders-protection-to-same-sex-couple/articleshow/79030800.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Surat||Surat bags HUDCO award in urban transport category||SURAT: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) bagged the HUDCO award for best practices to improve the living environment under the ‘urban transport’ category. According to SMC officials, it had nominated its ‘Surat Integrated Urban Mass Transport System’ project under the urban transport category. SMC won the award for its Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) and city bus services. The civic body also received Rs 1 lakh cash prize. Surat has a 106 km BRTS corridor, the largest dedicated corridor in the country. On average, 1.35 lakh commuters travel daily on BRTS buses. SMC currently has has 166 BRTS buses and 575 city buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-bags-hudco-award-in-urban-transport-category/articleshow/79027183.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Retired GSFC manager duped of Rs 15 lakh||VADODARA: A retired operations manager of GSFC was duped of Rs 15 lakh by four persons under the pretext of helping him get the money of his life insurance policy. The victim, Jagdishchandra Trivedi, who lives on Sama-Savli Road, told police that on June 19 he received a call from a man named Rajiv Sharma regarding his insurance policy purchased in 1990. The policy was, however, inactive since 1998. Sharma told Trivedi that he is supposed to get Rs 91,000 for his policy and asked him to fill up a no-objection certificate form and send it through WhatsApp. After sending the form, Trivedi received calls from Sharma and his accomplices identified as R K Khandelwal, Wasim and Arora. They told Trivedi that since his policy has been inactive, he can pay different charges to increase his fund and he will then receive Rs 27.8 lakh. On their instruction, Trivedi paid Rs 14.9 lakh in different amounts between June 23 and August 24 through net banking. When they kept asking for more money, Trivedi became suspicious and approached police in September. After a preliminary investigation, an offence of cheating was registered at Vadodara Taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/retd-gsfc-manager-duped-of-rs-15-lakh/articleshow/79026869.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak defies Covid fear to vote big; 82% turnout||DUBBAK: Voting for the Dubbak assembly by-election passed off peacefully on Tuesday despite fears that the acrimonious campaigning of the past few days would trigger violence on polling day. An impressive 82.61% voters exercised their franchise. Although in the 2018 assembly polls, the turnout was 89.85%. After a slow start in the morning, long queues were seen outside polling stations later in the day. Strict Covid-19 protocols were in place with every voter checked with thermal scanners. Eleven Covid-19 patients in PPE kits too came to the polling booths and cast their votes. Chief electoral officer Shashank Goel himself monitored the polling process at many polling stations. Goel along with district collector Bharathi Hollikeri and Siddipet commissioner of police D Joel Davis examined the strong room at Zilla Parishad High School, Latchapet, where the EVMs would be kept. Nearly 2,000 personnel, including central forces, special striking forces and Telangana police, were deployed as part of security arrangements, a police official said. Though polling ended at 6 pm, the authorities allowed those who reached before 6 pm to cast their vote. With the election held during the pandemic, the by-poll was a different experience for the voters as they wore masks, gloves and followed social distancing norms. All the voters were given disposable polythene hand gloves which they dumped in a bin after casting their vote. Polling officials drew circles and boxes at the polling stations indicating where the voters had to stand. But, at the government school polling station in Thoguta, male voters did not follow the social distancing norms. Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy lodged a complaint with Thoguta police over fake news of him rejoining the TRS and demanded action against TV channels for airing the false news. There was some drama at Thoguta where Srinivas Reddy resides. “His supporters got information that people belonging to a rival party were distributing cash but by the time they went there, the group had left,” a relative of Srinivas Reddy said. EVMs developed technical glitches at three polling stations. Election authorities said the glitches were fixed by engineers and later the polling process went off smoothly. Polling was held up for some time with some voters getting into heated arguments with polling staff at some booths. Police intervened and pacified the voters. EVM snags were reported from Kashibugga village in Doultabad mandal, Venkatraopet village in Thoguta and Dummalapally in Dubbak mandal. The authorities also provided postal ballot option for 4,500 polling personnel and Covid-19 patients, out of whom 1,600 had used the option. The by-poll was necessitated following the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy in August this year. The TRS fielded his widow Solipeta Sujatha, who cast her vote in the early hours. The BJP fielded M Raghunandan Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-defies-covid-fear-to-vote-big-82-turnout/articleshow/79030821.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: CCMB lens on reinfections, warns of 2nd wave of Covid||HYDERABAD: Scientists at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad have begun testing samples of suspected Covid-19 reinfection cases, even as they warned Delhi and other states of a second and third wave. Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, CSIR-CCMB, said the first few samples from Bhubaneswar, Odisha, turned out to be false-positive cases. While reinfection is an extremely rare event, different states in the country are currently at different stages of the virus spread, but second, third and even further waves might be seen. “Yes, a second wave is happening in Delhi. Since our country is very huge and heterogeneous, there will be at least 100 or more spots of rise or decrease,” he said. Dr Mishra said while it is very difficult to say for the whole country, but even within cities, there are pockets. “But each city has its own dynamics and character in terms of which stage it is in the infection. But it is true that second or third or even further waves will come,” he said. The scientist said the best defence available now was masks, social distancing and hand hygiene for the next two years. Junking the popular theory of winter accelerating the spread of the virus, he said that weather is not a factor in transmission but human behaviour is. “It is not really the winter, but it is the indiscipline that we have been slowly slipping into resulting in the second wave. In fact, winter is yet to settle in most of the places,” he said. Referring to the second wave in Europe getting very severe, Dr Mishra said delaying the second wave is the best possible solution for now. “Typically, a second wave is more severe than the first one. So, we have to be extremely watchful about that and we must keep in mind that a second wave is possible and the only thing we can do is to delay it or reduce its amplitude and that is by mask, social distancing and hand hygiene. It is our responsibility to do that,” he added. Speaking about the possibility of vaccines and its effect, he said that it will take a couple of years to know about whether the vaccines currently under development are robust or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ccmb-lens-on-reinfections-warns-of-2nd-wave-of-covid/articleshow/79028744.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 4, 2020||Agra||Two staff of Agra’s SN Medical College among 61 test positive for Covid-19||AGRA: The number of Covid-19 positive cases continued to rise on Tuesday, with 61 people testing positive in Agra. With the addition of new cases, the district’s tally has reached to 7,391 cases. Among the positive cases include two staffs of SN Medical College. Meanwhile, 45 Covid-19 patients were discharged earlier in the day. Out of the 7,391 cases, 92.77% have been declared cured and discharged. The number of active Covid-19 cases also increased to 388 on Tuesday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 6,857 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Besides, people who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-staff-of-agras-sn-medical-college-among-61-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79026219.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Civic polls: Congress ‘rules’ in 3 corporations, BJP 2 with a tie in Kota||JAIPUR: The ruling Congress surged ahead of BJP in elections to the six newly formed municipal corporations on Tuesday in the state. The party has won the majority of seats in two bodies — Jodhpur North and Kota North — while taking the lead in Jaipur Heritage corporation. The BJP has crossed the majority mark in Jaipur Greater and Jodhpur South corporations. But both parties, however, are facing tie in Kota South with 36 seats each in a house of 80. The urban bodies in the three cities of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota were dominated by BJP when they were single corporations. CM Ashok Gehlot's decision to 'divide' these urban bodies into two appears to have paid off following the results. Jaipur will see a Congress-led corporation after a gap of 26 years with the exception of the mid-term poll for mayor held in 2018. ‘We won 261 seats while BJP managed 242 out of 560’Reacting to BJP’s allegation that the Congress was helped by delimitation and creating new corporations by bunching together minority votes, the party's state president Govind Singh Dotasra, quoting state election commission figures, said that they had secured five lakh more votes than the saffron party. “We won 261 seats while BJP managed only 242 out of the 560 seats. This means that people from all social, economic and religious backgrounds have supported us,” Dotasra said. A total of 2,238 candidates had contested for 560 seats. The Jaipur results came as a shocker for BJP which has lost its traditional support in the city. Congress won 47 out of the 100 seats in Jaipur Heritage, while BJP secured only 42. Eleven seats have been won by independents, most of them Congress rebels, whom Dotasra claimed to have extended their support to the party. Meanwhile, Jaipur Greater, which is larger than the old city, has voted in favour of BJP. The saffron party won 88 seats while the Congress won 49, with the remaining 11 going either to independents or smaller parties. The corporation has 250 seats. In Jaipur, the contest was directly between Congress and BJP. In Jodhpur, chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s bastion, the North corporation has been clearly snatched by Congress, which secured 53 seats while BJP suffered a major setback winning only 19 in the 80-seat body. But BJP secured victory in Jodhpur South by winning 43 seats while Congress managed only 29 in the corporation. Lok Sabha candidate Vaibhav Gehlot led the Congress’ campaign in Jodhpur while Union Jal Shakti minister and Jodhpur MP Gajendra Singh Shekhawat helmed the BJP effort. In Kota North, Congress is the clear winner with 47 seats while the saffron brigade got only 14 of the 80 seats. The situation in Kota South is tricky as both the parties have got 36 seats each in the 80-seat corporation. Eight seats have been won by four rebels each from both parties. The Kota result is a major victory for UDH minister Shantilal Dhariwal who called the municipal polls a mid-term verdict on Kota MP and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The elections were held in two phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-rules-in-3-corpsbjp-2-with-a-tie-in-kota/articleshow/79030146.cms||Shoeb Khan
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolata airport: Airlines want Covid test for all inbound flyers||KOLKATA: The imbroglio at Kolkata airport on Sunday after the arrival of an Indian on a Bangladeshi carrier without a Covid-negative report has prompted airlines and the members of the travel trade community to call for extension of the Covid-test-on-arrival facility to all international passengers. At present, only Air India passengers from London can avail of the RT-PCR test on arrival. After the Bangladeshi airline arrived with a passenger who did not have the Covid report, the state temporarily suspended the NOC issued to the carrier. Though the suspension was later revoked, it has sparked concerns over how transit passengers can get tested prior to boarding a Kolkata-bound flight. The passenger on the Bangladeshi airline was returning to Kolkata from Geneva and transiting at Dhaka airport. “For passengers transiting at airports with no testing facility, it is a problem because the passenger cannot step out to get tested. In Delhi and in Mumbai, Covid test facility is available to all passengers on arrival. The same should be extended to flyers arriving at Kolkata,” said Travel Agents’ Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. Travel Agents’ Association of India chairman (east) Manav Soni also said the forum had written to the government to provide the facility on arrival to save passengers’ time and money and spare them the hassle. Officials of several airlines were also in favour of testing-on-arrival facility at Kolkata airport. Passengers who recently travelled abroad during the Covid period also spoke of the challenges of undergoing Covid tests before boarding flights. “I underwent a Covid test last week to board a flight to Bangladesh on November 1. Upon reaching there, I had to run from one hospital to another to get a second Covid test to fly back to Kolkata on November 3,” said Ekbalpore businessman Sanjay Chaubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airlines-want-cov-test-for-all-inbound-flyers/articleshow/79028757.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: SEC tells officials to speed up pre-election work||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections are likely to be held soon. Indications to this effect were given by state election commissioner (SEC) C Partha Sarathi on Tuesday. He directed GHMC officials to speed up the process of completing the pre-poll exercise of publishing ward-wise voter list and identification of polling booths among others, as the election commission might announce GHMC poll schedule any time once the final ward-wise photo electoral rolls are published on November 13. He was addressing returning and assistant returning officers undergoing training for the ensuing GHMC elections and said there would be 150 counting centres at the rate of one for each of the 150 wards. Also, there would be 50 polling stations on an average in each ward. Partha Sarathi directed GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar to ensure equal opportunity was given to all political parties and contesting candidates to display their political campaign on hoardings, uni poles, bus shelters, Metro pillars and other vantage points at public places. The SEC said the returning officers were responsible for every aspect of the election in their respective divisions, including identification of polling booths, polling staff and providing material to the staff. All 30 deputy commissioners of GHMC have been roped in for election duties and returning officers were also appointed to each of the 150 wards. “Each ward will have 50 polling stations. The returning officers have to make arrangements for video recording and web casting. The polling stations, will be used for face recognition technology,” Partha Sarathi said. He explained the measures to be taken right from the nominations to declaration of results. “ The returning officers have to prepare a checklist pertaining to the duties and responsibilities and should monitor the implementation of poll code, election expenditure and other aspects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-polls-sec-tells-officials-to-speed-up-pre-election-work/articleshow/79028715.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||5 tribals held for buyingmilitary fatigues for Reds||Hyderabad: Five tribals from Chhattisgarh have been arrested for allegedly working as couriers for CPI (Maoist) party at Cherla in Bhadradri Kothagudem district. As part of anti-Maoist checks conducted by special party of Cherla police station and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) team at Cherla town on Monday evening, five persons moving in a suspicious manner were intercepted near Gandhi Statue centre. “The five persons have been apprehended while they were going towards Pusuguppa. We have seized 20 metres of olive green cloth, which they had purchased from a shop in Bhadrachalam for Maoists, from their possession,” Bhadrachalam assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Rajesh Chandra said. On interrogation, police found that the five persons— K Joga, P Joga, B Lakshma, S Lakshma and K Suresh from Chhattisgarh. Police said the five men had been working as couriers for Maoist party’s Jegurukonda area committee members, Jagadeesh and Nagamani, for the past four years. “Maoists have been using tribals from Chhattisgarh to procure essential commodities and explosive materials from nearby towns in Telangana,” the ASP said. The five persons have been arrested by the Cherla police and they were produced before court. Later, they have been remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-tribals-held-for-buyingmilitary-fatigues-for-reds/articleshow/79028724.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Cotton corporation to buy produce in Telangana at MSP||Hyderabad: Chairman and managing director of Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) Pradeep Kumar Agarwal on Tuesday said the CCI would purchase all the cotton produced in Telangana at a minimum support price of Rs 5,825 per quintal. Pradeep told this to agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy, who is on a four-day official tour to Maharashtra. The minister called on the CCI CMD and apprised him about cotton production in the state. Reddy also urged the CCI to increase the permitted moisture content in cotton considering the recent heavy rains in the state. At present, the CCI allows only 12% humidity in cotton fibre. “While the CCI has procured and stored 49.56 lakh bales of cotton from Telangana during 2019-20, it has only lifted 9.28 lakh bales so far,” he said. The minister told CCI officials that Telangana produces high quality cotton. The minister also sought cooperation of the CCI to set up a cotton research centre at Adilabad “Telangana contributes 40% of the total cotton procurement in the entire country. The CCI purchased 105.1 lakh bales in the country and out of that, the share of Telangana was 41.8 lakh bales,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cotton-corporation-to-buy-produce-in-telangana-at-msp/articleshow/79028755.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||Pandemic stress takes toll on dementia patients: Doctors||KOLKATA: The mental health of a celebrity’s elderly mother had declined during the pandemic so much that she now forgets everything, including the meal and medicines given to her. Recently, she has started accusing the celeb of starving her all day without understanding that she has no memory of eating everything. This octogenarian woman is not the only one. The pandemic has given a rise to sharp “behavioural decomposition” in the mental health of patients suffering from dementia. The inability to continue doing regular chores, absence of care-givers/volunteers coming to check them and the stress within the household have had an impact on their behaviours. Nilanjana Maulik, secretary of Alzheimer’s and Related Disorders Society of India (ARDSI) in Survey Park, Kolkata chapter, “Around 20% of the patients who used to come to our daycare centre have not reported after we reopened in June. They are no longer physically or mentally in a position to return. They can’t follow instructions and people at home are also apprehensive about sending them out.” TimesViewSenior citizens are much more vulnerable to Covid than other age groups and are at even greater risk if they have other complications. There is an urgent need to look at elderly care a little differently because of the situation.For logistics purposes, some senior citizens had to move in with their children. Adapting to the new environment is a stress on their brain. “The absence of proper access to doctors, care-givers, medicines and hospitals has taken a big toll on their mental health. Many dementia patients are unable to perform their Activities of Daily Living (ADL). Earlier they could do simple chores. Now, they have completely withdrawn and become crippled. Depression in this group has also increased,” said Sabyasachi Mitra, a consultant neuro-psychiatrist. Mitra has noticed that this deterioration is irreversible. “It is a one-way traffic. We call it a step-ladder deterioration. Dementia is a progressive disease. This fast degeneration would have been slower had there been no pandemic-induced lockdown like life events,” Mitra added. The cascading effect of isolation has been “humongous” on the mental health of the elderly, said another psychiatrist, Jairanjan Ram. Senior citizens might not have had a battery of relatives visiting them often. But they always had a support system of care givers, with whom they interacted regularly. In the absence of micro-involvement throughout the day, the decay of the cerebral reserve of patients with little external interactions will happen faster. Ram’s mother, an Alzheimer’s patient, has had people coming in and sharing stories about Varanasi, where she grew up, to make her feel good. “Even if hilsa costs Rs 1,000 a kilo, we told the fish monger to mention the price as Rs 100 in front of her. For her knowledge, the salary of the domestic help was Rs 300. She has been stuck in a time wrap and her entire support system would pander to that,” Ram pointed out. The absence of this support system is challenging. Watching this decay is stressing out their near and dear ones. “I can’t believe that my mother — an extremely educated and erudite lady — can suddenly behave this way. Watching her fast degeneration is taking a toll on my health,” said the celebrity. For five years, a 96-year-old used to come to the day care centre without much decline. “In the six months, we notice a fast decline in him. He has lost his sense of humour and his spirit. He is taking longer to follow instructions,” said Maulik. A dementia patient, who had the habit of going to a bank every month, became extremely insecure when she had to give up that habit. Though her son had sent over money via his friends, she refused to spend it. “She cut down on the grocery shopping and food intake. Matters reached a stage where she was on the verge of hospitalization,” Ram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-stress-takes-toll-on-dementia-patients-docs/articleshow/79028777.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Civic polls: Congress ‘rules’ in 3 corporations, BJP 2 with a tie in Kota||JAIPUR: The ruling Congress surged ahead of BJP in elections to the six newly formed municipal corporations on Tuesday in the state. The party has won the majority of seats in two bodies — Jodhpur North and Kota North — while taking the lead in Jaipur Heritage corporation. The BJP has crossed the majority mark in Jaipur Greater and Jodhpur South corporations. But both parties, however, are facing tie in Kota South with 36 seats each in a house of 80. The urban bodies in the three cities of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota were dominated by BJP when they were single corporations. CM Ashok Gehlot's decision to 'divide' these urban bodies into two appears to have paid off following the results. Jaipur will see a Congress-led corporation after a gap of 26 years with the exception of the mid-term poll for mayor held in 2018. ‘We won 261 seats while BJP managed 242 out of 560’Reacting to BJP’s allegation that the Congress was helped by delimitation and creating new corporations by bunching together minority votes, the party's state president Govind Singh Dotasra, quoting state election commission figures, said that they had secured five lakh more votes than the saffron party. “We won 261 seats while BJP managed only 242 out of the 560 seats. This means that people from all social, economic and religious backgrounds have supported us,” Dotasra said. A total of 2,238 candidates had contested for 560 seats. The Jaipur results came as a shocker for BJP which has lost its traditional support in the city. Congress won 47 out of the 100 seats in Jaipur Heritage, while BJP secured only 42. Eleven seats have been won by independents, most of them Congress rebels, whom Dotasra claimed to have extended their support to the party. Meanwhile, Jaipur Greater, which is larger than the old city, has voted in favour of BJP. The saffron party won 88 seats while the Congress won 49, with the remaining 11 going either to independents or smaller parties. The corporation has 250 seats. In Jaipur, the contest was directly between Congress and BJP. In Jodhpur, chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s bastion, the North corporation has been clearly snatched by Congress, which secured 53 seats while BJP suffered a major setback winning only 19 in the 80-seat body. But BJP secured victory in Jodhpur South by winning 43 seats while Congress managed only 29 in the corporation. Lok Sabha candidate Vaibhav Gehlot led the Congress’ campaign in Jodhpur while Union Jal Shakti minister and Jodhpur MP Gajendra Singh Shekhawat helmed the BJP effort. In Kota North, Congress is the clear winner with 47 seats while the saffron brigade got only 14 of the 80 seats. The situation in Kota South is tricky as both the parties have got 36 seats each in the 80-seat corporation. Eight seats have been won by four rebels each from both parties. The Kota result is a major victory for UDH minister Shantilal Dhariwal who called the municipal polls a mid-term verdict on Kota MP and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The elections were held in two phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cong-rules-in-3-corpsbjp-2-with-a-tie-in-kota/articleshow/79032358.cms||Shoeb Khan
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to fine sellers Rs 10,000, public Rs 2,000 for defying ban on crackers||JAIPUR: Two days after chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced a ban on firecrackers, the state government on Tuesday notified the same, which included imposing fines of Rs 10,000 on shopkeepers found selling them and Rs 2,000 on individuals bursting crackers or allowing their use. “Any person who is found using or allowing bursting of firecrackers would be liable to pay a fine of Rs 2,000 while any shopkeeper who is found selling any kind of fireworks would be liable to pay a fine of Rs 10,000,” the order said. Meanwhile, Rajasthan High Court will hear an appeal related to the ban ahead of Diwali on Wednesday. On Monday, the Association of Firecracker Dealers had moved court challenging the government ban. ‘Govt should control pollution from factories’The petitioners claimed that the ban would affect their livelihood as thousands of people depended on the business. Zaheer Ahmed, secretary of the association, said that such a ban has not been imposed in any part of the country except Rajasthan. “No agency or organisation has done research and claimed that bursting of firecrackers would spread Covid. The smoke from firecrackers during Diwali causes only 4% of pollution for two to three hours. Whereas factories, vehicles and smoking contributes to 96% of the pollution. The state government should control pollution from factories,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-to-fine-sellers-rs-10k-public-rs-2k-for-defying-ban-on-crackers/articleshow/79030151.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Young businessmen take on Covid with innovative technology||NAGPUR: From making face shields even before they became a common protective gear against Covid, closed stretchers to carry infected patients, meeting apps that don’t need an android phone or fabric that is claimed to be microbe-resistant — start-ups in the city, found opportunities to innovate during the pandemic. What started as social help is now getting translated into business propositions as Covid has set in a new normal situation. TOI talked to some of the young businessmen about their products made suiting the changed needs. Pratik Gadkar who heads Techvendor Innovations Private Limited says his start-up came with the initial face shields. “In March-April, when the first cases of Covid began to be reported, doctors were using crude gear, including plastic sheets, as protection while treating patients. We came to know about the problems of a government hospital and initially, came up with a fibre shield,” says Gadkar. Later, the shields were made of acrylic and now sun board. Techvendor has already done mass production of the shields. Gadkar also runs the Nagpur centre of Fablab — a concept started by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). It works to bring out technological solutions to problems faced by the community. Gadkar said his company has also made closed stretchers with an oxygen inlet. Some of these are being used for evacuating infected patients making its safer for hospital workers. “The first sanitizing panel used in the NMC town hall meet was also made by our company,” claimed Gakdar. Wasudev Mishra’s M/s Silaigram, a proprietorship firm, works on re-strengthening of the old fabric. Silaigram has tied up with M/s Mimansa of Anand in Gujarat in making specialized fabric. Mimansa and IIT Mumbai have come up with a fabric which has a specialized quoting. The microbes that come in contact with it don’t survive, says Mishra. “Ours is a social impact company and we have been working with Mimansa since two years. We are now in the process to make masks in Nagpur too,” he said. Mishra claims that the masks can last a 100 odd days if washed after a gap of five days. They have also got the tests done to prove its effect. The production is expected to begin in a month. “The masks will be available at affordable rates,” says Mishra. Ekatra Technologies, another start-up from the city, claims to have come up with an online system that also works without an android phone. “Many could not get access to online education as they did not have smart phones. Our start-up has tried to bridge the digital gap,” says Abhijeet Khandagale. It’s enough if one person initiating the meet has a laptop. The rest can do so with ordinary devices. The system works on WhatsApp which is available on non-smart phones by some of the service providers. Audio conferencing and SMS can also work. “In one go, almost 200 persons can be covered. This has been useful for ITI students,” says Khandagale, adding, “Now, there are plans to take it further on a commercial scale.” Nakul Agrawal’s start-up UHUM, which is also the name of his app, helps those in psychological or emotional distress. “The project has not been monetized yet and work on the upgraded version of the app is under way,” he says. Agrawal, a chartered accountant, says the app helps people to answer a questionnaire run on artificial intelligence. If they feel that further help is needed then even counsellors can be contacted through the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/young-bizmen-take-on-covid-with-innovative-technology/articleshow/79028797.cms||Shishir Arya
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||HC bars Telangana from collecting data of non-agri assets for Dharani||HYDERABAD: In a setback to the Telangana government, the high court on Tuesday directed it to stop collecting and uploading any data pertaining to non-agricultural properties of individuals into its Dharani land portal . The court also said the government cannot insist that people furnish details of Aadhaar, caste, family members, etc., for agricultural properties. “The Supreme Court has already made it clear that the authorities cannot collect the details of Aadhaar, caste, etc. Even an Aadhaar Act will not enable the state to do so,” it said. It further directed the state government not to share with third parties, details of one crore people whose property details have already been uploaded into Dharani, the portal which was launched to maintain a digital record of owners of agricultural and non-agricultural property holders in the state. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this interim direction while hearing two separate PILs filed by advocates — Gopal Sharma and Saketh Kasibhatla — and a writ petition filed by K Anand Kumar challenging the legal validity of Dharani exercise and also collection of personal details such as Aadhaar, caste, family members of the property owners. The judges sought a detailed counter within two weeks from the government on what safety mechanisms it has put in place for the data collected for Dharani and safeguards against its misuse. “Tell us who is the competent authority that will have access to this huge data base and how he will handle it,” the bench told advocate general BS Prasad before posting the case to November 20. Talking tough, the CJ said: “The chief secretary was burning the midnight oil when the state website was recently hacked and was unable to set it right for a long time. Given this background, how would you (government) drive home confidence in the minds of people about the security and safety of their personal data.” After hearing arguments of senior counsel D Prakash Reddy and two other advocates — K Vivek Reddy and S Suman — who contended that the government was doing this exercise without any backing of a specified law, the judges said the government had enacted no law to support its action in respect of uploading details of the owners of the non-agricultural properties. The judges said in respect of uploading the ownership particulars of agricultural land, the government brought out a law — Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books Act 2020 — but this would not empower it to collect details of Aadhaar and caste. “To add to the confusion, there are four different Dharani Apps that can be downloaded from Google Play Store. Nobody knows which is an authentic state app,” they said. Prasad said the government had unveiled Dharani to streamline systems connected to the agricultural and non-agricultural property transactions where corruption has become rampant and innocent people were being victimised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-bars-t-from-collecting-data-of-non-agri-assets-for-dharani/articleshow/79030851.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Business||T eyes $50 billion revenue from life sciences by 2030||Hyderabad: Telangana, which is already a global vaccine hub, has charted out plans to emerge as an “innovation destination” for lifesciences in the continent and is gunning for $50 billion revenue and $100 billion ecosystem valuation in the next 10 years. To realize this vision, the state’s lifesciences sector, that had clocked $13 billion revenues in 2020, will have to accelerate the pace of growth from 12% per annum to 15% per annum, the ‘Telangana Lifesciences: Vision 2030’ report, released by state industries and IT minister KT Rama Rao, said on Tuesday. As per the report prepared by the Life Sciences Advisory Committee constituted by the state government, Telangana will make efforts towards attracting R&D centres of at least three to five top 10 MNCs and develop at least one $1 billion-dollar molecule by 2030. To push innovation, the report prescribes building infrastructure for startups, providing funding support, strengthening industry-academia connect by establishing technology sharing and transfer linkages, float grants-backed missions against critical diseases and cement the state’s position as the go-to clinical trials destination in India. “While government of Telangana is undertaking initiatives such as Biopharma Hub (B-Hub) and Diagnostic Hub (D-Hub), more such initiatives could be undertaken for the lifesciences startups. This could be done by establishing labs, testing equipment and pilot plants to aid in prototype manufacturing and ramping up production for clinical trials,” the report said. As per the report, the state must identify critical services required for conducting clinical trials and investing towards developing self-sufficiency in these capabilities. Besides, the report also focusses on attracting talent as well as building skills for the sector. On funding, the report notes that the availability of funding in Hyderabad is much lesser than innovation hubs like Bengaluru, hence, it has mooted the setting up of a corpus with private partnerships for startups and attaining buy-in from private investors by outsourcing the process of vetting proposals. Meanwhile, citing an example of the programme ‘Cancer Moonshot’ that was initiated by former US President Barack Obama to accelerate cancer research, the report said the state can also spur innovation by floating dedicated grants-backed missions against critical diseases. It also states that Telangana can contribute towards building India’s self-sufficiency in key APIs by carving out a dedicated cluster for manufacturing API/intermediaries at the upcoming Pharma City and providing common facilities and incentives for the companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/t-eyes-50-billion-revenue-from-life-sciences-by-2030/articleshow/79028798.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Shabbir Ali is poll coordinator||Shabbir Ali Congress’ Bihar poll coordinator: Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir of the Congress has been appointed as the election coordinator for Seemanchal region, for the ongoing Bihar assembly elections . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shabbir-ali-is-poll-coordinator/articleshow/79028782.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong signature campaign begins||Hyderabad: The Congress has demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao pass a resolution in the state assembly against the Centre’s farm laws. “KCR should prove that TRS and BJP are not friendly parties by passing a resolution in the assembly that Telangana will not implement farm laws of the Centre,” said AICC incharge of Telangana, Manickam Tagore, while launching the signature campaign against the farm laws at Mahbubnagar on Tuesday. The Congress on Tuesday launched the campaign in all the districts of Telangana.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-signature-campaign-begins/articleshow/79028761.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 1,500 new Covid cases, 3 deaths on Monday||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday recorded 1,536 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths, raising the total count to 2,42,506. While the overall toll rose to 1,351, so far 2,23,413 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection in the state and 17,742 patients remain under medical supervision. Continuing its downward spiral, the test positivity rate in the state has now touched 5.6% as compared to 25% at the beginning of the pandemic. The test positivity rate in the country is currently 7.8%, which means that a lesser number of patients are testing positive in the state when compared to some parts of the country. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 281 new cases on Tuesday. GHMC, which recorded the highest number of cases among districts, was followed by 123 new cases in Bhadadri Kothagudem, 97 cases in Khammam, 96 cases in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 92 cases in Rangareddy, and 81 cases in Nalgonda, even as all remaining districts recorded new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1500-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-t/articleshow/79028788.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid recovered face social stigma due to reinfection fear||Hyderabad: Despite being several months into the pandemic and the state having over two lakh recovered patients, the fear of reinfection has meant that the patients keep facing social stigma. While experts and NGOs dealing with such cases indicate an overall reduction in stigma, a chunk of patients continue to face these issues, especially if they have long-term complications. Since the debate over reinfection becoming commonplace, the patients seem to have faced renewed stigma. Speaking to TOI, a 53-year-old patient from Tolichowki, who had recovered from the virus two months back and continues to have breathlessness, said, “While in the initial days my neighbours and known people would not even acknowledge me if they came across me, things slightly improved after I recovered. However, since I had to make an emergency visit to the hospital after a month and an ambulance was called to take me there, people again started going out of their way to avoid me. Some who spoke to me did so to enquire if it was a re-infection.”. There are others being discriminated against, including those who have been to an isolation centre for a second time due to the reinfection scare and others who have recovered from Covid-19 and are healthy now. Meanwhile, reinfection is an extremely rare phenomenon. “Now, we have an understanding that reinfection is a very rare event. So far, there are just two confirmed cases of reinfection in the country. Reinfection cases world over are in double digits despite having millions of positive cases. Covid recovered patients, on the other hand, have lesser chance of getting infected when compared to a non-infected person. Also, recovered patients are actually interrupting the spread of the virus and therefore they should be shown much more regard,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB). As per state health authorities, though there are around 10 suspected cases of reinfection, not a single case is confirmed to be an actual case of reinfection. While misinformation continues to haunt patients, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health (Telangana) said, “Over the last eight months, we have seen a reduction in stigmatisation by families (earlier families have disowned patients) and also to a large extent within the community. While there was very little understanding about the transmission in the earlier months, now it is understood better and the stigmatisation is reducing. “However, as far as reinfection is concerned, the ongoing research world over suggests though reinfection is happening, cases are very few. However, there is no clinically proven reinfection case in Telangana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-recovered-face-social-stigma-due-to-reinfection-fear/articleshow/79028803.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||Presidency to start PG admissions tomorrow, will follow 80-20 formula||Kolkata: Presidency University is among the first state-run varsities to announce the admission criteria for its postgraduate programmes. Going by the one-time policy adopted by the state government, the authorities will allow only 20% intake of candidates from other universities, while the remaining seats will be reserved for their own students. Application forms will be available online from November 5 to November 12. Only 125 seats across all categories will be available in the 17 PG departments. At 11, biotechnology will offer the highest number of seats for external students in the PG programme. “The intake capacity under different courses and under different categories may be modified after completion of admission under Presidency University’s quota (home category). Modified intake capacity will be published later, if available,” reads the notice. “There may be students from our university, who would prefer to migrate outside the state and country. In such a situation, there will be vacancies under the home category,” said an official of the university. In subjects, like history, the formula for calculating the academic score is based on 80% of marks obtained in Honours and 20% from the scores obtained in English in plus-II examinations. In philosophy, the formula is 75% of marks obtained in Honours and 25% of marks obtained in the plus-two level. A portion of the score in the plus-II board examinations will be considered while drawing up the merit list even in subjects, like performing arts, chemistry, political science, sociology and geography. “This year, candidates will be admitted, based on academic criteria. Unlike other sessions, we will no hold admission tests. Thus, some of the departments have decided to include the HS marks while selecting students,” said registrar Debajyoti Konar. Aggregate marks in the HS or equivalent (10+2) examinations are to be calculated, considering the marks in best four recognized subjects (except environmental science).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presidency-to-start-pg-admissions-tomorrow-will-follow-80-20-formula/articleshow/79028805.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||RT-PCR tests below 50% capacity, five private laboratories sending samples to Mumbai||NAGPUR: Twelve laboratories in the district (six government and six private) are performing Real Time-PCR (RT-PCR) tests below 50% capacity due to decline in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), too, has facilitated 54 centres across the city where tests are being done free of cost. Yet, five private laboratories are collecting swab samples and sending them for testing to its branches situated in Mumbai. When TOI called the helpline/customer care numbers of the five private laboratories in question, their representatives confirmed that swab samples are being collected in the city and later, sent to Mumbai for testing. About the timing of the reports, one of the five laboratories said, “If you give the sample before 5.30pm to the Nagpur laboratory, it will take 24 hours to reach Mumbai. If samples reach our centre in Mumbai by 5.30pm the next day, reports will be given the following day.” Another laboratory said, “We collect samples till 3pm and dispatch them to Mumbai at 4.30pm. Reports come the next day.” The third laboratory said something similar, “You will get the report in the evening the next day if you give sample today morning.” The fourth laboratory was no different. “The report will come anytime the next day if the samples are given by 1pm,” it said. These four laboratories, directly or indirectly, said reports will be given after 24 hours. Only the fifth laboratory said that reports will be given in the evening if samples are submitted in the morning. In April, the district administration and NMC acted against a private laboratory for not giving reports within 24 hours. The civic body had even requested private laboratories to avoid sending samples to Mumbai. Accordingly, the private laboratories had stopped the system of sending samples to Mumbai. At that time, no private laboratory in the city had permission to conduct tests as approvals were awaited. The current testing capacity of the 12 recognized laboratories is over 6,000 per day. The capacity of six government-run laboratories is over 3,000 daily. According to the data of the district civil surgeon, 2,934 RT-PCR tests were registered in the district per day in the last one week of which 1,514 per day (51.61%) were done in government-run laboratories and 1,420 per day (48.39%) in the private ones. Out of NMC’s 54 centres, six are major where swabs are collected for RT-PCR. In August and September, each centre used to get around 200-250 samples. That number has now come down to 50-70 per day. The director of two private laboratories said testing is below 50% of the total capacity. NMC’s centres are getting reports at night if samples are submitted in the afternoon. One of the private laboratories said they are giving reports within 2-3 hours in case of an emergency and 5-6 hours in case of normal patients. The other private laboratories are also giving reports within 5-8 hours. “Five laboratories are sending samples to Mumbai and giving the reports late due to a tie-up with some private hospitals. These laboratories started operating when NMC shut the Dhruv laboratory on a temporary basis in mid September, the time when cases were peaking,” alleged sources. Activist Narayan Ahuja said, “It is good for patients with planned surgeries if they receive reports as early as possible. The timing of the report plays a vital role. NMC should not allow these five private laboratories to send samples to Mumbai if there is sufficient capacity available in the city itself. Maintaining samples at a certain temperature is also a must. Delayed reports also mean late tracing and testing of high risk contacts.” Ahuja wants NMC to conduct a thorough investigation. “Testing fees have been drastically reduced by the government. These laboratories are sending samples through airways and then roadways within Mumbai,” said Ahuja. When asked whether these laboratories were given permission, NMC’s additional municipal commissioners Dr Jalaj Sharma and Ram Joshi sounded clueless. “I don’t think these laboratories require any permission as they not testing here and are doing it at their recognized branches in Mumbai,” said Joshi. In April, a private laboratory had to take permission from the district administration to send the samples to Mumbai. Joshi said that he talked to three of the five private laboratories who claimed that reports are delivered within 24 hours. Whether all positive cases are reported, Joshi said there was no chance of missing any if laboratories mention the right address. “Private laboratories provide 24-hour service unlike our centres which close at 4pm and this is the reason why people don’t prefer the latter. Private hospitals also send samples to the laboratories with whom they have a tie-up,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rt-pcr-tests-below-50-capacity-5-pvt-labs-sending-samples-to-mum/articleshow/79028808.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||‘Get ready for second Covid wave in Rajasthan in mid-December’||JAIPUR: Even as decreasing Covid-19 cases have brought some relief, health minister Raghu Sharma has warned about a second virus wave that could hit the state by mid-December. On October 25, TOI had published a report, ‘Covid panel predicts cases may rise in December’, and reported that authorities had directed officials to increase the availability of oxygen cylinders to 25,000 daily for treatment. The government had started preparations to deal with it and appealed to people to take precautions from being infected. “Experts believe that the second wave may hit before December 15. People have to be very cautious, wear masks, maintain social distancing and wash hands frequently to be safe. According to experts, there will also be an increase in cases of seasonal diseases such as swine flu, dengue, cold and cough in the winter. If pollution levels rise, corona cases will surge,” Sharma warned. “Rajasthan is ready for a second wave of corona. We have sufficient ICU beds, oxygen-supported beds and general beds for Covid patients,” he said. Currently, Covid cases have come down a bit in the state. As a result, the demand for oxygen cylinders too has gone down significantly. “When cases had peaked, the demand for oxygen cylinders was almost 13,000 per day, but that has now come down to 6,000-7,000,” he said. As the second wave is expected to spread the virus faster, the minister has directed officials to increase the availability of oxygen cylinders to 25,000 per day. Oxygen generation plants too are being set up at district hospitals, sub-district hospitals and those attached to medical colleges so that patients do not face lack of oxygen. Liquid oxygen plants are also being set up at hospitals attached to medical colleges and a pipeline system is being developed, the minister said. As per experts, masks are better than vaccine as the latter's effect will not be more than 60%. But by wearing masks regularly, chances of infection can be brought down by 90%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/get-ready-for-2nd-covid-wave-in-mid-dec/articleshow/79030156.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Lady cop hangs self, hubby booked for harassment||Kota: A 22-year-old woman constable allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan in a government quarter in Baran city on Monday night. The police, on a report filed by the deceased woman’s father, lodged a case of abetment to suicide against her husband. Circle inspector at Baran city police station Mangilal Yadav said the deceased has been identified as Raveena Sahariya (22), a resident of Janakpur village under Kelwada police station of the district. She was posted as constable in Police Line, Baran. No suicide note has been recovered from her room, he added. Yadav said initial investigation revealed Sahariya was married to one Rajkaran Sahariya, a resident of Sodala village of the district around one-and-a-half-years-ago, but she was not satisfied with her husband and was living separately. She had joined Rajasthan police services as constable in 2017, he said. Yadav said the father of Sahariya alleged her husband of harassing her and creating the situation that forced her to take extreme step and submitted a report against her husband Rajkaran Sahariya. On the basis of report, the police lodged a case of abetment to suicide against Rajkaran under Section 306 of IPC and handed over the body to family members after post-mortem by medical board on Tuesday morning. Further investigation into the matter is underway, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lady-cop-hangs-self-hubby-booked-for-harassment/articleshow/79030172.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two coaches of stationary train gutted at Medchal railway station yard||HYDERABAD: An empty train which was parked at Medchal railway station yard caught fire on Tuesday afternoon. Of the 10 coaches stationed on road number 4 of the yard, two were completely gutted in the fire. According to South Central Railway (SCR) officials, the rakes were stationed in the yard since September 22. “The on-duty staff immediately stepped-in, isolated the remaining coaches and disconnected the overhead electrical supply, etc before the fire could spread to other coaches. The fire department was also alerted, and a fire tender was put in place to douse the fire,” an SCR official said. Meanwhile, a team from the head office was sent to the spot to inspect the reason behind the fire. Jeedimatla fire official V Subash Reddy said, “We received a call at 2pm and two fire tenders, one from Jeedimetla and another from Shamirpet, were sent to the spot by 2.30pm. It took around 30 to 40 minutes to douse the fire. As per my observation, the cause of fire could be a lighted cigarette butt or someone might have done it on purpose. We are still investigating the reason.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-coaches-of-stationary-train-gutted-at-yard/articleshow/79028811.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||Soumitra still critical, say doctors||Kolkata: Actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s condition remained critical on Tuesday and there was no improvement in his neurological condition. Doctors at Belle Vue Clinic, where he has been undergoing treatment since October 6, said that the actor has not suffered any further internal bleeding. Last week, the 85-year-old had received two blood transfusions. Earlier, he was also given platelates. “He continues to remain drowsy due to Covid encephalopathy. At his age, a revival could be difficult if the condition persists for long. Chatterjee has been in the hospital for close to a month,” said Belle Vue critical care head, Arindam Kar. The actor has undergone two dialyses and received several haemoglobin and platelet transfusions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitra-still-critical-say-doctors/articleshow/79028822.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Mid-term vacation from Nov 7 to 16||Jaipur: The state government has announced mid-term vacations for government schools. According to the orders issued by the Director of Secondary Education, Bikaner, all government schools will remain closed from November 7 to 16. The home department had earlier said schools would be shut from November 1 to 16 but online classes under ‘Smile Programme’ would continue. Now, all educational activities will be shut from November 7 to 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mid-term-vacation-from-nov-7-to-16/articleshow/79030161.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Net not to be banned for constable exam||Jaipur: Senior police officers including SPs led by DGP held a video conference on Monday on the constable recruitment exam scheduled for November 6, 7 and 8. CCTV cameras will be installed at exam centres, though Internet will not be shut down and jammers will be placed. DGP M L Lather said, “Precautions are being taken to ensure exams pass off smoothly on all 3 days. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/net-not-to-be-banned-for-constable-exam/articleshow/79030175.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||More cases, less recoveries first time after 34 days in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: For the first time since September 30, Vidarbha region reported more Covid cases than the number of recoveries on Tuesday. Against 1,122 new cases reported in the day, 1,104 patients recovered on November 3. Though, the difference is only 16, the increasing number of cases could be an indicator of possible second wave of Covid-19. In addition to this, the region reported 24 deaths on Tuesday. Covid casualties are also increasing as has been witnessed in the last three days, 12, 16 and 24 from November 1 to 3, respectively. Both the trends are worrisome. Vidarbha’s seven districts reported Covid deaths on Tuesday. They include Nagpur 9, Chandrapur 6, Gondia 3, Bhandara 2, Amravati 1, Yavatmal 1, and Buldhana 1. Nagpur city reported only one death due to Covid-19. The region’s toll reached 5,560 which means the case fatality rate is still 2.75%, higher than state and national average. Tuesday’s new Covid cases include 385 from Nagpur, Chandrapur 182, Bhandara 95, Gadchiroli 94, Gondia 88, Wardha 65, Amravati 65, Buldhana 65, Yavatmal 45, Akola 30, and Washim 8. At 385, Nagpur recorded its highest surge in the last 11 days. Total 1,104 recoveries came from Nagpur 401, Chandrapur 134, Gadchiroli 104, Bhandara 89, Buldhana 84, Gondia 75, Amravati 63, Yavatmal 58, Wardha 40, Akola 28, and Washim 28. Now, out of 2,01,528 total cases, 1,84,423 patients have already recovered. Recovery rate of Vidarbha has reached 91.51%, which is nearing the national average of 92%. Amravati: The Covid sample testing figure crossed the one lakh mark even as 65 new cases took the caseload to 16428 on Tuesday. The day also saw one death of a 57-year-old man from Talvel in Chandur Bazaar tehsil that took the toll to 365. In all, 63 recoveries took the total to 15477 for a recovery rate of 94.21. This left 586 active cases under treatment. Collector Shailesh Naval said that though there had been a fall in the number of new patients, the threat of Covid was not over. He urged people to take all precautions during the festival season to avoid the second wave of Covid. Yavatmal: The district recorded one death, a 35-year-old man from Maregaon, taking the toll to 351. 449 test reports were received on Tuesday of which 45 were positive while the remaining 404 negative. 339 are the active positive patients in the district under treatment. 10335 were reported as positive of whom 9155 were negative which includes 58 patients discharged on Tuesday. Wardha: With the district reporting 65 positive cases and 40 persons getting discharged on Tuesday, the caseload reached 6424 with recoveries accounting for 5934. 1196 test reports were received on Tuesday and 65 of them (men 38) tested positive. The cases were reported from Wardha (28), Selu (13), Hinganghat (10), Deoli (9), Karanja (2), Arvi, Ashti and Samudrapur (1 each). Total active positive undergoing treatment in the district are 278 while the death toll of the district stands at 212. Chandrapur: The district registered six deaths and 182 new cases on Tuesday. This has taken the Covid-19 caseload across 16,000 mark at 16,172. There were 134 recoveries recorded during the day taking total of cured patients to 13,135. There are now 2,795 patients under treatment. The death toll has reached to 242 six new deaths due to Covid infection. Five of them belong to different places in Chandrapur district, while one other is from Gadchiroli. Gondia: Total 88 new Covid patients were added to the tally while 75 recovered in the district on Tuesday. A 57-year-old patient hailing from Amgaon breathed his last along with two others. Number of total recoveries has surpassed 9,000-mark. Now, Gondia has 9,961 total cases, including 9,149 recoveries and 130 deaths. Total 682 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: The district once again reported more cases than recoveries on Tuesday. While 95 new cases were detected, 89 patients recovered in the day. Deaths continued in Bhandara with two patients dying during treatment on Tuesday and taking the toll to 223. The district has 8,694 total cases, 7,671 recoveries and 800 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 94 new cases and 104 recoveries on Tuesday. This took total Covid-19 cases in the district to 6,110 and recoveries to 5,202. No death was reported in the day, so toll remained at 60. Now, 848 patients are under treatment in the district. Recovery rate of Gadchiroli is 85.14%. Akola: The district recorded no Covid death for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. Total 30 new patients were added into the caseload, while 28 patients recovered in the day. Akola now has 8,458 total cases, 7,990 recoveries and 281 deaths. As on date, 187 patients were under treatment. Akola thus is the only district in Vidarbha having less than 200 patients under treatment. Washim: Once again, the district reported least new cases in Vidarbha. Total 8 patients were detected, while 28 recovered. Now, out of the 5,726 total cases, 5,206 have recovered. Covid toll is at 143. Total 377 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported Covid-19 death after 3 days on November 3. This took Covid-19 toll of Buldhana to 127. Out of more than 1,000 tests done in the day, 65 tested positive taking the caseload close to 10,000-mark at 9,578. With 84 recoveries, total 8,995 patients have recovered from the district. At present, 456 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-cases-less-recoveries-1st-time-after-34-days-in-vid/articleshow/79028958.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 4, 2020||Trichy||Diwali celebrated in 16th century, says temple inscription||Trichy: A Shiva temple in Tiruvarur district is perhaps the only temple in Tamil Nadu, which has a reference to Diwali being celebrated in the earlier times, according to archaeologist and historical researcher Kudavayil Balasubramanian. Balasubramanian said the origin of Diwali celebration in temples goes back to the 16th century in the southern region, and cited the Tamil inscription in the Tirupati Venkateswara temple and a copper plate in Tiruvarur district as evidences. Balasubramanian said the inscriptions in Tirumala temple were from the year 1542. It reveals the message of contribution as ‘Deepavali naal adhirasam padi erandu’, which means ‘adhirasam’ (traditional sweet dish) was offered as oblation to the God on the festival. Similarly, in Ponvaithanathar temple for Shiva in Chithaaimur village, Tiruvarur district, special rituals were performed on the occasion of Diwali by the villagers and government officials jointly and using donations from their salary. This is inscribed in a copper plate in the temple. It was Pratapasimha Raje, Maratha ruler in Thanjavur, who had erected the copper plate in December 7, 1753.  People also planted eluppai and coconut trees for the temple, the inscription on the plate reveals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/diwali-celebrated-in-16th-century-says-temple-inscription/articleshow/79030173.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 4, 2020||Trichy||CM urged to rollback decision to open institutions||Trichy: The Trichy Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations has urged the chief minister to roll back the decision allowing reopening of schools and colleges, until the lockdown is revoked. Saying that students risk catching the infection while commuting to education institutions, members of the organisation said that physical distancing may not be followed among students. M Sekaran, president of the organisation, wrote to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday raising apprehensions on reopening schools as it may put the lives of students at risk. “We have managed to keep Covid-19 positive cases low, but the government has asked people to exercise caution during the upcoming festival and monsoon as we are don’t have a cure for it yet,” said Sekaran. “It would be difficult to make young minds follow Covid-19 preventive steps like wearing masks, washing hands and most importantly keeping physical distance,” he added. Further the public transport is already crowded and reopening of educational institutions would make them travel in congested buses which would increase the risk of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-urged-to-rollback-decision-to-open-institutions/articleshow/79030176.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha Rajya Andolan Samiti activists protest against MSEDCL, MVA Govt||NAGPUR: Activists of Vidarbha Rajya Andolan Samiti (VRAS) staged a protest against MSEDCL and Maha Vikas Aghadi Government at MSEDCL Sub-station in Binaki Power House, near Rani Durgavati Bridge, on Tuesday. The agitators tried to gatecrash into the sub-station. The cops who were posted there tried to stop them. The agitators had given prior intimation to the MSEDCL officials about their ‘lock the power station’ agitation. As the agitators stated getting aggressive, police and MSEDCL officials put a lock on the gate to prevent them for entering the premises. Seeing this, some woman agitators climbed up the main gate, entered the MSEDCL premises, broke the lock with stones and barged into the office shouting slogans against MSEDCL and raising pro-Vidarbha statehood slogans. President of Nagpur division youth wing of VRAS Mukesh Masurkar demanded that the electricity bills during the pandemic period should be exempted, power bills up to 200 units should be given free and MSEDCL should not disconnect any meter of a person who is not in a position to pay the bills. He warned that if MSEDCL tries to put any pressure on the citizens regarding recovery of inflated bills, VRAS will become even more aggressive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vras-activists-protest-against-msedcl-mva-govt/articleshow/79027870.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR AGM takes charge||Hyderabad: Arun Kumar Jain, who was earlier serving as principal chief signal and telecommunications engineer (PCSTE), assumed charge as additional general manager, South Central Railway (SCR) on Monday. Jain belongs to Indian Railways Service of Signal Engineers (IRSSE), 1986 batch of Indian Engineering Services.  In SCR, he has worked as divisional railway manager (DRM) of Hyderabad Division. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-agm-takes-charge/articleshow/79028916.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Man seriously injured in fight following road rage||NAGPUR: Vishal Masram, 28, is recuperating at a hospital after sustaining serious head injuries inflicted by Shubham Barapatre and his gang following a road rage at Gondpura in Pachpaoli. Barapatre was taken into custody. He was out on bail in a murder case. It’s learnt that Masram, who also has a past record of assault, was attacked when he tried to confront Barapatre for picking a quarrel with his mother over speeding. Police said Barapatre, who also lives in the same area, was riding his bike rashly in the narrow lane. When Masram’s mother questioned him, Barapatre lost his cool. Masram then stepped out of his house to intervene and so did his neighbours. Sensing trouble, Barapatre took to his heels. Within no time, Barapatre returned with his gang to settle scores with Masram and his family. Police said Masram’s mother Ratnamala was not at home when the gang zeroed on in her on her son. On finding Masram alone at home, Barapatre and his gang attacked him. While Barapatre hit Masram on the head with a wooden plank, his gang members rained blows. When Masram fell unconscious, Barapatre and his gang fled. After raising an alarm, Masram’s neighbours immediately rushed him to the hospital. Police said Masram’s condition is critical. Barapatre and four others, including two minors, were immediately rounded up by the Pachpaoli police. “We have registered an offence of rioting and attempt to murder against Barapatre and his gang,” said senior inspector Kishor Nagrale of Pachpaoli police station. “Most of the accused were picked up immediately after the incident and more arrests are likely to be made,” alarm the PI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-seriously-injured-in-fight-following-road-rage/articleshow/79029006.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Battle won, but not war: Covid fight continues after recovery||NEW DELHI: Rajiv Ranjan was diagnosed with Covid-19 on June 8. About a week and two tests later, the infection was confirmed to have subsided. However, even today the 44-year-old bank manager is struggling to breathe and prolonged illness has taken a toll on his mental health. “I still get breathless while talking or walking,” he said. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said symptoms of Covid-19 linger on in 60-70% of patients for weeks after recovery. “Body ache, fatigue, difficulty in concentrating and breathlessness are some of the common post-Covid complications,” he added. “A few patients also suffer from serious complications, for example stroke, heart attack and blockage in one or more arteries of the lungs. There have been instances where a patient with mild symptoms recovered from the disease, but later died due to sudden complications,” Dr Guleria said. The doctor said serious complications in recovered patients were rare, so people need not be scared. However, they should be watchful of warning signs, such as irregular heartbeat, breathing difficulty and loss of consciousness, among others. Most viral illnesses affect an organ or two, predominantly. For example, swine flu affects the lungs and viral hepatitis affects the liver. Covid-19, on the other hand, is known to cause systemic inflammation that can affect the entire body. “The virus attaches to the ACE2 receptors present in many organs. It also affects the blood vessels. That’s why even after the infection subsides, the inflammation caused by it continues to cause serious complications in some patients,” said Dr Guleria. AIIMS, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH), Apollo Hospital and Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, among others, are running post-Covid clinics to deal with the rush of recovered patients. RGSSH medical director Dr BL Sherwal, said they had seen nearly 450 patients in the post-Covid clinic since August. “Nearly 30-40% of patients complain about fatigue and weakness. About 25% have breathing difficulty weeks after recovering from the disease. We are also seeing patients who have developed neuro-psychiatry problems, which is concerning. They complain about lack of concentration, anxiety, fear of getting re-infection and stress, for which we offer counselling,” he added. Dr Akshay Budhraja, consultant, department of pulmonology at Akash Healthcare, said they were providing psychological counselling and physiotherapy to recovered patients for three months. “People shouldn’t undertake vigorous exercises immediately after recovering from Covid-19. Also, they should report to the consulting physician on developing breathing difficulty or irregular heartbeat,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, critical care and pulmonary medicine at Apollo Hospital. The cardiology division of GB Pant hospital is planning to study changes in the heart function in patients who have recovered from Covid-19. “Studies conducted abroad show a large number of such patients, even those who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms, suffering from inflammation in the heart muscle. It may or may not cause immediate effect on heart function, but research is needed to assess potential long-term complications,” said Dr Mohit Gupta, professor of cardiology at GB Pant Hospital GB Pant Hospital had reported seven Covid-19 patients who showed sudden slowing of the heart rate. The normal heart rate of a healthy individual at rest can range from 60 to 100 beats per minute (BPM). The maximum heart rate in these seven patients was 42 BPM and the minimum 30 BPM, which was very low. Some of them required permanent pacemaker as treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/battle-won-but-not-war-covid-fight-continues-after-recovery/articleshow/79029015.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||ML Lather is new DGP, vows to stop crimes against women||JAIPUR: M L Lather, a 1987 batch IPS officer, was on Tuesday night appointed Director General of Police (DGP) for a tenure of two years irrespective of his date of retirement. Lather had been given the additional charge last month after former DGP Bhupendra Singh took VRS due to personal reasons. Prior to this appointment, Lather served as DG (crime) and DG (law and order). Having served in the forces for 33 years, the new DGP, who hails from Haryana, has a good career graph and was awarded the President Police Medal in 2016, Police Medal in 2003 and President Police Medal for Gallantry in 1997. Talking to TOI after his appointment, Lather said, “Our focus will be to prevent crimes against women and the weaker section of society. Apart from this, we will encourage the sportspersons in our fraternity, which the government has been doing, by giving them out-of-turn promotions.” The new DGP is well respected amongst his peers and the public alike. On being asked about the road ahead and his plans to build public confidence and faith in cops, Lather said, “Police in every case has two versions — one of the victim and the other of the accused. In each instance, one of them will always be dissatisfied during the course of the law. It is always our endeavour to ensure that no person is wronged and we will try to reach out to people through community liasioning group (CLG).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lather-appointed-dgp/articleshow/79030179.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Man detained in Rajasthan's Samod for making crackers||JAIPUR: A 43-year-old man was detained in Samod for manufacturing firecrackers illegally and a large quantity of the same was seized from him. The accused has been identified as Surajmal Sharma. Harvendra Singh, SHO, Samod police station said, “The accused had no license to produce these firecrackers and was manufacturing them at a facility which had no safety features. In case of an accident, many persons could have been hurt due to this illegal activity and negligence.” While cops are still making any inventory of the seized goods, officials claimed that the firecrakers were over Rs 10 lakh worth in the market. Recently, the state government banned the sale of firecrackers during the festival season owing to the pandemic and heavy fines will be imposed on those selling or purchasing them. Cops will not issue licenses to anyone for selling firecrackers and police will continue to run search operations to find persons selling, producing or buying firecrackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-detained-for-making-crackers/articleshow/79030180.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTUH students raise plaints over evaluation of exam papers||Hyderabad: Students of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) have raised objections over evaluation of final year answer sheets. Many of them say that despite attempting the exams well, they secured less or zero marks. Students called it a deliberate attempt by the university to collect re-evaluation fee of Rs 2,000 per paper. A Twitter storm with #KTRSpeakOnStudentsIssues was held in order to raise concerns over evaluation and ensuing regular exams for BTech and BPharm courses. “I attempted five questions of 15 marks each. I was confident of securing at least 60 marks in the external exams. However, I have secured only 16 marks in the exam,” said a student. The university issued an order to grant grace marks of 0.15% of total aggregate marks to final year students in order to clear the exam and be eligible for provisional degree certificates. “If we receive such complaints from college principals stating large number of students have failed despite attempting the paper well, we will refer the matter to COE to examine the genuineness and consider it as a special case. So far, we have received one such complaint from a women’'s college. If more principals approach us, we will definitely look into it, said Kamakshi Prasad, director, evaluation, JNTUH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntuh-students-raise-plaints-over-evaluation-of-exam-papers/articleshow/79029002.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s GST collections up 16% in October, VAT 23%||JAIPUR: For the revenue-strapped Rajasthan, GST collections in October has come as a much needed breather which rose 16% at Rs 1,902 crore compared to Rs 1638.50 crore in the same month last year. With the higher collections, the deficit over the seven months of the current financial year compared to the same period last year has shrunk to 7% by the end of October. The deficit was 35% in the first quarter and came down to 12% by September quarter. Similarly, VAT collection has also increased by 23% in October helping the state post a growth of 4% during April-October period compared to the same seven months in the previous year. VAT collections till October reached Rs 9,336.99 crore against Rs 8965.95 crore in the comparable period last year. Abhishek Bhagotia, commissioner of Commercial Taxes, said, “Recovery in economic activities has picked up momentum. We have also started monitoring at micro level for better compliance of tax filing by the suppliers. We are tracking top 100 suppliers at ward level. Both the factors have contributed to the increased realization of taxes.” Bhagotia said that by the end of December, the collections are expected to hit last year’s level given the buoyancy in business activity. “Our expectation is that the deficit will be fully covered up December, compared to the collections we had in the first three quarters of 2019-20,” added Bhagotia. On the full year outlook, he said tax collections are likely to enter positive territory in the fourth quarter of the current financial year given the trend of the past few months. “We expect a growth in collections in March quarter. Even after going down by 35% in the first quarter, it is very much likely, we will end the year with a growth,” added Bhagotia. In October, Rajasthan was one of the top four states in the country which clicked highest GST collections. In fact, last year Rajasthan came at 22nd position in terms of tax collection growth. VAT collections are also picking up fast. With 23% growth in October, the deficit has been erased and there is a growth of 4% during April-October period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/states-gst-collections-up-16-in-oct-vat-23/articleshow/79030182.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Municipal Corporation to seal area partially if all high-risk contacts not tested||NAGPUR: A day after TOI highlighted NMC’s lackadaisical contact-tracing and failure to test all high-risk contacts, the civic body has decided to seal a particular area or housing scheme if all high-risk contacts of any Covid-19 patient from there are not tested for the infection. The NMC has also decided to compulsorily shift asymptomatic positive patients from slums and congested areas to Covid Care Centres (CCCs) for isolation. TOI had on Monday highlighted NMC’s failure to trace and test all high-risk contacts despite the number of Covid cases coming down by almost five times in the city in the last 10 days of October, compared to the corresponding period in September. In fact, Rapid Response Team (RRT) visits households, directs all contacts to get tested and never visits again to verify if the directive has been followed. This has resulted in some positive cases not being detected and contributing to the spread of the virus which is evident as Covid cases are being reported from across the city. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has directed assistant commissioners and zonal medical officers (ZMOs) of all 10 zones to seal particular area or housing society where high-risk contacts avoid getting tested. Our RRT visits household of each Covid patient and identifies high-risk contacts. The team directs all to go to the nearest NMC testing centre and get tested free of cost.” “When officials informed the civic chief that many such high-risk contacts are not getting themselves tested, the civic chief has directed them to ask RRT to pursue high-risk contacts and seal particular area or housing scheme if the directive is not followed,” he said. Joshi added, “Civic chief has also directed officials to compulsorily shift asymptomatic positive patients residing in slums/ congested areas to be in isolation in CCCs run by the NMC. We plan to send policemen along with the RRT and also involve community leaders, corporators in this task.” It has been observed that almost all asymptomatic positive patients, including residents of slums and those not having isolation facility at households, are availing home isolation. As on Tuesday, 2,330 Covid patients were in home isolation whereas 989 in private hospitals and CCCs. According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), tracing and testing of all high and low risk contacts, containment zone, thorough isolation of Covid patients and quarantine of high and low risk contacts can end the chain of virus spread and prevent further transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-seal-area-partially-if-all-high-risk-contacts-not-tested/articleshow/79029016.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Four of Karnal family disappear, leave suicide note||KARNAL: The mysterious disappearance of four members of a family came to light in Karnal on Tuesday. It was their house owner who alerted cops that the family had left the house on November 1 and was not answering their mobile phone. When police got into the house, they found a suicide note in a diary, in which the family had blamed a woman for harassing them by filing a false complaint against the 45-year-old head of the family at the women police station in Karnal. Police said the man, who was employed in a factory, along with his wife, who used to run a salon, and their two sons (aged 20 and 18) had disappeared, leaving behind a suicide note and their mobile phone at their rented house. Confirming that a suicide note was found, Anil Kumar, in-charge of Sector 4 police post, said the complaint filed at the women police station was still being investigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-of-karnal-family-disappear-leave-suicide-note/articleshow/79029008.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Polling peaceful amid tight security at Baroda, 68% votes cast||ROHTAK: A sluggish turnout marked polling day at Baroda assembly constituency on Tuesday. Polling remained peaceful except for sporadic incidents of arguments and allegations. Voter turnout was recorded at 68% till 6pm. Polling proceeded smoothly at 280 booths, of which 151 were categorised as vulnerable. Voting started at 7am with a few voters exercising their franchise. By 9am, only 13% polling was reported. People were welcomed with thermal scanning, hand gloves and masks. Unlike previous polls, there were no long queues outside polling stations mainly due to the large number of polling booths, where heavy security was seen. Paramilitary force personnel were deployed at vulnerable booths. The Congress filed a complaint with the election commission of booth capturing by history-sheeter Ramesh Lohar and BJP ex-minister Manish Grover and demanded registration of an FIR against them. According to the complainant, the accused were present at booth number 176 at Madina village despite being outsiders. Congress supporters at Dhanana and Ridhana also caught a few youths with digital equipment outside polling booths. They alleged the youngsters were trying to hack EVM machines at the behest of the BJP party. However, the accused maintained that they were just providing voter slip to people. The results will be announced on November 10. Fourteen candidates, including Olympian wrestler and BJP nominee Yogeshwar Dutt, were in the fray for the Baroda assembly seat. Dutt is trying his luck for the second time as he contested against Congress’ Indu Raj Narwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/polling-peaceful-amid-tight-security-68-votes-cast/articleshow/79029013.cms||Sat Singh
November 4, 2020||Delhi||NCR is a large urban mix, vulnerable to Covid: Centre||NEW DELHI: Even as the overall Covid-19 pandemic situation is improving, cities like Gurgaon and Faridabad in National Capital Region (NCR) are showing a spike in Covid-positive cases along with Delhi with the Centre saying the infection is a continuum in a large connected urban conglomerate. Underlining that NCR is an urban conglomerate, the government said rise in cases here should be seen in relation with pollution, individual behaviour, surveillance and containment. The government asked all states to pursue test, track, trace and treat strategy irrespective of the trend in cases. “The virus does not respect geographies. This is a big urban conglomerate so what is happening is in a continuum,” Dr V K Paul, NITI Aayog - member said. “There is no need to differentiate. It is the same ecosystem, same environment and same behaviour. It shows that in this conglomerate, the situation is the same everywhere and the virus is still winning. The principles of control are the same — individual behaviour, surveillance, containment, testing strategy and looking after positive cases.” The government stressed on the need to test any individual with slightest of symptoms and also quarantine people who have come in contact with positive case. “We have told all states to pursue proactively test, track, trace and treat strategy. Till the pandemic is there this strategy will not go out of fashion. Let’s keep a focus on this till the overall Covid positivity rate falls below five per cent. We have also been telling them to guard against a potential future surge in cases during festivals, and to preserve past gains,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Covid active cases have fallen to 5,41,405 making up 6.8% of total cases, Bhushan said, while pointing out that the previously high burden states Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh were reporting a decline. Bhushan also highlighted that average daily new cases and average daily new deaths for the past seven weeks have continuously declined. While the average daily new deaths have fallen from 1,165 from September 16 to 22 week to 513, the average daily cases from October 28 to November 3 have dropped from 90,346 to 45,884.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ncr-is-a-large-urban-mix-vulnerable-to-covid-centre/articleshow/79029029.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Gujjars continue stir, 30 trains diverted, 200 buses cancelled||Jaipur: Members of Gujjar community led by Kirori Singh Bainsla and his son Vijay continued their dharna on the railway tracks at Pillu Ka Pura near Bayana in Bharatpur district on Tuesday. The Gujjars are adamant on the demands and occupied the railway tracks on the Delhi-Mumbai route while the other Gujjar faction led by Himmant Singh sent a delegation of 11 members at Pillu Ka Pura to convince their fellowmen to agree to the 14-point pact reached with the government. Also, Neeraj K Pawan, principal secretary labour department, had a talks with protesting Gujjars. On the third day of protest, Gujjars were felicitated by woman from the nearby villages and hamlets who brought breakfast and woolen clothes for them. Vijay Bainsla, who is leading the agitation, was seen making calls to other leaders to join the protest as around 200 members gathered on the tracks. He was unavailable for comment despite several attempts by TOI. However, Himmat Singh Gujjar, who led a delegation that inked a pact with the state government, sent a delegation to Pillu Ka Pura. “We will try to convince our fellowman to avoid a state of confrontation as we have agreed to the 14-point formulae given by the state government. Meanwhile, more than 30 trains on the Delhi-Mumbai route were diverted via Bandikui-Jaipur for the third consecutive day while at least 200 buses by the RSRTC were cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gujjars-continue-stir-30-trains-diverted-200-buses-cancelled/articleshow/79030188.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Shimla||Region records spike of 2,433 fresh cases, 33 deaths in a day||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday reported a spike of 2,433 Covid-19 cases and 33 deaths in the past 24 hours. Covid claimed 18 lives in Punjab, while 415 people tested positive. The state’s overall tally now stands at 1,34,786 and toll at 4,245. Two deaths each were reported in Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Nawanshahr and Ropar and one each in Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Mohali and Sangrur. Of the new cases, most were reported in Mohali district (76), followed by Ludhiana (59), Jalandhar (52), Hoshiarpur and Patiala (29 each), Fazilka (25), Amritsar (20), Nawanshahr (17), Gurdaspur and Sangrur (12 each), Mansa (11), Pathankot (10), Kapurthala (9), Muktsar (8), Faridkot (6), Moga and Tarn Taran (4 each), Ferozepur (3), Ropar and Fatehgarh Sahib (2 each) and Barnala (1). Haryana reported 1,684 cases and seven deaths, taking the overall tally to 1,72,130 and 1,817, respectively. Besides, 1,258 patients were discharged. Four persons died of the virus in Rohtak and one each in Gurugram, Jhajjar and Karnal districts. Gururam reported the highest cases in the state (460), Faridabad (296), Hisar (189), Rewari (86), Sirsa (76), Rohtak (70), Bhiwani (62), Jhajjar (47), Kaithal (45), Panchkula (44) and Kurukshtra (43), districts. The remaining 11 districts reported less than 40 cases, with Nuh reporting the lowest 6 cases. In Himachal, there were 334 fresh cases, while eight died of the infection and 165 patients were discharged after recovery. While four deaths were reported from Shimla district, two were in Kangra and one each in Hamirpur and Mandi. Mandi district reported the maximum cases (30), followed by Shimla (25), Kangra (5), Chamba (3) and Sirmaur and Una (2 each). New cases were reported from Shimla (89), Mandi (84), Kullu (59), Kangra (28), Bilaspur (19), Chamba and Una (14 each), Lahaul-Spiti (12), Solan (8), Kinnaur (3) and Hamirpur and Sirmaur (2 each). Those recovered include 3 from Chamba district, 11 from Hamirpur district, 23 from Kangra district, 37 from Kullu district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/region-records-spike-of-2433-fresh-cases-33-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/79033849.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar to go online for upcoming undergraduate batch||ROPAR: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Ropar will go completely online for the upcoming batch of undergraduate students. The institute has planned extensively to impart online education to the new BTech students. This will be a very special academic year divided into trimesters in order to balance the load of the students in an effective manner, institute officials said. As per the senate guidelines for the first trimester 2020-21, new undergraduate students will attend the classes remotely from home. The senate is the highest body which decides matters on academic affairs of the institute. Registration of new BTech students will start from November 11. Induction programme and department orientation for UG students will be from November 12 to 17. Online classes will commence from November 18. The first trimester will end on January 23, 2021. All this will happen in online mode. Likewise, the second trimester will begin on January 30 next year and will end on April 23, 2021 with exams and evaluation. The third trimester will begin on April 3 and will end on July 2, 2021 with all grading and evaluation of examinations. IIT Ropar officials claimed that the students have been advised to ensure a broadband or 4G connection for streaming recorded lecture videos and live discussion classes. The institute also intends to reach out to students through email keeping them posted about the new developments in this regard. For online courses, the process for making the course content available has three steps, lecture recording, content hosting, content archiving. All evaluations, in the first trimester, shall be conducted by the course instructors using online exams, term papers and presentations, in video assignments, pop-quizzes, take-home assignments, online viva-voce etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/iit-ropar-to-go-online-for-upcoming-ug-batch/articleshow/79029021.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Levies collection up by Rs 258 crore: Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala||CHANDIGARH: Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said the state government has received around Rs 258 crore more revenue from levies collection up to the second quarter of the current financial year, as compared to the previous year. Dushyant was presiding over a review meeting of the excise and taxation department in Chandigarh. He said that up to the second quarter of this financial year, additional excise duty of Rs 67.21 crore was received, besides an assessment fee of Rs 15.42 crore, bottling fee of Rs 92.91 crore, Covid cess of Rs 1.70 crore, excise duty of Rs 11.09 crore, export fee of Rs 3.81 crore, import fee of Rs 31.31 crore and permit fee of Rs 1.11 crore among others. A total of 47 Indian Made Foreign Liquor-related cases were registered for which the state government is expected to receive revenue of approximately Rs 28 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/levies-collection-up-by-rs-258cr-dushyant/articleshow/79029019.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||HC: Remove encroachments along Luni riverby December 31||Jaisalmer: Rajasthan High court has directed the Barmer administration to remove 99 encroachments along the banks of Luni river in Balotara by December 31. The court has sought an action plan for removing the encroachments with daily updates. During the hearing on Monday, a division bench called Barmer district collector Vishram Meena and SP Barmer Anand Sharma to present their side on Tuesday. A PIL was filed by one Sumermal Gaur saying large number of encroachments as permanent constructions have come up along Luni river. During initial hearing, the court sought replies from Jodhpur divisional commissioner, Ajmer district collector and others. Advocate Vipul Singhvi on behalf of Gaur said the encroachments had threatened the existence of the river. Villagers submitted a memorandum to the divisional commissioner, district collector, SDM and other officials on several occasions but no action was taken. The revenue department team in its last survey identified 99 encroachments on which the PIL was based. During the hearing on Monday, Balotara SDM Rohit Kumar submitted the action plan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-remove-encroachments-along-luni-riverby-december-31/articleshow/79030184.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Faridabad||NCR is a large urban mix, vulnerable to Covid: Centre||NEW DELHI: Even as the overall Covid-19 pandemic situation is improving, cities like Gurgaon and Faridabad in National Capital Region (NCR) are showing a spike in Covid-positive cases along with Delhi with the Centre saying the infection is a continuum in a large connected urban conglomerate. Underlining that NCR is an urban conglomerate, the government said rise in cases here should be seen in relation with pollution, individual behaviour, surveillance and containment. The government asked all states to pursue test, track, trace and treat strategy irrespective of the trend in cases. “The virus does not respect geographies. This is a big urban conglomerate so what is happening is in a continuum,” Dr V K Paul, NITI Aayog - member said. “There is no need to differentiate. It is the same ecosystem, same environment and same behaviour. It shows that in this conglomerate, the situation is the same everywhere and the virus is still winning. The principles of control are the same — individual behaviour, surveillance, containment, testing strategy and looking after positive cases.” The government stressed on the need to test any individual with slightest of symptoms and also quarantine people who have come in contact with positive case. “We have told all states to pursue proactively test, track, trace and treat strategy. Till the pandemic is there this strategy will not go out of fashion. Let’s keep a focus on this till the overall Covid positivity rate falls below five per cent. We have also been telling them to guard against a potential future surge in cases during festivals, and to preserve past gains,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Covid active cases have fallen to 5,41,405 making up 6.8% of total cases, Bhushan said, while pointing out that the previously high burden states Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh were reporting a decline. Bhushan also highlighted that average daily new cases and average daily new deaths for the past seven weeks have continuously declined. While the average daily new deaths have fallen from 1,165 from September 16 to 22 week to 513, the average daily cases from October 28 to November 3 have dropped from 90,346 to 45,884.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/ncr-is-a-large-urban-mix-vulnerable-to-covid-centre/articleshow/79033149.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Region records spike of 2,433 fresh cases, 33 deaths in a day||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday reported a spike of 2,433 Covid-19 cases and 33 deaths in the past 24 hours. Covid claimed 18 lives in Punjab, while 415 people tested positive. The state’s overall tally now stands at 1,34,786 and toll at 4,245. Two deaths each were reported in Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Nawanshahr and Ropar and one each in Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Mohali and Sangrur. Of the new cases, most were reported in Mohali district (76), followed by Ludhiana (59), Jalandhar (52), Hoshiarpur and Patiala (29 each), Fazilka (25), Amritsar (20), Nawanshahr (17), Gurdaspur and Sangrur (12 each), Mansa (11), Pathankot (10), Kapurthala (9), Muktsar (8), Faridkot (6), Moga and Tarn Taran (4 each), Ferozepur (3), Ropar and Fatehgarh Sahib (2 each) and Barnala (1). Haryana reported 1,684 cases and seven deaths, taking the overall tally to 1,72,130 and 1,817, respectively. Besides, 1,258 patients were discharged. Four persons died of the virus in Rohtak and one each in Gurugram, Jhajjar and Karnal districts. Gururam reported the highest cases in the state (460), Faridabad (296), Hisar (189), Rewari (86), Sirsa (76), Rohtak (70), Bhiwani (62), Jhajjar (47), Kaithal (45), Panchkula (44) and Kurukshtra (43), districts. The remaining 11 districts reported less than 40 cases, with Nuh reporting the lowest 6 cases. In Himachal, there were 334 fresh cases, while eight died of the infection and 165 patients were discharged after recovery. While four deaths were reported from Shimla district, two were in Kangra and one each in Hamirpur and Mandi. Mandi district reported the maximum cases (30), followed by Shimla (25), Kangra (5), Chamba (3) and Sirmaur and Una (2 each). New cases were reported from Shimla (89), Mandi (84), Kullu (59), Kangra (28), Bilaspur (19), Chamba and Una (14 each), Lahaul-Spiti (12), Solan (8), Kinnaur (3) and Hamirpur and Sirmaur (2 each). Those recovered include 3 from Chamba district, 11 from Hamirpur district, 23 from Kangra district, 37 from Kullu district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/region-records-spike-of-2433-fresh-cases-33-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/79029018.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Banners: Activist helps civic bodies raise Rs 1.5cr through fines||Hyderabad: An activist’s complaints have ensured establishments, putting up illegal banners and posters across the city, cough up fines totalling Rs 1.5 crore. Vinay Vangala, a private employee, says his efforts are directed towards making the city safer. However, there is no clarity how much was actually realised by the civic bodies. The complaints are tagged to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s enforcement vigilance and disaster management wing. The activist filed complaints over violations of GO 68. Issued during the lockdown, this states that all advertisement elements that are above 15 feet from the ground level in GHMC area have to be removed. Vinay began filing complaints from September 10 against establishments with unauthorised advertisements, especially illuminated advertisements. The 35-year-old says his main aim is to bring “Parivarthan in society”. He says he wants to ensure “better accountability from the administration and encourage responsibility from the citizens. Both should contribute towards the betterment of society.” The biggest fine, Rs 17 lakh, to be imposed was on an establishment in Kothaguda for hoardings. Vinay says he spends an hour a day in the morning. “I not only take up issues I see but help citizens who are also trying to get support to resolve their issues,” the activist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/banners-activist-helps-civic-bodies-raise-rs-1-5cr-through-fines/articleshow/79029022.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||HC adjourns hearing of school fee matter||Jaipur: A high court bench comprising Justice Sabina and Justice Prakash Gupta on Tuesday adjourned the hearing of the appeal by the state government and parents against the single bench order allowing private schools to charge 70 per cent of tuition fees. The matter was originally listed before the bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty but was later changed after he and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Meanwhile, a teacher from a private school filed an application to make him party in the case and pleaded the court to hear the point of view of teachers as well in this regard. Earlier, the division bench headed by Mahanty had reserved the order and had also asked the state government to submit a report on how the fees would be charged. The state submitted its report on Monday. “The matter was listed but was adjourned. We will argue on various issues including imposing of capacity building charges whenever it would be listed again,” said Sunil Samdaria, counsel on behalf of the parents’ association. Avinash Rajora, a teacher from Central Academy School, Amba Bari filed an application to become party in the case. “Almost 75 per cent of the teaching staff in various schools have been retrenched while my client got half of his salary for two months. Thus, we have filed an application to become a party in the case,” said senior counsel Poonam Chand Bhandari who filed an application on behalf of the teacher. “We have pleaded to give teachers’ point of view in this matter,” Bhandari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-adjourns-hearing-of-school-fee-matter/articleshow/79030190.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Bengaluru||ED to court: Bineesh Kodiyeri used cocaine, funded aides’ drug trade||BENGALURU: Bineesh Kodiyeri is a drug user and extensively funded narcotics trade through his aides Mohammed Anoop and Rijesh Ravindran, who were arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in August, Enforcement Directorate (ED) sleuths told a Bengaluru special court on Monday. Bineesh, son of CPM Kerala secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, is currently in ED custody in connection with a money-laundering case. He used drug money to purchase benami assets and floated two shell companies in Kochi and Bengaluru, making the drug-peddling duo their directors, and used them for money laundering, the agency alleged in its submissions. According to ED sources, the two firms were purportedly into event management. The agency told the court in its remand application that being a habitual offender with money-laundering cases in Kerala and Dubai, Bineesh was into cocaine consumption, along with Anoop and Rijesh. ED substantiated its claims against Bineesh by citing the version of his aides, Suhas Krishnagowda and Sonet Lobo. Links to gold-smuggling case ED sleuths told the court they had ascertained from the interrogation that one of the accused in the notorious Kerala gold-smuggling case is Bineesh’s benami in various businesses, including a restaurant business and a high-end car trade in Thiruvananthapuram. He channelled drug sale proceeds in the benami properties of the gold-smuggling case accused, they added. Bineesh had told ED investigators that he had funded Anoop’s eatery business in Bengaluru by taking a loan from Punjab National Bank by mortgaging his mother-in-law’s property. But ED found out a large sum was transferred from Bineesh to Anoop a day before the mortgage, sources said. Bineesh is likely to be brought face to face with the gold-smuggling case accused, ED sources said. Bineesh was on Tuesday evening allowed to interact with his lawyer Ranjit Shankar. “ED officials permitted them to meet for only 15 minutes in their office, that too under CCTV surveillance, denying the client and his lawyer privacy,” said Shiju Abraham Varghese, part of Bineesh’s attorney team. His monetary transactions were primarily made through IDBI and HDFC bank accounts. Bineesh allegedly transferred Rs 5,17,36,600 to Anoop’s bank accounts from 2012 to late 2019 to support drug peddling in Bengaluru. With ED claiming Bineesh is a drug user and funded the trade, NCB is likely to register a case against the Kerala politician’s son and include it in the August 24 Bengaluru narcotics case in which Anoop and Rijesh are accused number two and three, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ed-to-court-bineesh-used-cocaine-funded-aides-drug-trade/articleshow/79027852.cms||Petlee Peter
November 4, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: High voter turnout augurs well for Congress, says Digvijaya Singh||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Tuesday said that the high voting percentage amid the Covid-19 pandemic is a good sign for his party. “Whenever people are angry, they come out to vote in large numbers. And the high voting percentage is a good sign for Congress,” the Rajya Sabha MP said, while speaking to the media at PCC headquarters here in Bhopal. The party had set up an election control room on the third floor of the PCC office where office-bearers and members of the legal cell kept in touch with candidates and booth-level workers. The legal cell sent grievance letters seeking immediate action from the Election Commission whenever they received complaints. Former chief ministers Kamal Nath and Singh reached the control room in the morning but left after spending around two hours there. They returned at 5:30pm to the state party office and took feedback on constituencies. Sources said that throughout the day, both were on their phones speaking to Congress candidates, party office-bearers, legal cell members and the EC. “We have received complaints from some constituencies. I have been told that in Mungaoli seat, BJP members were trying to capture booths. Even cops present at the spot were assaulted,” said Digvijaya. “There have also been complaints of booth capturing in Sumawali constituency,” Digvijaya added. Congress’s Sumawali candidate Ajab Singh Kushwaha told party leaders that voters from the Kushwaha community and women were refrained from exercising their mandate at the booths. The former BJP candidate Kushwaha has been pitted against minister Aidal Singh Kansana. Congress complained to the EC that several police officers posted in the constituency were allegedly related to Kansana. In its complaint, Congress had also claimed that the BJP candidate and his supporters unleashed violence even before the elections. “I said this even in the morning that the administration and police are trying to help ruling BJP,” Digvijaya said. “But people are contesting the elections, and they will defeat BJP with huge margins. From the very first day, Congress informed the EC about the state of affairs in Sumawali, where cops were acting in a partisan manner. I am unhappy because no precautions were taken,” he said. Violence, including incidents of firing have been reported from Sumawali that falls in Morena district. Asked about the high voting percentage in the bypolls, Digvijaya said that people vote in large numbers when they are angry and want a change. The high polling percentage during Covid times is a good sign, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/high-voter-turnout-augurs-well-for-cong-says-diggy/articleshow/79029024.cms||Suchandana Gupta
November 4, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Two staffers cheat path laboratory of Rs 26 Lakh||RAJKOT: An accounts and admin officer of a chain of pathology laboratory were booked by Jamnagar police for siphoning off Rs 26 lakh since 2018. The accused, Jalpa Rathod was responsible for collecting the cash from two laboratories of Sterling Accuris Wellness Pvt Ltd in Jamnagar and three other laboratories with which the company has tied up. Police said that between 2018 and July 2020, Rathod collected Rs 19.4 lakh from the three laboratories with which the company has tied up. Instead of handing over the cash to the collection agency hired by the company, Rathod kept the cash with her and allegedly used it for her personal use. The company’s officials said that when the officials asked Rathod to deposit the cash with the agency, she made up excuses and never deposited the cash. Later, it also came to light that Rs 6.7 lakh cash collected from the company’s two laboratories in Jamnagar was also not handed over to the collection agency by her. The amount was collected between June 14 and July 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-staffers-cheat-path-lab-of-rs-26l/articleshow/79027310.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Vijayawada||All not well between govt and state election commission: Andhra Pradesh high court||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Tuesday said that “all is not well” between the state government and the state election commission (SEC). Passing interim directions in the petition moved by state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, the high court observed that the government had been non-cooperative with the SEC and directed the latter to submit a comprehensive report to the government over requisite cooperation within three days. It also directed the government to take the necessary steps. Ramesh Kumar had moved the high court over the issue of the state government’s alleged non-cooperation in financial and non-financial matters to conduct local body elections. Kumar alleged in his petition that the government is not releasing requisite funds for smooth functioning of SEC. He also contended the inaction of the government in filling up vacancies in the SEC. Senior counsel DV Seetharama Murthy, arguing on behalf of the SEC, had said that the government did not respond to multiple letters written by Ramesh Kumar over release of funds and filling up of vacancies. Government counsel C Suman had countered the allegation, and told the court that the government had released the funds for conduct of local body elections. After hearing both sides, Justice Battu Devanand reserved the orders. The SEC is a constitutional body with independence and it is not subordinate to the state government, he stated. Directing the SEC to submit a comprehensive report on cooperation it needed from the government within three days, the HC ordered the panchayat raj department to take immediate steps upon receiving the report. It also asked the chief secretary to file a status report on the same within 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/all-not-well-between-govt-sec-hc/articleshow/79027214.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 4, 2020||Vijayawada||High-end IT varsity to come up in Vizag||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has proposed a high-end IT university in Visakhapatnam. He made the announcement during a review meeting with officials of IT department on Tuesday. The chief minister told officials to plan a high-end skilled university for IT sector in Visakhapatnam. “The university should be able to provide special skills to students in artificial intelligence, robotics and other fields. It should be able to give skill training to at least 2,000 students every year,” Jagan said, and asked officials to focus on attracting more IT companies to the port city. In another review meeting held earlier, the chief minister directed officials to complete the prestigious Ambedkar memorial project in the next 14 months. The memorial is coming up on the sprawling Swaraj maidan in the heart of the city, which was transferred to the SC welfare department from the water resources department for the project. Jagan, who watched power point presentations on the two designs for the project, also watched the presentations on Ambedkar memorials in Nagpur, Mumbai, Lucknow and Noida. He said the memorial should have a library, an auditorium, gallery and landscape for people to walk and spend time. The State Investment Promotion Board (SIPB), headed by the chief minister, also reviewed proposals from industrialists to start their units in the state on Tuesday. The SIPB reviewed proposals worth Rs 16,314 crore. One of the proposals was from the Adani group to set up a footwear manufacturing park at Inagaluru village of Srikalahasti mandal in Chittoor district. Rs 700 crore would be invested in the unit which will provide employment to 10,000 people. Another proposal from the ATC AP Private Limited was to establish a tyre manufacturing unit at Atchyutapuram in Visakhapatnam district. The unit, to come up at an investment of Rs 980 crore, is expected to provide employment to 2,000 people. The Adani Group is also keen on establishing an integrated data centre park, IT and business park, recreation centre and skill university at Madhuravada in Visakhapatnam. The firm has initially agreed to invest Rs 14,634 crore. The firm would also provide employment to nearly 25,000 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-end-it-varsity-to-come-up-in-vizag/articleshow/79027122.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Two carrying cash for ‘influencing’ polls detained||VADODARA: Two persons were detained in the early hours of Tuesday in Karjan taluka for carrying Rs 57,700 cash which was suspected to be distributed for influencing by-polls. According to police, the two accused Sohil Chauhan and Vignesh Patel were stopped at Ropa village in Karjan taluka around 2.30 am on Tuesday. Police said that the duo was passing at a high-speed in an SUV in the middle of the night which raised suspicion. The duo was taken to Nareshwar outpost where officials of the election commission were called. When frisked, police found the cash from Patel. He told cops that his friend Meet Patel, who is also a Congress party worker, had given the cash and said that he will tell him to whom the cash is to be given on reaching Ropa village. As the cash was also in smaller bills, it was suspected that the cash was to be used to influence the election process, cops said. An offence of violation of public notification was registered against Chauhan, Patel and Meet. Another offence of violation of public notification was registered on Monday against an unidentified person. Police said that the accused had put up flags of BJP in public places at Lilod village and had not removed them even after the campaign period was over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-carrying-cash-for-influencing-polls-detained/articleshow/79026899.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Six deaths, 182 new cases in Chandrapur||CHANDRAPUR: Chandrapur registered six deaths and 182 new cases on Tuesday. This has taken the Covid-19 caseload beyond the 16,000 mark and the figure now stands at 16,172. There were 134 recoveries recorded during the day taking the total of cured patients to 13,135. There are now 2795 active patients under treatment. The death toll has reached 242, including the latest six. Five of them belong to different places in Chandrapur district, while one other is from Gadchiroli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/six-deaths-182-new-cases-in-chanda/articleshow/79022951.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Operation Muskaan: Andhra Pradesh DGP interacts with children||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang on Tuesday made a surprise visit to Good Shepherd Missionary School in Tadepalli and interacted with the children rescued under Operation Muskaan. According to officials, the orphanage has more than 20 girls below 18-years-old rescued during the operation. Sawang distributed study kits to children and even surprised a seven-year-old girl, Hima Bindu, by gifting her clothes and dolls. Hima, an abandoned child, was rescued by Guntur Urban police at Pattabhipuram on July 17. The school management informed Sawang that she could not tell the details of her parents as they had abandoned her when she was only a few days old. Bindu was surviving by begging and taking shelter on footpaths but now gets to go to school with other children. The DGP informed the media that officials have so far rescued over 13,000 children under Operation Muskaan since its inception in 2015. As a thankful gesture, the kids performed a skit spreading a deep message of ‘Save Girl Child’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/op-muskaan-dgp-interacts-with-children/articleshow/79027170.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Trichy||DMK-led LPF workers to protest bonus declaration||Thanjavur: The Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) affiliated to the DMK has announced a statewide protest on November 9, opposing the Tamil Nadu government’s announcement on bonus, alleging that it was announced arbitrarily. Addressing the reporters in Thanjavur the LPF’s all India general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP M Shanmugam said that the Tamil Nadu government has announced 10% bonus without consulting unions. None of the workers will accept and that must be reconsidered, he said. Shanmugam invited the employees from various departments including transport, electricity, Tasmac and Tamil Nadu civil supplies corporation for a sit-in protest in front of the respective head offices on November 9, condemning the bonus announced by the state government. He alleged that the Union Government has been acting against workers and farmers. “Workers and farmers have been severely affected for the past 6 years ever since Narendra Modi took his office as the Prime Minister of India. His government is acting in favour of corporates. So, an all India protest has also been planned on November 26 to condemn the anti-labour attitude of the central and state governments”, he said. He added that the anti-farmers law and motor vehicle laws should be withdrawn. Meetings are being held across the state to mobilize the employees for the protest. Functionaries of the federation from Kumbakonam, Nagapattinam, Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Karaikudi participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-led-lpf-workers-to-protest-bonus-declaration/articleshow/79030189.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Police don’t have guts to arrest the influential: Ragini Dwivedi's parents||BENGALURU: Parents of imprisoned actress and drug-peddling case accused Ragini Dwivedi on Tuesday alleged their daughter had been framed and Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths are probing her only to keep the case alive so that they get publicity. The parents were addressing media after the high court rejected the bail pleas of Ragini and others. Rohini Dwivedi, Ragini’s mother, said police don’t have the guts to touch influential people involved in the case. “Names of politicians’ children and film stars too have been doing the rounds. Don’t police have the guts to arrest them? They told us they are arresting my daughter in a two-year-old drug case. If so, what were they doing for past two years? Why was no action taken till now?” Rohini added, “Still, we have full faith in judiciary and will fight till we get justice.” Ragini’s father Col Rakesh Dwivedi termed the entire police investigation a drama. “They searched the entire house and did not get any material evidence. I was asked to sign on papers saying Ragini was arrested at 5.30pm. In fact, she was arrested at 9.30pm. It shows the pathetic way in which the probe is being conducted. Someone wants to keep the case alive for reasons best known to them,” he said. He said society has forgotten the good work done by his daughter during the Covid-19 lockdown. “No one remembers it. Just because her name was on the phone contact list of a suspected drug peddler, my daughter too is being labelled one. What material evidence does police have against her? Nothing,” he said. Asked if had he met Ragini in Central Prison, Col Dwivedi said: “Prison officials denied us permission to meet our daughter citing Covid-19. Ragini calls us regularly from jail. But that short conversation over the phone only frustrates me more. It increases my helplessness as a father. Many a times, Ragini has spent sleepless nights due to back pain. Prison officials are not treating her properly,” he claimed. “We will approach the Supreme Court. I am sure my daughter will get justice there,” he said. Ragini was arrested from her house in Judicial Layout near Yelahanka on September 4 and was sent to Central Prison on September 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/police-dont-have-guts-to-arrest-the-influential-raginis-parents/articleshow/79027863.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Another firm booked for bid to divert Yamuna’s natural flow||YAMUNANAGAR: Days after police booked a mining firm for trying to divert Yamuna’s natural flow in Jathlana area in Yamunanagar district, another firm has been booked on similar charge. Based on the complaint of Radaur SDO Jaswinder Singh Hooda, at water services sub-division in Jagadhri, mining agency P S Buildtech Jathlana has been charged under sections 431 (mischief by injury to river, road or bridge) of the IPC and 45 of the Canal and Drainage Act, Haryana. In his complaint on Monday, the SDO said, “On September 21, I along with junior engineers Sanjeev Kumar and Rahul visited block-12 site in Jathlana area. It was found that PS Buildtech Jathlana (B-12) was trying to divert the natural flow of Yamuna against the National Green Tribunal (NGT) guideline.” To a query about the delay in registration of the case, the SDO said, “Sometimes takes time to complete the paperwork. Due to our and the police’s busy schedule, we are not able to physically verify the crime spot and this sometimes delays the process..” “The firm is still actively the mining area, but now it is conducting the operations in its limits. Earlier, it had attempted to divert the natural flow,” he added. Earlier, based on Hooda’s complaint, a similar case was registered against M/S Kawaljeet Singh Batra at Jathlana on October 23, which had attempted to divert the natural flow of Yamuna at Karhera village ghat (bank). Jathlana police station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector (SI) Dharampal Singh said, “We are obtaining record documents of the property rights where the obstruction was done in the Yamuna and the spots have been physically verified with the officials of the irrigation department who had also shared photographs with us. Once the record is verified, proceedings will be initiated to arrest the accused.” Sources said last year, 12 similar cases were lodged against mining firms that operated in violation of the NGT norms in the Yamuna river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-firm-booked-for-bid-to-divert-yamunas-natural-flow/articleshow/79029025.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Surat||Car race killed two on Dumas Road: Cops||SURAT: Two employees of a prominent restaurant chain, who were killed in hit-and-run on October 11, were victims of a post-midnight car race between a textile weaving unit owner and his friends. On October 13, Police had arrested the unit owner Pranav Patel, who had run over Paresh Malvi (35) and Govindsinh Kathayat (28) of Barbeque Nation at Kargil Chowk at Gaurav Path on Dumas Road. Both victims were dragged for over 30 meters by Patel’s car. Patel was booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder along with other sections of Indian Penal Code. Recently, a court had cancelled Patel’s bail too. Investigation revealed that Patel and his friends left a box cricket venue on Dumas Road after playing and having dinner at around 1.30am. Patel was in his Honda WRV and he entered into a race with his friend, who was in a Suzuki Baleno. Some other friends were on two-wheelers. For some distance, both the cars were racing with each other, but later Patel’s friend slowed down near Iscon Mall while the accused continued driving at high speed. He hit the victims who were crossing the road at Kargil Chowk and returning home. “Patel was racing with his friend who has been made a witness in the case,” said an officer at Umra police station. Patel had earlier told police that after noticing the two men, he thought that he would drive past them, but it ultimately resulted in the fatal accident. Police had recovered a few broken parts of the car from the spot which led to the vehicle being identified. Patel had changed his route to return home to avoid getting caught in CCTV cameras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/car-race-killed-2-on-dumas-road-cops/articleshow/79027211.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Capital shifting will result in Rs 33,000 crore loss, says Shyam Diwan||VIJAYAWADA: The decision to trifurcate the capital will result in huge losses to the public exchequer, senior counsel Shyam Diwan, representing Rajadhani Rytu Parirakshana Samiti, told the high court on Tuesday. Diwan said work on the capital started after a notification of a detailed master plan, which was followed by launching of multiple infrastructure projects. The shifting of the capital is not only against the interests of the farmers who gave away their lands, but also in violation of their fundamental rights, the counsel argued. “The trifurcation of capital decision is unthoughtful and against the spirit of cooperative federalism. After the bifurcation and consequent to the Reorganisation Act, Amaravati was decided as the capital of AP. The Union government also extended financial assistance for construction of the new capital,” said Diwan. Diwan further said that under constitutional framework, the government should follow the decisions taken by the Centre. Once the location of the capital has been decided and the central government gave funds for the same, changing its location is against the spirit of cooperative federalism, he said. As the arguments ended inconclusively, the high court bench headed by Chief Justice J K Maheswari, Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy and Justice N Jayasurya posted the matter for further hearing to Wednesday. The high court has taken up daily hearing of the batch of petitions moved challenging the trifurcation of the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/capital-shifting-will-result-in-rs-33k-cr-loss/articleshow/79027193.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha reports 65 positive cases||WARDHA: With the district reporting 65 positive cases and 40 persons getting discharged on Tuesday, the caseload reached 6424 with recoveries accounting for 5934. 1196 test reports were received on Tuesday and 65 of them (men 38) tested positive. The cases were reported from Wardha (28), Selu (13), Hinganghat (10), Deoli (9), Karanja (2), Arvi, Ashti and Samudrapur (1 each). Total active positive undergoing treatment in the district are 278 while the death toll of the district stands at 212.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-reports-65-positive-cases/articleshow/79023021.cms||Balwant Dhage
November 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Four drown across Nandigama region||VIJAYAWADA: Four persons, including three students, drowned at various places in Nandigama region of Krishna district on Tuesday. In the first incident, two college students drowned while grazing cattle near a rivulet at Pokkunur area in Chandarlapadu mandal. Chandarlapadu police said the deceased, identified as Gurram Vidyasagar and Uggam Murali, were not aware of the depth of the water and drowned while taking a swim. Locals, after hearing their cries, jumped into the rivulet to search for them but could only manage to fish out their bodies. In another incident at Damuluru village in Nandigama mandal, a 17-year-old intermediate student drowned in a rivulet while taking a dip after conducting the last rites of her maternal grandmother on Tuesday morning. According to Nandigama rural police, Sesham Lavanya from Kanchikacherla town lost her balance and was swept into the deep end of the rivulet. While two of her friends managed swim back to safety, she struggled to swim back. Her family members managed to bring her out of water and noticing that she was still breathing, rushed her to Veerulapadu hospital where she was declared dead. Cops said had her family members administered basic drowning treatment such as CPR, she could have survived. Another man drowned while grazing cattle at Konayapalem village in Chandarlapadu mandal. Police said Nagavarapu Rangaiah, an employee working with Heritage milk factory, slipped and drowned in the rivulet. Cases under section 174 of CrPC (death due to drowning) have been registered in all the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/4-drown-across-nandigama-region/articleshow/79027154.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Inter academic calendar released||VIJAYAWADa: The Board of Intermediate Education on Tuesday released the academic calendar for the year 2020-21. Working days for the first year has been fixed at 127 days, while it will be 138 days for the second year. Theory exams would be held in the last week of March 2021, with March 24 being the last working day. Summer holidays will start from March 25 and end on May 31. Advanced supplementary examinations will be conducted in the last week of June 2021. Academic year 2021-22 will commence from June 1, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/inter-academic-calendar-released/articleshow/79027142.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Two temple burglars held; hundi recovered||Hyderabad: Two offenders, who had committed burglary at a temple in Maruthi Nagar recently, were arrested and police recovered a stolen hundi from their possession on Tuesday. Langar Houz police arrested nabbed Sk Eisa, 28, a bike mechanic and Syed Ahmed Hussain, 25, an auto driver. On September 26, V Markandaya Sharma, priest of Gouru Shankar Maruthi Devalayam, lodged a complaint with police alleging burglars entered the temple on September 25 and stole the hundi containing Rs 15,000. Based on the complaint, police had registered a case and identified the duo by analysing footage of 30 CCTV cameras. Police arrested the duo from their houses on Tuesday and recovered stolen hundi and an auto. The duo confessed to two offences in Langar Houz and were previously involved in a similar offence at Banjara Hills in 2018, cops said. The accused were sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-temple-burglars-held-hundi-recovered/articleshow/79029036.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||‘Cracker industry’s loss is not greater than people’s health’||Jaipur: The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Tuesday said the financial loss incurred by the firecrackers industry in the wake of the ban on sale of crackers does not matter much considering the ill effects that it might have on the health of people, especially Covid patients. The commission pointed out that in order to safeguard the rights of firecracker traders, human rights and lives of others cannot be endangered. SHRC chief Justice Mahesh Chandra Sharma, while citing news reports on the ill effects that firecrackers may pose during the pandemic, said smoke and pollution from firecrackers could seriously harm Covid patients. He said the human rights of Covid patients and those who are vulnerable to pollution cannot be compromised in order to protect the human rights of firecracker traders by allowing them to sell their products. “The loss of the firecracker industry does not matter much in comparison to the losses that firecrackers can cause in Covid times,” Sharma said. “We appreciate the decision taken by the state government to ban firecrackers and fireworks on Diwali in view of the pandemic. We also direct district collectors and police officers to spread awareness on the ill effects of pollution in their areas. Police officers should also instruct their beat officers in this regard,” Sharma said. Sharma also praised the state government for enacting laws making masks mandatory in public places. In the report sought by the commission, collectors of Chittorgarh, Sawai Madhopur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Bundi, Churu, Dausa and others said they would not give temporary licenses to firecracker sellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cracker-industrys-loss-is-not-greater-than-peoples-health/articleshow/79030203.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Covid posters not being pasted outside homes now, Delhi HC told||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has ended the practice of pasting posters outside residences of Covid-19 positive persons or those in home isolation. It disclosed the same to Delhi High Court on Tuesday, which then directed the government to instruct all nodal officers dealing with home isolation patients to not share personal details of Covid-19 patients with their neighbours, or residents’ welfare associations of various localities. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked the AAP government to issue a circular to this effect to all Home Isolation Nodal Officers. The posters already pasted were being removed, said the government in response to a PIL seeking patient data protection and norms on current policy to paste posters outside patient homes. Delhi government further told the high court that it had ordered its officials not to share details of Covid-19 positive persons with their neighbours, residents’ welfare associations or WhatsApp groups. It placed before the bench an email by the Team Home Isolation State surveillance Unit, Delhi to all Home Isolation Nodal Officers directing that no posters shall be posted outside the residence of any home isolation patient and all those already pasted must be removed immediately. It said there was no direction to the Home Isolation Nodal Officers permitting them to share the personal details of the COVID-19 patients with the RWAs, prompting the court to direct that a circular must be issued in this regard. With such an order, the bench disposed of the PIL that complained that freely circulating names of persons who tested positive for Covid-19 was “leading to stigmatisation and drawing of unnecessary attention.” The PIL sought directions to Delhi government and its officials, employees, agents, representatives to desist from circulating names of Covid-19 positive persons. The plea also claimed that the government’s move resulted in persons “shying away and deliberately choosing not to test themselves”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-posters-not-being-pasted-outside-homes-now-hc-told/articleshow/79029084.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Ponzi scamster Zaheer Rana held||AHMEDABAD: Alleged ponzi scheme kingpin Zaheer Rana has again been arrested by police, in a case of cheating registered at Ellisbridge police station in 2014. Sources in the police said Rana, a resident of Ashiya Park in Juhapura, who was in Mumbai for three years, was arrested around a week ago from there by a team of CID (crime). He was sent later to Vadodara in connection with another case of cheating. Ellisbridge police sought Rana’s custody through a transit warrant and he is likely to be arrested on Wednesday. “Rana was arrested by CID (crime) sleuths a week ago and he was produced before a court in connection with the multi-crore ponzi scheme, from where the agency secured his custody for three days. Later, he was sent to Vadodara for another case,” said a police officer. Sources in the police said Ellisbridge cops will take Rana’s custody in a Rs 24 lakh cheating case filed by an industrialist from Paldi. “In September 2014, Paldi resident Bhimsinh Parmar approached Ellisbridge police stating that Rana had cheated him of Rs 24 lakh while promising him three houses in Narol,” said a cop. Parmar had bought the houses from Rana in November 2011 and was assured that he would get possession by the end of November 2012. Meanwhile, Rana’s involvement in ponzi schemes surfaced and he was arrested by city police. On May 12, 2012, Parmar came to know through media reports that Rana was wanted after which he went to the site of the colony to check on the houses. When he reached there, he found that no such colony was built. A metropolitan court had on November 18, 2019 issued a non-bailable warrant against Rana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ponzi-scamster-zaheer-rana-held/articleshow/79027424.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cops arrest two burglars in separate cases||HYDERABAD: LB Nagar police arrested a burglar and recovered 10 tola gold and other items worth Rs 6 lakh from his possession. In another case, Chaitanyapuri police arrested a robber and recovered 14 grams of stolen gold from his possession. LB Nagar police arrested K Anoop Kumar, 27, a car driver from Meerpet and recovered 10 tola gold, a bike, a laptop, and Rs 15,000 cash, all worth Rs 6 lakh from his possession. According to police, Anoop is a habitual offender who was even detained for one year under PD Act in 2015. He was earlier involved in 37 burglaries in city and neighbouring districts. Anoop confessed to have committed seven burglaries. In another case, Chaitanyapuri police arrested J Tera Singh, 21, a car mechanic of Kothapet and recovered a stolen gold chain weighing 14 grams, a car and a knife from his possession. The accused was recently involved in a robbery at Chaitanyapuri. Police said he was previously involved in a theft case at Meerpet and rape-cum-robbery case at Chaitanyapuri in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-two-burglars-in-separate-cases/articleshow/79029079.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Contractual doctors on strike at Mayo, GMCH||NAGPUR: Doctors on contract (120 or 360 days) at the city’s government medical colleges have gone on an indefinite strike from Monday as many of their demands have not been met. Over 400 medical officers in Maharashtra have struck work. In Nagpur, patients were affected as 33 doctors at GMCH and 15 from IGGMCH joined the strike. These doctors, who are also working as lecturers, were promised permanent status in the college and hospital long ago. During the challenging Covid-19 times, the doctors were quite hopeful of getting absorbed as regular employees as the government was on a recruitment spree. But nothing positive emerged for the striking doctors. “Even during the hard and stressful Covid-19 times, we worked tirelessly and wholeheartedly and yet, the government is not willing to give us permanent service,” said Dr Sameer Golawar, general secretary of Maharashtra state medical teachers’ association. The association has written to the director of medical education Dr T P Lahane about their demands. “To tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, the government needs more doctors. We have been working on contract basis since the last 11 years and deserve first preference. We should also be given the benefits of the seventh pay commission,” said Golawar. The other demands of the association include scrapping of renewal of contracts after 120 days of work and two days of leave and posting of adequate medical officers at government hospitals. The doctors have been raising these demands since a long time. In October, doctors worked with black arm bands for two days to protest the government’s inaction to fulfil their demands. They had also gathered in front of the office of the deans in both government medical colleges and raised slogans. The on-contract doctors are recruited by a committee headed by the dean of the medical college. Their recruitment is on a temporary basis until their vacancies are not filled through the UPSC recruitments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/contractual-doctors-on-strike-at-mayo-gmch/articleshow/79029112.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 4, 2020||Nashik||Negligible drop in ACB traps during pandemic||Nashik: The lockdown enforced by the state government for curbing the spread of Covid-19 did not have any major difference in corruption cases reported in various government departments as there has been a very minor drop in the number of traps conducted by the Nashik range of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) compared to the last year’s figures. This year till October 29, the Nashik range of the ACB — with jurisdiction over the districts of Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar, Ahmednagar and Jalgaon — conducted 82 traps related to demand of bribes. Last year, during the same period, the number of traps conducted was 99. An ACB official said that there were traps in various government departments. While 20 traps were carried out in Nashik district, 26 were in Ahmednagar, 18 in Jalgaon,11 in Dhule and seven in Nandurbar. Sunil Kadasane, superintendent of police (ACB Nashik Range), said, “The vigilance awareness week was observed from October 27 to November 2. While our department has always been spreading awareness among people to approach us if there was demand of bribes from any official in a government or semi-government office, this time around we are also spreading awareness among public servants about the disadvantages of corruption.” Kadasane said in a small video clip that is being circulated among public servants they have made an emotional appeal about the humiliation and taunts from relatives, friends their family members that one has to go through if they are caught while accepting bribe. Additional SP Nilesh Sonawane said a series of awareness programmes took place over the week, mainly online lectures, workshops through Zoom, interviews on radio channels, running audio clips, regarding prevention on corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/negligible-drop-in-acb-traps-during-pandemic/articleshow/79005719.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Bawana fire accused again opened illegal factory, held||NEW DELHI: A bail cancellation application of Manoj Jain, owner of the illegal cracker unit in Bawana where 17 people were killed in a massive blaze in 2018, is likely to be filed this week. Jain was on Sunday arrested by the Haryana police for running another illegal cracker factory in Kundli. He was earlier granted conditional bail by a court that he would not engage in any illegal activities. The family members of the victims informed their advocate about Jain’s arrest on Sunday. “One of the victims informed us that Jain had employed minors and the police had seized huge amount of illegal crackers and chemicals from the unit in Haryana. He was granted bail on the condition that he would not engage in any activity like this but it is surprising that two years later, he is doing the same thing,” said Pradeep Khatri, the advocate. “We are collecting relevant documents and his bail cancellation application will be filed soon,” added Khatri. On Sunday, Jain was arrested by the Kundli police after they raided an “illegal” unit on the Sonepat-Narela road. As per the contents of an FIR, police officials were deployed at a picket near Barota Chowk in Kundli. “Two trucks were signalled to stop, but instead of stopping, they took a U-turn and moved ahead in another direction. Suspecting something wrong, a team of police officers followed the trucks, which then went inside a factory. When the trucks were searched, over 50 cartons of firecrackers were recovered. The truck drivers revealed that it was Jain who had got the crackers loaded in their trucks to be distributed in Delhi and that explosives in high quantity were present inside the factory,” the FIR stated. The cops then searched the factory premises where an illegal cracker making unit was allegedly running. Explosives, plastic materials, chemicals, including nitric acid, and other materials in high quantity were stored inside the factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bawana-fire-accused-again-opened-illegal-factory-held/articleshow/79029119.cms||Sakshi Chand
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vastrapur police arrest Raman, Dashrath Patel||AHMEDABAD: Raman Patel and Dashrath Patel, the promoters of Popular Builders, were arrested by Vastrapur police through a transfer warrant — as they were in Sabarmati jail — in connection with a Rs 3 crore cheating case. They also face charges of criminal intimidation based on the complaint filed on October 30 by the owner of a paint manufacturing company. According to the complainant, Govind Barot, 70, a resident of Sola, the duo had taken possession of an office of his on June 24, 2010. Barot runs a paint manufacturing company named Gunjan Paints. Barot said that he had bought the 2,490 square feet office in New York Tower on SG Road in 1998. It was not used till 2010, when Raman and Dashrath Patel approached him seeking the office on rent for 11 months and 29 days. Barot said the Patel brothers promised to take care of the office and increase the rent by 15% annually if he allowed them to continue to use the office after the contract period. The duo had taken possession of the office on June 24, 2010, and did not vacate the office even after the agreed period. Barot then sent them a notice through his advocate in August 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vastrapur-police-arrest-raman-dashrath-patel/articleshow/79027436.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Business||Indian to head Citi’s global consumer business||CHENNAI: Madurai calls itself ‘Thoonga Nagaram’ (a city that doesn’t sleep). Now, international financial behemoth (Citigroup) whose tagline till 2008 was ‘Citi Never Sleeps’, has picked a man from the city to head its global consumer banking business. Meet Anand Selvakesari, who started his career in the operation management division of the group in Chennai in 1991. The alumnus of Vikaasa School in Madurai who went on to complete his graduation from Coimbatore Institute of Technology and MBA (Finance and Marketing) from Madurai Kamaraj University, replaced Jane Fraser, who was elevated as Citi CEO becoming the first woman ever to head one of the Big Four US banks. In his nearly 30 years of service, Selva, as he his popularly known, had headed retail banking business development for Asia-Pacific region and was the director of retail in Taipei, Taiwan. Before taking over as head of the Asia-Pacific consumer banking business in 2015, he was the country business manager in India for a year. In October 2018, Selva was elevated to the position of CEO of consumer banking for US operations. “Anand has unified our products into one client-centric business, strengthened talent and deployed a digital-first strategy that is elevating the growth trajectory of our franchise,” the bank said in a joint memo signed by Fraser and outgoing CEO Mike Corbat. Madurai Central MLA P Thiagarajan, an MBA from Sloan School of Management, congratulated Anand Selvakesari. “Glad to see my school junior, family friend, and Madurai boy going to head the Global Retail Banking of one of the largest & most storied banks in the world, after an amazing tenure of 30 years in one firm,” his tweet said. Watch Anand Selvakesari to head Citi’s global consumer business||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/madurai-man-to-head-citis-global-bank-biz/articleshow/79029083.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 4, 2020||Madurai||HC dismisses bail plea of two accused cops||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday dismissed bail plea of two accused cops who were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district. The court was hearing the bail petitions filed by suspended head constable S Murugan and suspended sub-inspector of police Raghu Ganesh. The assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri appearing for the CBI submitted that Murugan is a prime accused in the custodial torture as he had actively taken part in the assault of the deceased persons. She submitted that Murugan had tampered with the records and filed a false complaint against the deceased as if they had violated the lockdown conditions. She stated that a woman head constable who was an eyewitness, in her statement had also mentioned the role played by Murugan in assaulting the deceased using wooden lathis. She further submitted that Ganesh had also actively participated in the brutal torture of the deceased. She noted that Ganesh was an habitual offender as there was a similar custodial torture case against him which is being inquired by the CB-CID. She submitted that the CBI had examined 105 witnesses and had collected 116 supporting documents to show that all the policemen were involved in the custodial torture of the duo. The CBI had filed the final report and the trial commences before the trial court on November 11. She strongly objected to the grant of bail stating that if the petitioners are enlarged on bail, there are chances of tampering with the witnesses. Taking cognizance of the submissions, justice G K Ilanthiraiyan said that this court is not inclined to grant bail to the petitioners and hence dismissed their bail petitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-two-accused-cops/articleshow/79029108.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Madurai||HC judge goes the extra mile to render justice||Madurai: A judge of Madras high court travelled literally an extra mile – at least 60km to be precise – to deliver justice, by personally visiting a freak mishap spot and ascertaining how electric cable snapped and how a youth got electrocuted after stepping on the live wire. Justice G R Swaminathan rendered absolute justice to a humble farmer, Sendhattikalaipandian of Virudhunagar district, by ordering Tangedco to pay Rs 13.9 lakh as compensation, besides giving the petitioner’s younger son a job of junior assistant in the department in Virudhunagar district on compassionate grounds. The just first numbered the farmer’s as a writ petition, and then visited the farm in Virudhunagar district, where the petitioner’s 21 year old son Saravanan lost his life. It all started when the judge noticed Sendhattikalaipandian standing in a crowd clutching a copy of his e-mail sent to the registrar (judicial) of Madurai bench of the high court. On coming to know that the farmer sought to move the court seeking compensation for his son’s death, Justice Swaminathan directed the registry to number it as a writ petition, saying he did not have the heart to tell him that he should consult a lawyer and file a proper writ petition. The judge said he had made a spot inspection and was satisfied that the occurrence had taken place on account of rodent interference. He said there were several ‘Ifs’ of life – if the electric poles have squirrel guard, they would not have got snapped. If karuvelam bushes beneath the electric lines had been removed, probably the snapped line could have straightaway fallen on the ground and the feeder would have tripped thereby disconnecting the supply of electricity. Calling the incident as an ‘act of God’ and Tangedco cannot be fastened with any negligence as such, Justice Swaminathan directed Tangedco to pay Rs 13.8 lakh to the victim’s family. Rs 5lakh had already been paid as compensation, he directed it to pay the balance Rs 8.8 lakh to the family within 12 weeks. Invoking the Supreme Court’s ruling that a polluter should not only compensate the victims of pollution but also bear the cost of restoring the environment to its original condition, Justice Swaminathan directed the Tangedco to give compassionate appointment to S Bharathi, second son of the petitioner, as junior assistant and post him in Virudhunagar district. In order to prevent such incidents in future, Tangedco could undertake a comprehensive safety audit and bushes underneath the electric poles and transmission lines can be cleared, he said. Referring to the effective justice system delivered by King Manu Needhi Cholan who ordered death penalty for his own son to feel the pain of a cow whose calf got crushed under the prince’s chariot wheels, Justice Swaminathan observed: “I refuse to rename or call him by some other name merely because ‘Manu’ may sound politically incorrect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-judge-goes-the-extra-mile-to-render-justice/articleshow/79029118.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 4, 2020||Chennai||A Tamil Nadu village lines up at temple for Kamala Harris||TRICHY: If Joe Biden wins the presidential race in the US, he may have one more reason to thank his running mate, Kamala Harris, for it. It’s not just the citizens of the US who say ‘In God We Trust’, it’s also the residents of the nondescript Thulasendrapuram village of Tiruvarur district, the ancestral village of Harris, who flaunted their faith by lining up before a temple with prayers for the pair’s victory. On the last day of voting on Tuesday, the villagers organized a special puja at the Sri Dharma Sastha temple for the victory of the Democratic Party nominee. It was followed by ‘annadhanam’, an offering of food, on the temple premises in which Kamala’s favourite dish, idli, was served with sambar. Kamala’s grandfather and former Indian diplomat P V Gopalan was born in this village, about 150km from Trichy. She was born to Shyamala Gopalan, one of his daughters, and Donald Harris in California. According to villagers, Kamala had donated money for the consecration of the Sri Dharma Sastha temple in 2014 and her name is etched in the plaque. Expressing hope that Kamala will triumph, J Sudakaran, one of the organizers of the day’s events, said they prepared and served idly-sambar, which she herself confessed was her favourite food, for the annadhanam. “About 200 residents of Painganadu and Thulasendrapuram attended the puja for her victory. We prayed that she becomes the vice-president of the country and makes our country, particularly the residents of Thulasendrapuram, proud,” he told TOI. Villagers also hope that Kamala will visit the village in the near future. “Our villagers are very eager to meet her in person. So, we appeal to her in advance to visit here as vice-president of her country,” he added. Thulasendrapuram and its residents have been hogging the limelight ever since Kamala’s candidature was announced. The villagers had erected flex banners after the announcement came. One banner even described her as ‘singapenn’ (lion-hearted).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-tn-village-lines-up-at-temple-for-kamala/articleshow/79029129.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AAP govt removes red tape from menu of restaurants||NEW DELHI: As a big relief to the restaurant industry in the capital battling a tough time due to Covid-19, Delhi government’s tourism department on Tuesday notified the decision to terminate the scheme for granting approvals to standalone restaurants following directions from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The notification comes in the wake of a meeting convened by Kejriwal in October, where he had directed officials to remove hassles in the ease of doing business for the restaurant industry in the city. “This is a very positive step that helps in ease of business, particularly at a time when things are so difficult,” said Manpreet Singh, treasurer of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI). “This decision will especially help new restaurants that have to go from one agency to another to get licences, which quite often see duplication,” Singh said. According to the order, “In terms of a decision taken by the chief minister in the meeting dated October 7 regarding ease of doing business for restaurants, the Voluntary Scheme of Granting Approval to the Standalone Restaurants, being implemented by the tourism department, is, hereby, discontinued with immediate effect.” Before June 2003, the scheme was being implemented by the Union tourism ministry. It was discontinued on June 30, 2003 and the states were asked to formulate their own guidelines if they wished to implement the scheme. The scheme was adopted by Delhi’s tourism department and formally launched in 2004 for all restaurants having more than 30 seats, a statement from the tourism minister’s office said. Various reviews and reconsiderations were done by the department over the years on the request of restaurant associations and, owing to the recent circumstances caused by the Covid pandemic, Kejriwal has ordered its removal, the statement added. On October 7, Kejriwal had convened a meeting with the delegation of the NRAI, where various decisions were taken for the economic revival of the hospitality industry in the national capital. A detailed representation was received from the restaurant association to provide relief and ease regulations and approvals constraining the growth of the restaurant industry in Delhi. The statement said that the notification would provide relief to the hospitality industry, encourage their economic growth and generate employment in the industry. Singh said the association had requested Delhi government to do away with the tourism department’s approval as it was just duplication of work and another waste of time for the restaurateurs. He said NRAI expected a few more decisions that would further help the industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-govt-removes-red-tape-from-menu-of-restaurants/articleshow/79029136.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Madurai||Disheartening that people addicted to online games are taking their lives: HC||Madurai: Hoping that action would be taken to prevent the loss of precious lives due to online gaming, such as rummy, the Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the central and state governments on regulating such games. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi, which took a serious view of the issue, also ordered notices to cricketers Virat Kohli and Sourav Ganguly, and actors Prakash Raj, Tamannaah Bhatia, Rana Daggubati and Sudeep for featuring in advertisements promoting online games. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Muthukumar, an advocate and resident of Madurai, who sought to ban online rummy and other online gambling games and also sought to frame appropriate laws and rules to prohibit online gambling. The judges observed that it is disheartening to know that 10 people, who were addicted to online rummy games and unable to pay the debts after losing money, had committed suicide in the state. The court also recalled how justice B Pugalendhi in an order dated July 24 went into details as to how online gaming is causing loss of lives, and that he had insisted the state government to bring in a comprehensive framework to regulate such games on a par with the Telangana government. The judges observed that it was brought to the notice of the court that Assam, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Nagaland had either banned or regulated online rummy games. Additional advocate general M Sricharan Rangarajan submitted that pursuant to the order of the single judge, the state had made serious considerations to the issue and assured that he would come out with further instructions and report before the court within 10 days. Taking cognizance of the submissions, the court suo motu impleaded the Online Rummy Federation of India, and ordered notice to the governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/disheartening-that-people-addicted-to-online-games-are-taking-their-lives-hc/articleshow/79029128.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Minimalistic jewellery designs rule||AHMEDABAD: Even though Navratri brought in the much-needed optimism for jewellery sale, the volume of gold sales is just about average. According to data by Ahmedabad Air Cargo Complex, merely 2.28 metric tonne (MT) gold was imported in Gujarat in October this year. Increased exchange of old gold against new jewellery is one of the key reasons for decline in gold imports. The price of gold settled at Rs 52,600 per 10g on Tuesday. Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA), said, “High and volatile price of gold was a major deterrent for gold purchases since the pandemic. While the demand did revive, at least 50% of purchases are made by exchanging old gold in return for new jewellery. This is bound to impact jewellery volumes.” Another factor is the changing buying behaviour of people due to the pandemic and with high prices of gold. Jewellers say that there is restricted buying and more customers opt for small-ticket purchases. “Gold price has a major impact on sales and also the designs. People seek more value in what they buy and thus restrict themselves to small-ticket purchases such as that of rings and earrings,” said Shrey Mehta, director, Pooja Diamonds. “The drastic increase in gold price compelled with the pandemic forced people to change their buying behaviour to a great extent. Even though people do have dispensable income at hand, given that the guest list is now limited, they’re mindful in spending and therefore, minimalistic designs are in great demand,” said Jaydeep Bharatji, managing director, Bharatji Jewellers, based in Ahmedabad. “Classic designs will rule sales this festive and wedding season because people have begun preferring something that gives them more value and is timeless than something that is trending,” said Revathi Kant, chief design officer, Titan Company Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/minimalistic-jewellery-designs-rule/articleshow/79027456.cms||Niyati Parikh
November 4, 2020||Madurai||BJP functionary hacked to death||Tuticorin: A BJP functionary was hacked to death, allegedly by a minor boy, in front of a tea shop at Thenthiruperai village near Srivaikuntam on Tuesday morning. Tuticorin district police arrested six people in this connection and said it was due to previous enmity with a fellow villager and not any political motive. Police presence was stepped up at the village as the victim is a dalit and the accused belongs to the konar community. Relatives of the deceased burnt a two-wheeler parked in front of the house of the accused. The deceased Ramaiah Das, 56, a farmer, had joined the BJP a few months ago and was posted as its traders’ wing secretary in the district. Preliminary inquiry revealed that goats belonging to one Marimuthu of the village went to the fields of Ramaiah Das three weeks ago. Following an argument, Ramaiah warned Marimuthu of dire consequences if it recurred, which he reiterated two days ago. On Tuesday morning, Marimuthu’s son, said to be 17 years old, hacked the man to death with a machete when he was having tea at the shop and fled. The body was taken to Thoothukudi government MCH. Agitated relatives of the deceased blocked the Tiruchendur-Tirunelveli Road, demanding arrest of the accused and compensation for the family. SP S Jayakumar and Tiruchendur RDO D Dhanapriya pacified the protesters, following which the protesters cleared the road. Based on a complaint preferred by the victim’s family, a case was registered against seven people including Marimuthu, his son, wife and relatives. They were booked under various sections of IPC and under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bjp-functionary-hacked-to-death/articleshow/79029130.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Calicut University issues guidelines for conduct of exams||KOZHIKODE: Students who don’t follow Covid-19 guidelines while appearing of examinations at Calicut University will face action, informed the varsity authorities. The varsity on Tuesday issued a set of guidelines for the conduct of examinations during the pandemic. The instructions empower the examination chief superintendents at various centres to take action against students who flout the Covid-19 guidelines while appearing for examinations. The university move came in the wake of complaints that students had assembled together in some centres, violating social-distancing norms during the exams held on October 22. Varsity authorities raised doubts over mass gathering of students at the IHRD College in Kozhikode for an exam held on October 22 violating social distancing norms. The varsity authorities said that while just 80 students had registered for the exam at the college, a large number of students far exceeding that number had assembled there. The Calicut University syndicate had on October 27 decided to approach the police seeking a probe by the Cyber Cell into an alleged organized campaign through social media to postpone the varsity exams citing Covid-19 situation. According to the new guidelines, students should report at the exam centres 30 minutes before the commencement of exams. The varsity said that students who have tested Covid-19 positive, those currently stranded in foreign countries, students who are currently under quarantine, pregnant women, students with disabilities and those who have serious medical conditions will be given another chance to write the exam later on producing relevant documents and certificates issued by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cu-issues-guidelines-for-conduct-of-exams/articleshow/79027463.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Debt Recovery Tribunal fines lawyer Rs 10,000 for addressing it from car||AHMEDABAD: The Debt Recovery Tribunal, Ahmedabad, on Tuesday imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on a lawyer because he was addressing the court while in his car during virtual court proceedings. The presiding officer, Vinay Goel, was irked when he saw the advocate, Vishal Gori, sitting in a car. The tribunal felt it proper to impose a fine of Rs 10,000 on the lawyer for attending the virtual hearing from his car. The presiding officer based his decision on the Gujarat high court’s order in which it directed that all lawyers address courts either from their residences or offices. This came after an advocate was found smoking in a car during a video conference hearing, which is the mode of proceedings due to Covid-19. The tribunal adjourned the hearing for an hour and ordered the lawyer to attend the hearing from a proper place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drt-fines-lawyer-rs-10k-for-addressing-it-from-car/articleshow/79027471.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Madurai||Rs 1.2L seized from civil supplies CID cops in Madurai||Madurai: The directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) seized Rs 1.2 lakh from police officials of the criminal investigation division (CID) at the civil supplies in Karpagam Nagar in Madurai on Monday night. A 10-member team led by DSP Sathiyaseelan. conducted the surprise check at the office.Sources from DVAC said that the duty of the civil supplies CID is to make sure materials meant for public distribution by the state government are not smuggled or sold in the black market. But often, the police units are hand in glove with the smugglers and black marketers.Sources said that the search was conducted based on a tip-off stating that police personnel from the unit are taking bribe and allowing smuggling of rice from public distribution system (PDS). During the search, Rs 1.2 lakh was seized from inspector John Britto and Rs 3,000 from special sub-inspector Natchathiram. A case will be registered and detailed inquiry will be conducted, sources said.“We have increased vigilance in the recent weeks since Diwali is approaching, to prevent officials from getting bribes from industries they are supposed to monitor and regulate. Similar surprise checks will continue in days to come,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-1-2l-seized-from-civil-supplies-cid-cops-in-madurai/articleshow/79029137.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||For 1st-time Telugu voters, US polls a serious business||HYDERABAD: As the US goes to polls, several first-time Telugu voters have been casting their ballots. No matter their age, or when they got their citizenship, the election is an important one for them. Satyadeep Thella, 21, said this was the first time he was voting. The New Jersey resident said he voted for the Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden because he feels that he will solve several issues. “I am voting so that Trump does not get re-elected to the White House. He has hurt the middle class in several ways, especially taxation,” said Thella, adding that he did not agree with the changes in terms of immigration that have been rolled out recently, calling them “too radical”. Not all first-time voters were young adults. In fact, several Telugu immigrants, who recently received their citizenship were also part of the process. Sudheer Bandaru, who came to the US in 2003, said he got his citizenship in 2017. “This is the first presidential elections in which I will be voting. It’s important that I do my civic duty. I live here, pay my taxes here, my children live here. Everything that happens is going to impact me,” he said, adding that it was his duty as an immigrant to vote and to help other immigrants who cannot vote. Meanwhile, New York entrepreneur Jayasekhar Talluri said, “It is definitely a great experience voting for the first time.” Speaking about the long lines in front of polling stations, Talluri said: “During the last several elections, polling percentage was less than 55%, but this time it seems like it will be high.” Talluri got his greencard in 2002 and applied for citizenship in 2017. Praveen Challa, also from New Jersey came to the US in August 2001 and got a citizenship in March 2020. “I wanted to be a part of the process. I missed voting in India for so long. I really want this country to get the right leader,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/for-1st-time-telugu-voters-us-polls-a-serious-business/articleshow/79029134.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Riders on the storm: ISBTs open, not many brave travel on Day 1||NEW DELHI: After seven months, the three interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) of Delhi reopened on Tuesday with a fraction of buses and passengers arriving at the thoroughly sanitised terminals with social distancing norms in place. The Kashmere Gate ISBT, the capital’s oldest and busiest, was unusually calm compared to its pre-Covid avatar as a trickle of commuters started coming in after going through a thermal scan and sanitisation of hands and baggage at the entry point. A group of private guards deployed by Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (DTIDC) ensured that passengers maintained social distancing while entering the ISBT. Inside, the spacious waiting hall and the bus platforms appeared more clean than ever, with an army of workers cleaning and sanitising common touch points, railings and seating areas where alternate seats were marked to ensure social distancing. Even though most passengers could be seen wearing face masks properly and social distancing on the premises was not much of an issue, crowding was taking place at counters of bus operators from other states despite social distancing marks made on the floor. “We are ensuring that everyone coming in is properly scanned at the entry point and also trying to limit crowding at counters. More personnel from Civil Defence are expected to come here from Wednesday and we will be able to better manage the situation at the counters,” an ISBT official said. Before the lockdown, a total of 3,467 buses from other states arrived in Delhi every day and the largest number of these - 1,636 – arrived at Kashmere Gate ISBT. On Tuesday, however, only 243 buses operated from the ISBT till 6 pm. Anand Vihar ISBT saw slightly more bus operations at 257 and Sarai Kale Khan ISBT saw just 43 buses arriving at the terminal. The transport department has put a cap of 50% on buses arriving at the ISBTs compared with pre-Covid numbers till November 15. “Most people are not aware about the reopening of ISBTs and that is why there are not enough passengers today. The rush would definitely go up in the coming days,” said Mukesh Kumar, a bus conductor of Haryana Roadways. However, passengers who came to know about the reopening, seemed very pleased. “Government-run buses are much more affordable with fixed prices. In fact, Punjab Roadways buses are quite comfortable,” said Shantanu Sharma, a Delhi resident who visits relatives in Hoshiarpur, Punjab quite a few times in a year. “I travel to Panipat quite frequently for work and buses are the most convenient mode of transport for me. They are more dependable and affordable too,” said Dharmesh Kumar, another passenger. “I’m really delighted that the ISBT has reopened,” he added. In Delhi, most buses arrive from Uttar Pradesh (1,519), followed by Haryana (757) and Uttarakhand (313). On the first day of reopening, however, only 543 buses operated from the three ISBTs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riders-on-the-storm-isbts-open-not-many-brave-travel-on-day-1/articleshow/79029150.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 4, 2020||Trichy||Over 2,500 of 4,000 RTE seats still vacant in Trichy||Trichy: Over 2,500 seats out of 4,000 odd RTE seats are still vacant as on Tuesday in the second phase of admission process for Trichy schools. While the state government extended the admission process calling for applications to fill vacant seats, parents still remain less interested which is reflecting in the number of applications received in the second phase of admissions. According to the data accessed by TOI, so far 1,703 applications have been received for the 2500 vacant RTE seats in the second phase. Totally 3,216 applications were received in the first phase of admissions. While there is one more week to go for the deadline, officials are optimistic about a possible increase in numbers. While 1,703 applications have been received and it may reach the 2000 mark in a week. But a majority of applications may be rejected for not fulfilling the distance norm. This will again result in vacant seats at the end of the admission process as there has not been any announcement in terms of relaxation of the admission norms. Tough competition was expected this year for RTE seats in private schools due to the implications of Covid-19 on the economic front on many families. While initially, parents showed enthusiasm in applying for the RTE seats, many applications were rejected as they were found ineligible. Less than 40% of RTE seats could be filled across 313 private schools in Trichy district. Besides this, nine schools didn’t receive even a single seat and only 21 schools could fill all the available RTE seats. Correspondents of a self-financing primary school in the city said that they had to reject many applications as they did not fulfil the 1 km distance norm which was mandatory. Among those rejected, many applications had satisfied other requirements except for the distance. Though the government extended the admission process, due to the distance norm, parents are not showing interest as they know their applications would be rejected, said the correspondent. While the norms have not been relaxed, a senior official from the Trichy district chief education office said that they expect the government to relax the norms during the scrutiny which will benefit many applicants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-2500-of-4000-rte-seats-still-vacant-in-trichy/articleshow/79030221.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 4, 2020||Madurai||Arapalayam Water Works cries for attention||Madurai: Madurai corporation has started rejuvenating and renovating many ancient structures pertaining to the periods of various dynasties that ruled Madurai and showcasing them as heritage sites under the smart city programme. However, there are also many structures belonging to the British era which are worthy of being showcased as heritage sites but are crying for attention, like Arapalayam Water Works. The project, which was started by the British in 1892, was the first of its kind to supply purified or treated drinking water to the people of Madurai city. It was executed by a British sanitary engineer J A Jones. A population of one lakh got access to drinking water through the project, which included a check dam in the Vaigai river bed near the Arapalayam-Aruldosspuram bridge. Sunken wells with a motor room chamber pumped up to 30 lakh litres of water an hour. These details are given in the booklet, ‘Neerindri’, on water bodies in Madurai. The project continued to yield water for the people of Madurai city till 1980, after which it was abandoned due to the river water getting polluted. The British-era building can still put the most beautiful modern buildings in Madurai to shame with its architectural splendour, which makes it look like a small citadel. The black stones and brick work as well as eight huge windows make it a spectacle. Sadly enough, Madurai corporation decided to renovate the structure and convert it into a museum in 2018 at a cost of Rs 5 crore. “Not only did the corporation fail to keep its word, but it ruined the structure, as a small motor room with a four-sided A-shaped roof, which was there in 2018, is now not seen. There was no information about it being demolished. In fact it has deteriorated more in the last two years due to neglect and misuse. Building debris has been dumped at the site,’’ said former MLA R Nanmaran. “A statue of a jallikattu bull has been installed a few hundred feet away from the place for several lakhs of rupees, but this is in a shambles now and it is sad to see it as the years go by,’’ said K Raghavan of Arapalayam. Convener of Intach, Madurai chapter, Aravind Kumar Shankar, said his organization was ready to collaborate in such works. ``Our chapter has access to the best conservation architects and professionals to execute the project,’’ he said. Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan said the project to renovate the structure along with the similar pumping station in Kochadai was still alive, and they were in the process of accessing funds. “We are exploring possibilities of doing it with CSR funds,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/arapalayam-water-works-cries-for-attention/articleshow/79029138.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents meet edu min, seek fee relief||Hyderabad: Members of the Hyderabad School Parents Association met education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy on Tuesday and appraised her over the fee issue in private schools. In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the parents body sought fee relief from the government. Citing examples of states such as Assam, Odisha, West Bengal and recently Andhra Pradesh where reduction of fees in private schools was announced, the parents body sought similar relief. Parents demanded the minister to issue clear guidelines on tuition fee for online classes and action against erring schools.  Parents demanded that no new admissions must be taken by any private schools for 2021-22 until clear guidelines are issued by the state education department||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-meet-edu-min-seek-fee-relief/articleshow/79029158.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Chennai||Japan, Korea, German firms bid for Chennai Metro project||CHENNAI: Seven consortia including top railroad construction and consultancy firms from Europe, US, Japan and Korea have shown interest to work as a general consultant for the construction of Chennai Metro’s 26.1km corridor-4 in phase-2 from Light House to Poonamallee bypass linking the city’s core areas with the developing suburbs. Japan’s Nippon Koei Co Ltd, Korea Rail Network Authority owned by the South Korea government, U S-based AECOM Asia Company, France’s Systra and Egis Rail, Germany’s DB Engineering and Consulting GmbH, and Rites Ltd owned by Government of India submitted tenders for the general consultant contract when CMRL opened technical bids on Tuesday. All these companies have a joint venture with Indian companies while a few also have a joint venture with other global firms. The chosen consultant will begin providing expertise from January 2021. The consultancy service is funded by China-based Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which will provide a loan of around Rs 2700 crores for construction of a part of corridor 4. General consultants will provide expertise for faster construction without compromising on quality or safety. This includes, coordinating with detailed design consultants and others, floating tenders for various works and bringing in foreign contractors if needed. The 26.1km corridor from lighthouse to Poonamallee will have 30 stations, including 12 underground, and will connect Mylapore, Nandanam, T Nagar, Kodambakkam and Vadapalani with fast developing areas in the west suburbs that are poorly linked by public transport such as Valsarvakkam, Porur, Kattupakkam, Karayan Chavadi, Poonamallee and Poonamallee bypass. It is also called the orbital corridor as it links all corridors of 45km phase-1 and 118.9km phase-2. Cmrl had floated tenders for construction of part of corridor-4 from Power House to Porur junction and from Porur Junction to Poonamallee bypass, which are in different stages of bidding process. Last week, four bidders including Larsen and Toubro Limited, Tata Projects Ltd , Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Co (Singapore) Pte Ltd-Who Hup Pte Ltd joint venture, and Turkey-based Gulemark Agir Sanayi Insaat ve Taahhut AS submitted bids for construction of two packages consisting of a total of 20km underground section from Venugopal Nagar near Madhavaram to Kellys station and from Kellys station to Taramani Road junction. These stretches are part of the 52km priority corridor, which will be built first. In January this year, three firms -- Nippon Koei, Aarvee Associates and Balaji Railroad Systems Private Limited -- were given contract for consultancy work for the 52km priority corridor, funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency, from Madhavaram to Sholinganallur and Madhavaram to CMBT covering two corridors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/japan-korea-german-firms-bid-for-city-metro-project/articleshow/79029172.cms||U Tejonmayam
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 82-year-old duped of Rs 5 Lakh||AHMEDABAD: An 82-year-old man from the Ellisbridge area of the city on Monday filed a complaint of cheating against four unknown persons, who allegedly defrauded him cheated him of Rs 5.29 lakh by posing as agents of the insurance ombudsman’s office. In his FIR, Dheeraj Patel, a realty developer, said that he had in 2012 bought an insurance policy but one year later stopped paying the premium. In January 2019, the accused persons told him they would give him the returns on his policy if he paid a certain amount. Later they sought demanded various amounts at regular intervals which Patel paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/82-year-old-duped-of-rs-5l/articleshow/79027518.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||TSBIE gives grace marks to absentees||HYDERABAD: Telangana Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) passed all the students who couldn’t appear for the examinations or were exonerated due to malpractices by awarding grace marks to them. According to a government order issued by the higher education department, it was done as a one-time measure due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “In view of the extraordinary situation prevailing due to the Covid-19 pandemic, hereby extend the benefit of grace pass marks to the total 27589 students those who were absent the intermediate public examinations, March-2020 (27,251 students) and exonerated by the malpractice scrutiny committee (338 students), as a one-time measure only,” read the GO.  TSBIE stated that concerned students can download the revised marks memo from the website tsbie.cgg.gov.in from 5 pm on November 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsbie-gives-grace-marks-to-absentees/articleshow/79029140.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Madurai||State geared up to face monsoon challenges, says R B Udayakumar||Madurai: Tamil Nadu is geared up to face any challenges arising out of the northeast monsoon, said minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udayakumar on Tuesday. He was speaking at the review meeting of the northeast monsoon in the Madurai district collectorate. “The southwest monsoon yielded 24% more than the annual average rainfall in the state and good rainfall is predicted for many districts with the onset of the northeast monsoon. The respective administrations are geared up to face the challenges,” said Udayakumar. Udayakumar said that the IMD has predicted more rains on November 4 and 5 in Madurai, Virudhunagar, Sivaganga, Coimbatore and Nilgiris districts. The minister also said that a disaster management plan had been chalked out by the state taking into consideration the data of damage due to rain in the state in the last 10 years and the extent of destruction in the last 30 years. A total of 4,133 places where flooding was experienced have been identified. They included 321 places where flooding was witnessed to a height of five feet. Another 797 places had seen flooding between three to five feet. Two to three feet of flooding had been experienced in 1,096 places. Officials are appointed to monitor those places, the minister said. As many as 9,393 shelters had been kept ready to house people in case of emergencies. These shelters have a capacity to keep 7.39 lakh people with social distancing. Twenty-seven vulnerable locations had been identified in Madurai, he said. He also said that the state receives an average annual rainfall of 341.9mm during the southwest monsoons, but this year it received 424.4mm which was nearly 24% more than the annual average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/state-geared-up-to-face-monsoon-challenges-says-r-b-udayakumar/articleshow/79029168.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Madurai||Stalin insulted deities: Pon Radhakrishnan||Kanyakumari: Former Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan on Tuesday accused DMK president M K Stalin of wilfully humiliating Hindu deities and religious symbols. He demanded that Stalin apologise unconditionally and stop such acts. Interacting with reporters after taking part in a consultative meeting with party functionaries at Agastheeswaram, Radhakrishnan said Stalin wiped out a symbol placed on him as a mark of respect during his visit to the Srirangam temple in 2018. He recalled an incident at the freedom fighter Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar memorial during the 113th Thevar Jayanthi last week where Stalin threw away sacred ashes given to him. The former Union minister said Thevar is highly regarded by people from various walks of life and his memorial is also seen as a temple. “It is visited by both people with belief in God and atheists, apart from leaders of various political parties. But Stalin’s act at that place is very lowly and strongly condemnable,” Radhakrishnan added. He said BJP’s month-long Vel Yatra that starts on November 6 would bring clarity on various issues. It is natural for those with fear to oppose the yatra, pointing out at political parties opposing it. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stalin-insulted-deities-pon-radhakrishnan/articleshow/79029141.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Kiosk owners look ahead with hope||NEW DELHI: When Radhe Shyam Pandey (62) first started working as a porter at Kashmere Gate Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in 1978, construction of the present terminal building was still not fully complete and for all these years, this is where he earned his livelihood. “I had a very difficult time during the lockdown and even after unlock, I kept waiting for the ISBT to open,” a visibly pleased Pandey said, even though there were not many passengers on day one of the reopening of the three ISBTs of Delhi. “Number of passengers will grow soon,” he added. “Though my legs are not as strong as earlier, my shoulders are still strong and I can carry luggage easily. I am old, but my family still depends on me and there is nothing else I can do,” he said. Nandan Singh who runs a snack bar at the Anand Vihar ISBT opened his shop for the first time since March 22. “All the biscuits, wafers and many other snacks rotted inside the shop,” said Singh who hails from Uttarakhand and stays in northeast Delhi’s Bhajanpura with his wife and parents. “I didn’t have any money left to feed my family and can’t even pay the rent of this shop. Whatever little savings I had, I spent during the lockdown to sustain myself,” he said. “This kiosk is my only source of livelihood. I hope more buses and passengers start arriving at the ISBT soon,” he said. Pawan Kumar’s small kiosk where he sells mobile covers is at a distance from the Kashmere Gate ISBT but the closure of the terminal saw his income go down massively. “I sell mobile covers and earphones in the small lane that connects the ISBT with the Delhi Metro station, which always remained busy with thousands of passengers passing by before the lockdown,” he said. “I used to make a decent income, which helped me contribute to my family’s income,” said Kumar who is not married. “Though the area was not completely deserted before today but there was almost no income. I saw the ISBT gates open today and hopefully, there would be more customers soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kiosk-owners-look-ahead-with-hope/articleshow/79029225.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 4, 2020||Madurai||‘Tamilagam Meetpom’ a move to uplift state: Stalin||Madurai: Uplifting the state from its downfall is the goal of ‘Tamilagam Meetpom’, the election propaganda for the ensuing elections, said DMK president M K Stalin. He was addressing the ‘Tamilagam Meetpom’ programme organised by the Virudhunagar district wing of the DMK, through video conferencing on Tuesday. “It is a move to retrieve the lost glory of the state and to re-establish Anna’s rule in the state. We should strive to implement the dream schemes of Kalaignar Karunanidhi. We should prove that we are brothers of Anna,” he said. He said that it was the practice of the DMK to start election campaigns from Virudhunagar. It was done in 2004 for the Lok Sabha elections and the DMK and its allies swept the elections with 40/40. Similarly, the campaign for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was launched from Virudhunagar and the DMK alliance won 39 out of 40 seats, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamilagam-meetpom-a-move-to-uplift-state-stalin/articleshow/79029180.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: State Industrial Security Force entry raises questions||T’PURAM: The decision and subsequent government order deploying state industrial security force (SISF) to secure the Secretariat from protestors has added more confusion to the present security system. The order issued by chief secretary Vishwas Mehta, deploying SISF in Secretariat, leaves several key questions unanswered, the main one being the operational instructions and controlling authority of the force deployed inside the Secretariat. As per the order, the security of Secretariat and premises will be handed over to SISF that is under the control of an officer not below the rank of SP. This will invariably mean that Secretariat security is out of the hands of Thiruvananthapuram police commissioner, who is legally responsible for the security of the capital. In the absence of legal backing —unlike Special Protection Group, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Railway Protection Force that were constituted through a statute— SISF will have to look up to the next person in command who will then again have to depend on the higher ups in police in case of an eventuality. “ It is a professionally-unwise move. The legal entity being the police commissioner and the officer being kept out of the responsibility for Secretariat, there are less chances that local police will get involved in law and order issues and take decision on whether coercive power or firearms can be used in case of an eventuality,” said police sources, adding that unless the government order is rectified, it could lead to problems in future. SISF was constituted along the lines of CISF, which was constituted by the Centre in 1983 to protect and safeguard industrial units under Centre and state government installations. As per Section 10 of CISF Act, CISF need not wait for the arrival of police or the magistrate for taking steps to ensure the safety and security of the unit which it protects. Unlike central agencies, SISF was constituted in 2012 through an executive order without statutory backing, for providing sufficient security coverage to vital institutions in public and private sectors, like dams, power plants, banks on payment basis. In the absence of statutory backing for action, SISF will have to depend on local police. Mehta’s order further says that parking in Secretariat will be made more systematic and secure by SISF; an armed police battalion that’s not clued in on traffic management. The order says that SISF commandant will have to ensure ‘adequate manpower’ for security. Unless he receives intelligence inputs on a daily basis, it can’t be ascertained whether the manpower is ‘adequate’. Meanwhile, state police chief Loknath Behera said SISF is an armed battalion that doesn’t need separate statute to perform duties. “It is a trained force under the armed police battalion. In case of an eventuality, it can hand over the matter to police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sisf-entry-raises-questions/articleshow/79027557.cms||KP Saikiran
November 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Police nab 2 more accused, total arrests go up to 11||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district police have nabbed two more accused in connection with murder of Surendra Bhandary, actor and rowdy sheeter. Bhandary, 39, was hacked to death in a flat at Bhandary Bettu in Bantwal taluk on October 20 and a case was registered in Bantwal town police station in this connection. Police have already arrested nine persons, including Akashbhavan Sharan, known associate of fugitive Vikki Shetty. Those arrested are Prateek, 27, resident of Laila village in Belthangady taluk and Jayesh aka Sachu, 27, resident of Konchandy in Bondel of Mangaluru taluk. Police team’s investigations in various angles to this heinous crime led them to Prateek, who helped Satish and Girish, prime accused in the case evade the law by giving them shelter and logistical support, including cash and vehicle to escape. Prateek received Rs 2.5 lakh for this help. Police nabbed Jayesh, who not only helped Satish and Girish stay out from sight, but also on an instruction from Akashbhavan Sharan, collected the ‘supari’ money from another prime accused Pradeep aka Pappu. Out of these two accused, Prateek is facing charges under the Explosives Act and was in to blackmailing people in the guise of a journalist, investigating officer T D Nagaraj said. The duo has been remanded in to judicial custody. Noting that major part of the investigation is almost over with the latest arrests, Nagaraj said the investigators are now in the process of compiling eyewitness list and other documentation needed before the charge sheet is filed. “We are awaiting reports from FSL and are working on collecting technical evidence to link the accused to this crime,” Nagaraj said, adding the police is on course to file the charge sheet before the court within 90-days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/police-nab-2-more-accused-total-arrests-go-up-to-11/articleshow/79026434.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Migrant worker from Jharkhand loses IPL bets, ends life||HYDERABAD: A migrant worker from Jharkhand ended his life by hanging due to loss incurred in IPL cricket betting at Panjagutta on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Sonu Kumar Yadav, a coconut vendor from Dwarakapuri Colony in Panjagutta. On Tuesday, police received a complaint from Arjun Kumar Yadav, 22, a bakery worker from Dilsukhnagar, stating that his younger brother Sonu Kumar Yadav, 19, committed suicide at his room in Dwarakapuri Colony due to loss incurred in IPL betting. Police registered a suspicious death case under Section 174 of the CrPC and shifted the body for post-mortem examination to Osmania General Hospital (OGH).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-loses-ipl-bets-ends-life/articleshow/79029179.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ranchi||Hyderabad: Migrant worker from Jharkhand loses IPL bets, ends life||HYDERABAD: A migrant worker from Jharkhand ended his life by hanging due to loss incurred in IPL cricket betting at Panjagutta on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Sonu Kumar Yadav, a coconut vendor from Dwarakapuri Colony in Panjagutta. On Tuesday, police received a complaint from Arjun Kumar Yadav, 22, a bakery worker from Dilsukhnagar, stating that his younger brother Sonu Kumar Yadav, 19, committed suicide at his room in Dwarakapuri Colony due to loss incurred in IPL betting. Police registered a suspicious death case under Section 174 of the CrPC and shifted the body for post-mortem examination to Osmania General Hospital (OGH).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/man-loses-ipl-bets-ends-life/articleshow/79032968.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Active cases come down as recovery rate picks up||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Covid-19 was confirmed in 6,862 people in the state on Tuesday as 8,802 patients recovered from the disease. The number of patients under treatment has come down to 84,713 while 3,64,745 people has so far recovered from the disease. The total number of cases reported in the state stands at 4,51,130. In the last 24 hours, 61,138 samples were tested. Among the new cases, 6,755 are infected through local contacts and the sources of 783 are unknown. As many as 73 health workers have also tested positive. Of those diagnosed, 107 have travelled to the state from outside. Meanwhile, 26 recent deaths were confirmed as due to Covid-19, taking the death toll in the state to 1,560. The deceased are Abdul Azeez (72), Gangadharan (82), Aswin (23), Sarojini (85), Makatton (41), Karunakaran (75), Ramachandran Pillai (64) and Ajith Kumar (62) of Thiruvananthapuram; Raghavan Pillai (85) of Kollam; Joseph (48) of Alappuzha; James Luckose (67) and Macath (64) of Kottayam; Mary Peter (78) and Hellen Tomy (56) of Ernakulam; Francis (83), Balan (72), Abdul Gafoor (67) and Jayalekshmi (74) of Thrissur; Baputty (80) of Malappuram; Velayudhan (65), Sivadasan (71), Mami (67), Rajan (72) and Amina (67) of Kozhikode; Geetha (86) of Wayanad and Velayudhan (53) of Kasargod. Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases 856 followed by Ernakulam (850), Kozhikode (842), Alappuzha (760), Thiruvananthapuram (654), Kollam (583), Kottayam (507), Malappuram (467), Palakkad (431), Kannur (335), Pathanamthitta (245), Kasaragod (147), Wayanad (118) and Idukki (67).  Till date, 47,89,542 samples have been sent for testing. There are 2,96,614 people totally under isolation across the state, 2,75,844 under home or institutional quarantine and 20,770 in hospitals. On Tuesday, 2,289 people were admitted to hospitals. Four places in Kottayam and Ernakulam districts were demarcated as new hotspots as nine areas were exempted. There are 652 hotspots in the state now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/active-cases-come-down-as-recovery-rate-picks-up/articleshow/79027554.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Possible megalithic structure found from Kutch||AHMEDABAD: Local enthusiasts in Kutch stumbled upon a possible megalithic structure near Bhimasar, about 22 km east from Rapar. They have urged the state authorities to carry out research to throw light on its history. Mahadev Barad, a local archaeology enthusiast from Vagad, said that he had heard about a stone structure, locally known as ‘Bhim gufa’ about 2 km from Bhimasar village near a hillock. “Upon reaching there, we realized that it was a manmade structure as the rocks were found to be roughly cut. We also cleaned up a part of it, revealing staircase going inside,” he said. Barad and others cleaned an area of about 10X10 feet, revealing cut rocks piled upon each other. “I have already informed the local authorities and state archaeology department about the find and have requested them to take steps for conservation,” he said, adding that geology department from the KSKV Kutch University is likely to visit the spot. Shubhashis Das, an independent researcher and author on megalithic structures in India, said that Barad had informed him about the find. “While I am still to visit the site, I had asked him to ascertain its cardinal directions. Upon checking with compass, it’s passageway points towards north – like the megalithic structures found in England, it’s possible that the passage was directed to catch the winter solstice sunrise. However, more study is required,” said Das. Das said that burial mounds were practised in several cultures and if revealed properly, the structure could be one. “While memorial/ hero stones (Paliya) are very common in Gujarat, we also get examples of stone circles and menhir (standing stones). But I don’t have such a structure in my knowledge,” he said, adding that it’s difficult to estimate age of the stone structures, but the structure at Bhimasar could belong to 700-500 BC period based on its design. Sanket Rajput, sarpanch of Bhimasar village, said that they will seek the government and expert help to understand the find. “Kutch is known for its natural and manmade treasures. We are not sure what the research may reveal – but we would try to conserve and protect it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/possible-megalithic-structure-found-from-kutch/articleshow/79029256.cms||Parth Shastri
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Panch witnesses destroy liquor||AHMEDABAD: Legally, panch witnesses are taken to a crime scene to substantiate an offence against accused person. But some panch witnesses in a village in Palanpur taluka of Banaskantha, themselves destroyed around five litres of country liquor during a raid.  Sources in Palanpur police said that the incident took place on Sunday evening when constable Ashok Ramji of Palanpur taluka police, along with two panch witnesses raided a liquor den in Hathidra village. A cop said that the two panch witnesses, residents of Chitrasani village of Palanpur, had a fight with the accused Ghemraji Visatar over some financial dispute after which they kicked pots and bottles filled with liquor and destroyed it. According to the official police version, the accused managed to flee and the panch witnesses had to destroy the liquor as there was no facility to take the alcohol to the police station. An FIR filed with Palanpur taluka police states that Ramji, who was posted at Chitrasani village outpost, got an input that Visatar had set up a brewing still at his farm where he also had some IMFL bottles. After Ramji and two panch witnesses arrived, the three had a dispute with the Visatar over a compromise in the case while demanding money. At that time, the two panch witnesses got into a brawl with Visatar and Ramji over their share in the case. This led them to destroy the pots of country liquor and two IMFL bottles by kicking and throwing them away. The cop managed to get 180ml of liquor as evidence in the case but could not ascertain the total quantity. An inquiry has been initiated by Palanpur police regarding destruction of the liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/panch-witnesses-destroy-liquor/articleshow/79029266.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro erects first U-girder for Phase-IV project||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday erected the first “U-girder” on its upcoming Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor, which is a major milestone in its Phase-IV project. A girder is a span connecting pillars forming the viaduct on which metro tracks are laid. “The U-girders, an important component of elevated viaducts, are being erected near Kali Mata Temple between the upcoming Pushpanjali and Deepali Chowk Metro stations along Outer Ring Road,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. Over the years, DMRC has used precast structures such as box-birders, I-girders and U-girders, which are pre-tensioned and U-shaped and tracks can be laid on them immediately. To save time and construction cost in the Phase-IV project, DMRC decided to standardise the usage of U-girders in the entire network. “Twin U-girders of 28m length are used in each span. The total weight of one U-girder is approximately 160 metric tonnes. Despite several constraints due to the pandemic, we managed to start this important component of construction work,” Dayal said. The casting of U-girders was started at the designated yard in Mundka in June. Dayal added that metro projects across the world were extensively using U-girders as it saved time and ensured quality. “The girders are brought to the site and erected with the help of high-capacity cranes. In all, 780 such girders will be erected on this corridor,” he said. The casting work of U-girders requires meticulous precision and planning, including maintenance of measurements and technical parameters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metro-erects-first-u-girder-for-phase-iv-project/articleshow/79029264.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Kochi||More symptomatic cases in Ernakulam warrants more testing||KOCHI: As the district health authorities are testing only symptomatic and vulnerable people, symptomatic patients constitute nearly 70% of the total Covid-19 positive cases being reported in Ernakulam. On three days from October 28 to 30, the count of symptomatic positives crossed 70%. The highest number of symptomatic cases reported in the last 10 days was on October 29 when 802 people tested positive. Of them, 74% were symptomatic and the less number of symptomatic cases during the same period were reported on November 2 59%. In the rest of the days, more than 64% cases belonged to the symptomatic category. Health authorities say this warrants more testing. They also said only less than 40% of the cases were symptomatic in September. “As the testing strategy have been changing every now and then, the pattern of people being tested also changes. We currently test people with symptoms. But when we subject them to testing, majority of them are Covid positive. We don’t test their contacts. Most of the asymptomatic positive cases are frontline workers and vulnerable people. As 70% of those testing positive are symptomatic people, there needs to be more testing,” said a district health official. The district witnessed only around 25% positive cases with symptoms in August. When the district witnessed more cases after Onam, it rose up to 40% in September. “If one asymptomatic patient goes untested, at least 20 people will contract the virus from that person. The issue is that the number of tests being done is very low in Ernakulam. TPR is very high in the government sector compared to the private one. Most of the asymptomatic people are tested at private labs voluntarily for various purposes,” the official said. While another official said the 70% of symptomatic cases daily is an indication of health authorities picking up more symptomatic people as part of the testing strategy. The authorities had projected earlier that Ernakulam might witness minimum 50,000 and maximum 80,000 cases by November 1 and the district almost touched that projection with 46,000 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-symptomatic-cases-in-ekm-warrants-more-testing/articleshow/79027576.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: 41-year-old man found murdered||LUDHIANA: A 41-year-old man was found murdered at a vacant plot near hosiery complex, Bahadur Ke Road, on Tuesday morning. Passersby sounded the police on spotting the body. Police said it seemed the man was attacked multiple times on face and head with bricks. An Aadhaar card recovered from the body helped identify it as that of Raju Basak, a native of Bihar. Assistant commissioner of police (north) Gurbinder Singh, “The accused killed the man by attacking him with bricks on Monday night. Raju’s place of residence is yet to be ascertained as the Aadhar card has his Bihar address. We have urged Bihar police to contact his family. It is being checked if a complaint of Raju going missing was filed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/41-year-old-man-found-murdered/articleshow/79026457.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada sees drastic slide in dengue cases in 2020||MANGALURU: The focus of the state’s healthcare machinery being more or less monopolised by Covid-19, there were fears among stakeholders in the sector of other diseases seeing an uptick, particularly vector-borne diseases such as dengue. Furthermore, many districts in the state did register a rise in the number of dengue cases this year, but Dakshina Kannada is not one of them. There has been a sharp decline in the number of dengue cases reported in the coastal district this year. In 2019, as many as 1,539 people in Dakshina Kannada reported dengue. As on October 31 this year, only 220 dengue cases have been reported from across Dakshina Kannada, and the chances of the number even inching closer to the 1,000-mark seem slim since the quantum of rainfall in November and December is too little to allow for unchecked spread of vector-borne diseases. In 2019, Mangaluru city had accounted for the lion’s share of the dengue cases reported in Dakshina Kannada – 969 of the 1,539 cases – in addition to reporting two of the four fatalities. But Mangaluru has reported a mere 30 dengue cases this year, and there has not been a single death owing to the disease across Dakshina Kannada this year. But the health department is not willing to relax its vigilance, with efforts continuing to ensure people take adequate measures to check breeding of mosquitoes. Dakshina Kannada district surveillance officer Dr Naveen Chandra Kulal called on people to stay as vigilant against vector-borne diseases as they have been in combating Covid-19. “Last year, we witnessed a decline in the number of dengue cases after September, although the incidence was high in April and May. Precautionary measures adopted by the people, in addition to measures put in place by the health department have helped keep the number of dengue cases down in the district. People are more conscious now, after the steep spike the district witnessed last year. Also, the lockdown and fear of Covid-19 have resulted in people staying indoors. Meanwhile, the department has also undertaken IEC programmes, making regular door-to-door visits,” Dr Kulal told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-sees-drastic-slide-in-dengue-cases-in-2020/articleshow/79026454.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen threaten to hit road in protest||Ludhiana: City businessmen are livid over the failure of both the state government and the Centre to resolve the issues concerning Punjab farmers who had started rail roko andolan over a month ago. According to businessmen, the rail blockade is causing losses of several crores to the industry and they were facing another big problem of the migrant workers heading back to their home states in the absence of work as factories are not running at their full capacity. Some of the businessmen feel the situation will affect the expansion of industry and future investments in the state.Narinder Bhamra, president of Fastener Manufacturers’ Association of India, says, “Due to the lackadaisical attitude of the state government and the Centre, industry is in perils. Not even a single train of raw material has been able to enter Punjab for the past more than a month. The delivery of finished goods to other states from Ludhiana has also been halted. Due to very less business activity in factories, production is on the decline and we are not able to give work to our labourers. A large number of workers are sitting idle. If the situation continues, migrant workers will head to their home states.” Despite knowing the ground realities, both the state and the Centre are not willing to resolve the matter with the farm unions, he says. “They are busy passing the blame on each other for the agitation. It is our warning to both the governments that if in the coming week this problem is not resolved, businessmen will be forced to hit the roads,” Bhamra adds.Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, pegs Ludhiana industry’s average loss at around Rs 10 crore to Rs 15 crore per day on account of fixed expenses and penalties from their buyers. “It is sad that the reputation of Punjab in business community in India and abroad has been ruined. This deadlock between the farmers and the government has made chances of expansion and bringing in new investors to Punjab bleak. Already the industrialists have made up their mind not to expand in the state as there is no surety from the government about smooth running of businesses,” he says. Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, says, “The rail roko andolan has continued in Punjab for over a month now, causing losses worth thousands of crores to the industry and affecting livelihood of poor factory workers. The way the state government has acted so far, it is clear that it is not willing to resolve this crisis and wants the industry to bleed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-threaten-to-hit-road-in-protest/articleshow/79026469.cms||Mohit Behl
November 4, 2020||Delhi||AAP slams north corpn over plan to sell assets for raising funds||NEW DELHI: AAP’s municipal corporation in-charge, Durgesh Pathak, on Tuesday said the BJP-run North Delhi Municipal Corporation had decided to sell its land assets before the next civic elections and demanded an immediate rollback. AAP will protest against three such proposals at Wednesday’s standing committee meeting, he said. Pathak said schools, hospitals and other civic institutions were in trouble as employees had been protesting for their dues and students had no book. The assets are Organic Limited Commercial Complex at Naniwala Bagh, Novelty Cinema building, and land and commercial complex near Azadpur, Pathak claimed. “BJP functionaries have decided that before leaving, they will finish everything,” he alleged. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the proposal was about leasing out lands for a limited period as done by all land-owing bodies, including Delhi government, and no land was being sold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-slams-n-corpn-over-plan-to-sell-assets-for-raising-funds/articleshow/79029280.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala police messed up with probe: CBI SP||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CBI SP Nandakumaran Nair, who was the investigating officer in Sister Abhaya murder case, told the CBI special court on Tuesday that there had been major flaws in the initial investigation by Kerala Police and crime branch in the murder case. “Finger prints from crime scene were not tested, inquest report was manipulated, no forensic examination was done on the chappal and veil received from the crime scene and some of the material evidence collected had gone missing,” Nair said during the examination by CBI prosecutor M Navas. Nair who took over the investigation in 2008 arrested Fr Thomas Kottoor, Sister Sephy and Fr Jose Puthrukayil in the case in November 2008. He said the arrests were to be made as the accused failed to explain the evidences against them. Fr Puthrukayil was later discharged from the case by the high court. The other two accused are now facing trial in CBI special court. Efforts of Nair to refer to the narco-analysis test and brain fingerprinting test which had revealed that the accused had been complicit in the case during examination invited objection from the defence counsel B Raman Pillai. He referred to the high court verdict against examining the officials of Forensic Science Lab, Bangalore, who had conducted narco analysis, as witnesses in the case citing the Supreme Court order delivered in 2010, and argued that the findings of forensic test couldn’t be marked as evidence. The SC had ordered that conducting narco analysis, brain-mapping and polygraph tests on accused, suspects and witnesses without their consent, is unconstitutional and violation of the ‘right to privacy’. During cross examination, Pillai raised a high court order that contained severe criticism against Nair in another case. But, Nair replied with the verdict in his appeal against the same order in which the high court chief justice had given him a clean chit. Cross examination of Nair will continue on Wednesday. And with that, the examination of all prosecution witnesses will be complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-police-messed-up-with-probe-cbi-sp/articleshow/79027580.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Trichy||Sangiliyandapuram residents lament frequent shifting of post office||Trichy: Residents of Sangiliyandapuram and its surrounding areas have raised objection to the frequent relocation of their local post office. The authorities from the head post office have changed the location of the sub post office as many as three times in the last 13 years and is set to change the location once again, leaving pensioners and account holders in the lurch.The Sangiliyandapuram Pushpa Nagar post initially office used to function from a building located in Gandhi Street for more than 30 years. It was then shifted to the head post office, situated more than two kilometres away from its original location, 13 years ago. Later the sub-post office was moved to another building in Ilango Nagar in Sangiliyandapuram. Around four years ago, the post office was once again shifted to a building owned by the railway department close to Goods Shed road near Sangiliyandapuram, where it is currently functioning.But the railway authorities have recently asked the postal department to vacate the post office from their building. The locals lamented that they are unaware as to where the sub post office is going to be shifted next. Each time the post office is translocated to a place farther away from the previous location causing inconvenience to the locals, said Sundaravalli Pugazhendhi from Pushpa Nagar. "There are around 50 pensioners who have been collecting their monthly pension from the post office. They have to reach the post office whenever it is shifted to a new place. So, the postal authorities should find a suitable place in Pushpanagar. There is a place near the overhead water tank owned by the corporation where the post office can be shifted to”, Sundaravalli said.When contacted, a senior official from the head post office said that they were in search of a suitable building to accommodate the sub-post office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sangiliyandapuram-residents-lament-frequent-shifting-of-post-office/articleshow/79030231.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Aspiring scribe cooks up desecration story, held||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Monday night arrested an aspiring scribe, who is a school student, for sacrilege of holy books on Tibba Road.The Class IX student is a freelancer with a web news portal. Police said as the write-ups of the accused were not getting published, he cooked up the desecration story to get quick fame. He has been arrested.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “On Monday evening, Baldev Singh, the president of a gurdwara in the area, apprised the police of the sacrilege incident. He said that the boy called him up, saying there were torn pages of holy books at a field and that he saw two men escaping from there. During investigation, the police could not verify bike-borne men near the spot. Thereafter, the boy was questioned and he confessed to have committed the crime.” The boy had started freelancing with the web news portal four months ago. “He had sent a couple of write-ups but none were published. He wanted a sensational news story to get fame. He had recently converted to Sikhism and purchased holy books from outside a gurdwara. He tore pages of the holy books and threw them at the field. We have recovered the holy books from his house from which pages were torn,” Agarwal added. The police are verifying the age of the accused, who claims to be 17-year-old. The police had called a forensic team from Chandigarh for investigation. On Tuesday morning, the area residents held a peaceful protest in the area, seeking action against the accused. BLURBClass IX student is a freelancer with a web news portal. As his write-ups were not getting published, he cooked up the sacrilege story to get quick fame||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aspiring-scribe-cooks-up-desecration-story-held/articleshow/79026485.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Sales of lamps, candles gradually picking up||AHMEDABAD: With just a fortnight to go before Diwali, sales of lamps and candles have begun to gradually pick up. However those involved in the manufacture of candles and lamps expect sales this year to be lower than last year because of the pandemic. Shoaib Machiswala, who has a candle manufacturing unit in Narol, said that traders have begun to place orders for candles. “Last year, the Diwali demand began a month before the festival, but traders are wary of placing orders as they are still not very sure about sales. Thankfully, people have begun making Diwali purchases now,” he said. Labhubhai Prajapati, who makes Diwali lamps at Sarkhej, says that he has made just about half of the number that he makes every Diwali. “A fortnight before Diwali, sales of `diyas’ is usually high, but this time around, sales is subdued. However, even in the pandemic, people will continue to light up their houses. Sales will however be much less than last year’s,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sales-of-lamps-candles-gradually-picking-up/articleshow/79027772.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Woman ends life after ‘villagers humiliate’ her||tnnLAND DISPUTELudhiana: After being “humiliated by village residents”, a 38-year-old woman committed suicide at her house in Balliyewal village, Koomkalan, on Monday evening.The family of the woman — Vijay Kaur, 38 — and the accused had a land dispute. The accused have been identified as the sarpanch, panchayat secretary Makhan Singh, villagers Nimma, Peet, Binda, Bhola and his wife. Vijay’s husband, Gurpreet Singh, said in his police complaint, “The panchayat had given us a piece of land on which we made a cattle shed. Some of the villagers wanted to build a temple there and started constructing its compound wall. They were forcing us to shift the cattle shed from there. When we refused, they barged into our house and threatened us on November 1.” The next day, he along with his wife went to Koomkalan police station to lodge a complaint. “There, we learned that the panchayat secretary has already filed a complaint against me. When we returned home, the villagers again threatened us and humiliated my wife outside our house, in front of everyone. Upset, my wife hanged herself to death,” he added.Koomkalan ASI Baldev Singh said an FIR under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC has been lodged against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-ends-life-after-villagers-humiliate-her/articleshow/79026509.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: SFIO begins probe into DPIL scam||AHMEDABAD: The Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO), Mumbai, has started investigation into the affairs of Vadodara-based Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd and its 14 other companies with regard to the alleged Rs 2,654-crore bank scam. The SFIO has initiated the probe at the behest of the ministry of corporate affairs and issued summons to DPIL’s managing director, Amit Bhatnagar, who is out on temporary bail granted by the Gujarat high court. Bhatnagar has been asked to appear before the SFIO in Mumbai on November 24. According to Bhatnagar’s advocate Virat Popat, the central government had ordered SFIO to probe the case in June 2018 only after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested Bhatnagar and other accused and started investigating into the case. However, this parallel probe under the Companies Act was not known till date. The accused came to know about it during the proceedings of bail application only. Bhatnagar has sought modification in bail conditions because he has been barred from leaving Gujarat borders. The assistant director of SFIO, Munish Garg, filed an affidavit in the high court last week and informed the court that he was designated to probe the case under section 212(4) of the Companies Act. He further submitted that Amit Bhatnagar was one of the primary-decision makes of the company. Being the managing director, he was running the day-to-day affairs of the company and therefore he was summoned. He also stated that Bhatnagar was not in CBI’s custody and that he was not required to leave the country. He is only required to mark his presence before CBI officer twice a month. Justice Sonia Gokani has posted further hearing on November 6 and asked the central government counsel to take instructions from concerned authority to explore possibility whether the officer can travel to Gujarat for questioning Bhatnagar. This happened after the SFIO insisted that since voluminous record of the case is being made available at the Mumbai office, Bhatnagar may be questioned in Mumbai. The CBI filed a chargesheet against Bhatnagar in July 2018 and the Enforcement Directorate filed its investigation report in special court in December 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sfio-begins-probe-into-rs-2654-cr-dpil-bank-scam-summons-bhatnagar/articleshow/79029282.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Varanasi||Deoria byelection: 51% voters exercise their voting rights||Gorakhpur: Around 51.05% voters turned out till 6pm as voting concluded for by-election in Deoria Sadar seat on Tuesday. The seat became vacant after the sad demise of BJP MLA Janmejay Singh in August. The fate of 14 candidates has been sealed at 184 polling centres and 487 polling booths of the district. Among 3,36,565 voters, 51.05 % exercised their voting rights. The entire constituency was divided in 8 zones and 48 sectors and the control room was established at the collectorate conference hall. Live telecast was arranged at 49 polling centres and videography was done at 61 booths. ‘Covid -19’ protocol was followed at each booth. Masks and gloves were provided to voters by the administration. EVMs will be collected under high security at a strong room at Maharaja Agrasen Inter College, said district magistrate Amit Kishore. The polling started at 7am and was obstructed for sometime at around 20 booth centres as EVMs were not functioning. The voter turnout in Deoria, which was slow in the morning till 9am, picked momentum in the last few hours and reached 55% by 6.30pm. The turnout was only 18.1% till 11am, and it crossed 40% by 3pm. As per the election officer the polling reached 51.05% by 6pm. Samajwadi party candidate, Brahamma Shankar Tripathi raised objection on a image of lotus on a pillar of a school at booth number 253 as lotus is the symbol of BJP. Later administration covered the image. “It is an open violation of the election code of conduct and I will make a complaint regarding the issue to the election commission. Administration is working as an agent of the ruling party. Voting was delayed at many booths due to faulty EVM machines, especially at the booths having more voters in favour of the SP,” said Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/deoria-byelection-51-voters-exercise-their-voting-rights/articleshow/79030247.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Despite Covid, Dubbak clocks 82.6% polling||Hyderabad: Telangana chief electoral officer Shashank Goel said 82.6% voters turned up on Tuesday to exercise their adult franchise despite Covid-19 situation in the bypoll to the Dubbak assembly constituency. In the 2018 assembly polls, the poll percentage was 89.85%. Votes will be counted on November 10. “Without Covid-19 fear, voters came forward and exercised their right in Dubbak. We have taken all precautionary measures to ensure the health and safety of voters. Medical teams deployed at each polling station checked temperature of voters, distributed disposable hand gloves, no entry without masks, physical distancing in queues was ensured by the staff. Siddipet and Medak district administration also created awareness,” Goel said. “Ät some places, during the initial hours, there were issues with electronic voting machine functioning, but it was rectified with the help of Bharat Electronics Limited engineers. EVMs at six to seven places didn’t work and we replaced them. During counting, votes already polled will also be taken into account,” the CEO said. Webcasting was done from several polling booths. Goel visited several booths in Dubbak. “During my visit, I spoke to several polling agents and they were confident of measures taken. There was no law and order issue. Not even one incident was reported. Polls went off peacefully,” he added. Covid-19 patients also went to the polling booths wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and cast their votes. “Electronic Voting machiness will be shifted to strongrooms in Siddipet and central paramilitary forces, assisted by local police, will guard them,” said Goel. There were a total of 315 polling stations with 54 auxiliary polling stations Electronic Voting machines failed in the middle of polling in six place. Exactly 23 candidates contested The results will be declared on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-covid-dubbak-clocks-82-6-polling/articleshow/79029268.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 4, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Online mode helps schools cover portions early||KOCHI: Even though online classes have several drawbacks compared to the offline classes, the completion of academic portions in higher classes happens in the same pace, if not a bit faster. Most of the CBSE schools in the state have completed around 80% portions of classes IX to XII so far. While the portions of subjects like English and other languages have been covered up to 90%, that of core subjects like mathematics and physics have reached 80%. However, the effectiveness of student’s comprehension is still a concern and teachers aim to address this issue when schools are reopened. Schools aim to complete the portions by late November so that they could conduct effective revision once the offline classes are resumed and compensate the drawbacks of online classes through remedial sessions. The practicals sessions too are pending even though many schools have started using virtual labs. According to the teachers, the amount of portions completed in each session of online class is much higher than an offline class. However, as the duration and number of online sessions each day is lesser than that of periods in the school due to the regulations by the ministry of education regarding academic screen time of students. Hence, the lower classes (I to VIII), which have only one or two sessions daily, each spanning up to 45 minutes, are lagging behind in terms of coverage of portions. “During the online sessions teachers can complete the portions faster as there are lesser interactions or disturbances happening. Moreover the repetition of each topic in order to drill the concept into the students happens very rarely in online classes. But the challenge lies in terms of student’s comprehensive ability. The online examinations we did will not as effective as the proper evaluation methods like periodic tests. All these can be remedied only after reopening the school but by that time we want to complete the portions,” said Juby Paul, principal, ToC H Public School, Vytilla.Suma Paul, principal of Assisi Vidyanikethan, Kakkanad, said that though schools have implemented the syllabus reduction as directed by the CBSE, teachers have to cover many of those deleted topics as they are related to other relevant topics. “In order to meet the time limitations of online classes, teachers are uploading video tutorials of their subjects to make the portions more comprehensive. We have conducted a survey among parents to know the effectiveness of the online class and more the 90% parents responded very positively,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/online-mode-helps-schools-cover-portions-early/articleshow/79027670.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
November 4, 2020||Varanasi||Over 55% voter turnout recorded in Malhani||VARANASI: The voting for assembly bypoll in Malhani constituency in Jaunpur district was conducted peacefully on Tuesday with the sealing the fate of 16 candidates in electronic voting machines. By 6pm, 56.65% polling was recorded. Varanasi divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, IG Varanasi range Vijay Singh Meena, Jaunpur district magistrate and election officer Dinesh Kumar remained busy in inspecting the polling booths during the polling. There are 3.62 lakh voters in Malhani assembly area for whom 554 booths of 238 polling stations were created for polling. To maintain law and order during the polling, the Malhani assembly area had been divided into six zones and 22 sectors. In view of the by-election all markets as well as educational institutions of the district were closed on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/over-55-voter-turnout-recorded-in-malhani/articleshow/79030283.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lowest tally for Ahmedabad in 45 days||AHMEDABAD: With 954 Covid-19 positive cases in 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday, Gujarat’s tally crossed 1.75 lakh cases. After two days of below 900 cases, Tuesday posted 6% daily rise. It was tenth consecutive day of below 1,000 daily cases. Ahmedabad city recoreded 154 fresh cases on Tuesday. It was lowest count in last 45 days. The last 25,000 cases were recorded in 24 days at the average of 1,051 cases, compared to 19 days it took for the state to reach from 1.25 lakh cases to 1.5 lakh cases with average 1,350 cases, reveal data analysis. The new cases included 198 from Surat — below 200 in nearly four months — followed by 166 from Ahmedabad, 108 from Vadodara, and 64 from Rajkot. With the update, the total tally in Ahmedabad crossed 43,000. The state also recorded deaths of six positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,734. The deaths included three from Surat, two from Ahmedabad, and one from Mehsana. With the update, the death toll in Ahmedabad and Surat reached 1,908 and 849 respectively. A total of 1,197 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.59 lakh. The discharges included 276 from Surat and 168 from Ahmedabad. With the update, the share of active cases got reduced to 7% at 12,451. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 90.8% and 2.2% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lowest-tally-for-city-in-45-days/articleshow/79029360.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kolhapur||No Covid death in Kolhapur district on Monday after 105 days||Kolhapur: The daily Covid-related death figure has dropped to zero Kolhapur district in after 105 days. Officials said the number of Covid cases too will come down to zero in the next two weeks. They claim a pandemic cycle lasts for about 120 days, which is being proven by the daily Covid status of Kolhapur district. The first death in the district, of an Ichalkaranji-based patient, had taken place on April 30. Over time, the death count increased steadily. It had come down to zero on July 11. This phase was marked by the asymptomatic patients returning to Kolhapur from major cities due to lockdown.  After July, the number of cases spiked primarily due to local transmission. Currently, the district has a death rate of 3.4%. Yogesh Sale, the district health officer, said: “Lot of effort has gone into bringing the death count down to zero. Currently, the cases are in double digits, which too may come down to a single-digit figure soon. We have very few critical patients and with the thumb rule of 10% mortality among the critical patients, we are expecting no sudden rise in Covid cases.” According to the data provided by the administration, the number of deaths in cities and towns has declined and so has the number of cases. However, the rural areas of the district continue to report a high number of cases in comparison to the cities and towns. “We are adopting several measures to ensure the spread like the current cycle does not recur. The next phase of Covid cases is expected to arrive. We can expect a surge in the cases in coming months, however, the death rate will be negligible,” said Sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-covid-death-in-kolhapur-dist-on-monday-after-105-days/articleshow/79026539.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Scrapped courses: Delhi University officials in dock over fund misuse||NEW DELHI: Days after the services of Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi were suspended by the President over allegations of administrative lapses and dereliction of duty, the vice-president’s office and University Grants Commission wrote to DU to take appropriate action over alleged misuse of funds amounting to Rs 29 lakh on two courses that had been discontinued. On July 18, TOI had reported how DU was showing expenditures against the programmes it no longer offered to students. The expenditure details from the finance branch showed that DU had spent Rs 29 lakh between 2017-18 and 2019-20 for MTech programmes in nanoscience and nanotechnology, which were discontinued in 2014 with the last batch graduating in 2017. Central Vigilance Commission had also lodged four complaints, which were forwarded to the DU chief vigilance officer for action. Following a fresh complaint by RTI activist Anil Kumar, the VP’s Secretariat wrote to DU’s pro-vice-chancellor on October 26 stating, “A representation has been received from Anil Kumar regarding misusing the financial budget of MTech courses by professor Ramesh Chandra and Tarun Kumar Das. Action taken may be communicated to the petitioner under intimation to this secretariat.” UGC had also written to DU in October citing six complaints of misuse of funds and directed the university to take early appropriate action. The finance branch records (copies of which are with TOI) showed that Rs 29,56,186 were spent on these programmes in the past three financial years, which included Rs 17.05 lakh in 2017-18, Rs 12.07 lakh in 2018-19, and Rs 43,160 till August 2019 out of the total sanctioned grant of Rs 31.13 lakh. RTI documents revealed that the department had spent around Rs 8.09 lakh on “machinery and equipment”, Rs 9.9 lakh on chemical and lab expenses and over Rs 6 lakh on various “repair and maintenance” work related to the courses in 2017-18 and 2018-19. DU had started the three-year MTech programmes in nanoscience and nanotechnology in 2008. Their discontinuation in 2014 coincided with the scrapping of the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP) by Union human resource development ministry. Despite repeated efforts, there was no response from DU officials on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/scrapped-courses-du-officials-in-dock-over-fund-misuse/articleshow/79029535.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
November 4, 2020||Kochi||Ritwik Ghatak film festival from today||KOCHI: The Kerala chapter of the Federation of Film Societies of India is organizing an online festival of films of Ritwik Ghatak on the occasion of his 95th birth anniversary. The six-day festival to be held from November 4 to 9 would screen five movies by Ghatak and a film based on his life. The five films are Meghe Dhaka Tara, Ajantrik, Komal Gandhar, Subarnarekha, Jukti Takko Aar Gappo. A 2013 theatrical biopic of Ghatak, also called Meghe Dhaka Tara, directed by Kamleswar Mukherjee, with Saswata Chatterjee in the lead role, would also be screened. The films would have subtitles in both Malayalam and English and viewers would be able to select the language they are prefer.  The films would be available at the society’s streaming platform ffsikeralam.online. The festival would be opened by film critic and historian Amrit Gangar on November 4 at 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ritwik-ghatak-film-festival-from-today/articleshow/79027696.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Dubbak voters have few expectations||HYDERABAD: So what do the voters who came to cast their vote in Dubbak want from the representative who would get elected? A sheepish grin, an evasive attitude and a frown was all one could get in response from many of the voters at various polling stations. “Now, we should not get into such things. How would I know?” said Chandraiah, who cast his vote at a polling station at Thimmapur. “There are others who can talk about that but not me,” he shot back. At another polling station at Thoguta, Mahankali, who is in his late 60s, said he did not know who he had voted for. “I cannot see properly. When I went into the polling station, someone helped me cast my vote and I do not know to whom I voted,” Mahankali said. “They brought me here to vote and I voted,” he said without mentioning who brought him to the polling booth. There were many others who chose not to go in the morning to exercise their franchise because they did not want to miss earning their livelihood for the day. A vegetable seller at Dubbak municipal market waited until the vehicle brought vegetables. He sells vegetables in the town on his two-wheeler. “I really do not know what the outcome of the polls would be. But I have been asked to vote for a particular party and I will do that,” he said. Several physically challenged people were helped to cast their votes as wheelchairs were stationed at the polling stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-voters-have-few-expectations/articleshow/79029306.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Relaxed Harish sure of thumping win, says he can sense the people’s support||Dubbak (Siddipet): At Bharathnagar in Siddipet town, the man who spearheaded the TRS campaign in the Dubbak by-elections looked a relaxed figure on Tuesday as the polling was underway. Wearing a pair of loose white colour trousers and a grey colour T-shirt Thanneeru Harish Rao had, as one would describe, as a laid back attitude. He pushed his back against the chair and sat glued to the television. Behind where he sat was a black and white huge framed photograph of him and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, both in what appeared to be a pleasant discussion. “I am as confident as ever that the TRS will win the poll,” Harish Rao told TOI. “Out of the 140 villages in the constituency, I’ve covered more than 100 villages and I sensed and saw a support for the party,” he said. His campaign began much before the bye-election schedule was announced. Confident as he was, the finance minister kept track of the polling percentage constantly getting feedback from party leaders on the ground. From the discussions he was having with his team, which included Andole MLA Kranthi Kiran and also the soundings that he was getting from the ground, he seemed to have a fair idea about the likely performance of all the three major parties in all the seven mandals in Siddipet and Medak district which formed part of the Dubbak assembly constituency. And there came the occasional ‘chai’ for the group of people with him who were making a fair assessment and nothing said to puff up their own feelings or add to their optimism. If the polling percentage does not end up to be more than 88 per cent as it was in 2018, Harish Rao had an explanation. “Since it is a bye-poll some people may not have chosen to show up in the constituency to vote. When elections across the state are held, it creates a different atmosphere altogether,” he said. While the BJP and TRS had its state leaders and even national leaders campaign for their candidates, the driving force behind the TRS campaign was only Harish Rao who in every speech would highlight all that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had done for the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/relaxed-harish-sure-of-thumping-win-says-he-can-sense-the-peoples-support/articleshow/79029278.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 4, 2020||Madurai||Plea to stay ‘Irandam Kuththu’ movie release||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the central and state governments in a plea moved against the release of a movie named ‘Irandam Kuththu’, citing that it was obscene in nature. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Perumal, secretary of Samuganeedhi Kalvi Panpatti Maiyam, Madurai. The court also suo motu impleaded the Union ministry of information and broadcasting as a respondent in the petition. The petitioner stated that recently a teaser and poster of ‘Irandam Kuththu’ was released on social media. The contents of the teaser and the poster are obscene and vulgar in nature. The movie is said to be the sequel of ‘Iruttu Arayil Murattu Kuththu’, which was released in 2018. He stated that the dialogues in the movie had affected the modesty of women. Hence, the petitioner sought to impose Rs 5 crore on the makers. The petitioner also sought to remove the posters and teaser from social media. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-stay-irandam-kuththu-movie-release/articleshow/79029368.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Mangaluru||BJP, Congress share power in new Kaup taluk panchayat||UDUPI: The BJP and Congress shared power in the newly formed Kaup taluk panchayat. In the results of the election announced on Tuesday, Shashiprabha Shetty of the BJP was declared elected president and U C Shekabba Uchila of Congress, as vice-president. Although the election was held on August 10, a subsequent move by the Congress to legally question the process, meant that the result was formally announced on the day. While Shashiprabha was elected unopposed after the nomination of Renuka Puthran of the Congress was rejected, Shekabba defeated the challenge from Keshava Moily of the BJP by two votes. Congress has seven members in the 12 member panchayat raj body, and the BJP makes up for the rest. The high court in its order dated October 20, had directed Kundapur assistant commissioner Raju K to declare the results on November 3. Carved out of Udupi taluk panchayat, the Congress enjoyed the above mentioned numerical superiority in the 12-member panchayat raj body. The post of president was reserved for a candidates from the BCM B category and that of vice-president for a general candidate. Accordingly, the election of Shashiprabha as the maiden president of the body was a foregone conclusion, in that she was the lone candidate from the above category in the body. Lalaji R Mendon, Kaup MLA, told TOI that the reservation for the post of president was set aside for BCM B woman. The Congress wanted this to be changed to BCM A woman, as it did not have a candidate from the earlier reserved category. Congress fielded its candidate on the basis of a notice by the assistant commissioner, that BCM A woman candidate could be fielded if a party did not have a BCM B candidate. There is no such scope for ambiguity, Mendon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bjp-cong-share-power-in-new-kaup-taluk-panchayat/articleshow/79026551.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic polls: BJP continues to ‘lock’ winners fearing poaching||JAIPUR: The BJP continued to lock their winning candidates in a hotel ahead of mayor elections in the state capital. Fearing poaching, the party has kept its candidates in a hotel near Jaipur till the time mayoral elections are completed. Even before the results were declared, the BJP councillors were shifted to the hotel A senior BJP party member said, “The councillors who lost in the election were sent home, while winners will remain together to discuss the strategy for mayoral elections scheduled on November 10.” In January last year, the party faced embarrassment after rebel councillor Vishnudutt Sharma (Laata) was elected mayor of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) by defeating the BJP’s official candidate and then acting mayor Manoj Bharadwaj by a vote in a bypoll. Sharma was supported by the Congress and some independent councillors and some of the BJP councillors apparently cross-voted that led to his victory. Though the party has secured comfortable 88 seats in Greater Municipal Corporation, it is not in a mood to take a risk. Moreover, it could also form a board in Jaipur Heritage after getting support of 11 independent councillors. Out of 100 seats, the BJP has secured 42 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-continues-to-lock-winners-fearing-poaching/articleshow/79030280.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Madurai||Nurses hired for Covid-19 duty allege abrupt termination||Tuticorin: Voluntary nurses in Tuticorin, who were recruited on a temporary basis for Covid-19 duty in some districts, have been left in the lurch after they were told to stop coming for duty from November 1. They appealed to the government to allow them to continue as their livelihood is at stake due to the sudden termination.A senior official from the department of medical and rural health services (DMS) said the nurses were recruited for emergency services and based on the need. “It is likely that the state government will extend their services soon,” the official said. On Monday, the nurses, who are on consolidated pay submitted a petition to the district collector Sandeep Nanduri on Monday seeking to allow them to continue to work. “We have been working tirelessly treating Covid-19 patients, following quarantine, and even staying away for long periods from our families. Some nurses have contracted Covid-19 too. However, on October 31, we were abruptly asked to not come for work by officials without any prior notice,” said the nurses in their petition. They also said that most of them will not be able to get a job again as they had to quit their previous jobs to join Covid-19 duty.“It is only a crisis-management deployment. The load of Covid-19 cases has come down now compared to previous months and hence the need as well. However, the pandemic is not over and their services are most likely to be extended for some more months. The government will follow due process in extending their services as per the need,” said a higher official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nurses-hired-for-covid-19-duty-allege-abrupt-termination/articleshow/79029383.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Varanasi||19 scientists of BHU figure in world’s top list||Varanasi: The scientists of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) have figured among the top 2% scientists of the world. A subject-wise analysis was conducted by a team of scientists at Stanford University, US, led by Dr John PA Ioannidis. The database has been published recently in PLOS Biology. BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh claimed that 19 BHU scientists of different fields have been included in the list of top 2% scientists from across the world. Prominent among the BHU scientists included in the list are SB Rai (Applied Physics), JS Singh (Ecology), RN Singh (Energy), Madhoolika Agrawal (Environmental Science), Shashi Bhushan Agrawal (Environmental Science), Nawal Kishor Dubey (Food Science), ON Srivastava (Materials), Manoj Pandey (Oncology & Carcinogenesis), Ganesh Pandey (Organic Chemistry), Ram Shankar Dubey (Plant Biology & Botany), Subhash C Lakhotia (Plant Biology & Botany), Rajeshwar P Sinha (Plant Biology & Botany), SK Bhattacharya (Toxicology), Shyam Sundar (Tropical Medicine) and Om Prakash (Tropical Medicine).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/19-scientists-of-bhu-figure-in-worlds-top-list/articleshow/79030284.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak byelection: ‘The person you are calling is busy voting, please try later’||DUBBAK: A man kept answering several mobile phones as and when they were ringing at the entrance to the polling station at Ibrahimpur in Medak district even as a posse of cops kept a watch.  “He is casting his vote. Call back again,” he was heard saying. He kept repeating the same every time a phone rang. The man was a volunteer and not connected to any political party but had taken it upon himself to keep the mobile phones of voters in safe custody. This is because mobiles were not allowed inside the polling stations. The man did not make a note of whose phone was being kept in his custody. No details were sought of the owner of the phone and no slip was given. But, he had a way of returning the phone to the owners when they came out. He would ask the owner what his phone number was and give a call from his mobile to that number. The phone that rang would be identified as the owner’s phone and it was handed over to him or her. The arrangement seemed perfect. Such volunteers were, however, not there at every polling station. At many places, police were firm in not allowing phones inside the polling stations. Cops had an issue with a man who claimed himself to be a councillor and tried to walk into a polling station at Lachapet. He was asked to leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/the-person-you-are-calling-is-busy-voting-please-try-later/articleshow/79029350.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 4, 2020||Bengaluru||After much delay, Karnataka set to release serosurvey findings||BENGALURU: After much delay, the state government will make public findings of its serosurvey on Wednesday. The serosurvey, conducted to gauge the extent of Covid-19 spread in the community, hadn’t been made public though the technical advisory committee handed over the report to the health and family welfare department in October. Those who worked on the report don’t know why the findings were kept under wraps. The delay will affect fine-tuning and updating Covid management strategy in the state, they say. The survey was aimed at finding out how many people had developed IgG antibodies and percentage of population exposed to the virus. It estimates the population exposed to and infected by the virus by an alternative method. Health minister K Sudhakar called a press conference on October 24 to release the report but it was cancelled without any explanation. "There is no delay. Collating analysis after obtaining data from experts took a while. The report will be released on Wednesday," Sudhakar said on Tuesday when asked about the delay. Sources say close to 15% of the 18,000 respondents had developed antibodies and never knew they had been exposed to the virus. Many experts with access to the process stopped short of dismissing the numbers outright. They also said the government appeared to be waiting for the RR Nagar and Sira assembly bypolls to end. Sources say many top government authorities are privy to the findings. "The report is to understand the extent of Covid spread. It covers all sections of the society and has districtwise reports. It suggests different strategies for districts to curb the pandemic," they said. Health department officials suggest the report was ready on October 24, but Sudhakar insisted only the initial report was ready. "Karnataka is the only state in the country which has taken up such a mammoth, comprehensive survey, comprising all age groups and districts. The government has a responsibility to study and be sure of the report before announcing it," said Sudhakar. The first sero-surveillance study in May showed just 0.2% of those surveyed were exposed to Covid-19. It covered 400 people each in Bengaluru and Chitradurga districts and 399 in Kalaburagi. The second serosurvey began in August and ended on September 16. "The report will be a reflection of the true picture of Covid-19 spread in Karnataka in August-September," an expert said. "It has already been delayed and every day matters. These surveys would assist in changing certain protocols and altering strategies." Parallelly, there is another study going on in Karnataka as part of serosurveillance taken up by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Goverments in Delhi, Mumbai and Pune have conducted serosurveys. In Pune, antibodies were found in 51.5% of the tested population. The second round is currently going on. In Delhi, the state government had told the Delhi high court that prevalence of antibodies was seen in 25.1% of the studied samples. In Mumbai, the second serosurvey conducted in mid-August found close to 45% of the studied samples in slums had developed Covid-antibodies. It was 18% in non-slum pockets. This was a surprise as the first survey in July had found 54% in slums and 16% in non-slum areas had developed antibodies. The latest serosurvey in Tokyo conducted to assess changes among asymptomatic employees during the second wave found that “seroprevalence increased from 5.8 % to 46.8% over the course of the summer”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-much-delay-karnataka-set-to-release-serosurvey-findings/articleshow/79026607.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Pune: MVA poses big challenge to BJP in its own bastion||PUNE: The BJP may find it tough to retain its traditional stronghold of Pune division graduate constituency due to the caste factor and the likelihood of Maharashtra Vikas Aaghadi (MVA) fielding a joint candidate. The election is scheduled for December 1. The constituency was represented by its Maharashtra president Chandrakant Patil, who is now MLA from Kothrud assembly constituency in Pune. The constituency was also represented by Prakash Javadekar, now Union minister, for a record three times. The BJP has been maintaining a hold over the constituency because of its large-scale enrolment of its committed voters, mainly from Pune city. However, the last three elections show that non-BJP parties have learnt a lesson and succeeded in enrolling voters. In the 2014 election, Chandrakant Patil won mainly because of the presence of NCP rebel Arun Lad. The NCP candidate, Sarang Patil, lost the election with a narrow margin. “The current election is, however, likely to be a tough fight for BJP as NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena are expected to field a joint candidate to snatch the BJP bastion and target its state unit president. Victory in Pune graduate constituency will send a strong political message across the state,” said NCP sources. BJP has a long list of aspirants comprising Rohan Deshmukh, Shekhar Charegaokar, Sachin Patvardhan, Rajesh Pande, Manik Patil Chuyekar and Prasanjit Fadnavis. Sources in BJP said that Harshavardhan Patil is the dark horse in the race. Sources in BJP said that the party may opt for a Maratha candidate to pull voters from outside Pune. They said that districts like Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur have now a large number of voters who are mainly from the Maratha community. The party is also worried as traditional voters from Pune may stay away from voting if a candidate from outside Pune is fielded. The NCP is hoping to win the seat since it has been building voter base in this constituency. The names doing the rounds from the party are Arun Lad, Shrimant Kokate, Neeta Dhamale, Umesh Patil, Balraje Patil and Pratap Mane. Congress and Shiv Sena have not taken any position but are expected to leave the seat for NCP. Nevertheless, the possibility of a third strong candidate cannot be ruled out in view of the relationship of Congress and NCP leaders in western Maharashtra. In Satara, a group of Maratha leaders has already announced their intention to contest the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mva-poses-big-challenge-to-bjp-in-its-own-bastion/articleshow/79026589.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Of 389 applicants, only 41 get licences for selling firecrackers||LUDHIANA: Complying with the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court of clean and green Diwali by allowing a limited sale of crackers, the district administration held a draw and issued 41 temporary licences to people for selling firecrackers in different areas of the district, on Tuesday. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said as many as 41 vendors have been allowed to sell crackers at eight earmarked sites in the district. He said the administration had received a total of 389 applications from people interested in selling crackers. Divulging the details, the deputy commissioner said a total of 75 applications were received for Dana Mandi Salem Tabri and only 13 licences have been allocated. A total of 93 applications were received for Glada ground in Sector 39 and nine vendors have been issued licences. He said similarly, 53 applicants had applied to set up firecracker vends at Model Town and only five licences have been issued, while 69 applications were received for Glada ground in Dugri and four vends were issued licences. He said three persons had applied for Lodhi Club and all the three have been issued licenses. A total of 31 applications were received from Hambran and 43 from Khanna and only three licences each have been issued for both the places. In Jagraon, only one licence has been issued against 22 applications. Meanwhile, winners of the draw have been given two-day time i.e. Wednesday and Thursday to set up their stalls at the designated places. After setting up of stalls, businessmen can sell crackers from November 6 till November 14. Ashok Thapar, chairman of the Ludhiana wholesale fireworks association, said, “A total of 41 licences for sale of crackers have been issued today by the district administration through a draw. The meeting was presided over by deputy commissioner. This time things are tough for us as on one hand we have got only nine days for selling crackers, while on the other, due to coronavirus enthusiasm among the residents is not the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/of-389-applicants-only-41-get-licences-for-selling-firecrackers/articleshow/79026562.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Erring dyeing units to lose sewerage connections||LUDHIANA: After the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) chairman S S Marwaha asked the civic body to conduct a checking of dyeing units for throwing untreated water in the sewers, officials of the operation and maintenance cell have been asked to disconnect such connections. The PPCB had given a warning to such dyeing units for throwing untreated water in the MC sewers and the units have time till November 6 to disclose about their connections and stop the illegal practice. The issue of dyeing units throwing waste water in the MC sewerage line has been taken up several times by the councillors, especially from the east constituency, where the sewerage system remains choked most of the time. Even former BJP councillor Inder Aggarwal had raised the issue and had complained against the dyeing units throwing water in the sewerage line near Shingaar cinema disposal. Thereafter, the PPCB also conducted a checking drive and found irregularities. Now the MC officials of the operation and maintenance cell in Zones A and B will start a checking drive. The drive will continue for five days, following which an action-taken report will be submitted to the senior officials. The officials will cut the connections if they find dyeing units throwing untreated water in the sewerage line. Superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell Rajinder Singh said, “The staff has been told to check the dyeing units. If any dyeing unit owner is adopting unfair means, he should stop it on his own or else we will take action.” Notably it is because of the presence of untreated water coming from dyeing units that the sewerage treatment plants of the MC have become defunct and are unable to even treat the domestic waste water properly. Subsequently, the pollution level at the Buddha Nullah has increased and it has further polluted the Satluj river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/erring-dyeing-units-to-lose-sewerage-connections/articleshow/79026577.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Health department takes water samples for testing again||LUDHIANA: After complaint of foul smell in the water being supplied to houses, officials of the health department have again taken water samples from the e-block of Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar. The water samples were earlier also taken up from these houses and had failed the test. The residents claimed that the officials of the Punjab water supply and sewerage board had fixed the snag, but there was still a foul smell in the water being supplied and therefore, they asked the health officials to get the samples tested again. Area resident Arvind Sharma said it has been over a month that they have been suffering from the problem of water contamination and it was after so many days that the officials of the sewerage board could trace the fault. He said the officials are now saying that they have fixed the fault, but there is still some foul smell in water. He said the water samples collected from the area had failed the tests, following which they had asked the officials to again take the samples for tests. Another resident Amarjit Singh said it has been almost one month that they have been facing a tough time. Almost all the residents had suffered stomach issues. He said the authorities should take immediate steps to solve the issue at the earliest. He said action should be taken against the officials if they do not show concern towards the health of the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-takes-water-samples-for-testing-again/articleshow/79026588.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana assembly likely to be convened on farm laws||HYDERABAD: After Punjab and Rajasthan, the state government is considering to hold a one-day session of assembly and council to pass a resolution against the new farm laws of the Centre. Government sources said the session could be conducted after the Dubbak bypoll result on November 10. “The special session is on the cards. This is to express our firm stand,” said a TRS leader on condition of anonymity. Sources said the TRS leadership did not take a tough stand on the farm laws initially but changed its take once the Dubbak election heat picked up in the state.  The CM during the inauguration of Rythu Vedika hit out at the Centre for passing the farm laws said Telangana should oppose them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-assembly-likely-to-be-convened-on-farm-laws/articleshow/79029324.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSRTC goes for flexi fares||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: KSRTC has announced flexi ticketing scheme. On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, there will be 25% off on tickets of superfast, express and super deluxe buses. This will come into effect from November 4. The decision has been taken since there has been few takers for these buses during week days. KSRTC has reported that there has been considerable decrease in long-distance buses during the pandemic period. The director board meeting of KSRTC had taken the decision to implement innovative measures and also, if needed, to reduce ticket rates to lure more passengers to KSRTC buses. KSRTC believes that by lowering the ticket rates it could attract more passengers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-goes-for-flexi-fares/articleshow/79027724.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Madurai||Central, south TN report two Covid-19 deaths each||Madurai: Both the central and southern districts reported around the same number of fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths each on Tuesday. Southern districts reported 229 cases while central districts had 237. The Covid-19 tally in south Tamil Nadu stands at 1,24,748 cases, including 1,711 active cases, 1,21,022 recoveries and 2,015 deaths. Central districts have recorded 66,134 cases and 870 deaths, with 1,662 active cases. The most number of fresh cases from southern districts was was reported in Madurai with 44. All 10 southern districts reported less than 50 fresh Covid-19 cases again. Madurai (465) and Tuticorin (419) have the most number of active cases in the southern region, followed by Kanyakumari (239). All other districts have less than 200 active cases, including Theni (57), Ramanathapuram (51) and Tenkasi (43) which have only around 50 active cases. Though Dindigul had only around 50 active cases, it has increased to 82. Virudhunagar district has 96 active cases. The two deaths reported in the southern region on Tuesday were in Kanyakumari and Virudhunagar. An 81-year-old man from Kanyakumari with diabetes died of Covid-19 on Tuesday at a private hospital in Nagercoil. A 70-year-old man with diabetes, hypertension and coronary artery disease died on Monday at the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. The Covid-19 death rate in the southern region remains at 1.61%. On Tuesday, Kanyakumari (36), Tirunelveli (29), Tuticorin (26), and Dindigul (21) reported more than 20 Covid-19 cases while all other districts recorded less than 20 cases. With nine new cases, Ramanathapuram was the only district to report cases in single digits on Tuesday. In the central region, Trichy (48), Thanjavur (45) and Tiruvarur (39) contributed the most number of cases. It has taken five days for the region to 1,000 cases from 65,000. The region crossed 65,000 cases on October 29 and reached 66,314 on Tuesday. It has to be noted that the number of patients discharged from government hospitals, private hospitals, covid care centres, siddha covid care centres and home isolations was also almost equal to the new cases added. Tuesday’s death toll includes a 65-year-old man from Nagappattinam who died on November 1 and a 60-year-old man from Tiruvarur who passed away on November 2. The death toll on Tiruvarur district touched 100 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/central-south-tn-report-two-covid-19-deaths-each/articleshow/79029397.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Sex workers turn to other jobs to tide over the crisis||ALAPPUZHA: After Covid-19 pandemic has made them jobless, female street- based sex workers (SBSW) in Alappuzha have taken a break from their profession and are carrying out other jobs with the support of Kerala State Aids Control Society’s (KSACS) Suraksha project to tide over the crisis. Alappuzha is home to more than 780 sex workers who are registered with KSACS and around 40% of them were working as SBSW. “I was a SBSW and could earn Rs 8,000 daily if I had clients. After my husband left me, I have been staying in a rented house with my son. The Covid-19 lockdown made me jobless, disrupting my only source of income. Our clients too don’t have income now for paying us and besides that, we don’t have facilities for carrying out our work,” a 46-year-old street-based sex worker Nisha (named changed as per the request) here told TOI. “In order to meet daily expenses, I have started distributing ‘pothichoru’ and also making carry bags, thanks to the support of Suraksha project of KSACS. Once our clients come back, I will resume my sex work,” the 46-year-old said. According to a district board member of Kerala Network of Sex Workers (KNSW), at least 10 SBSW staying in rented houses in Alappuzha have been facing severe financial constraints after Covid-19 lockdown. “Majority of us have taken a short break from sex work and are doing coir work, catering works and distribution of ‘pothichoru’ in front of hospitals and other public places,” said the KNSW board member. Suraksha project outreach worker Gireesh Mohan said they are ensuring the welfare of SBSW by supporting them to do jobs like carry bag production and catering works during the pandemic. “It is at least helping them to meet their daily expenses,” he said. SBSWs said Maharashtra government has allotted Rs 5,000 each to the sex workers there and Kerala government should also come forward for giving such a financial assistance through the KSACS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sex-workers-turn-to-other-jobs-to-tide-over-the-crisis/articleshow/79027723.cms||---
November 4, 2020||World||IS sympathiser kills 4 in Vienna, injures 21 others||Austria was grappling Tuesday with a brutal attack in which a gunman, whom officials described as an Islamic State sympathiser and who was wearing a fake explosive device, opened fire on Monday night in the heart of Vienna, the capital, killing at least four people. By Tuesday morning, around 1,000 police officers had fanned out across the city. Austrian police raided 18 locations and detained 14 people associated with the assailant who are being questioned. Later in the day, IS claimed responsibility for the attack in a statement from the group’s Amaq News Agency posted on Telegram. The statement was accompanied by a picture of a bearded man, named Abu Dagnah Al-Albany, saying he attacked crowds in Vienna on Monday with a gun and a machine gun, before he was killed himself by Austrian police. An elderly man and woman, a young passer-by and a waitress were killed in the attack, and 22 people, including a policeman were wounded, interior minister Karl Nehammersaid. Vienna’s mayor said three people were still in critical condition. Describing the assault as a terrorist attack, Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said: “This is not a conflict between Christians and Muslims or between Austrians and migrants. No, this is a fight between the many people who believe in peace and the few (who oppose it). It is a fight between civilisation and barbarism.” In neighbouring Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel expressed her shock and said: “We Germans stand in sympathy and solidarity with our Austrian friends. The fight against Islamist terrorism is our common struggle.” The attacker, an Austrian-born son of immigrants from North Macedonia, was wearing an explosive belt that turned out to be fake. Vienna’s police chief said he was killed nine minutes after he started his rampage. He was identified as Kujtim Fejzulai, a dual citizen of Austria and North Macedonia, who had been sentenced to 22 months in jail in April last year for attempting to travel to Syria to join IS. He had been released early because of his young age, in December and had even attended a de-radicalisation programme. Officials said he had been armed with an automatic rifle, a hand-gun and a machete. Austria announced three days of mourning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/is-sympathiser-kills-4-in-vienna-injures-21-others/articleshow/79031520.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Trichy||Fishers net 91 kg ganja floating in sea off Pudukottai||Trichy: Totally 91 kg of ganja floating on the sea has been recovered from Pudukottai coast over the past two days.Pudukottai fishermen who found some bags floating in the mid-sea, took it to the shore and handed them over to the coastal security group on Monday evening. Ganja weighing 56 kg were found in sealed packs wrapped with jute bags. The fishermen from north Puthukudi and south Puthukudi villages stumbled upon the bags while fishing three nautical miles off the shore. Similarly, on Tuesday morning, a jute bag containing 35 kg ganja was recovered by fishermen from North Puthukudi village who went fishing in a fibre boat Narcotics control bureau in Sivaganga has been informed about the seizure. Sources from coastal security groups said that the bags could have been smuggled via sea and smugglers could have dropped the bags in the sea after seeing Navy or Coast Guard approaching them. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fishers-net-91-kg-ganja-floating-in-sea-off-pudukottai/articleshow/79030291.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur polls: BJP fielded 17 Muslims for both bodies, only one won||JAIPUR: For the first time, the BJP gave tickets to 17 Muslim candidates to contest urban body elections in both Jaipur Heritage and Jaipur Greater. However, this gamble failed to reap dividend as only one candidate emerged victorious. Rahees Qureshi from Ward 88 in JMC Heritage won the election. In 2014, four candidates were given tickets, but none of them was able to secure any seat in the elections. According to the municipal corporation history, no Muslim candidate has ever won in Jaipur from the BJP. After the delimitation, many wards became Muslim dominated where it became a necessity for the party to give ticket to the candidate from the minority community. A BJP Muslim candidate contested and lost, anonymously said that it is difficult to win from BJP until the ward has 1,000 Hindu votes. “This time many wards consisted of either 100% Muslim voters or majority Muslim voters. In my ward, there were only 150 Hindu votes and at the time of campaigning residents were blaming the BJP for communal politics. We had to face criticism from people and I knew it before elections that I will not win,” said a candidate. Another Muslim candidate from Hawa Mahal legislative assembly said that public was furious with the BJP for maligning the image of Muslims in the county. “Everywhere I went, Muslims rejected me. I knew I won’t win from the BJP. Moreover, former BJP MLA Suresh Pareek from Hawa Mahal never worked in Muslim dominated colonies and there were lot of civic complaints. Hence, we had to face consequences of the neglect shown to these areas all these years,” said another candidate. Sources in the BJP said that this was Congress’ planned strategy to divide wards in terms of religion so that they can play with the emotions of the people. “The Congress divided wards and created communal environment the consequences of which had to be faced by us,” said a BJP leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-fielded-17-muslims-for-both-bodies-only-one-won/articleshow/79030287.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress demands probe into fake video about Dubbak candidate||HYDERABAD: A video clip stating that Dubbak Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy is joining the ruling TRS went viral on social media minutes before polling began in the constituency on Tuesday. Congress leaders, led by TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, complained to the chief election commissioner of India, additional electoral officer in Telangana and the state director general of police demanding an investigation into the incident. “A criminal conspiracy was hatched against the Congress candidate and the party. The election commission should direct the Telangana government to investigate it under your direct supervision in an urgent manner,” Uttam stated in the complaint to the CEC. On his part, Srinivas Reddy lodged a complaint with Thoguta police in Dubbak constituency and released a video appealing to the voters not to believe in the malicious campaign. He swore by his late father and four-time MLA from Dubbak (Dommat) Cheruku Mutyam Reddy that he is not joining TRS and will continue to work in Congress irrespective of the bypoll result. The Congress raised its finger of suspicion against BJP and TRS, alleging their involvement for fear of losing the election. The BJP and TRS condemned the allegations as baseless. “It’s a bad mischief but people are intelligent enough to know what is right and wrong,”said Telangana planning commission vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar of the TRS. BJP chief spokesperson Krishna Saagar Rao said the misleading video is an unacceptable tactic on any candidate and criminal action should be taken against those responsible for it. “BJP has fought hard to win the bypoll in Dubbak and does not need to indulge in below the belt political tactics,” he said. In its complaint to the CEC, the Congress stated: “the polling for the by-election to Dubbak constituency commenced at 7 am. At the same time, a fake video was made viral with the intent of damaging the prospects of Congress candidate and the party. The fake video was made using the logo of reputed private vernacular TV channels to give credibility to it. It stated that Cheruku Srinivas Reddy met a close relative of chief minister and TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao and will join the TRS.” Srinivas Reddy demanded that BJP candidate Raghunandan Rao should be disqualified from the bypoll fray. Also, Telangana Governor should initiate action for removal of T Harish Rao from the state cabinet. The private TV channels too came out with clarification that it was not its news and lodged complaints with the cyber crime police. AICC in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore, TPCC working president A Revanth Reddy, former MP V Hanumanth Rao among others condemned the fake news and demanded immediate action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-demands-probe-into-fake-video-about-dubbak-candidate/articleshow/79029434.cms||Roushan Ali
November 4, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Kabaddi player fires at police, held||VARANASI: Police on Tuesday arrested a state-level Kabaddi player near Mubarakpur roadways in Azamgarh district for allegedly opening fire on them. Azamgarh SP (city) Pankaj Pandey said the player identified as Shadab of Asaur village had enmity with some residents of the village. Police had got an input that he was going to kill his rival. Police tried to stop him near the roadways. When asked to stop, Shadab opened fire on the police team, in which SHO Akhilesh Mishra had a narrow escape from the bullet. After a short chase, police succeeded in nabbing him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kabaddi-player-opens-fire-on-cops/articleshow/79030290.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hyderabad||CM KCR did not keep poll promises, Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar came down heavily on chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao saying that he faltered on several promises and led the state into a debt trap. Sanjay said the CM had made a promise to allocate Rs 100 crore during Huzurnagar by-election. “Nothing has happened there till now. He will make tall promises in GHMC elections also,” he said and alleged Congress and the TRS had joined hands together in Dubbak. Meanwhile, TRS Huzurnagar MLA S Saidireddy challenged Sanjay on his remarks that the state government has not granted anything to the constituency despite CM’s promise. “Sanjay should come for a debate on the funds granted so far to Huzurnagar,” he said. Sanjay heaped praise on actress and Congress leader Vijayashanti. “I will tell you soon when she will be joining BJP. She fought with TRS for statehood. But ruling party ignored her contribution after state formation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-did-not-keep-poll-promises-says-sanjay/articleshow/79029378.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Madurai||1,500 more deliveries at GRH in 7 mths in 2020||Madurai: Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) has handled 9,879 deliveries between April 1 and October 31, around 1,500 more than last year during the same period. A total of 8,408 deliveries were handled during the same period last year. On July 2 and October 22, a record 66 deliveries each were recorded in a single day without any maternal or infant deaths. “We handled many high risk mothers and referrals from other government hospitals and private hospitals from across south Tamil Nadu districts for the quality and facilities available here. Especially during the initial lockdown period, there were more referrals from peripheral areas. High risk mothers were identified and advised to get admitted here early for delivery,” said Dr N Sumathi, head of department of obstetrics and gynaecology. She added that a number of high risk mothers with heart ailments who were referrd had successfully undergone deliveries and made full recovery. The team from the department of obstetrics and gynaecology, including six professors, 27 assistant professors and 45 PG doctors, provide round-the-clock services. “We are getting around 90 admissions per day and of course case load is heavy. In October alone, we had 1,511 deliveries whereas usually it is only around 1,100 deliveries in a month. Though it was tough initially, later it just became the norm. We have to wait and see if the trend continues,” Dr Sumathi told TOI. In case of Covid-19 positive pregnant women, separate facilities have been kept available at GRH. Deliveries have been carried out for as many as 266 Covid-19 positive women between April and October this year. “Another reason for the high number of deliveries could be that we are a Covid-19 care tertiary hospital. It may be preferable for patients to come here, get tested for Covid-19 quickly and get the delivery done rather get a Covid-19 test done separately and go to a hospital,” said the senior gynaecologist. Doctors also said that better awareness among the public on early admission to tertiary hospitals during the Covid-19 pandemic played a role in rise in deliveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1500-more-deliveries-at-grh-in-7-mths-in-2020/articleshow/79029430.cms||---
November 4, 2020||India||After Vienna terror attack, Austrian embassy in Delhi closed till Nov 11||NEW DELHI: In the wake of a terror attack in Vienna that left five dead, the Austrian embassy in New Delhi announced that they would be closed to the public until November 11 as a precautionary measure. Security forces have stepping up their vigil near the embassy, officials said. The embassy’s notice said: “We ask for your understanding.” Meanwhile, the Indian embassy in Vienna tweeted: “The Embassy would like to assure the Indian community in Vienna we are in touch with authorities for your safety. All are advised to exercise caution since terrorists may still be at large.” PM Narendra Modi too on Tuesday extended his solidarity with the European nation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-vienna-terror-attack-austrian-embassy-in-delhi-closed-till-nov-11/articleshow/79031571.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kochi||Test positivity rate still stable in Thrissur, though cases remain high||THRISSUR: Even though Thrissur has been recording a high number of Covid- 19 cases in the last couple of days more or less continuously, the health authorities assure that there was no need for panic as the test positivity rate is remaining more or less stable. The district had recorded 856 Covid-positive cases on Tuesday, which is the highest single-day figure in the state. The figure has been hovering around 1,000 for the last couple of days. Even though only 433 people had tested positive on Monday, this was largely due to the less number of tests done across the state on Sunday, official sources said. The total number of confirmed Covid cases in the district has risen to 42,003, while the number of patients who have recovered is 31,943. The health authorities point out that at one point of time, the Covid positivity rate had gone up to 22.9%, which it has reduced and was stable, in the recent days. The figure was between 14% and 18% in the last couple of days, the health authorities claimed. According to district medical officer Dr K J Reena, estimates indicate that positive cases are likely to slide down only after peaking at 68,000. Experts suggest that the current strategy for Covid-19 control may have to be fine-tuned further in Thrissur in view of the nearly continuous rise in number of positive cases in the district. Over 6,000 people who have tested positive for Covid-19 are undergoing treatment at their own homes, where enforcing strict quarantine measures would be difficult. This leads to spreading of infection to other members within the family and in the neighbourhood, experts said. The possibility of augmenting the share of institutional care must be explored in the district, the experts said. District collector S Shanawaz said the possibility of bringing more people under institutional care is being explored by setting up more domiciliary-care centres. IMA leader Dr Santhosh Babu said the direct surveillance must be intensified to ensure compliance of quarantine measures. He said there was also the need to rope in the voluntary forces, including individuals and organisations, to tone up the Covid care in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/test-positivity-rate-still-stable-in-thrissur-though-cases-remain-high/articleshow/79027756.cms||T Ramavarman
November 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Civic groups alert to keep politicians off Mangaluru City Corporation ward committees||MANGALURU: Civic groups have planned to launch campaigns to keep politicians out of the 60 wards committees to be set up in Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) limits. As per the Constitution mandate, MCC must form the Ward Committees in each ward under chairmanship of respective ward corporators. MCC has already invited applications from citizens to be part of 60 wards committees. One of the main conditions is that the applicant should not be part of any political party. Civic activists have called upon people to check the political background of all ward committee member aspirants. “This is an opportunity for people to use their right to be part of the nation’s development. Citizens of Mangaluru should ensure that right candidate get opportunity to be part of the 10 member committees to be set up for each of the 60 wards. Give opportunity for teachers, engineers, doctors, enviornmentalists, social workers and educated people without any political affiliations to become members of the ward committees. People should alert to ensure that no politicians gains entry into ward committees,” said M G Hegde, social activist. He suggested that a campaign with the hashtag of #wardcommittee should be started to create awareness on the purpose of ward committees. “Mangaluru city gets crores of rupees through MCC, Mangaluru Smart City Limited and many other agencies for development. This ward committee gives people the right to monitor the public expenditure. Hence, it is the responsibility of people to use the opportunity wisely and check corruption,” Hegde said. Civic activist B S Chandru said, “Participation of people in administration through ward committee will not only check corruption, but also help overall development of the city. People get an opportunity to involve in the development work directly through the ward committees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/civic-groups-alert-to-keep-politicians-off-mcc-ward-committees/articleshow/79026605.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Congress shifts councillors from Jaipur Municipal Corporation to hotel till mayor polls||JAIPUR: As the results were announced, the Congress shifted their winning candidates from Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Heritage to a hotel where they will remain till mayor elections on November 10. The Congress will form elected board for the first time, a chance which they do not want to lose in cross voting. A meeting was organised at the residence of Civil Lines MLA Pratap Singh Khachariyawas in which chief whip Mahesh Joshi, Rafiq Khan, Ameen Kagzi, all the selected councillors from JMC Heritage were present. Addressing to the councillor in the meeting, Mahesh Joshi said, “We have defeated BJP brutally in the JMC Heritage. Last time, the BJP got seven seats out of 12 in Hawa Mahal constituency and we got one. This time we got 10, BJP got just 12 out of 26. Rest are independents who have already supported us in forming the board.” Joshi claimed that out of 11 independent candidates in Heritage, almost all are supporting them. The Congress needs four more candidates form board. Councillors were moved to Hotel Shakun after the meeting. Councillors were asked to get their belongings from home and after an hour they were shifted to hotel Shakun in C-Scheme. “We do not doubt our councillors, but don’t trust BJP who tried to bribe the MLA’s recently. BJP will try to do this again and we want to keep everything out of their reach. On Wednesday, a meeting will be organised with the party members to plan further strategy,” said Joshi. As Congress has no chance of making a board in JMC Greater due to the clear majority of the BJP, they have decided not to shift winning councillors of JMC Greater to the hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-shifts-councillors-to-hotel-till-mayor-polls/articleshow/79030294.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi vedic gurukul running Mission Shakti for decades||Varanasi: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath recently launched ‘Mission Shakti’ to ensure safety of women in the state, but a 49-year-old Vedic Gurukul in Varanasi has been invoking ‘Matri Shakti’ (power of women), both spiritually and physically, for years. The girl students of the gurukul, Panini Kanya Mahavidyalaya, are equally skilled in vedic knowledge and warfare. They have the vedas on their lips to challenge ancient laws of ‘Manusmriti’, and can proficiently use swords to defend themselves and vanquish aggressors. The gurukul, established in 1971, has not only been imparting education in Sanskrit by teaching Panini Ashtadhyayi, Vedas and ‘karmakand’ to its girl students, but also imparts high-grade skills in self-defence and warfare to them. Along with the traditional warfare like using bows and arrows, swords and spears, they are also trained in martial arts, acrobatics, music and computers. Girls from the age of 8-9 till 20 live and study in this residential gurukul. By the time, the students reach 18-20 years, they are well adept in all the warfare. The principal of Panini Kanya Mahavidyalaya, Acharya Nandita Shastri said, “The girls learn to perform 16 Hindu sanskars, yajna and other vedic rituals. The main focus of learning is on Sanskrit grammar. Besides, the girls are also trained in physical activities like sports, handling traditional weapons, and performing acrobatics. They also learn music and computers.” The gurukul also attracts students from countries like Nepal and Sri Lanka. The students receive education from primary level to Acharya (MA). The Mahavidyalaya follows the vedic system instead of the caste system. Girls from different regions of the country and different castes, including dalits, get education here. These girls are invited by local residents to perform Vedic rituals and karmakand during religious functions and ceremonies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-vedic-gurukul-running-mission-shakti-for-decades/articleshow/79030305.cms||Binay Singh
November 4, 2020||Bareilly||Major train accident averted after timely detection of two cracks on rail line in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: A major train accident was averted on the route between Shahjahanpur and Roza stations on Tuesday after an inspection team detected two major cracks on the rail tracks.The first crack was noticed by a keyman who was patrolling near the Atsalia crossing. Immediately, the loco pilot of the Bagh Festival Express, which was approaching the Roza railway station, was notified and he stopped the train in the nick of time.Later, another keyman informed about another rail line fracture around one kilometre from Shahjahanpur railway station. A team of engineers immediately rushed to the spot and repaired the track using joggled fishplates. The trains then were allowed to passed through the track at a relatively slow speed.Station superintendent Manoj Kumar said, “Nearly half a dozen trains were affected due to the rail line fracture on Delhi-Lucknow route. There was no major delay in the operation as the track was repaired using fish plated and trains were passed soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/major-train-accident-averted-after-timely-detection-of-two-cracks-on-rail-line-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/79024606.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 4, 2020||Bareilly||Six wagons of goods train derail in Izzatnagar railway division||Bareilly: Six wagons of a goods train got derailed near Kasganj-Farukkhabad route in Izzatnagar division early on Tuesday morning.The wagons were empty, and no casualty was reported. However, the rail traffic was affected, and a few trains were diverted to another route. Senior officials and the support staff were rushed to the spot to clear the route.Public relationship officer north eastern Railways, Rajendra Singh said, “The derailment took place around 4 am between Ganj Dundwara and Patiali railway station. The divisional rail railway manager immediately sent a team of engineers to the spot to carry out the track clearance operation. Later he visited the spot and gave necessary instructions on bringing the wagons back on the track. An accident relief train was also brought to the spot with a crane and the track was cleared by 2.35pm. The route of Bhagalpur Gandhidham Express was diverted and the affected goods train was sent to Patiali railway station. No one was reported injured.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/six-wagons-of-goods-train-derail-in-izzatnagar-railway-division/articleshow/79024627.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 4, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: 66% vote amid bribery allegations||VADODARA: Amid the looming scare of Covid-19 pandemic, a decent number of voters turned up to cast their vote for Karjan assembly seat by-polls on Tuesday. The assembly seat that saw a bypoll for the first time witnessed 65.94% voting. Though no untoward incidents were reported during the polling, both BJP and Congress accused each other of bribing the voters with cash ahead of the polling. The polling authorities said that the voter turnout was very good considering the fact that people are still scared to move out in public places. In 2017 assembly polls, Karjan saw 77% voting. “All the Covid-19 guidelines were followed to ensure that the voters as well as the polling booth staff remain safe,” said Shalini Agrawal, Vadodara district collector. The bypolls in Karjan were announced after sitting Congress MLA Akshay Patel defected to the BJP. Patel is contesting on BJP ticket in the bypoll while Congress has fielded Kiritsinh Jadeja. Congress is aiming to retain the seat that has been its bastion since many years. Voters began thronging the polling booths since morning and by 1 pm, 41% had already cast their ballot. Controversy surfaced when Congress workers accused BJP of giving cash to the voters on the polling day. A video of a man wearing a saffron-colour mask and distributing Rs 100 notes among voters sitting in an auto-rickshaw went viral on Tuesday morning. Congress leader, Shailesh Amin alleged, “BJP has flouted the poll code of conduct by bribing the voters. We have filed a complaint with the election officer but no action has been taken. The viral video showing BJP men bribing voters in Itola and Kosindra village was shot by a Congress worker and it is genuine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/66-vote-amid-bribery-allegations/articleshow/79026914.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Surat||CP office cleanest among govt offices in Athwa zone area||SURAT: Among government offices in diamond city’s south west zone Athwa of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), city police commissioner office sparkles brightest. Beating other competitors including collector office, irrigation department, district and sessions court and SUDA in Athwa zone, CP office was ranked topmost as the cleanest government office in the results of the Cleanliness Competition 2021 that was announced recently. SMC set up various categories to judge institutions’ cleanliness like hotel, hospital, schools, government offices and also residential societies. In the government office category, the civic body’s own Athwa zone office and its Vesu Health Centre clinched the second and third positions respectively. “Through this cleanliness ranking, city police too contributed to the Swachh Bharat Mission,” said Saroj Kumari, deputy commissioner of police, headquarters. Among other institutions in Athwa zone limits Sunshine Global hospital has ranked first in hospitals, Marriott among hotels, in schools Broadway International School and in residential societies Spring Valley was ranked first. “Various aspects of cleanliness were judged in the competition that was held as a part of creating awareness for making the city cleanest," said a health department official in SMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cp-office-cleanest-among-govt-offices-in-athwa-zone-area/articleshow/79027239.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: With midday meal halted, many children in rural areas go hungry||BELAGAVI: The government’s decision to suspend the midday meal scheme due to Covid-19 from June has resulted in children from economically marginalised homes having only two meals a day. Since most parents are out working during the day, children are forced to do without lunch. While that is one facet of the problem, closure of schools is another, since many children have been forced into doing menial jobs. Renukamma (name changed), a class 6 student from Sindhanur, Raichur district, says she drinks water after 1pm to control her hunger. Her parents are agricultural labourers and leave for work at around 9am after feeding Renukamma. “Sometimes I weep while waiting for my mother to return and cook food,” she said. “A woman from a neighbouring house sometimes gives me biscuits, but she too works and is often not at home.” Renukamma said the government earlier provided dry rations, but that does not compensate for a hot meal at school. Meghana, a class 7 student at Bavihalli Higher Primary School, Ballari district, said, since the lockdown, her father finds it difficult to find work and this is taking a toll on meals. He has about 10 family members to feed and stopping dry rations like rice and dal was a big blow. “Now we have only two meals a day,” she said. “We have our breakfast at around 12 noon and dinner at 9pm or 10pm.” Niranjan Aradhya, an education expert, said more than 55 lakh children were fed under the programme, of which 80% were from poor backgrounds. He said the scheme was designed after meticulous research and the meal was a big source of nutrition for children. Stopping it, he said, will stunt growth of these children. A teacher revealed Ramya, a class 10 student from Chikkamagaluru district, lost nearly 5kg in weight since the meal was scrapped, and Syed Hafizullah, education activist from Raichur, said many children in rural areas share a similar plight. He said a delay in reopening schools and continued suspension of the scheme could result in widespread malnutrition in the Hyderabad-Karnataka region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-midday-meal-halted-many-children-in-rural-areas-go-hungry/articleshow/79026638.cms||Shreyas HS
November 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: High ICU occupancy remains serious concern for officials||PUNE: A high number of critical patients, despite a drop in new Covid cases, continues to cause concern, officials have said. On Tuesday, the bed-availability dashboard set up by the divisional commissioner’s office showed that 316 of 524 ventilator-supported ICU beds were still occupied in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits — a high 60% occupancy. Among regular ICU beds — units without ventilator support — there was 40% occupancy, with 212 of 521 beds taken. Areas under Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits fared comparatively better with 59 ventilator-supported beds showing as occupied on Tuesday, out of a total of 148 (39% occupancy). There were also 111 regular ICU beds occupied from a total of 460 units (an occupancy of 24%). Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, during a press conference on Tuesday, said the number of critical Covid-19 patients who need ICU care continues to be a major worry for the regional administration. “Considering the number of patients we still have on ventilators, we are not going to release ICU units of private hospitals from Covid duty just yet,” Rao said during the virtual conference. Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner, PMC, said with nearly 500 ICU patients, the civic body is not going to reduce the number of reserved specialised units. “Also, many of the patients who are in ICUs here are from other parts of the district,” she said. Public health experts said the count of nearly 700 patients in ICUs across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits rings alarm bells for the district administration, which they said, cannot afford to relax ahead of the festival season and the winter. It’s feared that crowding during the season could trigger fresh spikes in infections. Subhash Salunke, lead member of the state’s technical committee on the Covid-19 pandemic, said the task force has recommended not releasing ICU units at hospitals until the situation in the region shows clear signs of improvement. “We are going to conduct another meeting with the administration after Diwali. That meeting will decide course of action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/high-icu-occupancy-remains-serious-concern-for-officials/articleshow/79029541.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||BJP secures comfortable majority in Jaipur Greater||JAIPUR: The BJP on Tuesday secured a comfortable victory in Greater Municipal Corporation (GMC) polls. With the party emerging as the largest single party by winning 88 out of 150 seats, it will form the first board of the newly constituted municipal corporation which was formed after dividing the previous civic body. The ruling Congress managed to win 49 seats, while independents bagged 13. Seasoned councillor Man Pandit, who was fielded in BJP state president Satish Poonia’s ward (64) lost the battle. BJP councillor Rakhi Rathore recorded a hat-trick by winning from Ward No. 61. BJP candidate from Ward No. 102 Mahendra Kumar won the polls with a margin of three votes. Disappointed with the defeat of her husband Himmat Singh in Ward No. 39, his wife consumed poison. She was rushed to the nearby hospital for treatment. Greater Jaipur municipal limits (150 wards) cover five constituencies. While the BJP party has made strong grip in the three constituencies including Sanganer, Vidhyadhar Nagar and Malviya Nagar, two constituencies — Bagru and Jhotwara — are dominated by the Congress after winning the state assembly elections. Out of total 42 wards in Vidhyadhar Nagar constituency, the BJP secured 27 seats while the Congress and independents won 12 and 3 seats, respectively. The BJP faired good in Jhotwara from where cabinet minister Lal Chand Kataria had emerged victorious in the assembly elections. Out of 22 wards, the saffron party won on 14 seats. Congress, despite having a hold in the constituency, could manage to win only 4 seats, followed by the independent candidates who also won 4 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-secures-comfortable-majority-in-jaipur-greater/articleshow/79030309.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Allahabad||Drones to check cleaning of canals||Prayagraj: Due to frequent complaints from the farmers that the water in the canal does not reach the tail of the canals, the process of post-monsoon cleaning and de-silting of the canals would be initiated across. The process, which would help farmers in plantation of the Rabi crops, would be monitored with the help of drones by the state irrigation department. A report, along with the videography done of the process showing the state of the canals before the de-silting, during and post process, would then be sent by all the districts concerned to the state government, inform officials. Be it Kanpur, Meerut, Varanasi or Prayagraj, the entire de-silting and cleaning of the canals would be monitored with the help of drones. This is in accordance with the state government’s instructions aimed at ensuring proper cleaning of the canals for better irrigations of crops by the farmers across the state, shared a senior state irrigation department official. For this, tenders have already been invited in Prayagraj for different sections of the canals. Complete videography of 20 minor and major sections of canals of the district will be done under this initiative and its report will be sent to the state government. “The canals are monitored once before and after the cleaning and de-silting process using drones so as to assess effectiveness of the cleaning and ensure that water is reaching the canal tail. The details collected during the monitoring using the drones are available with us and we provide report to the state government based upon these,” shared SC Yadav, executive engineer, Executive Engineer, Belan Canal Division Prayagraj. The entire de-silting and cleaning of the canals is to be completed across the state on priority so that water is made available to farmers for planning of the Rabi crops well in time, he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/drones-to-check-cleaning-of-canals/articleshow/79030338.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Civic polls: In a first, Congress may form board in Jaipur Heritage||JAIPUR: For the first time in the city’s civic polls history, the Congress could be forming its board. In the election results declared on Tuesday, the Congress won 47 seats out 100 in the JMC Heritage and will be needing four more seats to form the board. There was close competition as the Congress won 47, BJP 42 and Independents grabbed 11 seats. A party needs 51 seats to form the board for which Congress leaders claim that they have already gained support of the independent candidates. Transport minister and MLA from city’s Civil Lines Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the Congress will not face any problem in making a board this year. “We have won 47 seats and four independents have reached out to us for support. In Civil Lines, we won 13 seats out of 24, in Hawa Mahal 10 seats, Kishanpole nine and Adarsh Nagar 13 seats. Our performance has been really good and public supported us for the development work we had done in the last 1.5 years especially at the time of lockdown,” said Khachariyawas with pride. On the other hand, the BJP blamed the Congress for bifurcating wards on the basis of vote bank. Sanganer MLA Ashok Lahoty said, “The delimitation was based on polarisation. Congress party divided the ward on Hindu & Muslim proportion and played dirty politics. This is not a public election but a ‘Jugaad’ made by the Congress.” Explaining the reason of defeat of all the BJP Muslim candidates, Lahoty said that the BJP will plan out strategy to cajole Muslim voters towards them. On many seats in the JMC Heritage, there was neck-to-neck competition between the BJP and the Congress. In Ward number 98, the Congress candidate lost by 10 votes. Surprisingly, Amber, bastion of BJP where party state president Satish Poonia is the sitting MLA, Congress won two seats out of the four. Satish Poonia is the only BJP MLA from JMC Heritage and this is considered to be a big blow to his reputation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-a-first-cong-may-form-board-in-jaipur-heritage/articleshow/79030341.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||Ganga canal closure may lead to water crisis in Delhi-NCR||HARIDWAR: Delhi-NCR continues to face acute water crisis due to closure of Upper Ganga Canal (UGC) till Diwali for the annual maintenance. The UGC provides around 11,500 cusec water each day, out of which 500 cusec is provided to Delhi region per day to meet the drinking water demand. Each year, the UGC is closed by the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department for cleaning the silt from the canal. However, the closure time may be extended this year as the work for construction of banks is also going on in wake of the 2021 Kumbh Mela, scheduled to start early next year. Since the British era, the UGC has been closed from Dussehra to Diwali to clear the sand deposits that get accumulated in the canal. The canal is a major source of irrigation in the western part of UP, and also provides drinking water to Delhi-NCR. The canal was built by British engineer Col Proby Cautley in 1854. It flows from Haridwar to Kanpur and covers western part of Uttar Pradesh. On the other hand, the UGC also helps in providing water for maintaining water level in the Yamuna through Hindon river on special occasions. Earlier this year, when US President Donald Trump visited Agra, around 500 cusec water was released into the Yamuna from the UGC. A few years ago, the capacity of the canal was increased from 11,500 cusec to 13,000 cusec but most of the time the canal flows with a capacity of 11,500 cusec. However, every year, the canal was closed for only 20 days for yearly cleaning, but this time it has been closed from October 15 to November 14 (30 days) on the request of the Uttarakhand government to complete the Kumbh Mela 2021 works which were pending due to lockdown. Sub-divisional officer (canal) Vikrant Kumar told TOI, “The closure of the Ganga canal is a routine process during the winter season. This year, we have increased the time frame as the Kumbh administration asked us to close the Ganga canal earlier for 21 days, but due to lockdown that plan was postponed. Around 500 cusec water is provided to Delhi-NCR daily from the canal, but we store enough water from different gates of the canal to meet the demand of Delhi and water is released from these gates.” On the other hand, local residents and traders are not happy with the closure of the Ganga canal as they face economic loss due to its closure as pilgrims stop coming and head towards Rishikesh. Local trader Sanjeev Nayyar told TOI, “The UP irrigation department closes the canal for cleaning purposes but they do not clean the river bed every time. This practice should be stopped as local businessmen and traders face economic losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/delhi-ncr-faces-acute-water-crisis-due-to-closure-of-upper-ganga-canal-till-diwali2/articleshow/79026651.cms||MS Nawaz
November 4, 2020||Kolhapur||CPR hospital to be open for non-Covid patients again||Kolhapur: The Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital in Kolhapur is set to restart treatment of non-Covid medical cases soon. District collector Daulat Desai has written to the hospital administration to ensure that 50% of the beds are made available for non-Covid patients. He has asked the health authorities to resume the out-patient department (OPD) for non-Covid patients. Currently, there are around 150 Covid patients undergoing treatment in the district’s largest civil hospital. CPR was designated a dedicated Covid hospital in April and since then, non-Covid patients have not been allowed here. Hospital dean Chandrakant Mhaske said: “We have set up a panel of two to assess the current situation in the hospital. The team will look into how many beds, doctors and other staff can be freed for non-Covid patients. The decision will be taken soon.” CPR hospital provides all kinds of health services with around 600-900 patients visiting it. Services and treatment provided here, especially in the heart and eye faculties, are at par with the services provided in private hospitals, but at much lower costs. The number of critical patient admissions in the hospital is much higher than other private and public hospitals. After CPR was converted into a Covid hospital, regular patients were asked to go to Seva Hospital, which has limited staff and infrastructure. Therefore, many non-Covid patients had to seek treatment at private hospitals, which charge much more. “We have over 350 oxygen beds in the hospital for Covid patients. The number of patients has come down nearly by half. We are planning for better management of both Covid and non-Covid patients,” said a senior official of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cpr-hospital-to-be-open-for-non-covid-patients-again/articleshow/79026647.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Pune||Companies seek physios’ guidance for perfect workstations at home||PUNE: Industry bodies and corporate companies are arranging online sessions with physiotherapists for guidance on ergonomic arrangements to minimize employees’ physical discomfort and maximize their efficiency. Since the announcement of lockdown in March, many people have started working from home. Health experts are worried that in the absence of a proper ergonomic set-up at home, neck and back problems might be common among most of such people. Orthopaedic surgeon Parag Sancheti, chairman of Sancheti Institute of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, said, “It has been more than six months now that a sizeable workforce across sectors is functioning from home. Many people have started complaining abut neck and back pain.” He said, “We are continuously getting enquiries from industry bodies and corporate companies for arranging such online sessions. Even small tips on ergonomically-sound sitting arrangements are helping many people working from home.” Mahindra and Mahindra, Pune, recently arranged a webinar on ergonomics for its employees. “The webinar has helped not only our employees but also their family members,” said Amol Bhamare, chief medical officer, Mahindra and Mahindra. The idea of conducting webinars germinated while communicating with the employees. “Work from home had initially brought cheers. But because of a lack of proper office set-up at home, many started having back and neck-related issues. Our employees also admitted that they were experiencing fatigue with the extended work-from-home arrangement,” Bhamare said. The Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (MCCIA) and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Pune, have also started arranging webinars on ergonomic arrangements. A CII member said, “It is important to know how to prevent the issues arising out of working in the non-optimal set-up at home and reduce the overall impact on our well-being and productivity.” Anita Perla, senior manager, human resource, KSH Distriparks, Pune, said, “I attended a webinar arranged by MCCIA. The conditions at home are not like in office, where the infrastructure is set to support working conditions.” National Institute of Personnel Management’s Pune chapter recently conducted physiotherapy sessions for its associate members. C M Chitale, chairman, NIPM, Pune chapter, said, “The session turned out to be beneficial” Sourabh Sane, a physiotherapist from home-based start-up HealYos, said, “We are teaching how to set up a work station at home that will be as ergonomic as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/companies-seek-physios-guidance-for-perfect-workstations-at-home/articleshow/79029568.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 4, 2020||Pune||Relief for smaller hospitals treating Covid-19 patients||Pune: As many as 1,800 beds reserved for treating Covid-19 patients in private hospitals would now be available for non-coronavirus patients, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Tuesday. Besides, hospitals with less than 40 beds each and those offering specialized treatments will not have to admit fresh Covid-19 patients. The civic and the district administrations will conduct a meeting with big hospitals to know their views on reducing the Covid-19 beds in their hospitals. “The administration plans to have 8,000 beds including those with oxygen and ventilator support, at any given time for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The government health set-ups will have 2,500 beds on an immediate basis for the treatment of the nCoV patients in case of a surge in the number of positive cases,” Rao told a news conference. He said bigger hospitals with 350-450 beds each would have to reduce the facilities reserved for Covid-19 in phases. The plan of such hospitals would be checked at a meeting on Wednesday. Officials privy to the development stated that the civic and the administrations would make arrangements to increase the number of beds as and when required. Beds in the private hospitals would be again reserved for the Covid-19 patients in case there was a second wave of the pandemic, an official said. “The Union government has instructed us to be prepared for a second wave of Covid-19 cases. We are accordingly arranging the infrastructure. The additional manpower currently deputed at the municipal Covid 19 facilities will be sent to their respective duty for the time being. We may again seek their services if there is a second wave,” said Rao. The Pune Municipal Corporation limits now have five Covid care centres and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areas have just one such unit. Some of these facilities had been closed in the wake of the reduction in cases and mortality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/relief-for-smaller-hospitals-treating-covid-19-patients/articleshow/79029554.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kochi||Collective calls planned amendment draconian||KOCHI: The Swatantra Malayalam Computing (SMC), a non-profit collective empowering native language communication with technology tools for Malayalam, has requested the chief minister to withdraw the proposed amendment of the Kerala Police Act through insertion of Section 118 (A), terming it draconian. In a letter to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and law minister A K Balan, the SMC said since the act is too broad to define what constitutes defamation, even something as trivial as a restaurant or book review leaves the possibility that the author of such a review will get slapped with fines and a non-bailable offence. “Anything that makes it easy to silence such watchdogs or even companies in competing space stifles innovation and reduces opportunities for healthy competition. If taking out a competitor/critique is easily accomplished by construing any sort of advertisement or communication as defamatory and a cognisable, non-bailable offence, the value of legitimate competition is reduced,” the letter said, adding that the proposed amendment is draconian. The language used to construct the amendment is broad, vague and allows for multiple and sometimes conflicting interpretations, the letter said. They risk reducing the question of what constitutes defamation into simple notions that are in conflict with the idea of free speech, it said. SMC also said it is regrettable that the full text of the proposed amendment is not available in Malayalam, which is the official language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/collective-calls-planned-amendment-draconian/articleshow/79027843.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Cup of Delhi University woes spills over, many marked absent in open-book tests||NEW DELHI: Many of the students who had appeared for Delhi University’s online Open Book Examination (OBE) were in for a shock when DU started declaring the results from Monday night — they have been marked absent or zero-upload in papers that they had attempted and submitted. Colleges have been receiving emails with similar complaints since Monday night. A geography (H) student of Kirori Mal College had a harrowing time trying to get it fixed on Tuesday. He has an AB mark in his marksheet for political geography paper, which he took on August 11. “I had sent my answer sheet through email as I could not upload it on the portal. I had also received a confirmation email from the examination department,” he said from Rajasthan, adding that he had already sent five-six mails on all IDs of the college and the department. “But I am worried as there has been no confirmation email.” A fast correction is necessary as he has appeared for the postgraduate entrance at Jawaharlal Nehru University, he added. Both issues are being faced mostly by students of economics, mathematics, BSc Programme, geography and philosophy. “I have been marked zero for my environmental economics paper though I had received a submission acknowledgement for it,” said an economics student of a North Campus college. Ashutosh Kumar, the examination nodal officer at College of Vocational Studies, said, “We have received emails from students of all departments. I have around 40-50 such emails. While 20% of them say their results are ‘not found’, 80 % have been marked absent in different papers.” DU’s dean of examination, D S Rawat, claimed less than 2% of the examinees were facing this problem and it had happened mostly due to multiple entries of answer sheets. “In the physical mode, the invigilator checks the paper and such problems are sorted. But at OBE, students even forgot to write roll numbers, completed papers without mentioning the paper code or title. These papers were recovered from multiple sources. The majority of the problem is of multiple entries.” Before the results were declared, the examination department had asked students to raise their concerns about the answer scripts with the respective college’s nodal officer and mail the papers within 10 days of the results, Rawat said. However, a nodal officer said, “The email ID that has been provided by DU is not working and mails are bouncing. Students are panicking.” At Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), 20 economics students were marked absent in environmental economics. “The college’s nodal officer asked us to send our details on Monday night and the marks were updated on Tuesday evening,” said one of them. Rawat said the issue would be resolved in three days. “For students who had sent their papers with credentials, the answer scripts were checked on the OBE portal. For students who haven’t written anything, nodal officers are checking if the exam was held that day and then sending the paper to evaluators,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cup-of-du-woes-spills-over-many-marked-absent-in-open-book-tests/articleshow/79029637.cms||Shradha Chettri
November 4, 2020||Allahabad||Sale of green firecrackers from Nov 8-14||Prayagraj: To ensure safety and security in Diwali, also known as the festival of lights and crackers, the joint team of police and administration have identified as many as 15 venues for the sale of green firecrackers. The venues selected for the sale of green firecrackers in the city are the schools' playground. Green crackers are known for their environment-friendly quality and cause less air pollution compared to traditional crackers that cause health hazards. ADM (City) Ashok Kumar told TOI that, "The district administration would be issuing temporary licences to traders to set up temporary shops for selling firecrackers, which would be valid only for seven days, from November 8 to 14. He added that the venues would be under the police and district administration scanner to ensure a smooth sale of green crackers. Besides, the stockists have been given 15 days temporary license for stocking the green firecrackers. Meanwhile, IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh told TOI that a joint team of SDM and Deputy SP had been assigned to check the records of the stockists of green firecrackers. He added that officials had also been asked to check fire management at godown as well as open venues where the sale of green firecrackers would be held. The sellers are also required to keep adequate fire-fighting equipment like sand-filled buckets, fire extinguishers and water near their shops. The fire department has also been alerted to ensure that in the event of a fire outbreak, people can be evacuated quickly—further, the management will arrange for separate gates for the entry and exit of customers. The officials of the fire department have also been asked to deploy fire tenders at these venues. Moreover, the men-in-khaki have also intensified vigil at the spots where firecrackers are being manufactured in the district including Mauaima, Phulpur and Soraon. Police teams have been asked to conduct surprise checks to ensure that there would be no illegal storage of firecrackers and taking strict action against the violation of norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sale-of-green-firecrackers-from-nov-8-14/articleshow/79030346.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Pune||Covid cases exceed 3.25 lakh in Pune metropolitan region, fatalities near 8,000||PUNE: The Covid-19 tally surpassed the 3.25 lakh-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, with the addition of 546 cases in the last 24 hours. Besides, 28 more patients succumbed to coronavirus-related complications in the region on Monday, taking its toll to 7,955. As for recoveries, 680 patients were discharged in PMR on Tuesday, taking the total recovery count in the region above 3.05 lakh. Of the total discharges, the PMC limits accounted for 280, followed by the rural as well as cantonment areas (265) and the PCMC limits (135). Among the fresh infection, the PMC limits added 247, followed by the rural as well cantonment areas (166) and the PCMC limits (113). As many as 5,081 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals and Covid centres in the region, while 6,395 are in home isolation. As per PMC, 1,419 patients were on oxygen beds in the municipal limits. Its critical count stood at 528, including 316 on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-exceed-3-25-lakh-in-pmr-fatalities-near-8k/articleshow/79029607.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
November 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Mother among 3 held for stabbing alcohol-addict son||AURANGABAD: A 50-year-old woman, along with two of her relatives, was arrested for allegedly stabbing her 30-year-old son to death late on Monday night. The deceased has been identified as Krishna Shelke, a resident of Asegaon falling in the limits of Gangapur tehsil in Aurangabad district. Based on the complaint lodged by his wife Vandana, police have arrested his mother Tulsabai Shelke and relatives Dnyaneshwar Jadhav and Pandharinath Jadhav. Preliminary probe has revealed that Shelke was addicted to alcohol and would often beat up his two children, wife and even his mother. On Monday, he returned from the farm in an inebriated condition and started assaulting his wife and children. When Tulsabai intervened, he started beating her. Fearing further violence, Vandana went out of the house with her children. Shelke latched the door from inside and started assaulting his mother. Vandana called Dnyaneshwar and sought help. When he failed to open the door, he called Pandharinath for help. The duo broke open the door with the help of some locals. Soon, Tulsabai and the two men overpowered Krishna and started beating him with wooden sticks. Tulsabai allegedly picked up a metal object and stabbed him in the belly, which caused him to bleed profusely. Shelke was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mother-among-3-held-for-stabbing-alcohol-addict-son/articleshow/79026664.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 4, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Both BJP, Congress claim to win all 7 seats in Malwa-Nimar||INDORE: After a month-long rigorous campaigning for bypolls, both BJP and Congress on Tuesday claimed to win all seven seats of Malwa-Nimar region as they cite ‘reasons’ that helped garnering the voters’ support in their favour.  Soon after polling ended on Tuesday, candidates and senior leaders of BJP and Congress along with their booth level agents (BLAs) started a review of the votes cast on every voting station as to help in ‘predicting’ the results. “We are going to win all seven seats of Malwa-Nimar region as voters evaluated the 15-months of Kamal Nath government, which was against mafia and farmer-friendly, with that of 15-years of BJP, in which, there was only corruption in the name of development,” said MPCC media cell chairman Jitu Patwari. According to Congress candidate from Sanwer Premchand Borasi ‘Guddu’, a high voting percentage in rural areas showed that people supported Congress and gave a retorting reply to the ‘traitors’ for deceiving the party and the electors. Congress party candidate from Agar Vipin Wankhede added that huge crowd reported in around 15 public meetings of Nath in Indore-Ujjain division and ‘empty chairs’ in public address of Chouhan and Jyotiraditya Scindia have already indicated the results going in favour of the Congress Party. “The voters chose Shiv-Jyoti Express over the pair of Nath and Digvijaya Singh,” BJP spokesperson Umesh Sharma claimed. BJP candidate from Sanwer Tulsiram Silawat said that people voted BJP for development of the state as they also extended support to make Shivraj Singh Chouhan a ‘permanent chief minister’ and strengthening the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Unlike Congress, we are committed to fulfill all the promises made to the public and thus, we are going to win all 20 seats including seven constituencies of Malwa-Nimar region,” BJP’s candidate from Badnawar seat Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/both-bjp-cong-claim-to-win-all-7-seats-in-malwa-nimar/articleshow/79027836.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Pune||Lockdown unlikely as intensity of second wave may be less: Maharashtra minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said lockdown might not be necessary in Maharashtra in near future because the intensity of the second wave of Covid-19 was likely to be less than the first one. After a detailed presentation from the state task force and medical experts from the health department, Tope told TOI that the second wave “seemed unlikely” in the state considering the present situations. He said the state government was not keen on lockdown as it would impact the economy. He stressed that the way forward was to adhere to the social distancing norms to curtail the spread of Covid-19. Against the backdrop of many European countries announcing lockdown again, Tope said the scenario in the state would completely hinge on citizens’ behaviour. He said people would have to follow the rules so that the state could continue with the unlock process. “Lockdowns won’t be needed if citizens follow the rules. The state is keen to revive the economy. With the upcoming Diwali festival, it is up to the people to ensure that they have subdued celebrations and ensure that all cares are taken,” he said. Tope said the chief minister would take the decision on reopening religious places, schools and swimming pools shortly after assessing the progression of winter and the caseload in the period. The health minister said even if there was a second wave, the virulence of coronavirus would be less. Yet, he said, the state government machinery was ready to handle any situations. On the easing of the 80:20 ratio of beds for treating Covid-19 patients and using some of them for non-Covid purposes, the health minister said he had directed the administration to be ready to revive the cap on hospital beds in case of surge in caseload. He said the districts might allow hospitals to admit non-Covid patients, but there should be an alternative plan to put together a good number of beds, if needed. The administration had struggled to meet the bed requirement following a surge in Covid-19 cases after the Ganapati festivities in mid-September. Tope said the state’s daily cases were between 4,000 and 5,000 at present and the focus would be on increasing testing, contact tracing and ensuring enough hospital beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-unlikely-as-intensity-of-second-wave-may-be-less-tope/articleshow/79029590.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Senior citizen stabbed to death in Kavoor||MANGALURU: A senior citizen was stabbed to death by unidentified miscreants at his house in Malli Layout, Kavoor police station limits, on Tuesday afternoon. The victim is Surendran,60. The victim stayed at Kavoor along with his wife. Police said that on Tuesday morning, the victim had gone to the city and his wife to their farm. He had returned around 1pm and was stabbed to death by unidentified miscreants. Police added that his wife was unaware about his murder, and learnt only when she returned home in the evening.  A large crowd had gathered outside their house. Sources from the police department added that business rivalry may have caused the murder. A case has been registered at the Kavoor police station in this regard and an investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/senior-citizen-stabbed-to-death/articleshow/79026663.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Private schools call meeting to discuss reopening strategies||MYSURU: Representatives of CBSE, ICSE and State Board Private School Management Association (CISPMA) from five southern districts of the state — Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan and Kodagu — have planned a meeting to discuss the issue of reopening schools. Some are of the opinion that schools should reopen in a phased manner, starting with high schools first. Representatives will meet in Mysuru to discuss problems faced by private schools during the pandemic and they will also take stock of online classes as a mode of educating students. However, the main agenda will be reopening schools. Members have been advocating reopening of schools. They say that with half the academic year over, almost every school is struggling as their revenues have been drastically hit. Since classes are being conducted online, only a few parents have paid fees — many have made only partial payments and many others none at all — and representatives say running an institution under such conditions is challenging. They say teachers haven’t been paid full salaries for the past six months. Representatives say some parents in urban pockets are okay with online classes continuing for the rest of the academic year since they won’t have to pay full fees. Sudhakar Shetty, president of the association, confirmed the meeting and said the discussion will centre on the issue of reopening schools. “The challenges schools are facing in European nations after they reopened will also be considered during the discussion,” he said. “We are meeting for the first time on an important subject. We’re expecting participation of nearly 100 schools from Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan and Kodagu.” As many as 240 schools are members of the association. Roughly about 60 other private institutes operate in these districts. In all, about 3 lakh students study in CBSE, ICSE and state board private schools in these districts. Last month, the government said it was in no hurry to reopen schools and insisted safety of students was paramount. “We have no plans to reopen schools any time soon,” primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said. He said he would seek opinion from all stakeholders, including the health department before taking a call on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/private-schools-call-meeting-to-discuss-reopening-strategies/articleshow/79026670.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 4, 2020||Pune||Pune district administration turns to IMA for health scheme success||PUNE: The district administration has roped in Indian Medical Association (IMA) officials to streamline execution of the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) in the time of Covid-19 pandemic. The state government’s health scheme allows free-of-cost treatment to patients, irrespective of their financial status, at the designated empanelled hospitals. The IMA officials will look into the grievances (see box) of the private empanelled hospitals in implementing the scheme that has run into trouble after a sizeable number of patients complained of its poor enforcement. Last month, the district administration issued show-cause notices to 52 empanelled hospitals for “not doing enough” to extend the benefit of free-of-cost treatment to Covid-19 patients under the scheme. Sanjay Patil, president of the Indian Medical Association's Hospital Board of India’s Pune branch, said, “The district collector has formed an expert committee and made two IMA office-bearers its members. Our job will be about finding solutions to the problems of the empanelled private hospitals in implementing the scheme.” Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had expressed displeasure over the low execution of the scheme at the 78 empanelled private hospitals in PMR. Ayush Prasad, vice-president of the District Grievance Redressal and Monitoring Committee and chief executive officer of the Pune Zilla Parishad, had in a show-cause notice to the private hospitals stated, “We have told the empanelled private hospitals to furnish patient-wise information about reasons for not extending the scheme’s benefit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/district-admin-turns-to-ima-for-health-scheme-success/articleshow/79029648.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||SupplyCo to run ration shops, dealers cry foul||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The ration dealers in the state have come out against the decision of the government to allow Kerala state civil supplies corporation (Supplyco) to run ration shops in the state. The first ration shop run by Supplyco was inaugurated at Pulimoodu here on Tuesday. All India ration dealers congress have said that if the government permits Supplyco to run ration shops, the ration dealers would actively campaign against the LDF candidates in the upcoming local-body elections. General secretary of the association Babichan Mukkadan said that the government should back off from the move that will affect the jobs of about 14,000 ration dealers and their staff. The dealers would fight against the move. He said that the first ration shop being inaugurated in the capital by Supplyco is a blatant violation of the food safety act prevailing in the country. The ration dealers are planning to appoint about 2,000 new staff in the basic minimum wages scale. When new dealerships are sanctioned, as per the court rule, principles of reservation are also to be followed. But the government has not followed that and has not given any priority to women’s oraganizations, Kudumbashree and ex-Army personnel. The ration dealers observed Tuesday as a black day protesting the government’s decision to grant ration shop licence to Supplyco. Meanwhile, food and civil supplies minister P Thilothaman said that the claims that the ration shops would be taken over by Supplyco is baseless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/supplyco-to-run-ration-shops-dealers-cry-foul/articleshow/79027854.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt urges railways to run more suburban trains||KOLKATA: The state government wants Eastern Railway and South Eastern Railway to operate more trains than the 10%-15% service that they had proposed at Monday’s meeting. State home secretary H K Dwivedi has convened a meeting with key officials of the two rail divisions on Wednesday to discuss the issue and chalk out plans ahead of the proposed announcement on Thursday. In a letter to railway officials, Dwivedi wrote: “In order to decongest the processes relating to evacuation, dispersal and movement of commuters, I am directed to request you to run sufficient number of suburban local trains for daily passengers connecting different suburban nodes with Howrah and Sealdah.” The two rail divisions had said they would initially resume operations with 10%-15% of the pre-Covid service and ramp it up to 25% after a few days. They had also said that the trains would ply with half the seating capacity. But the proposal was met with consternation with many questioning how so few trains could prevent crowding. Prior to the pandemic, ER and SER operated around 1,500 trains daily and ferried around 30 lakh passengers. If it runs a service of 150-225 trains and carries only 600 passengers in each, the commuter count would be between 90,000 to 1.4 lakh. Among those expected to attend Wednesday’s meeting include divisional railway managers of Howrah, Sealdah and Kharagpur as well as principal chief operations managers of ER and SER. On the agenda are train schedules and stoppages. Railway officials had on Monday said they would operate trains on all routes but many of them may be galloping ones. To begin with, railways may only allow suburban commuters to travel up to Howrah or Sealdah from the originating stations. “Those demanding resumption of services wish to travel to Kolkata for work. One option is to allow people to either purchase or renew monthly season tickets (MSTs),” a railway official said, adding that it would do away with break journeys. Under Indian Railway rules, those purchasing suburban tickets of MSTs to a particular destination can’t get off at any other station even if the fare is same. Another proposal is to operate galloping trains. For instance, a Bandel-Howrah local may stop at all stations till Srirampore or Sheoraphuli and then travel non-stop to Howrah. Srirampore-Howrah or Sheoraphuli-Howrah locals may stop at all stations. Similarly, a Tarakeswar-Howrah local could stop at all stations till Sheoraphuli and then run non-stop to Howrah. Railway officials have said they want help from state police to control access to suburban stations that are porous in nature with multiple entry points. Apart from Railway police and cops, civic volunteers may also be deployed. The state will arrange for adequate transport at stations to facilitate quick passenger dispersal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-urges-rlys-to-run-more-suburban-trains/articleshow/79027853.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 4, 2020||Pune||Active tally in DCB limits shrinks to 8||Pune: Active Covid-19 cases in the Dehu Road Cantonment Board (DCB) limits have reduced from 96 to just eight over the last four weeks, a first since April, following intensified testing and surveys to spot likely cases. “In fact, we are reporting zero or at the most one active Covid-19 cases for the last 10 days. If this trend continues, the board limits may not have active Covid-19 cases soon,” R Harital, DCB chief executive officer, told TOI on Tuesday. The DCB limits currently have less cases than the Pune and Khadki cantonment board limits. While DCB limits have eight active cases now, the Pune and Khadki cantonment board limits’active tally stands at 20 and 34, respectively. The DCB limits had 280 active cases in August. “We were recording 30-40 positive cases every day then. We neither had the required health infrastructure nor medical staff to deal with the situation,” Harital said. Over the period of time, the DCB got a 40-bed dedicated Covid health centre and started treating patients. “Our medical teams with the help of volunteers carried out survey and tested almost 47,000 people, double the previous months, in the last three months. As a result, we could not only contain the spread, but also reduce the deaths,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/active-tally-in-dcb-limits-shrinks-to-8/articleshow/79029634.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||64 new positive cases in Amravati||AMRAVATI: The Covid sample testing figure crossed the one lakh mark even as 65 new cases took the caseload to 16428 on Tuesday. The day also saw one death of a 57-year-old man from Talvel that took the toll to 365. 63 recoveries took the total to 15477 for a recovery rate of 94.21. This left 586 active cases under treatment. Collector Shailesh Naval said that though there had been a fall in the number of new patients, the threat of Covid was not over. He urged people to take all precautions during the festival season to avoid the second wave of Covid. One death in Yavatmal Yavatmal recorded one death, a 35-year-old man from Maregaon, taking the toll to 351. 449 test reports were received on Tuesday of which 45 were positive while the remaining 404 negative. 339 are the active positive patients in the district under treatment. 10335 were reported as positive of whom 9155 were negative which includes 58 patients discharged on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/64-new-positive-cases-in-amravati/articleshow/79023469.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Trichy||Two women among three killed in accident||Tiruvarur: Three people, including two women were killed in a road accident near Thiruthuraipoondi in Tiruvarur district on Tuesday. According to police, the deceased were identified as Kamala, 50, Vijayalakshmi, 55 employed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act Scheme, and Thangapandiyan, 25, a mini truck driver of Mela Maruthur village. Police said that the driver lost control and hit the two women workers who were taking rest beside a pillar constructed for the ongoing road overbridge (RoB) work at Mela Maruthur village. Both women died on the spot. After hitting the women, the vehicle plunged into an irrigation canal. The driver, who sustained grievous injuries was rushed to a government hospital in Thiruthuraipoondi, where he died, police said. The Thiruthuraipoondi police registered a case and are investigating, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-women-among-three-killed-in-accident/articleshow/79030353.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Battle for mayor posts intensifies in Jaipur||JAIPUR: As uncertainty disappeared after the outcome of Heritage Municipal Corporation (HMC) and Greater Municipal Corporation (GMC) results in Jaipur, battle for the mayoral post within the Congress and BJP party intensified. The seat for mayor’s posts in both the corporation has been reserved for the Other Backward Class (OBC) women candidates. As BJP boasts to have clear majority in (GMC), two women councillors are strong contenders for the seat. The councillors will now cast theier votes to elect women mayors for the fourth time in history on November 10. BJP candidate Sheel Dhahabai, first woman mayor of Jaipur, who defeated strong Congress candidate Kiran Dewal, is among the front-runners for the seat in GMC. Dhahabai is supported by BJP presidentSatish Poonia as he was seen campaigning for her. Somaya Gujjar, former women commission member, is another the strong contender for the post. Congress’ 28-year-old Divya Singh, who studied diploma in business management from Oxford, and was among the frontrunners for the mayor’s post in Greater Jaipur lost her chance as the BJP secured comfortable victory. Though the Congress does not have a prominent mayor’s face in Walled City area, many believe that two-time councillor Sunita Mahawar could be elected if the party does not field parachute candidate after the elections. The BJP party senior leaders also discussed to field independent candidate Kusum Yadav from Jaipur Heritage who was earlier denied the ticket. A BJP source said, “Yadav won as independent candidate. If BJP fields her, it could also attract independent votes.” Meanwhile, Rajasthan Teli Mahapanchyat has written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot demanding to appoint mayor from the minority community. The letter states that despite decent representation of Muslim candidates in municipal elections, the community never claimed the senior post. “As the seat is reserved for the woman OBC category, it’s an opportunity of winning candidate belonging to the minority community,” said a resident Abdul Latif.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/battle-for-mayor-posts-intensifies/articleshow/79030354.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Indore||Polling in Sanwer peaceful; Cong alleges bogus voting, BJP denies||INDORE: Barring a few stray incidents, voting was largely peaceful at 380 polling booths in bypoll-bound Sanwer constituency. At the voting station erected in Index Medical College, candidates of BJP and Congress registered their objections over alleged ‘bogus’ voting and alternative ID proofs used by voters to exercise their franchise, following which voting was stalled there for a few minutes. On Tuesday morning, Congress candidate Premchand Guddu and district Congress president Sadashiv Yadav reached the medical college and claimed to have caught three fake voters at the booth, who were trying to cast votes without any identity proof. “A youngster, whose identity could not be known, was seen at the polling booth multiple times and he didn’t even have any valid identity card. We caught him and handed him over to the police,” Guddu said. Yadav claimed that he had reached the polling booth at 5 am and took objection during the mock polls as well. “The seal of the machine was broken before the mock polls started,” he alleged. Yadav also took objection over identity cards of various voters. Later, BJP candidate Tusli Silawat also reached Index Medical College and took objection as some young voters alleged to have been stopped by the officials from voting. SDM Ravish Shrivastava said that youngsters were stopped from voting because they didn’t have original ID cards and were showing photocopy of Aadhaar Card. “Congress has been levelling allegations since the announcement of bypolls. They don’t have anything to offer and now they are stopping people from voting. These are young voters and will not fall in the trap of Congress,” Silawat said outside the polling booth. Meanwhile, BJP and Congress activists came face to face near a polling booth at Talawali Chanda and exchanged heated arguments. On learning about the same, BJP city president Gaurav Randive and Congress candidate Premchand Guddu’s daughter Reena Baurasi too reached the scene while cops from two police stations were also deployed to control the situation. The dispute started when Congress activists at the booth took objection over BJP activists and alleged that they are forcing voters to vote for BJP even after entering the polling booth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/polling-in-sanwer-peaceful-cong-alleges-bogus-voting-bjp-denies/articleshow/79027844.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||Appeal to CM Mamata Banerjee for cracker ban in pandemic times||KOLKATA: Medical associations, doctors, environment experts and activists have made an appeal to chief minister Mamata Banerjee for a safe, clean and green Kali Puja without any fireworks this year. Bursting of crackers, if allowed, may lead to an uncontrollable rise in Covid infection, they said in the letter written to the CM. The medical associations and green crusaders have come under the banner of ‘Bengal Clean Air Network (Bengal-CAN)’ and collectively written the letter requesting her not to allow any fireworks — low-decibel or high ones — this Kali Puja and Diwali. Sabuj Mancha, another platform for environment activists, has written a similar letter to the CM, appealing for a blanket ban on all kinds of fireworks during this ‘unusual’ time. Another leading environment crusader from the city, Subhas Datta, hs written a letter to the prime minister, urging him to announce complete lockdown on manufacturing, transportation, storage and trading of fireworks across the country. All the doctors and NGOs have offered support to the administration at generating awareness among citizens with upcoming winter posing widespread respiratory ailments in Kolkata and rest of Bengal. “We want the state to announce a blanket ban on fireworks. Unusual time warrants radical actions,” said Naba Dutta of Sabuj Mancha. The Bengal-CAN letter was signed by more than 15 organizations, including West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, Association of Radiation Oncologists of India, Society of Emergency Medicine India, South Asian Medical Students Association and NGOs like SwitchON Foundation, PUBLIC, WWF, ACTS and Kolkata Clean Air. “In the background of the pandemic, it is of utmost importance for us to realize the need to limit air pollution this Kali Puja/Diwali as it would only aggravate the suffering all around and increase the death toll,” said Soirindhri Banerjee of Radiation Oncology, IPGMER & SSKM Hospital. “More careful approach is warranted from the administrative side to reduce the ambient air pollution in the winter. The dual enemies of air pollution and Covid-19 may cause havoc to human lungs,” added pulmonologist Arup Haldar. “If crackers are used rampantly, the pollution will have impact even on recovered patients, including ones who has had mild infection,” warned pulmonologist Sushmita Roy Chowdhury. Pulmonolgist Raja Dhar added that crackers can increase the density of particulate matter in the ambient air by manifolds. Vinay Jaju, co-founder of SwitchON Foundation, said: “We have urged the government to ban fireworks in cities where air quality is not satisfactory and only allow green firecrackers for limited hours on specific days in the rest of state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/appeal-to-cm-for-cracker-ban-in-pandemic-times/articleshow/79027846.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 4, 2020||Bareilly||Housewife attacked, robbed at home||Pilibhit: A housewife was assaulted and robbed at her house, barely 500 meters from Pilibhit Kotwali police station, on Monday night. A man allegedly barged into the house of Amana Tabassum in Feel Khana locality here, attacked her with a cricket bat, causing injuries on her head and back. and tearing her clothes. He robbed her of her gold jewellery valuing over Rs 1 lakh. He also took away Rs 3.5 lakh kept in the house and her mobile. The woman was alone at home as her husband, Arif Ahmad, had stepped out after having dinner. Neighbours who saw the thief fleeing, identified him as Kallu Kuraishi of the same locality. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, said Kallu was booked under IPC section 457 (lurking house trespass), 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/housewife-attacked-robbed-at-home/articleshow/79024691.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 4 deaths, 316 new Covid cases||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded four deaths and 316 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the overall tally of Covid-related deaths to 1,033 and cases to 63,197 in the state. Among those, who succumbed to the virus included an 85-year-old woman, who died in Doon Medical College hospital, and three men who aged above 50 years and were suffering from multiple ailments too. Dehradun has recorded the highest number of deaths at 594 followed by Nainital (145), Haridwar (123), Udham Singh Nagar (93) and Pauri (30). Maximum positive cases were in Dehradun (74) followed by US Nagar (59), Pauri (43) and Nainital (29). The state has 3,705 active cases and the results of 12,438 samples are awaited. Meanwhile, 409 patients were cured today, taking the overall tally of recovered patients to 57,951 in the state. The recovery percentage in Uttarakhand stood at 91.70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-4-deaths-316-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79026675.cms||Shivani Azad
November 4, 2020||Goa||After pulling Covid doctors’ housing, Goa govt wants nurses to vacate rooms||PANAJI: After the government withdrew accommodation for doctors working at the ESI hospital before being forced to relent, it withdrew hotel arrangement for nurses and multi-task staffers. The nurses haven’t yet been asked to vacate, but have threatened to walk out of the Covid hospital, a source said. “The South Goa collector has not yet told nurses to vacate their hotel rooms, but his order has created a crisis,” a senior state official said. The order is in effect from October 31. The Covid hospital administration has intimated the higher-ups in the state government that nurses are likely to resort to a strike if their accommodation arrangement is withdrawn. “Without nurses, it will be difficult to work in Covid wards, and patient care will be neglected,” the official said. “It will be difficult to run the hospital even for a day.” He stressed that the government has been sounded off about possible repercussions of the decision. The official said that they are clueless as to why the government has taken this decision, which has led to more problems. “Nurses are an important link in patient care,” he said. “This is not the time to cut corners. The government ought to consult the health department when making important decisions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-pulling-covid-docs-housing-state-wants-nurses-to-vacate-rooms/articleshow/79029633.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||One vote matters: Jodhpur aspirant learns the hard way||JAIPUR: Three candidates in Jaipur and Jodhpur have won the civic polls by slender margins of one to three votes. In Jodhpur South’s Ward No. 48, BJP’s Nisha Choudhary beat Congress’ Bhawna Richard by 1 vote. In Ward No. 10, independent candidate Hemlata Parihar defeated Manju Meghwal of Congress by a margin of 2 votes. In Jaipur’s Sanganer Legislative assembly area, BJP’s Mahendra Sharma defeated his Congress opponent Dinesh Vyas by three votes in Ward No. 102. “It was a tough time and till the last minute I wasn’t sure about my victory. My opponent Dinesh Vyas is the block president of Congress. Three votes is equal to 300 in this ward. I expected a good competition in the election,” said Sharma. Sharma has been the president of resident welfare society in Pratap Nagar Colony for the last 15 years. According to him, the locals were well aware of the work done by him all these years. “I am happy with the victory. I asked votes on the issue of development because in urban body elections your personal liaison matters,” said Sharma. Vyas said that he didn’t regret losing. “In BJP bastion, I was able to give tough competition to my opposition. I am the block president and know what is the value of such elections. My party members have appreciated my efforts,” said Vyas. There were nine independents contesting from Ward No. 102 who were also responsible for reducing the votes. One independent got 450 votes while another bagged 230, which is a huge number considering small number of voters this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-vote-matters-jodhpur-aspirant-learns-the-hard-way/articleshow/79030369.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
November 4, 2020||Pune||Pune economic activity up in Oct, MCCIA survey finds||Pune: A survey of 175 organizations in and around Pune by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) found that production level in October rose to 72%, while 77% of the employees returned to work. This was higher than the 55% and 68% respectively in September. “The surveyed companies were also asked about when their production levels were expected to get back to January levels — 30% of the companies said their production was already at pre-Covid levels, 11% of the respondents said that they expected their production levels to go back to normal in less than three months and 28% said they expect it to take between three and six months,” MCCIA said in a statement, adding, “Around 16% said it would take them between six and nine months, while 3% said it would take them more than 9 months. The other 11% were uncertain.” Of the organizations surveyed, 27% were mircro, 33% were small, 17% were medium and 22% were large-scale enterprises. About 66% of the organizations surveyed were from the manufacturing sector and 16% from the services sector. The remainder were involved in both manufacturing and services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-economic-activity-up-in-oct-mccia-survey-finds/articleshow/79029683.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nashik||Diwali goods by jail inmates up for sale||Nashik: Inmates lodged inside the Nashik Road central prison are putting their skills to use to craft articles in demand during the festival of lights that will be put up for sale at a stall outside the premises of the prison along the Jail Road from next week till Diwali. Lanterns, diyas, household furniture and home décor items made from fibre will be up for sale at the stall. Superintendent of Nashik Road Central Prison Pramod Wagh said preparations were underway for putting up various Diwali goodies for sale. He said that the stall, which sat permanently outside the premises of the central prison, was operational throughout the year and was of good use during festivals to sell the articles manufactured by the jail inmates. A range of products like cotton clothes, footware, key chains, diyas, etc are put on sale. Jail officials said that the aim of organising the Diwali mela was not to earn profit but to showcase the skills of the inmates. The response to the products is also overwhelming given that the raw material used for preparing the products is genuine and the profit margin is also very low compared to the market rates. There are various manufacturing units inside the jail premises. Inmates who are serving their sentence are trained in various manufacturing units like tailoring, fabrication, carpentry, soap preparation, etc where they work throughout the year. The aim of the training is to ensure that the skills help the convicts earn a livelihood after the completion of their sentence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/diwali-goods-by-jail-inmates-up-for-sale/articleshow/79026673.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||PILs seek no entry to pandals, ban on fireworks||Kolkata: Two public interest litigations were filed on Tuesday, urging the Calcutta High Court to make all Kali Puja, Jagaddhatri Puja and Kartik Puja pandals no-entry zones and seeking a complete ban on fireworks during the Kali Puja and Diwali. One of the litigations was filed by Howrah resident Ajoy Kumar Dey, after whose PIL the HC had declared all Durga Puja pandals as no-entry zones. Dey’s petition, filed through his counsel Bikash Bhattacharyya and advocate-on-record Sabyasachi Chatterjee, also seeks a court directive declaring all lakes, ponds and other waterbodies as containment zones for three days during Chhath Puja. This petition apart, South 24 Parganas resident Anusuya Bhattacharya, too, filed a PIL seeking a complete ban on fireworks during Kali Puja. In response to Dey’s earlier PIL, the court had declared all Durga Puja pandals as no-entry zones. Only a limited number of organizers were allowed entry to pandals. Revellers were allowed to view idols from a distance of 30 metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pils-seek-no-entry-to-pandals-ban-on-fireworks/articleshow/79027865.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
November 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Flying to Dubai? Carry original Covid negative certificate||MANGALURU: Six passengers from Bhatkal were barred at Mangaluru International Airport by airline staff from boarding a flight to the Middle East on the weekend as they did not have the original of their Covid-19 negative certificate. Airlines operating bubble flights to the Middle East have been on edge ever since Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) suspended Air India Express operations for a fortnight after it allowed infected flyers on one of its flights to Dubai. The suspension was later revoked after the airline apologised for the lapse. Now, passengers flying to reclaim their jobs must carry a Covid-19 negative certificate. But the group of flyers on Saturday had only taken a print of the certificate, which was mailed to Bhatkal Taluk Hospital by Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences (KRIMS). Ismail Nagar, who was barred from boarding, said: “We gave swab samples at Bhatkal Taluk Hospital on October 29 and we got the test result the next day. A copy was downloaded and printed by the hospital. They assured us there would be no problem with the report. But six of us were barred from boarding after airline staff looked up the ICMR website which showed the status of test as pending.’’ KRIMS said they upload results immediately on the ICMR website and blamed a technical glitch for the error. A spokesperson for the airline said they were only following due diligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/flying-to-dubai-carry-original-covid-negative-certificate/articleshow/79026702.cms||Stanley Pinto
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra says party will form four boards||JAIPUR: State Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra has expressed confidence that his party will form the board in four corporations — Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North, Kota North and Kota South. In a press conference held at the party office, Dotasra said that Congress has successfully made inroads into several BJP bastions, indicates that people have rejected the latter’s ideology. Congress crossed the majority mark in Jodhpur North and Kota North, while BJP achieved a majority in Jaipur Greater and Jodhpur South. The two corporations — Jaipur Heritage and Kota South — did not give a clear majority to any party. “We will form our board in Jaipur heritage corporation comfortably as 11 independents have already granted support to us. They belonged to our ideology and somehow, we made a mistake of not giving them the ticket. They are part of our family. Also, in Kota South we have enough support of independents to form a board,” said Dotasra. Taking a dig at BJP state president Satish Poonia, Dotasra said that two wards in his constituency Amber have been won by the Congress. “Similarly, some wards which were considered strongholds of BJP under former BJP MLA from Kishanpole Mohan Lal Gupta, have been won by us, which suggests that winds of change have started blowing in our favour,” said Dotasra. Reacting to the results, Poonia said that the results of municipal polls prove that Congress has started losing its ground in the state. “The party which has left no stone unturned to influence the polls have managed to secure a majority in two corporations. The results are against the popular trend of the party in power winning the local polls. Here, the case is reverse which means that the people have rejected their ideology,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-cong-chief-dotasra-says-party-will-form-four-boards/articleshow/79030376.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jodhpur||One vote matters: Jodhpur aspirant learns the hard way||JAIPUR: Three candidates in Jaipur and Jodhpur have won the civic polls by slender margins of one to three votes. In Jodhpur South’s Ward No. 48, BJP’s Nisha Choudhary beat Congress’ Bhawna Richard by 1 vote. In Ward No. 10, independent candidate Hemlata Parihar defeated Manju Meghwal of Congress by a margin of 2 votes. In Jaipur’s Sanganer Legislative assembly area, BJP’s Mahendra Sharma defeated his Congress opponent Dinesh Vyas by three votes in Ward No. 102. “It was a tough time and till the last minute I wasn’t sure about my victory. My opponent Dinesh Vyas is the block president of Congress. Three votes is equal to 300 in this ward. I expected a good competition in the election,” said Sharma. Sharma has been the president of resident welfare society in Pratap Nagar Colony for the last 15 years. According to him, the locals were well aware of the work done by him all these years. “I am happy with the victory. I asked votes on the issue of development because in urban body elections your personal liaison matters,” said Sharma. Vyas said that he didn’t regret losing. “In BJP bastion, I was able to give tough competition to my opposition. I am the block president and know what is the value of such elections. My party members have appreciated my efforts,” said Vyas. There were nine independents contesting from Ward No. 102 who were also responsible for reducing the votes. One independent got 450 votes while another bagged 230, which is a huge number considering small number of voters this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/one-vote-matters-jodhpur-aspirant-learns-the-hard-way/articleshow/79034029.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
November 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra task force bats for free testing in Pune||PUNE: The state task force has directed Pune to follow the example of Mumbai and roll out free testing kiosks in coordination with the local authorities. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday said that in order to increase the number of daily Covid-19 tests in the city, it has facilitated 244 free testing centres across 24 wards. A similar effort should be carried out in Pune, too, a member of the task force told TOI. The state health minister, Rajesh Tope, said cities with high number of active cases should replicate the BMC model and start free testing kiosks. “While there has been a reduction in cases in the state, we cannot afford to be lackadaisical and need to ensure that testing is improved,” he said. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said they would review the situation and take a decision on it. The state task force had directed BMC to carry out at least 20,000 tests daily. In Pune, 4,000 tests were carried out on Monday and 5,998 on Tuesday. “Free testing would make the testing process easier and we would want more private agencies to help us,” said the task force member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-task-force-bats-for-free-testing-in-pune/articleshow/79029677.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic polls: At 21, she’s one of the youngest councillors, plans to study further||JAIPUR: Asman Khan, a 21-year-old woman Congress candidate from Ward No. 81 in Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Heritage, is one of the youngest to become a councillor. Yet to take her final year undergraduate exam from Muslim Girls Degree College, Jaipur, Asman has won the seat in her first attempt. “It was a sudden decision to contest the election. I always wanted to serve the public and this election has given me an opportunity to do so. I am yet to take my final exams, after which my focus will be my ward’s people,” said a proud Asman. Asman is the first politician from her family although her father Salim Khan has been a Congress party worker for a long time. A middle child among six brothers and sisters, Asman received immense support from her family. “I was scared initially but my family supported me. Even the public showered their love and told me about their plight during campaigning. Garbage, sewerage, and street lights are a few major problems in my area and my focus will be to work on development in the next five years,” said Asman. She will apply for post-graduation in humanities and has higher political ambitions for future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/at-21-shes-one-of-the-youngest-councillors-plans-to-study-further/articleshow/79030363.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt cancels all transfers done in past 2 months by forest dept||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government has cancelled all the transfers of forest department employees done between September and October this year on Tuesday. The transfers have been cancelled as they were in violation of the state government order of May 20, 2020 as per which all the transfers of any government employee haven’t been allowed for the year 2020-21. In case of any exception, a provision was made that the matter be brought before the transfer committee. In the recent past, the forest department has done around a dozen such transfers without any clearance from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-cancels-all-transfers-done-in-past-2-months-by-forest-dept/articleshow/79026689.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC orders protection to same-sex couple||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court, while directing the superintendent of police (SP), Shamli to give protection to a same-sex couple who alleged resistance from family and society, observed that “a constitutional court is duty-bound to monitor and observe the constitutional morality as well as rights of a citizen which are under threat only on account of sexual orientation”. Disposing of a writ petition filed by Sultana Mirza and Kiran Rani of Shamli, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Pankaj Bhatia also directed the SP to ensure that the couple is not harassed by anyone. The petitioners, both of whom are female, claimed that they were in a live-in relationship since years but were facing resistance from their family and society because of their sexual orientation. In the petition, the petitioners apprehended harassment and threat to their life because of their relationship. The petitioners relied on Navtej Singh Johar case whereby the Supreme Court considered the plight of the LGBT community. Passing the above directives, the court relied on principles laid down in Johar case that any kind of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation of a person is unconstitutional. Further, sexual orientation is an intrinsic element of liberty, dignity, privacy, individual autonomy and equality and intimacy between consenting adults of the same sex is beyond the legitimate interests of the state. The court while disposing of the petition said that a constitutional court is duty-bound to monitor and observe the constitutional morality as well as rights of a citizen which are under threat only on account of the sexual orientation. The court observed, “We direct superintendent of police, Shamli to extend suitable protection to the petitioners in the event they approach for necessary protection and ensure that no harassment is caused to them.” The direction was passed on November 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-orders-protection-to-same-sex-couple/articleshow/79030366.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 4, 2020||Goa||IIT won’t be moved out of Melauli: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday that the government would go ahead with IIT-Goa at Melauli, and that agitators “would get convinced”. He also said that those using land for farming can do it at a different location. “We will provide them alternate land for cultivation,” he said, adding that “hardly any” land at the site is being cultivated. “We will convince the villagers of Melauli, we are in talks with them,” he said. He added that the government owns 10 lakh sq m of land there, and there are no trees there. “As of now, we have not taken any decision to shift IIT-Goa, it will come up at Melauli.” The proposed IIT campus in the village has sparked sharp protests from locals, who said it is a bio-diversity rich area. “This is the only area in our village where excellent forest cover exists,” TOI has earlier reported a local as saying. “Our villagers grow horticultural crops, which is our main source of livelihood. The proposed project will post a threat to our livelihood.” Meanwhile, many politicians too threw their weight behind the villagers.  Science and technology minister Michael Lobo on Monday met Sawant and demanded that the IIT-Goa campus be shifted out of Melauli as the people don’t want it there. Former state BJP president Vinay Tendulkar too was of the same view. “If the villagers of Melaulim continue to oppose the project, the government can think of shifting the project to Farmagudi by acquiring open space,” Tendulkar, adding that the CM has appointed a 15-member committee to solve the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iit-wont-be-moved-out-of-melauli-cm/articleshow/79029692.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Aurangabad||24% female voters enrolled for graduate polls in Marathwada||AURANGABAD: Around 3.48 lakh people have been registered as voters from across the eight districts of Marathwada for the graduate constituency polls to be held for Aurangabad region on December 1. Of them, female voters account for only 24% of the total electors. While the overall poor response to the voter registration drive for the graduate constituency poll is in itself a concern, the poor representation of female voters has called for organised campaigns. Women rights activist Bharati Biswas-Bhandekar stressed on the need for enhanced representation of female voters in electoral process in the form of the graduate constituency poll. “I believe that the voter registration drive lacks vigour during the graduate constituency poll when compared to other elections such as Lok Sabha and assembly. The aspirants from political parties offer selective push to the registration drive as per their target vote-bank, which finds no place for women at large,” she said. Ranitai Ghadge, one of the aspirants for December 1 poll, said more number of women should come forward during enrolment drive for graduate constituency polls. “If female voter base is increased, candidates are forced to design their manifesto and agenda as per their need,” said Ghadge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/24-female-voters-enrolled-for-graduate-polls-in-marathwada/articleshow/79026696.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||Gated communities hail govt stand on smoke-free festivities||Kolkata: Residents’ welfare associations have lauded the state initiative that asked people to refrain from bursting crackers this year keeping the Covid situation in mind. Some of the gated communities havw already started sending notices to residents, urging them not to burst crackers this year. “We have already started a no-cracker campaign in our complex and have replaced an annual firecracker show with a laser show this year just to ensure the air doesn’t get further polluted,” said Debjani Mukherjee, director of Urbana Facility Management. There have been 85 total Covid cases in the complex. TOI had highlighted on Tuesday how housing societies have reported fresh Covid cases after Durga Puja and now plan to conduct a low-scale Kali Puja. “We are asking every resident to maintain caution and not to go overboard with Diwali celebrations. On our part, we have suspended the annual Diwali community dinner and fireworks show,” said Indranil Chowdhury, secretary of the residents’ association at Silver Spring that has five active cases now. Several NGOs and community groups have also been asking complexes in their areas to tone down Diwali celebrations this year and not to burn crackers. “We have pleaded them to be vigilant and not to burst any sort of crackers,” said Samaresh Das, chairman, New Town Forum and News (NTFN). At Merlin Warden Lakeview in Ultadanga, the SOPs to be followed during Diwali will be the prime agenda during the apartment owners associations’ annual general meeting this weekend. “The government's request to not burst crackers will help us in taking forward our discussions,” said Deepak Jaiswal, the association president. Manak Daga, the president of South City Apartment Owners’ Association, said they were stressing on beautification through fairy lights and diyas and rangolis and loads of virtual functions to celebrate Diwali this time. “We must understand these are trying times and we will have to celebrate Diwali in the most responsible manner with lights rather than fire, sound and smoke,” said Daga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gated-communities-hail-govt-stand-on-smoke-free-festivities/articleshow/79027885.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 4, 2020||Kanpur||In move to prevent extinction, Jhansi, Lalitpur turn breeding sites for endangered vultures||Jhansi: The Bundelkhand region, otherwise known for water scarcity and being largely undeveloped, is turning out to be a saviour for the critically endangered vulture population as areas of Lalitpur and Jhansi district have become a safe haven for breeding of the species on the brink of extinction. Around five out of total nine species in the country have been spotted here. The Cinereous, Egyptian, Indian, Red-Headed and White Rumped Vultures have been seen breeding in the Moth area of Jhansi and Deoghar area of Lalitpur. Both the areas are on the river banks of the Betwa river having vertical cliffs and considered ideal for their breeding. Vulture has religious significance as it figured in Ramayan and is known as a natural scavenger because it preys on animal corpses. The bird is on verge of extinction due to rapid urbanization and rampant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like diclofenac sodium in livestock, which cause renal failure in vultures when they feed on carcasses. Around two decades ago, the vultures were present in good numbers, but their population crashed as they died in hordes after eating animal carcasses with tissues containing diclofenac sodium. In Lalitpur, vultures are mainly found in Deoghar which has a number of historic places lik Jain cave, Buddha cave, Nahargarh, all situated on Vindhya Range. Vultures have made these hilly jungles their habitat. The local administration has declared 1,242 hectares of land as jungle to conserve vultures. Similarly in Moth area, vultures inhabit Shivra hills rich in vegetation and famous for the ‘Kapil Muni Ashram’. Pinaki Singh, chief conservator of forests, Bundelkhand zone, told TOI, “There are about 60-70 vultures in Moth and around 150 in Lalitpur. All efforts are being made to conserve these birds and increase their numbers. This includes opening a ‘Vulture Restaurant’ in Lalitpur with the help of Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) to provide safe and adequate food for these scavengers.” Besides, we are also taking steps to minimise their poaching near water reservoirs, especially in winter, he added. “We are also carrying out both artificial and natural regeneration to give a better habitat to herbivores in the area along with conservation of tall trees. We continuously monitor their status and do an annual census,” said Singh. Alka Dubey, senior biologist, BNHS, Mumbai, who has done extensive nationwide survey on vultures, especially in Bundelkhand region, said these birds play an important role in the natural food chain and therefore their diminishing numbers are a cause of worry for the environment. “There was a sudden crash in their population. All efforts are being made to increase their population. Bundelkhand is considered quite important for vultures as it hosts five of the nine species found in the country and can prevent their extinction,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/in-move-to-prevent-extinction-jhansi-lalitpur-turn-breeding-sites-for-endangered-vultures/articleshow/79030400.cms||Arindam Ghosh
November 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: BJP forms samitis to decentralise its functioning||MANGALURU: With an eye on the forthcoming panchayati raj body, and in a bid to decentralise its functioning, the state unit of the BJP is all set to roll out ‘pancha ratna’ samitis in the run up to the gram panchayat elections. These samitis will form local level decision making units, just below the ‘shakti kendras’ that hitherto handled such issues. The five-member samiti, along with the larger booth committee, will micro manage party affairs at the booth level. The brainchild of Nalin Kumar Kateel, state BJP president, these samitis will be set up in all 56,000 polling booths across Karnataka, Mahesh Tenginkai, state general secretary (organisation), said. In a chat with TOI, Mahesh said such samitis have already been set up in 16 party organisational districts across Karnataka. Each samiti will be headed by the booth president and assisted by the deputy, a woman, OBC and SC or ST representative. These samiti members will not contest elections, but ensure unanimity of views on candidates that the party will back. “At present, we have around 35% of share of total gram panchayat wards, which we intend to take up to 65% after the next GP polls,” he said. The pancha ratna samitis will work in coordination with the booth committees to identify potential candidates, iron out flash points that aspirants may cause, and bring all on board to ensure maximum party backed candidates win the polls. Once the candidate is finalised, they in turn will fall back to the page pramukhs, who will ensure that every single voter in the voter list given to them for a particular ward, backs the party candidate, he noted. We tried the same for the recent MLC elections, by giving this responsibility to the ‘ghata pramukh’, where they focussed on a cluster of households of voters, in taking home the message of various central and state government schemes, he said. The party has also followed this up with family meetings, a two-hour meet where all important ward and booth level influencers were brought on board, and given responsibility to ensure electoral success for the BJP, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bjp-forms-samitis-to-decentralise-its-functioning/articleshow/79026698.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 4, 2020||Meerut||NGT slams authorities in UP’s Shamli, suspects their ‘collusion’ in illegal sand mining in Yamuna||MEERUT: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has slammed authorities in UP’s Shamli district and also suspected their collusion after the lease of Haryana-based miners, who were accused of illegal sand mining on the Yamuna river bed, was extended and no action was taken against them. “We are surprised that even after illegal mining, the lessee has been allowed to continue without any coercive measure and even without recovering the assessed compensation which is against the rule of law and arbitrary. Collusion of authorities allowing such action is not ruled out which needs to be looked into by higher authority,” said the Principal Bench of the Tribunal comprising Justices Adarsh Kumar Goel and Sheo Kumar Singh among others. Now, the tribunal has formed a joint committee consisting officials of UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) and district magistrate of Shamli to file compliance report of the order. According to sources, Haryana-based miners had got lease agreement for five years to mine sand in the UP border district. But, last year, a pipe bridge was discovered by authorities on the Yamuna bed which was being used to ferry the sand across the border, bypassing the official route and avoiding levies on inter-state transport. The miners were also found mining inside the Yamuna. Later, the NGT had directed the local authorities to take appropriate action. When the matter was again brought up before the Tribunal in March this year, Ranjana Singh, district mining officer Shamli, on behalf of UP government, had filed a statement that the miners had installed CCTV cameras in the area and adopted other safeguards and hence their activities were allowed to resume. However, Shamli DM Jasjeet Kaur gave an adverse report after NGT asked the authority about it. “The lessee was found doing illegal mining beyond the mining lease area,” it had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ngt-slams-authorities-in-ups-shamli-suspects-their-collusion-in-illegal-sand-mining-in-yamuna/articleshow/79026693.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 4, 2020||Goa||Classes X and XII to resume from Nov 21, SOP soon: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Physical classes for students of Classes X and XII will resume from November 21, over seven months after they were suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown to curb the spread of the virus. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who made the announcement on Tuesday, said the decision would be communicated to schools across the state and that the directorate of education would issue a standard operating procedure (SOP) ahead of the resumption of classes. He further said the state has not taken a decision on restarting classes for primary school students yet. Students of Classes X and XII would not be able to appear for board exams without completing practicals, the chief minister said while announcing that they would have to complete practicals within the next three months. “The education department reviewed the situation, and going by its opinion, it has been decided that Classes X and XII will resume from November 21 by following the SOP,” Sawant said. He added that meetings to discuss the reopening of schools were held with government officials, stakeholders in the education sector, and others. The Centre’s Unlock 5.0 guidelines stated that schools could reopen from October 15, even as state governments were given flexibility in the matter. Parental consent, however, was made necessary if students were to attend physical classes. The guidelines also encouraged online learning and stated that if students preferred to stay at home and attend online classes, schools should permit them to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/classes-x-and-xii-to-resume-from-nov-21-sop-soon-cm/articleshow/79029685.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur civic bodies will have mayors from Congress and BJP||JODHPUR: The city will have a Congress and a BJP mayor for its newly created municipal corporations —Jodhpur North and Jodhpur South— after results were announced on Tuesday. The Congress secured 53 of the 80 wards in Jodhpur North against a meagre 19 by the BJP and 8 by Independents. The BJP secured 43 wards in Jodhpur South against 29 by Congress and 8 by Independents. In the overall tally, Congress trounced BJP by securing 82 of the 160 municipal wards in Jodhpur North and South combined, while the BJP had to remain content with 62 wards. With the results out on Tuesday, the focus has now shifted on the mayor candidates with potential candidates throwing their might to claim the coveted posts. The results have made it clear that the north zone will have a Congress Board, so debate over mayoral candidates has unleashed in the party corridors. Kunti Parihar from Ward No. 70 and Mehraj Ansari from Ward No. 15 are the two candidates, either of whom is expected to bag the coveted seat mayor post from north. Parihar is the daughter of veteran Congress leader and ex-chairman (Rajasthan Housing Board) Mansingh Deora, who had vacated his seat from Sardarpura for chief minister Ashok Gehlot in 1998 in order to pave the way for Gehlot’s chief ministership. Kunti has also held key positions in the party’s women unit. On the other hand, Ansari is the daughter of party president of Jodhpur unit Sayeed Ansari, who is considered a trusted lieutenant of Gehlot. A senior Congress leader said Gehlot owes the fathers of both these candidates and would consider the caste balance as one belong to Mali community while other belong to Muslim community. On the other hand, BJP has three potential candidates for the mayor’s seat from south. Former state president of BJP Mahila Morcha and independent director (Container Corporation of India Ltd.) Vanita Seth from Ward No. 16, and present president of Mahila Morcha Indra Rajpurohit from Ward No.1 along with Bhanwar Kanwar from Ward No. 74 are close rivals for the position. Though much will depend on the choice of Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, as he has reined in the entire process of election, but in a precautionary gesture, BJP has already shifted all 160 candidates to a hotel in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-civic-bodies-will-have-mayors-from-cong-and-bjp/articleshow/79030386.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||3 arrested with panchaloha idols; search on for kingpin||Coimbatore: Three more people were arrested on Tuesday for being in possession of two panchaloha idols. Those arrested were identified as Thirunavukkarasu, 36 from Oddanchatram in Dindigul district, Arun, 46 and Dheenadhayalan, 38, both from Kannivadi in Dindigul district. Variety Hall Road (crime) police arrested the trio from Dindigul district on Tuesday and seized the two idols. During interrogation, Dheenadhayalan told police that his friend Dinesh Pandian, the mastermind, had handed over the idols to them in order to be sold to a client. The value of the two idols is believed to be more than Rs 2 crore. “We have sent the seized idols to ASI to verify its antique value,” said the officer. A special team has been formed to nab the kingpin, Dinesh Pandian of Madurai. All the three were booked under Sections 380 (2) (idol theft) read with 411 (receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-arrested-with-panchaloha-idols-search-on-for-kingpin/articleshow/79029711.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Doctors on Covid duty need breaks, say experts||BHOPAL: With the steady decline in Covid-19 infections across Madhya Pradesh, some medical experts are calling for relief to medical workers working day and night without a break. According to the state government’s daily Covid-19 reporting, there has been a substantial decline in cases over the last few weeks. “Since Covid-19 cases are on the decline, some relaxations for those who were on duty should be considered. Non-Covid staff can take over as a stop gap,” said MP Medical Officers’ Association (MPMOA) president, Dr D K Goswami. At the start of the pandemic, the state government had announced an incentive of Rs 10,000 for those on Covid-19 duty. It should be given ahead of Diwali as it would boost the morale of the medical staff, Goswami added. For further reduction in Covid-19 numbers, ahead of predicted wave in winter, requires more public education on prevention and cooperation. Simply wearing a mask and regular hand wash should be adhered to by all people, he added. There are about 10,000 medical workers linked with the health department. Besides, there are over 4,500 medical doctors under the Directorate of Medical Education (DME).  Government medical colleges have dealt with the most severe of Covid-19 critical cases. Around September, the situation even called for doctors over 60 and with co-morbid conditions to serve in intensive care duty. These brave doctors did not refrain from the call of duty. These senior consultants also have to conduct regular medical education in the colleges. “There is a case for relaxation. However, a spurt in Covid cases is likely as the weather is set to get colder. We need to be prepared,” said a DME official. “Rotation of duty, casual leave and applied leave is being permitted in certain cases. However, all doctors have to be on 24x7 on-call duty,” he added. “The pandemic has been declared by the WHO. It is a global phenomenon and a return to normalcy will be when the alert is withdrawn,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/docs-on-covid-duty-need-breaks-experts/articleshow/79027882.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Kolhapur||11,000 households in Kolhapur get notices for water tax dues||KOLHAPUR: The civic administration has issued notices to 11,000 houeholds in the city for not clearing their water tax dues. Commissioner of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) Kadambari Balkawade has been stressing on the need to improve the civic body’s financil health. Most departments are lagging in tax collection, mainly due to the reluctance of the citizens to clear the tax dues. Of the total target of Rs 68.5 crore set by the water supply department for the current financial year, the civic administration has been able to collect only Rs 17 crore in taxes. Balkawade said, “We have set up five teams to recover water tax dues and act against those drawing water illegally. We will initiate criminal action against those found with illegal water connections. Consumers can pay the tax on the spot as calculated by the meter readers.” Most consumers have not paid the dues for the water consumption during lockdown. Due to restrictions in movement, the civic body could not take the action of snapping the water supply connections of tax defaulters. Citizens have been demanding a tax waiver for the water consumed during lockdown as most of them are in dire financial straits. As per officials, the water supply was consistent throughout the lockdown and the demand for water for domestic purposes had increased during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/11000-households-in-kolhapur-get-notices-for-water-tax-dues/articleshow/79026727.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kanpur||Thief wanted in high-profile thefts turns out to be MBBS dropout, held||Kanpur:An MBBS dropout, who was involved in several high-profile thefts in VIP trains like Rajdhani Express, has been arrested along with an aide by GRP Kanpur on Tuesday. After committing the crime, the accused used to take flight from Delhi to return to Lucknow. The accused, identified as Punit Kumar, is a native of Jahanabad locality in Pilibhit, used to target AC -I coaches of Rajdhani Express in the guise of passenger. According to the reports, Kumar, son of a retired army major belongs to a well-educated family. Talking to TOI, Inspector GRP Ram Mohan Rai said, “The breakthrough came following registration of an FIR recently by BJP MP from Muzaffarpur, whose wife’s Rs 3 lakh stolen while they were on board Patna-Rajdhani Express that was in between Kanpur and Delhi stations on October 27 night.” Rai further said, “In the last few days, many cases of theft from Patna -Delhi bound Rajdhani Express were reported after which several teams were formed for a breakthrough.” As per the reports, the cops scanned CCTV footage following the theft of Rs 3 lakh from MP Ajay Nishad’s wife in an AC coach of the Patna-Delhi Rajdhani Express on October 27 and found Kumar’s movements suspicious. The police thereafter procured Kumar’s mobile phone CDR (call detail record) and started zeroing in on him after alerting all law-enforcing agencies across the state. “His last location was traced to Delhi following a fresh case of theft, which took place again in a Delhi bound train on November1,” he said. Following the information, cops laid a trap at Chaudhary Charan Singh airport in Lucknow and took him into the custody. “During sustained grilling, he broke down and confessed to his crime. He said that he lives in Vrindawan colony in state capital and had committed a number of theft in trains by posing as a traveller. His aide Pradeep Yadav, a taxi driver and hailing from Deoria, used to drop him to Kanpur from Lucknow, He is also being nabbed by the police for assisting him in crime. Rai further said that he usually board the Delhi-bound VIP trains from Kanpur after procuring reservation and posing as a bonafide passenger. “After de-boarding the train in Delhi, he used to take flight to return to Lucknow,” he added. Police recovered cash worth Rs 1.95 lakh, which Kumar claimed that he had stolen from Patna -Rajdhani on October 27 night. Apart from this, police have recovered a car and Rs 8,000 cash from his aide identified as Pradeep Yadav. On being asked about the reason behind taking such step, Punit said that he used to run a hukkah bar in Lucknow but following lockdown heavy debt of Rs 14 lakh incurred upon him. “He said that he took to crime to repay debt,” said investigators further. “Initial investigations show that he is involved in several train theft cases. We have rewarded police team with a cash prize of Rs 50,000,” said SP GRP Manoj Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/thief-wanted-in-high-profile-thefts-turns-out-to-be-mbbs-dropout-held/articleshow/79030422.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Badly hit by pandemic, coaching centres in dilemma over reopening||HUBBALLI: Now that the department of higher education has allowed colleges to reopen from November 17, coaching centres for competitive exams in Dharwad district, which have been shut for the past eight months, are in a quandary as the government order does not clarify whether these centres too can reopen. Many students rely on coaching centres to prepare for competitive exams and with many such exams scheduled over the next two months, coaching centres were hoping to recover some of the losses they suffered after the nationwide lockdown was imposed. There are more than 30 coaching centres in Dharwad alone which train candidates for UPSC, KPSC, bank and other exams. Kiran Navalur, who runs a test preparation institute of a leading franchise in Hubballi, said many students who are aspiring to take competitive exams are unable to do so since they need professional coaching. “It’s hard for them to prepare on their own,” Navalur said. “This year we launched online sessions, but enrolment is not encouraging. There are lots of difficulties in holding online classes. Many students face network connectivity problems and some cannot afford an additional smartphone.” Kalmesh Vaddin, who runs ‘Excellent Competitive Exam Centre’ in Gadag said he has closed due to low enrolment. Vaddin said online coaching was not an option since the number of students enrolling was low and he could not pay salaries of faculty. To make ends meet, Vaddin, a history teacher, now works in his own farm field in Chikoppa village in Gadag taluk. Managing staff of a leading competitive exam training centre in Dharwad said they have been receiving inquiries from students, but they are not taking classes as there is no clarity from the government. “In the recent circular, government has said degree colleges can reopen as well as coaching institutes, but they haven’t clarified which coaching centres can open. Is it PU competitive exams or after degree government job competitive exams? We need clarity since we are pinning our hopes on the forthcoming competitive exam season,” they said. They said if they cannot open, many institutes will have to permanently close down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/badly-hit-by-pandemic-coaching-centres-in-dilemma-over-reopening/articleshow/79026730.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 4, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan Covid active cases go up in November||JAIPUR: Active cases in the state have increased for the third consecutive day. After taking a significant dip between October 13 and October 31 when it came down to 15,102 from 21,924 (peak), active cases have started increasing again and touched 16,385 on Tuesday. On October 31, the state had 15,102 active cases but on the next three days it rose to 15255, 15889 and 16385. Currently, Jodhpur is at the top of the list of districts having the highest number of active cases at 4,252, followed by Jaipur (4163), Bikaner (1058) and Sriganganagar (641). In last 24 hours, 1,219 persons have recovered taking the tally of such people to 1,83,899. On Tuesday, 10 persons lost their lives to the virus taking the casualty count to 1,936. The number of fresh cases in the same period was 1,725 which took the overall tally to 2,02,220.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-covid-active-cases-go-up-in-nov/articleshow/79035640.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan Covid active cases go up in November||JAIPUR: Active cases in the state have increased for the third consecutive day. After taking a significant dip between October 13 and October 31 when it came down to 15,102 from 21,924 (peak), active cases have started increasing again and touched 16,385 on Tuesday. On October 31, the state had 15,102 active cases but on the next three days it rose to 15255, 15889 and 16385. Currently, Jodhpur is at the top of the list of districts having the highest number of active cases at 4,252, followed by Jaipur (4163), Bikaner (1058) and Sriganganagar (641). In last 24 hours, 1,219 persons have recovered taking the tally of such people to 1,83,899. On Tuesday, 10 persons lost their lives to the virus taking the casualty count to 1,936. The number of fresh cases in the same period was 1,725 which took the overall tally to 2,02,220.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-covid-active-cases-go-up-in-nov/articleshow/79035641.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Heart blockages treated by process similar to remove kidney stones||NAGPUR: In latest advancement, doctors at Arneja Heart Institute in city treated two cases of heart blockages using coronary shockwave lithotripsy this week. This technology is a new ray of hope for those suffering from an advanced form of coronary artery disease (CAD) and having heart attack in which the blockage becomes very hard due to deposit of calcium. This minimally invasive approach has been in use for treating kidney stones that are also made up of calcium. Such problem occurs in patients undergoing angioplasty and stenting, especially those who are old, diabetic, have chronic kidney disease, have long standing blockages or who have undergone previous bypass surgery. Calcium slowly progresses to its hardened, bone-like state and develops plaque within the heart arteries. This structure restricts normal artery movement and makes arterial tissue resistant to traditional balloon therapies. “Both patients had 90% blocked artery which could not be opened by the standard technique of balloon angioplasty. These calcified blocks are like hard rock. Even if we put stents there, stents do not open up well causing very high chance of re-blockages,” said Dr Jaspal Arneja of the Institute. A shockwave balloon was inserted inside the artery and sonic pulses were delivered to break the calcium in the blockage. After that, the blockage opened easily and stent implantation became successful and sustainable. “We are happy to have been equipped and ready to offer this technology to the benefit of numerous patients in Central India undergoing angioplasties,” he added. Dr Amar Amale, interventional cardiologist termed it a path-breaking therapy. “This will bring hope for many patients whose arteries could not be opened by balloon angioplasty because of calcium build-up. Such patients had to undergo bypass surgeries or rely on medical management,” he said. Cardiologists in city said the process was a boon for many. “Hardened calcified blockages are big challenge. They can now be opened with ease and safety with this technology,” said Dr Virag Mahorkar. Senior cardiac surgeon Dr Prashant Jagtap said that new shockwave coronary lithotripsy was a major advancement. “It is getting popular across the world due to its efficiency and safety. Its further adoption will make it affordable too. It’s a boon as it can avoid invasive bypass surgery,” he said. The process: * Intravascular lithotripsy generates sonic pressure waves within heart arteries * This breaks-up problematic calcium deposited blockages * Blocked artery can then be opened with ease and safety * Blood flow restores with placement of a stent * Similar approach is used to treat kidney stones, which are also made up of calcium * First such process in India was performed in New Delhi in January 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heart-blockages-treated-by-process-similar-to-remove-kidney-stones/articleshow/79030426.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Covid active cases go up in November||JAIPUR: Active cases in the state have increased for the third consecutive day. After taking a significant dip between October 13 and October 31 when it came down to 15,102 from 21,924 (peak), active cases have started increasing again and touched 16,385 on Tuesday. On October 31, the state had 15,102 active cases but on the next three days it rose to 15255, 15889 and 16385. Currently, Jodhpur is at the top of the list of districts having the highest number of active cases at 4,252, followed by Jaipur (4163), Bikaner (1058) and Sriganganagar (641). In last 24 hours, 1,219 persons have recovered taking the tally of such people to 1,83,899. On Tuesday, 10 persons lost their lives to the virus taking the casualty count to 1,936. The number of fresh cases in the same period was 1,725 which took the overall tally to 2,02,220.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-covid-active-cases-go-up-in-nov/articleshow/79030416.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Jaipur||Cong bags Kota North, ties with BJP with 36 seats each in South||Kota: The ruling Congress made a clean sweep by winning 47 wards against BJP’s 14 in 70 municipal wards of Kota North for which results were declared on Tuesday. There is a tie in Kota South, which has 80 wards, as both parties have won 36 wards each, while the independents won the remaining eight wards.The Kota South had been a BJP bastion, but the party shrunk to 36 wards here. Kota North is home turf of UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal, while Kota South has dominance of Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla and BJP MLA Sandeep Sharma.Of the eight independent candidates in Kota South, four have a Congress background, while other four have a BJP background. They contested as independent candidates after being tickets by their respective parties.“People in Kota South have rejected BJP in 36 wards to end monopoly and have approved development under the Congress,” said Nutan Singh Solanki of Ward number 76 in Kota South.The results may offer a chance to former BJP MLA Phralad Gunjal to strengthen his position, particularly in Kota South, as some of men contested as independents and won from respective wards and are likely to play vital role in formation of the board.The BJP which formed the board last time in Kota Municipal Corporation under Mahesh Vijay faced defeat in the latter’s former ward (number 69) where Congress candidate Monika Vijay won by a margin of 476 votes against her BJP rival Priya Sharma.BJP leaders, though, said they would stake claim to form the board in Kota South with independents. “People might be angry at the previous BJP board and their expectations were higher than the party councillors could meet with during the lockdown period but even then we would form the board in Kota South as five of the eight independents are on our side,” said Kota city BJP president Rambabu Soni.Soni did not rule out holding the party’s elected candidates at a single place until the board formed and a mayor elected for Kota South. “We would do that if required,” he said.In Kota North, Congress would to form the board with a clean sweep of winning in 47 out 70 wards and leaving BJP limited to just 14 wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-bags-kota-north-ties-with-bjp-with-36-seats-each-in-south/articleshow/79030408.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kochi||UAE consulate ex-staffer under lens||KOCHI: The customs department has initiated procedures to arraign Egyptian national and former head of finance at the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, Khaled Al Shoukary, in the case relating to the smuggling of $1.9 lakh (equivalent to over Rs 1.4 crore) in August 2019 to Cairo via Oman. Customs approached the additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) court, here, on Tuesday to have Khaled named as a respondent in the case. The court will hear the petition on Thursday. Armed with a non-bailable warrant, which has been sought in the petition, customs plans to approach Interpol to issue a red-corner notice against Khaled and pin him down for extradition. While considering the petition the court asked whether the consulate official enjoyed diplomatic immunity. It also enquired where there are any existing provisions to arraign Khaled in any case in India. Customs will have to furnish all these details at the Thursday hearing. According to customs, Swapna Suresh and Sarith P S, who are key accused in the gold smuggling case, were also involved in the dollar smuggling. Khaled, who was also the confidential partner of the consul general, allegedly smuggled out the cash, which was concealed in his handbags, while traveling to Cairo from Trivandrum Airport on August 7 last year. Swapna, during her interrogation, admitted that Khaled had travelled to Cairo via Muscat from the state capital on the said date. Moreover, in her statement Swapna told officials that she and Sarith had accompanied him on the trip till Muscat in order to facilitate Khaled’s hassle-free security clearance at the airport, and later travelled to Dubai. Swapna has stated that currency has been smuggled out on similar trips by the UAE consul general and other diplomats. And most times she and Sarith facilitated security clearances at the airport using their influence. “On many previous occasions, consul general Jamal Al Zaabi and admin attaché Rashid Khamis Ali Musaiqri had smuggled out a huge [amounts] of foreign currency by concealing them in their bags in the same manner. Sarith had facilitated them during security checks for their departure to the UAE,” said the occurrence report in the case. Moreover, Swapna said she has seen Khaled screening his baggage on the x-ray machine at the consulate many times to ensure that the currency would not be detected during security checks at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/uae-consulate-ex-staffer-under-lens/articleshow/79028011.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangalore University faces challenge in retaining A grade in third cycle||MANGALURU: Mangalore University is facing the challenge of retaining its ‘A’ grade as it gears up for the third cycle of re-accreditation by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). Having fulfilled the self-study report (SSR), the 40-year-old university is now striving to put its best foot forward when the NAAC team comes calling for the on-site peer team visit, probably in the first or second week of December. Faced with shortage in staff — both teaching and non-teaching — retaining the coveted A grade is a challenge, said P S Yadapadithaya, vice-chancellor. “Based on our SSR, NAAC has completed online evaluation of the same through the data verification and validation (DVV) process,” Yadapadithaya told TOI. Roughly 30% of the assessment depends on on-site assessment by the peer team, the VC explained. “The university has to suggest three dates for the peer team’s visit, which tentatively will happen in the first fortnight of December,” he said. Incidentally, the university received the ‘A’ grade in the first cycle with a CGPA of 3.06. After NAAC decided to revamp the accreditation grades by doing away with the CGPA score, the university received the A grade in the second cycle. Staff shortage will have a bearing on the final rating. “We are making efforts to retain the A grade as NAAC has since added A++ and A+ grades,” Yadapadithaya said, adding: “Efforts by the university to fill the staff vacancies were in advanced stages. But it hit the pandemic brick wall with the state government putting a freeze on employment due to the financial implications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mu-faces-challenge-in-retaining-a-grade-in-third-cycle/articleshow/79026733.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC decides to get tough against shopkeepers flouting norms||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has now decided to take strict action against shopkeepers who are found selling goods to customers who are not wearing face masks. Even though the civic body has decided to increase vigilance in market areas on the issue of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, the NMC on Tuesday announced that it will go to the extent of cancelling the licenses of the shops who are found breaking the Covid norms. According to NMC commissioner Kailas Jadhav, initially the shopkeepers will be slapped a fine of Rs 200 and Rs 400 for the first and second time, respectively, if they sell goods to those customers who do not wear masks. “If they are caught for the third time, then the civic body will propose the deputy labour commissioner of the state for cancellation of their licenses,” Jadhav said. An NMC official admitted that there is a large section of shopkeepers who are selling goods to customers who are without masks and this is leading to rise in Covid infections. Although the number of Covid-19 cases have dropped in the past one month and the cases are below 200 per day for the past couple of weeks, the NMC do not want to take any risk in view of upcoming Diwali festival. There was rise in Covid-19 infections in the city during Ganesh festival as a section of people also did not follow Covid norms. Taking serious cognizance of this, the NMC wants to ensure that there will be no rise in Covid-19 infection and taking measures to curb the pandemic. An NMC official said the state government has projected the second wave of Covid-19in the city in the month of November and December. “Diwali is approaching and city residents have now started going out for the buying new things. Now, the rush will only increase. Hence, we need to take all the precautions,” said NMC officials. “We have already decided to start vigilance in the market places and our teams will conduct drives in markets across all six divisions in the morning and evening when people usually are out for the festival shopping,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-decides-to-get-tough-against-shopkeepers-flouting-norms/articleshow/79026754.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur’s EEL tests enhanced rocket, to become only pvt co to bid for Pinaka ammo||Nagpur: After a successful test fire of the Pinaka Mk1 enhanced rockets having range of 47.5km on Wednesday, Nagpur’s Economic Explosives Limited (EEL) has cleared the first step in becoming the first private sector company to take part in the bids to supply the weapon systems to the Army. The trials took place at Balasore in Odisha. Six rockets were fired during the trials and the rockets achieved a range beyond the stipulated 47.5km, said sources. The Pinaka rockets were designed 20 years ago by Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO). Being a limited tender, EEL is slated to be the only private sector company to compete along with the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) for supplying the rockets. This is subject to clearing of further trials, said a management source. In August this year, EEL, which is a 100% subsidiary of Solar Group headed by Satyanarayan Nuwal, had also successful test fired the Pinaka Mk1 rockets, that have a range of 37.5km. A press release by ministry of defence (MOD) said the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) had cleared a proposal to buy Pinaka Mk-1 rockets from the private sector in 2017. However, the Army had put a hold on the order awaiting development of the Pinaka Mk-1 enhanced rocket at EEL. The Army will be coming up with request for proposals for buying the rockets. If EEL’s rockets clear further tests expected in the coming months, the company will qualify to take part in the request for proposals (RFP) too, added a source. Last month, EEL had also bagged an order to make 10 lakh multimodal hand grenades for the Army, which again is the first ever contract of its kind to a private company. The rockets, which were test fired at Balasore, are being co-developed by EEL and DRDO. All the parameters were met during the trials, said a ministry of defence release. Apart from higher range of 47.5km, the Pinaka Mk-1 enhanced rockets have a shelf life of 15 years as against 10 years of the Pinaka Mk1. “The company is making all variants of Pinaka rockets at its composite manufacturing facility at Nagpur. It is also executing a design and development order for the Pinaka Guided Extended Range Rocket, a strategic game changer for the country. Pinaka rockets being produced in the private sector have already started attracting enquiries from friendly foreign countries,” the MoD release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurs-eel-tests-enhanced-rocket-to-become-only-pvt-co-to-bid-for-pinaka-ammo/articleshow/79047169.cms||Shishir Arya
November 4, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: 115-year-old woman among oldest to cast vote||KANPUR: A 115-year-old woman, Jamuni Devi, and her 70-year-old son were among the voters who exercised their franchise in Ghatampur Assembly area on Tuesday. Jamuni was perhaps the oldest woman to cast her vote for Ghatampur bypoll. Talking to media, her son Raja Ram, who carried her to the polling station, said, “My mother refused to have breakfast and insisted me to take her first to the polling booth. She said that she will start her day with casting of vote.” He said though she is 115-year-old but she is still full of zeal and enthusiasm. Jamuni Devi told media that she has been a regular voter and didn’t want to miss her chance even today. “I would appeal to all voters to come out and cast their votes,” she said. Besides Jamuni, elderlies were the first to vote at their respective polling booths, said a senior district official. First time voters were also seen lining up in front of booths in a large number, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/115-yr-old-woman-among-oldest-to-cast-vote/articleshow/79030430.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid effect: NIT-Karnataka cancels physical reporting for new admissions||MANGALURU: National Institute of Technology, Karnataka, Surathkal, has cancelled physical reporting of candidates admitted to first year engineering courses. All candidates who have confirmed seats will now have to report online after the completion of the sixth round of counselling by Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA). Earlier too the admission process was done online, but it was mandatory for candidates to report physically after counselling. Adka Nityananda Shetty, dean (academic), NIT-K said, so far JoSAA has completed four rounds of counselling and the admission process will begin only after the sixth round. Candidates will be sent login details at registered email ids. “The online admission portal will open from November 9,” he said. “The institute is striving to complete the admission process, including direct admission of students abroad (DASA), by the end of November.”  Meanwhile, as many as five hostels of the institute that were converted by the district administration into Covid Care Centres, are yet to be handed back to the institution. “The five hostels which were given to the government haven’t been officially handed over back to us. We will approach the district administration soon,” said Umamaheshwar Rao, director, NIT-K. He said odd semester examinations, which are planned online, are likely to begin by November 16. “We have asked scholars to report to the institution and follow SOPs. There is no communication from the ministry of education on regular classes for UG and PG students,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-effect-nit-k-cancels-physical-reporting-for-new-admissions/articleshow/79026771.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Onion will stay pricey till December, says TNAU||COIMBATORE: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has predicted that the price of onion will continue to remain high till December. The price of small onions is also expected to remain high till December, and is likely to dip only by January- February next year. A statement from TNAU said excess rain in onion growing states of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh has resulted in slump in production, which led to the price hike. “When the new harvest arrives, the price is anticipated to dip. The ban on onion export by the Centre from mid-September has controlled the price rise to a certain extent,’’ TNAU said in a statement. As far as small onions are considered, Tamil Nadu has about 25,000 tonnes in reserve, which will last for two months till the next harvest arrives. Small onions, widely cultivated in the state, is heavily affected by basal rot disease, TNAU said. The disease has been observed for the last two years in onion cultivating areas of the State. "At present, the total stock in Tamil Nadu is 25,000 tonnes, which arrived from various districts including Tirunelveli, Theni, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Madurai and Dindigul. Current onion stock is expected to meet the demand for next 40 days,’’ TNAU said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/onion-will-stay-pricey-till-dec-says-tnau/articleshow/79029773.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nashik||23,210 homes in Nashik district get piped water connection||NASHIK: As many as 23,210 households across Nashik district have been connected by the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), which had been announced by the department of drinking water and sanitation of the Ministry of Jal Shakti, Government of India. The mission aims to provide piped supply of clean drinking water to every household by 2024. The scheme does not promise free connections, The connection is received on payment of a certain deposit and tax to the local self-governing body (gram panchayats in this case). Zilla parishad officers of the public water supply and sanitation department said the district has 7.1 lakh households. Of them, 1.9 lakh had tapped water connections by March 2020. As part of JJM, launched in March 2020, the administration has provided 23,210 more connections in villages in 15 talukas of Nashik district. At the same time, 79,320 individuals got tap water connections on their own fromthe wells, without the help of the gram panchayats. The district, as a whole, has only 41% of tap connectivity. The zilla parishad has the target to provide water connections to 4.2 lakh households in the next four years. The work is being carried out on a war footing and measures are being taken to identify ways to store water, especially in the hilly areas, so that the tribals living in these areas places can get drinking water all year round.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/23210-homes-in-dist-get-piped-water-connection/articleshow/79026769.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||Dobra Chanti bridge, free WiFi: Govt to launch projects on foundation day||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government has decided to launch some important projects during the state's foundation day celebrations. The prominent projects include — the country’s longest motorable single-lane bridge of Dobra Chanti and providing free Wi-Fi connectivity to all government degree colleges of the state. On Tuesday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, along with other ministers and senior state officials, discussed plans to celebrate the state’s 21st foundation day on November 9. During the meeting, it was decided that government buildings in the Kumaon and Garhwal region would remain lit from November 8 to 11 to mark the occasion. However, in the wake of Covid-19, it was decided that gatherings would remain prohibited. On November 8, the CM is scheduled to flag off a mountain bike rally. The CM would also inaugurate the project under which all government degree colleges would be given free Wi-Fi connectivity. Further, the CM would inaugurate the country’s longest motorable single-lane bridge in Dobra Chanti area Tehri district, ending a 14-year wait for the people of area. The 440-metre-long bridge that will serve a population of three lakh has come up at a cost of Rs 150 crore. In the presence of a limited number of people, the CM would attend the state foundation day parade at Dehradun Police Lines on November 9. After the event at Dehradun police lines, the CM would attend a function at Gairsain, the summer capital of Uttarakhand. The district magistrates would ensure functions in their respective districts and the public representatives would also look after the events in their area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-foundation-day-celebrations-countrys-longest-motorable-single-lane-bridge-to-be-dedicated-to-people-degree-colleges-to-get-free-wi-fi-connectivity/articleshow/79026774.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 4, 2020||Kochi||Enforcement Directorate questions Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair in prison||KOCHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED), probing the prevention of money laundering act (PMLA) case registered in connection with the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling scandal, questioned two key accused on Tuesday in jail. ED took the statements of Sandeep Nair and Swapna Suresh, who are currently lodged in Poojappura central prison and Attakulangara women’s prison, respectively. The two were confronted with new evidence that had led to the arrest of M Sivasankar. ED is also examining whether the chief minister’s former principal secretary had called a senior customs officer for clearance of diplomatic baggage containing gold at Thiruvananthapuram Airport in April 2019. The interrogation will continue till Thursday. ED had obtained court permission to interrogate Swapna and Sandeep for three days. The agency is seeking to corroborate the statements of Sivasankar. The IAS officer, during his custody interrogation, had revealed that Swapna intervened on many government projects, including the stalled Smart City Project. Swapna will be questioned based on details collected from Sivasankar. The agency will also look for leads on the proceeds from the gold smuggling and their subsequent utilization and concealment. ED has collected clear evidence about Sivasankar’s interest in the financial dealings of Swapna and how he had helped her open bank accounts and lockers. ED told the court that during an NIA search cash worth nearly Rs 64 lakh was seized from the locker jointly operated by Swapna and P Venugopal, Sivasankar’s chartered accountant, who has been made a witness in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-questions-swapna-and-sandeep-in-prison/articleshow/79028035.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Cop’s son booked for rape||NAGPUR: Saurabh Tiwari, 27, son of a police personnel, has been booked for rape and threatening by Jaripatka police following a complaint from a 26-year-old woman last month. The woman, working as a beautician, had befriended Tiwari in a social media group of school friends in 2017. Tiwari had also proposed to the victim but she wanted to think it over. Later, Tiwari is learnt to have shifted to Aurangabad for his job. The complainant said that in 2018, Tiwari invited her to Aurangabad. When she reached, Tiwari allegedly took her to his apartment stating she would book a hotel room for her later. She alleged Tiwari forced himself upon her after spiking her water with some drug and also filmed their intimacy on mobile phone. As she was stunned upon seeing the images, Tiwari pacified her with a promise to marry. Tiwari later relations with the woman at different hotels in city after returning on leave. He had also taken her to his home in Godhni when his parents had gone for tour where he allegedly ravaged her. In June this year, Tiwari is learnt to have got engaged to another woman following which the victim took objection. She had relayed about her relationship with Tiwari to the woman with whom he had got engaged. Tiwari and his family members had then threatened the victim. She later approached cops to lodge a complaint of rape. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-son-booked-for-rape/articleshow/79030452.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nashik||165 new cases, 7 deaths in Nashik district||Nashik: As many as 165 Covid-19 positive cases, including 139 from the city, have been reported in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 94,312. The district also reported seven Covid-related deaths, of which, two were from the city. The death toll stands at 869 in the city and 1,679 in the district. As many as 305 patients were discharged from various facilities across the district on Tuesday, of which, 140 were from the city. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/165-new-cases-7-deaths-in-nashik-district/articleshow/79026786.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Showers expose dist’s lack of monsoon preparedness||Coimbatore: The district received its first northeast monsoon showers in the early hours of Tuesday, when it recorded 27.1mm rainfall. Though showers stopped by 6am, waterlogging was reported on many roads, leaving two-wheelers and cyclists stranded. The district administration has, meanwhile, instructed the public works department (PWD) to recheck flood control measures at the dams and ensure all canals leading to them were desilted. According to weather experts, light and patchy rainfall would continue until Sunday. S Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, said, “The district will record around 10mm rainfall daily.” Despite the rain, the weather continued to remain hot and humid. While the day’s maximum temperature stood at 34.4 deg C, the humidity level had gone up by 10% to 96%. “The monsoon has just begun and heavy winds are yet to blow. Hence the humidity,” said S P Ramanathan, director, agro climate research centre, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. While the rain, which was accompanied by thunder, lasted only for less than an hour, water stagnated on a few roads, including DB Road where the model road project is going on, until 10am. Commuters found it difficult to pass through those stretches, where traffic moved at a snail’s pace, especially during the peak office hours. The district administration conducted a meeting to review monsoon preparedness, including availability of water draining equipment and chain saw to cut and remove the trees that fall on the roads. The PWD was asked to ensure all tanks were desilted so that they could store more water during the rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/showers-expose-dists-lack-of-monsoon-preparedness/articleshow/79029788.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC prepares plan to raze illegal structures||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is preparing a plan to take action against unauthorised structures in the city. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav, on Tuesday, directed the department concerned to prepare a list of all illegal structures in the city, including domestic and commercial ones, and submit it within a week. Jadhav told TOI that the civic administration will chalk out a plan to start a demolition drive in a phase-wise manner. “We can’t start a drive immediately since the Bombay high court has given a stay until November-end due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Once the stay is over, we will start this drive,” he said. According to the civic chief, he has directed officials to take action against illegal hoardings and banners across the city and this must start immediately because there is no court stay on this. The anti-encroachment department of the NMC had stopped the demolition of illegal structures due to the pandemic in March. After improving the ranking among clean cities from 64 to 11 during Swachh Survekshan 2020, the NMC administration is geared up for the 2021 version of the survey. This time, the civic body plans to be among the top 10 clean cities in India. As part of this effort, it is planning to remove all illegal hoardings and banners in the city. According to the officials of the NMC’s town planning department, they have received several complaints about encroachments across six divisions of the city and they have sent complaints to the anti-encroachment departments of the NMC for further action. The officials did not reveal the number of illegal structures in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-prepares-plan-to-raze-illegal-structures/articleshow/79026776.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 4, 2020||Bareilly||Joy short-lived: 2 kids among 3 buried alive at newlywed couple’s house as roof collapses||Bareilly: Joy at the house of a newlywed couple turned into sorrow on the wedding night when the roof of a room crammed with guests came crashing down, burying alive three, including the groom’s sister, a four-year-old boy and a toddler, in their sleep around 2 am on Tuesday and severely injuring ten others in Sarai Tareen locality under Hayatnagar police station limits of Sambhal district. Police said they carried out rescue operations overnight and shifted the injured to the district hospital. According to locals, after attending the wedding of Shakeel, a labourer, in Himmatpur village in Rampur district on Monday, family members and guests returned to Sambhal by the evening. They were sleeping in the room when the dilapidated roof — made of mud sustained on wooden lintels — came down crashing around 2 am on Tuesday, they said. Hayatnagar police station SHO Vidyut Goyal told TOI, “Soon after answering a distress call, police teams rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation. We rescued ten people and shifted them to the hospital, but three people, including a woman and two children, had died.” Police identified the deceased as the groom’s sister Naim Jahan, 35, and two of his relatives’ children — Monis (4) and Aliya (3). “Shakeel’s sister had come from Bilari while the relatives whose children were killed belonged to Behjoi and Smabhal,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/joy-short-lived-2-kids-among-3-buried-alive-at-newlywed-couples-house-as-roof-collapses/articleshow/79024793.cms||Maria Khan
November 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Ongoing work on Bunder roads upsets workers in commercial borough||MANGALURU: Business in Bunder, a key commercial pocket in the Central Business District (CBD) of Mangaluru, has been affected owing to ongoing work on the underground drainage (UGD) network undertaken by the Mangaluru Smart City Ltd (MSCL). The roads in Bunder having been dug up, workers at the many stores in the area are unable to load and unload goods. Consequently, in order to express their unhappiness with the state of affairs, union leaders have lighted on a novel approach to draw the attention of the authorities – holding a pushcart rally to protest the poor condition of the roads in Bunder. Bunder Shramikara Sangha, an organisation of labourers and workers in the commercial borough, wants MSCL and Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) to expedite work on the project. BK Imthiyaz, general secretary of the sangha, pointed out to TOI that Port Road, Chamber Road, JM Road, Krishna Mills Road and Dr Ansari Road in Bunder had been dug up, much to the chagrin of the storeowners. Imthiyaz pointed out the roads in Bunder appeared to be in a state of perpetual repair in 2020. “In January, the roads were dug up by Mangaluru Electricity Supply Company. MSCL has now dug up the roads again for laying pipes for the UGD network. Bunder is the busiest market area in Dakshina Kannada, and dozens of trucks haul in goods every day. Travelling on these roads has resulted in many of the trucks developing mechanical faults. The coolie workers, meanwhile, are finding it particularly difficult to load and unload goods, even using pushcarts. If the roads are not repaired in a fortnight, we will take out a pushcart rally from Bunder to the MCC office,” he added. MSCL executive engineer Linge Gowda KS said that work on the UGD network in Bunder was being undertaken as part of the Karnataka Urban Development and Coastal Environment Project (KUDCEMP). “As many as three engineers are overseeing work on the UGD network in Bunder. We held discussions with leaders of the trade unions before starting work in the area. We had made a representation outlining how the work would proceed in the area, and sought their suggestions. We will be able to complete work soon if the roads are temporarily closed till the project’s completion,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ongoing-work-on-bunder-roads-upsets-workers-in-commercial-borough/articleshow/79026784.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kanpur||Polling passes of peacefully in Ghatampur, over 49% votes cast||KANPUR: The byelections in Ghatampur (reserved) Assembly passed off peacefully as an estimated 49.42% voters exercised their franchise on Tuesday. The polling began at 7am amid all necessary measures for maintaining social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19, said a senior district official. The bypolls were necessitated after the death of state minister Kamal Rani Varun (62) at SGPGI, Lucknow. Varun had died on August 2 after testing positive for Covid-19 on July 18. Senior election officer Dr Mahendra Singh said the polling percentage was 49.42 till 6pm. Of the 3,19,148 lakh voters, 1,74,437 lakh were male, 1,44,706 lakh female and 5 were categorised as third gender, as per Election Commission data. Besides, 10 corona patients cast their votes through postal ballot. The prominent among 10 candidates whose fate was locked in EVMs include Upendra Paswan (BJP), Indrajeet Kori (SP), Kuldeep Sankhwar (BSP) and Kripashanker (Congress). Barring three complaints, the electronic voting machines functioned properly. Voters were seen queuing up at 481 polling booths in 260 polling stations since morning and largely followed Covid-19 norms and were wearing masks and maintaining distance. Voters, who went to cast their ballot at a polling station in Rampur, were provided mask and hand gloves. Hand sanitisers were kept at the entrance and exit gates of the booth. We gave masks to people who had come without one and they wore it happily, said IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal, while inspecting booths at the polling station. The hands of voters were sanitised while coming in and going out of the polling booths as they had to sign on register and touch EVM buttons, he said. The counting of votes will take place on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/polling-passes-of-peacefully-in-ghatampur-over-49-votes-cast/articleshow/79030442.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 4, 2020||Bareilly||ADG seeks Pilibhit SP’s report on issuance of firearm licences to BJP dist chief’s brothers named in criminal cases||Pilibhit: Additional director general of police, Bareilly zone, Avinash Chandra has directed Pilibhit superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav to file a report on the issuance of firearm licences to two brothers of BJP’s Pilibhit district president Sanjeev Pratap Singh despite pending criminal cases against them. According to information, the SP’s report will also include the reasons for expunging IPC sections 307 (attempt to kill) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) from an FIR registered at Neuria police station on March 4 last year, following a complaint lodged by a close relative of the BJP leader against his brothers Nishant Pratap Singh and Rajiv Pratap Singh. The FIR also includes IPC section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt).The directions came following the BJP leader’s uncle AK Singh, a retired engineer, lodges a written complaint with the ADG on November 2, stating both the accused posed threat to his life and the life of his son. “I urged the ADG to cancel the licenses which were issued illegally to both the accused. They have criminal cases pending against them and had been chargesheeted by police. These licences were issued under the pressure of the BJP leader,” alleged Singh.The BJP leader, however, said police had expunged sections 354 and 307 from the FIR after the investigation while accepting that a case under IPC section 323against his brothers was still pending. The BJP leader also accused his uncle of levelling “false allegations for publicity”.The ADG said, “The inquiry officer who had recommended the issuance of firearm licences has also been directed to appear in person with the file.”The SP, however, said he had not yet received a copy of the ADG’s order. “The matter belongs to the tenure of my predecessor Abhishek Dixit. So, it will not be fair on my part to comment on the issue before going through the files.”Pilibhit-based criminal lawyer Ashwani Agnihotri, meanwhile, said police were not empowered to recommend the issuance of a firearm licence to a person whose name was not cleared in a criminal case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/adg-seeks-pilibhit-sps-report-on-issuance-of-firearm-licences-to-bjp-dist-chiefs-brothers-named-in-criminal-cases/articleshow/79024811.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||Two held with 6 kg drugs||Rudrapur: The joint teams of local police and special operation group (SOG) seized 6 kg drugs (cannabis) from the possession of two men near Danda Bastiyan Forest road in Tanakpur town of the Champawat district. Police have also impounded the motorbike on which the two accused were riding. In an official communique, SP Lokeshwar Singh said that acting on a tip-off, the police personnel, on a traffic check, intercepted two men on a motorbike. The police officials inspected their luggage and found cannabis weighing 6.1 kg. Tanakpur SHO Jasveer Singh Chauhan told TOI that a case has been registered against the two accused under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. He added that the two accused have been identified as Rajendra Singh of Champawat and Gyan Singh Rana of Udham Singh Nagar. SHO Chauhan further said that the accused were planning to sell the contraband in Udham Singh Nagar district and nearby Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-held-with-6-kg-drugs/articleshow/79026794.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||2 bike-borne men fall into 10ft pit filled with water on road, escape||Coimbatore: Two men fell into a 10ft-deep pit that was filled with nearly 7ft-8ft water on Somanur Road on Monday night while they were heading to their rental room on Annur Road on a two-wheeler. While one of them managed to come out of the pit that was dug up for flyover work on his own in the early hours of Tuesday, passers-by recused the other one. A police officer with Karumathampatti police station said the incident occurred when Devakumar and his friend Tamilselvan, both natives of Thukkanaickenpalayam in Erode district, were returning to their rental room from Somanur. They are employed with a private firm near Karumathampatti on the outskirts of the city. “Due to heavy rain, Devakumar, who was riding the two-wheeler, didn’t see the water-filled pit on the road and fell into it with the vehicle,” the officer said. On Tuesday morning, passers-by found Devakumar in the pit. He was holding on to a cable. They rescued him and sent him to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). ‘He told the public that his friend Tamilselvan had drowned in the pit and they started looking for him, but in vain. They retrieved the motorcycle and a helmet from the pit and alerted us and the fire and rescue services department,” the officer said. While they launched a search for the missing person, Tamilselvan reached the spot and told police that he had managed to come out of the pit in the early hours of Tuesday and requested them to search for his friend Devakumar, who he thought had drowned in the pit. “We told him that the public had rescued his friend. Tamilselvan was also sent to the CMCH. Blood samples would be taken from the duo to see if they were under the influence of alcohol,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-bike-borne-men-fall-into-10ft-pit-filled-with-water-on-road-escape/articleshow/79029792.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||Man drives SUV over ex-business partner in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: After a rift over money and contentious personal issues, two real estate partners of Mohanlalganj parted ways, breeding rivalry and vengeance that ended in gruesome murder on Tuesday. Manoj Yadav, estranged business partner of Vijay Pratap Rawat, was waiting in ambush for long before he finally went for the kill on Tuesday morning when Rawat came out for a morning walk with two friends. Yadav stalked him on his SUV and waited till Rawat’s friends walked away. When Rawat began his lonely trek back home, Yadav drove close and suddenly pressed on the accelerator and ran the SUV over him. Not once, but several times till Rawat’s legs and head were crushed to pulp, police said. The macabre dance of death didn’t stop here. Yadav then stepped out of his vehicle and reportedly pumped bullets into Rawat’s lifeless body. Rawat, 33, was a Dalit and village development council member of Poornpur block. The accused was a resident of the same locality. After the murder, Yadav along with his accomplice, Lallu, fled the scene, but not before another dramatic twist. He again pressed on the gas and crashed into a concrete pillar after which the SUV flipped. Yadav extricated himself with a broken arm and got himself admitted into a private hospital in Alambagh. Residents of the area staged protests for over five hours and did not allow the body to be taken for autopsy. Senior police officers intervened and a case of murder was lodged against Yadav and his aide Lallu, following which the body was taken for post-mortem examination. Rawat’s wife Rekha stated in her FIR that Lallu, resident of Neelmatha, had helped Yadav to escape after the murder. “My husband died after Yadav ran his SUV over him several times and then shot him from close range,” she told police. Manoj, who’s recuperating in hospital has been arrested and a hunt has been launched to nab Lallu. DCP, South, Raees Akhtar refuted claims of gunshot injuries, saying the autopsy did not reveal bullet injuries. Shock and haemorrhage from multiple fractures had caused Rawat’s death, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-drives-suv-over-ex-biz-partner/articleshow/79030459.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nashik||Critical patients in Nashik city drop to 519||Nashik: The number of critical Covid-19 patients in Nashik city have dropped significantly during the last fortnight from 750 to 519. The number of critical patients recorded so far in the civic and private hospitals in the city are the lowest since July. Of the 2,057 beds reserved for critical patients in the city, 74% are vacant. There had been a spike in Covid-19 cases in September with 867 cases being reported per day on an average. But, in October, there had been a significant drop in per day new cases. Around 350 cases were reported per day on an average in October. In addition, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the city has crossed the 94% mark. Of the 519 critical patients in the city at present, 321 are on oxygen beds, 136 on ICU beds and 62 on ventilators. There are a total 2,057 beds for critical patients in city hospitals, including 1,295 oxygen beds, 503 ICU ones and 259 ventilators. Moreover, the rate of critical patients as compared to active ones has also dropped from 25% to 22% during the last fortnight. “There had been a spike in Covid-19 cases in August and September with the administration facing shortage of oxygen beds for critical patients. Hence, the Nashik civic body had provided oxygen beds to only those patients whose oxygen level was below normal level. But, we are now providing oxygen beds to even those patients whose oxygen levels are at the border for faster recovery,” said civic officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/critical-patients-in-nashik-city-drop-to-519/articleshow/79026792.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 4, 2020||Nashik||CP to make surprise visits to police chowkies in Nashik||Nashik: Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey has decided to make surprise visits to police chowkies in the city on a daily basis between 6pm and 7pm from Thursday with an aim to review the working of police personnel and address their problems, if any. There are a total of 60 police chowkies under 13 police stations in the city. The in-charge officers and personnel are responsible for keeping a tab on illegal activities in their jurisdiction, crime prevention, patrolling and rush to incident spots in case any crime or mishap is reported. People also go to police chowkies to report crime against them or any other illegal activity. After assessing the nature of the complaint, the complainant is either sent to the police station concerned for registering an FIR or the concerned officer there takes the necessary action after informing his senior at the police station. CP Deepak Pandey would review the working of police chowkies during his visit and guide the personnel there about their work. He would also check if the personnel are facing any infrastructure-related problem and try to resolve the same at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cp-to-make-surprise-visits-to-police-chowkies-in-city/articleshow/79026798.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Members force Nagpur University to adjourn online Senate meet||NAGPUR: Angry members on Tuesday forced Nagpur University to adjourn the Senate meeting that was scheduled online. The members were protesting since last week on NU’s plans for conducting online meeting stating they had hordes of issues to discuss including the MCQ examination fiasco and subsequent harassment of students, which wasn’t possible in online meeting. Newly appointed pro-vice chancellor Sanjay Dudhe said about 50 members had arrived at NU’s new administrative complex near Amravati Road with a demand to conduct an offline meeting. “Now, the meeting is adjourned till November 18, as a 15-day gap is required for conducting another meeting as per rules. No official work could be taken up today in view of members’ demand. Only congratulatory proposals of VC Subhash Chaudhari and me were taken up. International para power lifting player Vijay Munishwar, also the Senate member, was hailed for receiving the prestigious Dronacharya award from Government of India,” he said. Last week, a delegation of members led by Vishnu Changde, Manmohan Bajpayee and others had met the VC after receiving agenda for the online meeting and requested him to hold it offline. However, the VC expressed inability stating orders in this regard were issued by chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and he had no powers to change them. The members then appealed to the VC to mail a letter to him on their request. The chancellor, however, didn't reply to VC’s letter after which he decided to hold the online meeting. On Tuesday, about 50 members stormed the NU complex and sat inside the Senate hall. They logged in at the usual time, but due to poor connectivity, they came out and attended the initial session from the building’s parking lot using their mobiles. Changde then submitted a proposal to adjourn the meeting and request the chancellor to allow the university to conduct regular meetings. The proposal was endorsed by a majority of members, including senior ones like Baban Taywade and Rajesh Bhoyar. It was then decided to adjourn the meeting till November 18 and hold a regular one on that day at NU’s old administrative office at Maharajbagh square. “After the meeting, we all met the VC and told him that if assembly sessions and civic body meetings can be held regularly, why NU can’t conduct its events offline. We will follow the Covid-19 protocol and take safety precautions, but such important meetings must be held as per regular format. The meeting can also be held in blended mode with outstation members joining online,” Changde told TOI. Explaining the drawbacks of online meetings, another member said, all usually speak over each other and no one could listen to what others were saying. “Moreover, there are perennial issues like poor connectivity. Such meetings get over in just about an hour and good topics that need immediate attention from the administration are put on the backburner,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/members-force-nu-to-adjourn-online-senate-meet/articleshow/79030489.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 4, 2020||Kochi||Bineesh used drug money to purchase assets, says ED||Bengaluru: Bineesh Kodiyeri is a drug user and had extensively funded drug trade through his aides Mohammed Anoop and Rijesh Ravindran, who were arrested by the NCB in August, enforcement directorate (ED) sleuths told a Bengaluru court. Bineesh—son of CPM Kerala state committee secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan—currently in ED custody in a money laundering case, allegedly used drug money to purchase various assets on benami names. He also floated two shell companies in Kochi and Bengaluru with Mohammed and Rijesh as the directors and used them for money laundering, the agency alleged in its submissions in court. ED sources said, the two firms were purportedly into event management. On Monday, the agency told a Bengaluru special court in its remand application that being a habitual offender – with money laundering cases in Kerala and Dubai – Bineesh, and Mohammed and Rijesh were all into cocaine consumption. The central agency substantiated its claims against Bineesh by citing the version of his reported aides, Suhas Krishnagowda and Sonet Lobo. Links to gold smuggling case ED sleuths told the special court that during interrogation from Thursday, the agency had ascertained that one of the accused in the gold smuggling case is Bineesh’s benami in various businesses; including a restaurant business and a high-end car trade in Thiruvananthapuram. Bineesh had channelled drug sale proceeds into benami properties of the gold smuggling case accused, the court was told. Bineesh had reportedly told ED investigators that he had funded Mohammed’s eatery business in Bengaluru by taking a loan from Punjab National Bank after mortgaging his mother-in-law’s property. ED, however, reportedly ascertained that a large transfer to Mohammed from Bineesh happened a day earlier, sources said. Bineesh is now likely to be brought face-to-face with the gold smuggling case accused, said ED sources. Attorney meets Bineesh On Tuesday evening, Bineesh could interact with his lawyer Ranjit Shankar. “ED officials permitted a meeting time of only 15 minutes in its office under CCTV surveillance, denying the client and his lawyer privacy,” said Shiju Abraham Varghese, part of Bineesh’s attorney team. Bineesh’s monetary transactions were primarily done through IDBI and HDFC accounts. Bineesh allegedly transferred Rs 5,17,36,600 to Mohammed’s bank accounts from 2012 to late 2019 to support drug peddling in Bengaluru, it has been alleged. With ED claiming that Bineesh was a user and was aware of the drug trade by his aides and funded it, NCB is likely to register a case against him, including the Bengaluru narcotics case of August 24, 2020 in which Mohammed and Rijesh are arraigned as accused two and three.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bineesh-used-drug-money-to-purchase-assets-says-ed/articleshow/79028115.cms||Petlee Peter
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Poll panel plans postal ballot for disabled, people aged above 80||Coimbatore: Elderly people aged above 80 years and disabled won’t have to visit polling booths to exercise their right to franchise in the 2021 state assembly election. The Election Commission of India (ECI) is planning to provide them the postal ballot option and has instructed election officials in the state to collect their details. The ECI had allowed senior citizens and disabled to exercise postal voting in the recently-held Bihar assembly election. Until recently, only government officials and uniformed service people, who were assigned election duty, could exercise their franchise through postal ballots. An official with the election department said, “We have been identifying disabled people in the district based on the welfare scheme data and through field staff. They could also mark themselves disabled on the election commission’s National Voters’ Service Portal.” While polling stations would be disabled-friendly with ramps and wheelchairs, the officer said, the postal ballot option was introduced to ensure wider participation. As per the electoral roll released on February 14, the district has about 29.91 lakh voters, of which 14,078 are disabled. The official said 53,000 voters were aged above 80 years and another 542 above 100 years. “All of them could use this facility in the upcoming assembly election by submitting form 12D (application for postal facility) to the election department. Returning officers would take steps to distribute the postal ballots to them at their residences.” Pointing out that government bus drivers and conductors, loco pilots, omni bus drivers, and taxi drivers had approached the ECI to avail the postal ballot facility, he said a final call on their request was yet to be taken. Activists, meanwhile, said the move would be helpful for both the elderly and disabled, who want to vote but could not travel to the polling stations. J Swarnalatha, founder of Swarga Foundation, said she had voted thrice after she became wheelchair-bound and she was carried inside the polling booth twice because of the practical difficulties in taking her wheelchair inside. “There are tall claims of making all polling stations disabled-friendly, but the ground reality is different. Despite their longing, many people can’t cast their votes as the transportation and venue are not accessible,” she said. Lalithkumar Natrajan, founder of Love and Acceptance, said the move would definitely help a lot of people to exercise their right to franchise and significantly increase the number of disabled people casting their votes in the assembly election. “The officials should explain how it works for those who are paralyzed below the neck or have difficulties in using their hands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/poll-panel-plans-postal-ballot-for-disabled-people-aged-above-80/articleshow/79029832.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid cases dip, but ESI hosp gets 11K-litre oxygen tank, more beds||Coimbatore: The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district plunged to a four-month low of 1,064 on Tuesday, with 490 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. The district logged 238 new cases of Covid-19 on the day, taking the tally to 43,989, of which 42,361 have recovered so far. The recovery rate has touched an all-time high of 96.2%. The toll went up by one to 564. The lone victim was a 63-year-old man, who died of Covid-induced pneumonia five days after hospitalization at the ESI Hospital on Monday. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani, meanwhile, inaugurated a 11,000-litre oxygen tank in the ESI Hospital, which once managed 450 patients with just a 2,000-litre oxygen tank. The oxygen tank had arrived in the hospital a fortnight ago. Dr A Nirmala, ESI Hospital dean, said, “Earlier, we used to struggle to provide high-flow oxygen to more than 100 beds at a time. With the 11,000-litre oxygen tank, we can confidently provide 50 to 60 litres of oxygen to all the 150 oxygen beds in the hospital. We can also increase our capacity.” The hospital’s bed strength was also increased by 215 to 665 on the day. While 135 beds were added to the nursing hostel building for Covid-19 patients, 80 were added to the administrative block. “We may allot some beds for Covid-19 sequelae patients, if required,” said an official. The state government has also equipped the hospital laboratory with an automatic RNA separator that would allow it to 1,500 swab samples a day, compared to 500 samples earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-cases-dip-but-esi-hosp-gets-11k-litre-oxygen-tank-more-beds/articleshow/79029807.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Bareilly||UP to launch 10-day anti-illicit liquor drive on November 6||PILIBHIT: Excise department along with police will launch an anti-illicit liquor drive across the state between November 6 and 15 in view of the upcoming Diwali festival. The 10-day drive is aimed at curbing illegal distillation and sale and the smuggling of illicit liquor. Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary, excise, said the teams will conduct raids against smugglers and carry out search and seizure operation at highway dhabas and campuses of closed industrial units. Bhoosreddy said in October, as many as 4,422 cases were registered against illicit liquor manufacturers and suppliers across the state. As much as 1.65 lakh litres of illicit liquor was seized while 4.38 lakh kilograms of 'lahan' (fermented raw material used in distillation of illicit liquor) was destroyed. As many as 1,564 people indulging in distillation and trading of illicit liquor were arrested while 65 vehicles used to transport illicit liquor were impounded. The sale of branded liquor at scheduled rate was monitored and action taken against 24 licenced liquor shops for over-charging. The 33 excise checkposts set up on UP-Bihar border to prevent smuggling of liquor in Bihar will continue to be alert till assembly elections in the neighbouring state end, said Bhoosreddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-to-launch-10-day-anti-illicit-liquor-drive-on-nov-6/articleshow/79024831.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nashik||5 burglars held, 12 bikes, 4 four-wheelers recovered||Nashik: The rural police have arrested five people involved in several vehicle thefts over the last few months and have recovered 18 vehicles, including 12 two-wheelers and four four-wheelers, from them. The Nashik rural police have stepped up their intelligence on the instructions of superintendent of police Sachin Patil. Police said that the five suspects were arrested after they received a specific tip-off from Malegaon Chhavani police about two people stealing vehicles from in and around Malegaon and disposing them off in Dhule. Working on the information, the Malegaon Chhavani police arrested Rakesh Koli (23) and Amjad Shaikh (24) from whom they recovered 12 motorcycles worth Rs 2.95 lakh. Meanwhile, the Peth police arrested three suspects in a theft case involving pick-up vehicles. On grilling them, the suspects confessed to have stolen two pick-up vehicles from the Peth area, one pick-up, a van and two motorcycles from the Sinnar area. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-burglars-held-12-bikes-4-four-wheelers-recovered/articleshow/79026803.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nashik||Pay & park at 22 spaces in Nashik soon||Nashik: Twenty-two smart parking spaces, which were closed during lockdown following the outbreak of Covid-19 in March, are expected to start soon. An agency appointed to monitor these parking spaces have started conducting a survey to check and monitor response of city residents. The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd. (NMSCDCL) will decide about restarting paid parking after completion of the survey. The NMSCDCL had started parking spaces in 22 spots in the city from March 4. It had received good response from people, but the smart city company had to halt the process in the second half of March due to lockdown. The smart city had fixed parking rate at Rs 10 per hour for four-wheelers and Rs 5 per hour for two-wheelers. “People did not use parking spaces during lockdown owing to Covid-19 pandemic. But, after the unlocking in phases, almost all the markets have been started during select hours. Hence, we want to check the response of residents,” said NMSCDCL sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pay-park-at-22-spaces-in-city-soon/articleshow/79026813.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid doubling rate rises to 283 days in Aurangabad dist||Aurangabad: The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad district has increased from 22.9 days in July to current over 283 days, underlying the drop in fresh cases. Besides Aurangabad, other districts from Marathwada have also been showing increased doubling rate of Covid 19 cases, as per official data. Terming the current decline in Covid-19 cases as a “low transmission” period of the virus, Aurangabad district health officer Sudhakar Shelke on Tuesday said citizens should not unnecessarily develop a false sense of security. “Even if the number of fresh cases of Covid-19 is going down, a threat of a second wave looms large. In order to ensure effective check on the pandemic, people must continue to follow preventive measures,” he said. As per official data, only 73 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported from Aurangabad district during the last 24 hours that ended by 9 am on Tuesday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 40,590. It also include 38,580 cured patients and 1,085 deaths and 925 active cases. Amid the increasing doubling rate of Covid-19, the recovery rate among patients has also increased to 95.05 % whereas the mortality rate has declined to 2.67 %. Among other districts from the region, Latur has a doubling rate of 289 days followed by Nanded (281 day), Parbhani (211 day), Osmanabad (184 day), Beed (120 day) and Jalna (114 day). The data related to Hingoli district was not available. Shelke said, “Covid-19 testing is free at state-run health centers and those who are having any Covid symptoms such as fever, cough, sore-throat, fatigue or sneezing should get themselves tested. Early testing is beneficial for the individual, their family and the society at large,” Shelke said. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases has increased to over 1.28 lakh from Marathwada, including over 1.20 lakh recovered patients and 3,831 causalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-doubling-rate-rises-to-283-days-in-aurangabad-dist/articleshow/79025755.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||GSFC posts 205% rise in Q2 PAT||Ahmedabad: Moving against the tide, Gujarat State Fertilizer & Chemicals (GSFC) Ltd has put up a stellar performance in the second quarter results released today, the company said in a media statement. The company posted a net profit of Rs 171 crore in the second quarter ended September 30 as compared to Rs 56 crore in the corresponding quarter in the previous year, a rise of 205%. “The prominent factors that led to sound second quarter results of GSFC are the massive reduction in average finished goods inventory by Rs 747 crore. Also, due to efficient cash management, there was a reduction in bank borrowings by Rs 908 crore as compared to the start of this financial year. There was a focused thrust on exports of industrial products and the company also implemented initiatives in import substitution under ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’,” said Arvind Agarwal, CMD, GSFC. The fertilizer sales volume grew by 10% in H1 of FY20-21 as compared to H1 of FY19-20, whereas the profit before tax grew from Rs 63 crore to Rs 216 crore in the period under review. The company saw a recovery in sales as compared to quarter ended June 20 on the back of robust kharif demand in Q2. There was a substantial improvement in the earnings per share that grew from Rs 1.40/share to Rs 4.29/share as compared to same quarter last year. GSFC stopped purchasing finished fertilizers, except urea (imported by GoI) and MoP (where there is no option but to import). Reduction in raw materials consumption expenditure, despite increase in sales by 10% in volume in H1 2021 vs H1 2020 and lower price of natural gas and a more efficient management of resources have also played a major part in GSFC’s financial results, the company said. In industrial products, for the first-time export markets were successfully explored. Melamine was exported in large quantity to USA and eight EU countries and caprolactum in large quantity to China. Taking a lead in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s clarion call of Aatmanirbhar Bharat initiative, GSFC has initiated plans to invest Rs 1500-2000 crore for rolling out as many as 21 products where India has a strong dependency on imports, especially from China. Earlier on August 31, the company restarted its methanol plant at Vadodara. The factory was shut for six years due to non-viability. It is presently operating at more than 90% capacity. GSFC had recently started production of calcium nitrate and is presently the only producer in the country. It is one of the 21 products under GSFC’s Aatmanirbhar initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gsfc-posts-205-rise-in-q2-pat/articleshow/79028114.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: School introduces ‘Covid fee’, another waits for final SC order||KOLKATA: After the Supreme Court refused to stay Calcutta High Court’s order to waive 20% tuition and sessions fees at school, different institutes have started exploring different options. St Xavier’s Collegiate School that waived 20% fees for KG to Class XII, has introduced a new payment head, called “expenses due to Covid-19”, while Don Bosco School, Park Circus, decided to wait for the final Supreme Court order on school-fee waiver before changing the existing structure. This coincided with a decision of the West Bengal Association of Christian Schools, which includes most Catholic and other Christian minority schools except those run by CNI, to challenge the HC order in SC. At St Xavier’s, the Covid expenses have apparently been introduced to take care of heads, such as, internet, online platform, licence for software, AMC, software maintenance and sanitization of buildings. The new head was put up on their school notice, signed by principal M Thamacin Arulappan. Along with fee break-up for every class, a separate column was created, under which Covid expenses of flat Rs 500 for every child has been introduced. CNI schools have brought Covid expenses into accounts books but have not passed it on to fees. Don Bosco School, Park Circus, published a notice on its website, saying as it already offered 50%-100% waiver to the needy, a general 20% cut for all would put those poor students at a disadvantage. “If we were to follow this (court order), all those parents who are receiving the benefit of fee concession prior to this, will forfeit it and will find it difficult to educate their children,” said the notice. It said some components of the fees had been removed for September, November and December as certain events would not take place. “Over 200 students are receiving concessions of 50%, 75%, 90% and 100%,” said principal of the school Fr Bikash Mondal. The notice told parents that if the school was “forced” to reduce 20% of tuition fees, it would be done by year-end and adjusted with fees for March, April 2021. “The matter will be taken up with the SC and further deliberations will be given to parents,” the notice stated. Father K V Mathew, principal of Don Bosco, Liluah, said, “We have been taking just tuition fees since April. Now we have further cut down on tuition fees by 20%.” Loyola School, Kidderpore, offered concessions to some parents. Principal Fr Rodney Borneo has worked out a draft notice on 20% waiver that will be posted on Wednesday. After a meeting on Tuesday, Association of Christian Schools secretary Father Moloy D’Costa said, “It is a generalized order, while each school is different. The fees in Christian schools are lower than that in private schools. Not all parents are equally affected. We are protected under the Constitution to run our institutions without interference. So, we have decided to move the SC as a body.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-introduces-covid-fee-another-waits-for-final-sc-order/articleshow/79029837.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||After Covid-19, dengue begins to grip young population||LUCKNOW: After Covid-19, dengue is taking young people in the age group of 21-40 years in its grip with nearly 60% of the patients since January falling in the category. An analysis of the documented 356 dengue cases till October 27 shows that 135 patients (37.5%) of the total dengue cases since January were in the group of 21-30 years. Similarly, 77 dengue patients were found in the age group of 31-40 years. Health department data shows that younger population was affected the most by Covid-19 as about 50% of patients were between 21 and 40 years of age. According to experts, young population is more susceptible to infections as it is quite mobile. Data also points out that 90% of the total dengue cases have been reported in September and October. “So far as dengue is concerned, full sleeved and full length clothes should be worn to prevent mosquitoe bites. At home, residual water in air coolers, planters and pots and other empty vessels should not be allowed to stagnate,” said Dr KP Tripathi, the in charge of vector-borne diseases control unit. Data shows that even children below 10 years have had dengue. The number of cases in this age group is 19 with the youngest patient being one-year-old. Similarly, 62 dengue patients were reported in the age group of 11-20 years, 33 in 41-50 years and 23 in 51-60 years. Four patients were over 60 years and three above 70 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-covid-19-dengue-begin-to-grip-young-popn/articleshow/79030503.cms||Yusra Husain
November 4, 2020||Mumbai||Centre, Maharashtra lock horns over Kanjur Metro 3 plot||MUMBAI: Tensions between the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra and the Centre appeared to escalate further on Tuesday with the state making it clear it would go ahead with construction work for the Metro 3 car shed at Kanjurmarg despite the Centre asking it not to. On Tuesday, it emerged that the Centre had claimed the Kanjurmarg site belonged to it, as it was part of the city’s salt pan lands, over whose ownership the Centre and state have been locked in a legal battle since the early 1980s. On September 22 this year, the Centre filed a petition in Bombay high court claiming ownership of the Kanjurmarg plot and challenging a 2018 order of the Maharashtra revenue minister declaring the state to be owner of salt pan lands in Mumbai. On October 15, the Union ministry of commerce and industry wrote to state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar requesting him to “restrain MMRDA from taking any further steps” and stop work on the Kanjurmarg site. TimesViewIf this matter gets caught up in litigation, it could further delay a project that the city needs badly. Already the Metro project has been delayed quite a bit because of the row over Aarey and an alternative plot land for the Metro 3 car shed. The Centre and state should work together to resolve their differences at the earliest so that progress of the project does not suffer further.But MMRDA commissioner and additional chief secretary R A Rajeev told TOI, “The state government has handed over the land to MMRDA for construction of the car shed at Kanjurmarg, and we will continue with the ongoing construction work.” State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray claimed the land allotted for the car shed had always been with the state as per revenue records, so MMRDA would carry on with its work. “The Mumbai suburban collector has done due diligence of all records and all sub-judice matters in all competent courts,” Thackeray tweeted on Tuesday. CM Uddhav Thackeray had on October 11 declared that Kanjurmarg would be the new site for the Metro 3 car shed instead of Aarey, fulfilling a pre-poll promise. Metro 3 (Colaba-Seepz) and Metro 6 (Vikhroli-Lokhandwala) would have a common car shed on 41 hectares in Kanjurmarg, Thackeray had said. Work on the site began immediately after that. Guruprasad Mohapatra, secretary of the commerce ministry’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade, wrote in his letter to the state chief secretary on October 15 that in spite of the fact that the matter of allotment of land was sub-judice, the Mumbai suburban collector had transferred 102 acres in Kanjur village for the Metro car shed by issuing a letter on October 1, and possession of land was handed over to MMRDA on October 6. Later, MMRDA handed over the land to DMRCL (Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd) without taking prior approval of the Central government. “The improper and unilateral action of the Collector has caused severe loss… I would request you to take necessary steps and restrain MMRDA from taking any further steps and ask the collector to withdraw the orders passed by him,” Mohapatra stated. NCP spokesperson and state skill development minister Nawab Malik alleged the BJP was “conspiring against the people of Maharashtra”. “We are preparing for the safe and comfortable travel of more than two million people, and BJP is making efforts to delay the project. We will not succumb to BJP’s pressure and will complete the project on schedule,” he said. Malik said that the Centre’s homework was “poor” and that it should have checked the facts before writing to the chief secretary. “In 1981 the additional collector had passed an order for the first time saying that as per the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, the title of the land rested with the state government. The additional collector’s order was upheld by the divisional commissioner on May 21, 2015 and again by state revenue minister Chandrakant Patil on November 1, 2018,” Malik said. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the BJP was “the main hurdle” in the development of Maharashtra. “More shocking is that the Central department has challenged an order passed by revenue minister Chandrakant Patil after two years, and that too after the CM declared his government had scrapped the Aarey site. This is not a coincidence, it is by design,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-state-lock-horns-over-kanjur-metro-3-plot/articleshow/79030466.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Bitter harvest: Stubble burning up 36% this October||NEW DELHI: An analysis of images from four satellites and ground reports has shown that stubble burning increased by 36% this October compared with last year. This revelation came to the fore in a study of synergised fire counts in the northern plains by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under Union ministry of earth sciences. Track the pollution level in your cityData accessed by TOI showed that 23,236 farm fires took place in the neighbouring states in October 2019 and rose to 31,592 the same month this year. High fire counts were found to be not directly proportional to the deterioration of Delhi’s air quality as it depended on meteorological factors, including wind speed and direction. Experts said that crop harvesting, which usually begins at the end of the second week of October, started in September or first week of October this year. The process normally ends by November-end. “Stubble burning started early this year due to early harvesting. There are reports of a bumper crop this year. As a result, there is a likelihood of extended crop harvesting and stubble burning,” said a senior official at SAFAR. LS Kurinji, research analyst, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), said, “Many farmers adopted direct seeding technique in which the crop matures 8-10 days early. An analysis done by CEEW shows that the area under paddy cultivation is nearly 10% lower than 2018. If we study the data of farm fires of previous years, stubble burning was at its peak in the first week of November. However, stubble burning is likely to be spread out this year due to early harvesting, which may get over by the second week of November.” Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends, said, “The number of fire counts in the past three years rose to a peak of more than 5,000 in the first week of November. Even if we compare per day counts in October this year with the same day in 2019, the number would be more. It appears that farm fires went up this year due to less vigilance of officials on the ground. The administration seems occupied with Covid-19 management and enforcement against stubble burning might be weaker.” Though the number of crop residue fires had increased, experts said their high count was not directly affecting Delhi’s air. “In 2019, over 4,000 farm fires were recorded on a single day in November, but their share in Delhi’s PM2.5 was only 6% due to meteorological factors. Similarly, the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s air rose to 35% on a day last year when the fire count was 2,700. Wind direction, speed and mixing layer height play an important role in the contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s air quality,” said the SAFAR official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bitter-harvest-stubble-burning-up-36-this-oct/articleshow/79029836.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Missing last-mile connectivity||AHMEDABAD: Just when Ahmedabad’s civic body wants the city to take up public transport — buses, share bicycles, autorickshaws — for mobility, it is worth noticing how some of the city’s important higher-order commercial areas or (HOCAs) are to yet to be integrated to a large section of the city. Last mile connectivity to work places and those involving high economic centres is crucial to the transportation success. To give an idea of this, one may see how just two of the total 174 bus routes connect Prahladnagar. Ashram Road, which is spread over 125 hectares is accessible to 58% of the city’s population while CG Road , which is spread over 85 hectares, despite dominating as the retail district for over two decades and being nearer to Ashram Road, has limited public transport access with eight city bus routes passing through. This makes CG Road accessible to just 30% population which is nearly half compared to Ashram Road. Prahladnagar, which is spread over 55 hectares, on the other hand is connected to just 12% of city’s population. This was revealed in a detailed presentation by a city-based planner and Arizona State University (ASZ). “Buzzing commercial centres in any city also require a labour force that, in turn, requires a cheap and affordable commercial transport connectivity to reach those centres. This aspect is generally overlooked by many at the municipal corporation,” said an AMTS official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/missing-last-mile-connectivity/articleshow/79028232.cms||Paul John
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||Kedarnath receives fresh snowfall, temperature dips in hills||DEHRADUN: The Kedarnath Valley and the surrounding hills received fresh spells of snowfall while a few other places in the hills of the state received light rainfall, causing a significant dip in the temperature levels of the hills. The pilgrims who were present at the Himalayan shrine in the Rudraprayag district faced cold conditions as the mercury dropped several notches below normal following the snowfall. “There was an active western disturbance that resulted in snowfall in the higher reaches of the hilly districts. Temperatures, as a result, have gone down in the hills,” said Bikram Singh, director of Met office. It is worth mentioning that the regional meteorological centre had forecast light snowfall at isolated places in the higher reaches of Uttarkashi, Pithoragarh, Chamoli and Rudraprayag districts since Tuesday morning. According to the Met office, it was a brief wet spell and will not continue for more than 24-hours and dry weather will prevail across the state from November 4 onwards. Due to the snow activity, the mercury level also dropped across Uttarakhand with maximum temperature in Dehradun plunging below 30 degree Celsius. The maximum temperature in the state capital stood at 28.4 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kedarnath-receives-fresh-snowfall-temperature-dips-in-hills/articleshow/79026808.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 4, 2020||World||US elections 2020: Voters saw election as a judgment on Trump, survey finds||WASHINGTON: The pandemic and the fragile economy weighed heavily on voters in Tuesday's presidential election, a contest that for many amounted to a referendum on President Donald Trump's leadership in a time of turmoil. AP VoteCast, an expansive survey of the electorate, found roughly two-thirds of voters said their opinion of the Republican president - either for or against - drove their choice. Only about a third said the same of his Democratic rival, former Vice President Joe Biden. This was the case nationally, as well as in many of the battleground states that will determine which candidate wins a majority in the electoral college. The results suggest that Trump's leadership, personality and omnipresence in the spotlight have defined the race, even as voters grappled with a historic set of overlapping crises. As the coronavirus surges across the country, roughly 4 in 10 voters said the pandemic was the top concern facing the country. The economy followed close behind, the choice of about 3 in 10 voters. In a year of racial justice protests and debate over structural racism, about 1 in 10 voters cited racism as the most important issue. Live updates: US election results 2020The coronavirus outbreak has claimed more than 230,000 American lives and launched a political debate about how to stop the disease. Trump has argued for prioritizing the economy over public health protections, falsely claiming the nation was ``rounding the turn'' in its effort to contain the virus. Biden has cast Trump's rhetoric as dangerous and vowed to take a more aggressive approach if elected. Voters were divided on whether the nation has contained the spread of the virus. About half of voters said the virus is somewhat or mostly under control. And about half described the coronavirus as out of control. About 6 in 10 voters said the government's higher priority should be limiting the spread of the coronavirus, even if it damages the economy. Voters in key battleground states shared anxieties about the virus and its spread. In Wisconsin, which saw an October spike in cases, close to half of voters said the pandemic was the top issue facing the country and about 6 in 10 said it was not under control. About two-thirds said the government should prioritize stopping its spread even if it means economic pain. Trump and Biden faced a dissatisfied and distrustful electorate. About 6 in 10 voters are unhappy with the direction of the country. Roughly three-quarters said they are dissatisfied or angry with the way the federal government is working. The majority of voters made up their minds long ago. Three-quarters said they've always known how they would vote. Trump's campaign spent much of the campaign focused on turning out entrenched voters rather than convincing voters who might have been persuadable. More than 100 million Americans rushed to vote early and by mail, taking advantage of new rules intended to make voting safer and easier during the pandemic. Trump has sought to sow doubt about the new voting systems and the legitimacy of the count, and claimed without evidence that some voters would cheat. The survey found about 3 in 10 expressing doubts that their votes would be accurately counted. Concerns about voting were somewhat higher in Pennsylvania, another key state in the election, compared with other states: 35% were not confident the vote count would be accurate. The pandemic has touched many personally: roughly 2 in 10 voters nationally said a family member or friend had died from the disease. And 4 in 10 households lost jobs or income as offices, schools, restaurants and other businesses closed beginning in March to try to stop the coronavirus' spread. Trump's campaign tried to make the handling of the economy a top selling point for his reelection, an uphill battle as unemployment spiked to double digits this spring. A comeback has recently showed signs of stalling as federal aid lapsed because the Trump administration and House Democrats could not reach a compromise. Only 4 in 10 voters said the economy was good or excellent, with the rest describing conditions as not so good or poor. Still, the aid spared much of the country from the pain of the recession. About 7 in 10 described their personal finances as stable; roughly 2 in 10 were falling behind. Just about 1 in 10 were getting ahead financially. Tensions over structural racism increased this summer after the police killings of several Black Americans, setting off peaceful protests and in some cases riots, looting and violence. Trump positioned himself as a defender of police and cast the protesters as radicals _ part of an appeal to suburban and older voters who he thought would embrace a law and order message. Nationally, about three-quarters of voters called racism a serious challenge for society as a whole and for policing in particular. About a quarter said they want to see the police be tougher on crime; about a third think police are too tough. Notably, majorities of voters in two battleground states _ Wisconsin and Minnesota _ disapproved of protests over policing. Both states saw violence and destruction during demonstrations after police shootings of Black men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/us-elections-2020-voters-saw-election-as-a-judgment-on-trump-survey-finds/articleshow/79031615.cms||---
November 4, 2020||World||US elections 2020: Voters saw election as a judgment on Trump, survey finds||WASHINGTON: The pandemic and the fragile economy weighed heavily on voters in Tuesday's presidential election, a contest that for many amounted to a referendum on President Donald Trump's leadership in a time of turmoil. AP VoteCast, an expansive survey of the electorate, found roughly two-thirds of voters said their opinion of the Republican president - either for or against - drove their choice. Only about a third said the same of his Democratic rival, former Vice President Joe Biden. This was the case nationally, as well as in many of the battleground states that will determine which candidate wins a majority in the electoral college. The results suggest that Trump's leadership, personality and omnipresence in the spotlight have defined the race, even as voters grappled with a historic set of overlapping crises. As the coronavirus surges across the country, roughly 4 in 10 voters said the pandemic was the top concern facing the country. The economy followed close behind, the choice of about 3 in 10 voters. In a year of racial justice protests and debate over structural racism, about 1 in 10 voters cited racism as the most important issue. Live updates: US election results 2020The coronavirus outbreak has claimed more than 230,000 American lives and launched a political debate about how to stop the disease. Trump has argued for prioritizing the economy over public health protections, falsely claiming the nation was ``rounding the turn'' in its effort to contain the virus. Biden has cast Trump's rhetoric as dangerous and vowed to take a more aggressive approach if elected. Voters were divided on whether the nation has contained the spread of the virus. About half of voters said the virus is somewhat or mostly under control. And about half described the coronavirus as out of control. About 6 in 10 voters said the government's higher priority should be limiting the spread of the coronavirus, even if it damages the economy. Voters in key battleground states shared anxieties about the virus and its spread. In Wisconsin, which saw an October spike in cases, close to half of voters said the pandemic was the top issue facing the country and about 6 in 10 said it was not under control. About two-thirds said the government should prioritize stopping its spread even if it means economic pain. Trump and Biden faced a dissatisfied and distrustful electorate. About 6 in 10 voters are unhappy with the direction of the country. Roughly three-quarters said they are dissatisfied or angry with the way the federal government is working. The majority of voters made up their minds long ago. Three-quarters said they've always known how they would vote. Trump's campaign spent much of the campaign focused on turning out entrenched voters rather than convincing voters who might have been persuadable. More than 100 million Americans rushed to vote early and by mail, taking advantage of new rules intended to make voting safer and easier during the pandemic. Trump has sought to sow doubt about the new voting systems and the legitimacy of the count, and claimed without evidence that some voters would cheat. The survey found about 3 in 10 expressing doubts that their votes would be accurately counted. Concerns about voting were somewhat higher in Pennsylvania, another key state in the election, compared with other states: 35% were not confident the vote count would be accurate. The pandemic has touched many personally: roughly 2 in 10 voters nationally said a family member or friend had died from the disease. And 4 in 10 households lost jobs or income as offices, schools, restaurants and other businesses closed beginning in March to try to stop the coronavirus' spread. Trump's campaign tried to make the handling of the economy a top selling point for his reelection, an uphill battle as unemployment spiked to double digits this spring. A comeback has recently showed signs of stalling as federal aid lapsed because the Trump administration and House Democrats could not reach a compromise. Only 4 in 10 voters said the economy was good or excellent, with the rest describing conditions as not so good or poor. Still, the aid spared much of the country from the pain of the recession. About 7 in 10 described their personal finances as stable; roughly 2 in 10 were falling behind. Just about 1 in 10 were getting ahead financially. Tensions over structural racism increased this summer after the police killings of several Black Americans, setting off peaceful protests and in some cases riots, looting and violence. Trump positioned himself as a defender of police and cast the protesters as radicals _ part of an appeal to suburban and older voters who he thought would embrace a law and order message. Nationally, about three-quarters of voters called racism a serious challenge for society as a whole and for policing in particular. About a quarter said they want to see the police be tougher on crime; about a third think police are too tough. Notably, majorities of voters in two battleground states _ Wisconsin and Minnesota _ disapproved of protests over policing. Both states saw violence and destruction during demonstrations after police shootings of Black men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-elections-2020-voters-saw-election-as-a-judgment-on-trump-survey-finds/articleshow/79031639.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||Husband, in-laws booked for dowry||Dehradun: The Dehradun Police booked four persons in a dowry harassment case here on Tuesday. The victim, identified as Soumya Solanki, is a resident of Vikasnagar. The police said that they have registered a case against complainant's husband Yash Solanki, father-in-law Bhupendra Singh Solanki, mother-in-law Anjana Solanki and brother-in-law Karam Solanki under section 498-A (dowry harassment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/husband-in-laws-booked-for-dowry/articleshow/79026839.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nashik||Restart passenger train to Bhusawal: Jalgaon residents||Nashik: Residents and natives of Jalgaon, who usually travel by Devlali-Bhusawal passenger train, are eagerly waiting for the resumption of the service that has been shut ever since the outbreak of Covid-19. The railways have resumed quite a few services step-by-step after the unlock process began in June, but the passenger services have still not been restarted, as a result of which, people travelling between Nasik and Bhusawal are facing problems. Nashik houses quite a lot of people from Dhule and Jalgaon who are engaged in the industrial areas in the city. “The Deolali-Bhusawal passenger service is the best for us as it halts at various places between Nashik and Bhusawal which further means that there is a direct connectivity between the city and our villages,” Rakesh Jawale, a resident of Jalgaon said. Jawale has been living in Nashik for the past 21 years and is working with a private firm in the Ambad industrial area. Besides the lack of connectivity, the other major reason for the demand of restarting train services is the cost factor involved in travelling. “The cost of road transportation is very high and there are very limited number of buses between Nashik and Jalgaon. The train journey is comfortable – both for the body as well as the pocket and, hence, it is in great demand,” Sandesh Rane, a resident of Satpur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/restart-passenger-train-to-bhusawal-jalgaon-residents/articleshow/79026830.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: With Std XI admissions in limbo, students await start of studies||NAGPUR: Thousands of city students are waiting either for Std XI admissions to resume and at least online classes to start. The entire Centralized Admission Process (CAP) has been put on hold due to the Supreme Court’s stay on implementation of Maratha quota in both jobs and education. By the time the Supreme Court order came in the second week of September, almost 14,000 students in city had taken admissions and another 26,000 await resumption of the process. CAP is applicable only to state board affiliated junior colleges in urban areas. While those preparing for JEE/NEET have at least online coaching, academics have come to a complete halt for arts and commerce students. Adarsh Vidya Mandir, Gandhibagh, which has been producing city commerce toppers for last three years, is worried about students missing out on academics. Principal Ashnarayan Tiwari said, “The dilemma is whether or not to start online classes for students who have secured admission under the first merit list. If we do so, it would be unfair to students who will come through the second list. With Diwali vacations starting soon, the only chance of any academic activity restarting is in December. Hopefully by then the legal issues will get sorted out.” State education department has initiated a plan to provide online coaching to Std XI students through videos posted on social media. For this, students have been asked to register online on the following web link. (http://covid19.scertmaha.ac.in/eleventh/Register.aspx.) But academics allege this is a superficial exercise. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association, said, “In Marathi, we have a saying that people who can’t complete one task, always start 12 others. Our education department is venturing into things for which they neither have the ability nor interest. This initiative is being started only to show that something was done. Teaching has to be interactive, even if it is online. Posting videos of topics is for graduate students, not 16-year-old kids.” TOI reached out to State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) director Dinkar Patil, but he did not respond. Science stream students, specifically those enrolled at coaching classes, are slightly better off. With almost every coaching class having an informal tie-up with a junior college, it is common practice for the board exam preparations to also be covered by the coaching institute. Director of a coaching institute said, “We have started online classes and invariably the board exam portion too gets covered. Yes the pace at which we would complete everything in offline mode was much faster.” No. of applications: 40,990 Seats allotted: 18,132 Admissions completed: 13,454||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-std-xi-admissions-in-limbo-students-await-start-of-studies/articleshow/79030531.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 4, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19 puts brake on LLRM Medical College’s expansion plans||MEERUT: The severity of Covid-19 pandemic has stalled the expansion plans of LLRM Medical College which was about to get a super speciality block on its premises. Doctors say that all of the hospital’s focus and resources have been diverted to tackling the Covid-19 situation in the district, leaving little room to cater to other patients in the present times. The block was supposed to house super specialty departments for neurology, cardiology, nephrology, neurosurgery, burn and plastic surgery, paediatric surgery and radiotherapy. The Rs 150 crore project is aimed to provide tertiary healthcare services at the hospital under Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY). After various delays in the inauguration of the building dur to staff crunch, it was finally being expected that the facilities will begin in 2020 here. However, Covid-19 came as a setback to the super specialty plan. “Currently, the hospital has established a dedicated Covid-19 ward in the super specialty block. However, OPD facilities for the departments, which were to be introduced in the super specialty block, have been started in the old OPD building,” said Dr Gyanendra Kumar, principal, LLRM Medical College. Under the project, super specialty department of neurology, cardiology, nephrology, neurosurgery, burn and plastic surgery, paediatric surgery and radiotherapy were to be made available for the patients here. The block was supposed to add 160 beds, 40 ICU beds, seven operation theatres, one catheterization laboratory and 18 additional PG seats to the institute at an approved cost of Rs 150 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-puts-brake-on-llrm-medical-colleges-expansion-plans/articleshow/79026821.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow's air better this year, but pollutants still high||LUCKNOW: Lucknow’s air quality in the post-monsoon season this year was better than last year, but pollution levels were above the permissible limits. Track the pollution level in your cityThe city witnessed a fall of 31% in PM10 concentration and 19.3% in PM2.5 this year in comparison to 2019, as per the post-monsoon air quality assessment report released by the Indian Institute of Toxicology Research on Tuesday. The report was based on the monitoring of air quality at nine locations — four residential, four commercial and one industrial — in September and October by a team led by chief scientist GC Kisku. The decline in pollution levels could be due to Covid-19 restrictions. In comparison to last year, there has been a decline in construction activities, public transport movement and traffic snarls owing to the pandemic, said experts. Gomtinagar witnessed the maximum 38.1 microgram drop in PM2.5 concentration than last year, followed by 27.8 microgram in Indiranagar, 7.4 in Aliganj and 7.2 in Vikasnagar. “Among commercial areas, Charbagh witnessed a drop of 38.3 microgram, Aminabad 12.8, Alambagh 9.8 and Chowk 8.5, but pollution levels are still above permissible limits,” said Kisku. In comparison to the pre-monsoon period when lockdown was in place, air pollution levels have spiked by 18.1% in Indiranagar, 5.1% Gomtinagar and 3.5% in Aliganj. Aliganj was the most polluted residential area in September-October with PM2.5 concentration of 67.8 microgram, followed by Vikasnagar (63.9), Gomtinagar (55.5) and Indiranagar (49.5). Similarly, the most polluted commercial area was Charbagh with 71.3 microgram PM2.5 concentration followed by Chowk 68.3 microgram, Alambagh 61 and Aminabad 53.7. “Air pollution is likely to spike in the coming days due to the festive season and drop in temperature,” said senior principal scientist A H Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-air-better-this-year-but-pollutants-still-high/articleshow/79030530.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 4, 2020||Goa||‘Critical patients will suffer if docs protest’||Panaji: Covid-19 patients receiving treatment at ESI hospital and South Goa district hospital in Margao could suffer the consequences of the government cutting costs by denying accommodation to GMC resident doctors on Covid duty. Although the junior and senior resident doctors who withdrew services to the two Covid hospitals on Monday (when they were asked to vacate the premises or begin paying), resumed services hours after the government assured them that they could continue with their hotel accommodation until further orders, the Covid warriors are apprehensive the issue is far from resolved with the government trying to cut down on costs. “If our accommodation is stopped in Margao, what happens to a patient by the time a senior consultant reaches Margao from GMC? Imagine if a patient requires a surgery or emergency procedure or if a patient is vomiting blood…are they supposed to wait till the doctor sitting in GMC reaches the Covid hospitals in Margao?” said a resident doctor. The resident doctors who are the first point of contact for Covid patients in the two Covid hospitals, closely monitoring their condition and the ones who spend the most hours with patients in Covid wards should be treated more sympathetically by the government, IMA-Goa president Dr Samuel Arawattigi said. “GMC resident doctors are best suited for ICU care in ESI. DHS can’t handle ESI. It’s not easy to work in a mask for the entire day let alone in full PPE and then expecting them to travel all the way back to GMC,” he said. “If the government cannot pay the hotel bills they should call the resident doctors, sit across the table and arrive at some solution. Asking doctors to vacate of a sudden is not done. The incident should not happen in the future. In such a situation, a strike is not acceptable as critical patients ultimately suffer,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/critical-patients-will-suffer-if-docs-protest/articleshow/79029852.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Bareilly||UP: 10 arrested for illegal sand mining in Moradabad, village head on the run||BAREILLY: At least 10 people were arrested for illegal sand mining in Moradabad’s Pakhwada area against the backdrop of protests against “inaction” of police against it. In the last few days, locals had held several protests against illegal sand mining being “carried out rampantly” in UP’s Moradabad and uploaded several videos of it on social media platforms. Police said that the village pradhan, also accused in the illegal sand mining, managed to flee from the spot while 10 people were arrested from the spot. SHO Pakhwada Rajni Dwivedi told TOI, “During inspections, as many as 10 people who were caught in the act of illicit sand mining were arrested on the spot and ten tractor trolleys and a JCB was impounded. Pradhan of the village, identified as Anil Malik, however, managed to flee from the spot. An FIR has been registered against 11 people including village pradhan under section 379 (punishment for theft) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of IPC.” Superintendent of police, Moradabad, Amit Kumar Anand said, “Similar raids will continue to be conducted in the district against illegal sand mining and accused will be brought to book.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-arrested-for-illegal-sand-mining-in-moradabad-village-head-on-the-run/articleshow/79026816.cms||Maria Khan
November 4, 2020||Goa||Despite shortfall, excise dept eyes revenue targets||Panaji: The excise department is looking to gain lost ground in terms of revenue collection after witnessing a bleak period from April to August owing to Covid-induced restrictions. In September, it came close to its revenue collection during the corresponding month in 2019. Its major task, however, will be to make up for the losses of the earlier months and match its target before the financial year ends on March 31. The revenue collection target is always 10% more than the previous year’s total collection. Excise commissioner Shashank Mani Tripathi, said the department aims to match the cumulative revenue it collected in the 2019-20 fiscal, which was Rs 489 crore. In 2018-19, its collection was Rs 478 crore and till September-end, its total collection has been Rs 125 crore. “Corporate events and weddings boost liquor sales. From May, there was hardly any revenue collection, but the progress in September was encouraging,” Tripathi said. The department’s revenue graph also depends much on tourist inflow. Excise is one of the few high-yielding revenue departments of the state. This is also one department that suffers from revenue leakages, which it has been trying to plug effectively. “I don’t deny revenue leakage in the department. To tackle this, we are sharing real-time data with the commercial tax department. There is a dedicated dashboard from which it can access all data pertaining to the excise department,” he said. The excise commissioner said they have few vacancies of excise inspectors to be filled and that recruitment will begin after December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-shortfall-excise-dept-eyes-revenue-targets/articleshow/79029882.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-A e-learning course graduates drag institute to Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: Fifty-two passouts of Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad’s (IIM-A) distance learning course have dragged the premier institute to the Gujarat high court demanding a promised MBA degree and complaining that the degree it has conferred has no recognition among national and international employers. After preliminary hearing, Justice G R Udhwani on Tuesday issued notice to IIM-A and the ministry of higher education over the students’ demand for Master of Business Administration instead of awarding a Master in Management Studies (eLM) degree on those who enrolled in two-year ePGP courses since 2017. They have complained that there is no specified nomenclature of MMS (eLM) with the list of UGC specified degrees. The institute’s decision of retrospectively awarding the degree would severely deleterious impact the careers of the ePGP students because the course is at the same level as the PGP in terms of level, certification and rigour as IIM-A used to tell them at the state of admission in 2017, said petitioners’ advocate here Pratik Rupala. One of the petitioners, Arjun Goyal, even mentioned in the petition that the World Bank Group had rejected his job application because MMS (eLM) degree failed the initial screening of qualification. The petitioners have submitted while 20 IIMs are awarding MBA degree in 41 PGDM courses including distance learning courses, IIM-A’s decision of conferring MMS (eLM) degree to ePGP students is arbitrary and causes grave prejudice to them because they have invested heavily, nearly Rs 20.5 lakh fee, in the course and their future depends on the degree. These former students have termed the decision of not granting MBA degree unfair because they claimed that the faculty and the board had repeatedly represented to them that the e-mode PGP course in management was equivalent to MBA and to its three long duration courses. The students were also promised that the expected change in Indian Institute of Management Act, 2017 making the institute autonomous would enable it to confer an MBA degree on them, the petition claimed. The petition further mentioned that over 155 students have made representation in apprehension that the degree they would get will not be an MBA and MMS (eLM) is not acknowledged on job portals. They have cited example of IIM, Raipur’s awarding MBA on students of its e-learning programme. The students have demanded that IIM-A be directed to place before the Academic Council of University the issue of grant of MBA degree to them and to direct IIM-A to confer MBA degree on them. They have also complained that the marksheets they received did not mention the course at all and hence it has no value and recognition for employment purpose. Further hearing on the subject will take place after Diwali vacation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-e-learning-course-grads-drag-institute-to-hc/articleshow/79028221.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Kolkata||Covid graph in Kolkata see-saws, experts fear post-Puja rise||KOLKATA: From 18,513 in August, the number of Covid-19 cases in Kolkata in September dipped to 16,255 only to shoot up to 24,876 in October. The past few days might have witnessed a marginal downward slide in daily reported cases in Bengal, but Kolkata continued to report close to 900 cases every day. This, when health officials pointed out that the post-Puja surge was yet to hit.  Keeping in mind of another round of spike, health establishments have been augmenting their Covid infrastructure. “The surge is October was mainly due to pre-Puja shoppers thronging markets, with a majority of people violating the preventive measures. We do not expect an immediate decline in the number of cases now, especially after Durga Puja and with other festivals being lined up ahead. We are gearing up for an increase in cases,” said a health department official. Following the Calcutta High Court order, debarring the entry of visitors into pandals, Durga Puja this year started on a low-key note, but on the last two days, revellers broke all restrictions and thronged the roads and outside the pamdals, leading to large gatherings. “We can expect the post-Puja surge to start reflecting in about two weeks. Positive cases are bound to increase. Since the festival was an overall restricted affair, barring the last two days, the rise may not be as alarming as was feared,” said infectious diseases control specialist Debkishore Gupta. The October surge had been witnessed in the neighbouring districts as well. In North 24 Parganas, the number of cases rose from 17,631 in September to 24,730 in October, while in Howrah, it increased from 4,855 to 7,052 and in South 24 Parganas, 6,051 to 7,266. So far, Kolkata’s highest single-day spike was recorded on October 31 at 931. The number of Covid deaths in the city had also gone down to 420 in September from 480 in August, but it again increased to 496 in October. “It’s feared people will participate in gatherings again in the other festivals lined up. Adding to it will be political gatherings, change in policy, like the resumption of local train services and pandemic fatigue, which is leading people to violate preventive measures, and winter,” added Gupta. Health experts are also concerned over the massive use of rapid-antigen tests to diagnose the disease. The number of rapid-antigen tests outnumbers RT-PCR exams. For example, of the 43,237 tests conducted on Monday, 24,722 were rapid-antigen and 19,515 RT-PCR. Experts said rapid-antigen tests could miss out a large number of positive cases, especially in asymptomatic patients, leading to under-reporting of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-graph-in-city-see-saws-experts-fear-post-puja-rise/articleshow/79029886.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||HC restores PIL alleging irregularities in disbursal of funds to Uttarkashi flood victims in 2012, 2013||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday restored a public interest litigation (PIL) that had alleged irregularities in disbursal of compensation to the victims affected by floods in Bhagirathi river in Uttarkashi district in 2012 and June 2013. The PIL was filed in 2015 seeking a high-level inquiry into the case as the petitioner alleged that many people were paid compensation for the floods multiple times while many of the beneficiaries, in whose name the compensation was paid, were already dead. The court had in June 2018 directed IAS officer Senthil Pandian to hold an inquiry into the allegations within three months and submit a report in a sealed cover. “We are of the considered view that the public money has to be used judiciously. Compensation has to be paid to those persons who have suffered damages due to natural calamity with a rider that the same cannot be paid again and again. We are of the firm view that some honest officer, not below the rank of commissioner, is required to look into the complaint made by the petitioner,” the bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Lok Pal Singh had said in 2018 and disposed of the petition. According to court records, the bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Lok Pal Singh opened the sealed cover on September 18 this year but said that prima facie, it does not amount to the compliance of the court’s earlier order. The case was again heard on October 9 where it came to notice that apart from the sealed cover a “huge basta” (bag) was also sent to the court. The court opened the bag and perused the documents after which it directed the court registry to reseal the record and furnish a copy to the standing counsel of the state. On Monday, the court said that after considering the report they are of the view that the case requires to be further considered by the court, and therefore, they restored the petition. “The report would have to be looked into and learned counsel would have to be heard on the same. Hence, the order dated 13.06.2018 is recalled only to the extent where the writ petition was disposed of. Rest of the order remains,” read the court’s order. More than 30 people were killed in the floods and cloudburst in August 2012 in Uttarkashi district. Several dozens were injured and yet many were displaced in the floods. The Uttarkashi district was also one of the four most affected districts in the Kedarnath flash floods in June 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-restores-pil-alleging-irregularities-in-disbursal-of-funds-to-uttarkashi-flood-victims-in-2012-2013/articleshow/79026854.cms||Prashant Jha
November 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cops register case against KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran||T’PURAM: Police, on Monday, registered a sexual harassment case against KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran for his misogynist comments on a woman, who earlier accused a few political leaders of raping her. Based on her complaint against Ramachandran, an FIR was registered at the women’s police station. She had filed her complaint before the state police chief, whose office forwarded it to the station after which FIR was registered by evening. Police invoked IPC Sections 354A(iv) and 509. Section 354A (iv) pertains to sexual harassment by making sexually coloured remarks while Section 509 pertains to use of word, gesture or act intended on insulting modesty of woman. Both offences, if found guilty, can lead to a maximum punishment of one year imprisonment. The station house officer said further course of action would be decided after recording a detailed statement of the complainant. Ramachandran had made the controversial speech while addressing a protest by UDF on Sunday against government corruption. He used the occasion to address the resurfacing of a key accused in the solar scam of 2013 that had rocked the previous UDF government. The accused in that case had levelled allegations of sexual abuse against Congress leaders, including former chief minister Oommen Chandy. Ramachandran termed it as a part of ‘blackmail politics’. He added that no one would believe a woman who publicly said that she was raped multiple times. A woman with self-respect would either die or make sure that she wouldn’t be raped again. He had also used the word ‘prostitute’ to address the complainant in his speech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cops-register-case-against-kpcc-chief/articleshow/79028143.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Centre bats for Central Vista project in SC||NEW DELHI: Justifying its decision to construct a new Parliament building under the Central Vista project, the government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the present building was accident prone and could be a security risk for lawmakers in case of a natural disaster like an earthquake or the 2001 Parliament attack as their quick eviction would not be possible in such an emergency. The government informed the court that the powerful offices housed in South and North Block where the Prime Minister’s Office, defence, home and finance ministries are located, will be converted into museums to showcase the pre-Sepoy Mutiny and post-1857 events once the entire Central Vista project is completed. Attempting to counter challenges to the project that aims to construct a new Parliament building, central secretariat as well as office premises for ministries in a phased manner, solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna that since the construction was to be taken up in a phased manner, environmental clearances were being obtained on the basis of requirement. “The Parliament project and the remaining Central Vista redevelopment are different projects and the planning in respect of such projects is carried out in different stages. Execution of different projects shall be taken up in phases. Considering the detailed nature of the application required for seeking environment clearance, it is appropriate that the said clearance is applied for only when the building/project is in the final form so as to ensure that full and complete details are mentioned in the application for environmental clearance,” the Centre said. The government said the buildings had become old and construction of new ones would also save money. It said many government offices were running from rented premises and crores was spent as rent over the years and this amount could be saved as there would be sufficient space to accommodate all offices in the new buildings. The Centre said the Central Hall of Parliament would be retrofitted and used for ceremonial purposes. The remaining area of the Parliament building would be used for housing Parliament staff and chambers of MPs. “The entire Parliament building will be retrofitted to restrict further deterioration and also reduce the stress on the building by limiting its usage,” the Centre said. It said in the absence of a common secretariat building even after 73 years of independence, some ministries were housed in the Central Vista complex while others were located in different parts of Delhi. “Various ministries, due to lack of space, have hired premises on rent, which runs into thousands of crores of rupees and is paid by the central government,” it added. As there was no common central secretariat and ministries were spread over different locations, it resulted in administrative inefficiency and difficulty in inter-departmental coordination, it said. The Centre said except North Block and South Block and one or two other buildings, the rest could not be categorised as heritage buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-bats-for-central-vista-project-in-sc/articleshow/79029863.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 4, 2020||Meerut||Delhi trader trapped in car charred to death||MEERUT: A 50-year-old man from Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh involved in wholesale trade of vegetables was charred to death inside his car in UP’s Hapur district. According to police, Sanjiv Mahajan got locked in the car as soon as it caught fire on Monday afternoon on a deserted stretch in Hafizpur, Hapur district, about 90 km from Delhi. Police suspect that the central locking of the car got disabled due to the blaze, trapping Sanjiv inside. Farmers working in the nearby fields rushed to help Sanjiv but couldn’t as the fire spread very quickly offering no window for rescue. Local police traced Sanjiv's family from the car’s registration plate. He owned a business establishment at Azadpur vegetable mandi. The family said Sanjiv was on his way to Hasanpur town in Amroha to meet someone. “Sanjiv had gone to Sahibabad to collect payments. After that he left for Hasanpur in Amroha. But he took a wrong turn to Hasanpur village. The accident took place when he was returning,” said Rajiv Mahajan, the elder brother of Sanjiv. Police have ruled out any foul play as of now. “Sanjiv’s car was seen leaving a toll plaza. There was no one else seen with him. Locals also claimed there was no one present at the spot when his car caught fire. There is nothing suspicious which could suggest foul play,” said Sarvesh Mishra, Hapur’s additional superintendent of police. Back home, his family was preparing for celebrations when they got to know about his death. It was Sanjiv’s 50th birthday and his nine-year-old daughter had baked a cake for the first time for him. The girl and others in the family were waiting to surprise Sanjiv when the news came. "The daughter is still hopeful and says her father had promised to return,” said Praveen Mahajan, the brother-in-law of Sanjiv, who supplies vegetables to some of Delhi's five-star hotels. Sanjiv is survived by his wife Jyoti and two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/delhi-trader-trapped-in-car-charred-to-death/articleshow/79026838.cms||Piyush Rai
November 4, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Onion price drops by 1,300 to 4k/quintal||NASHIK: The average wholesale onion price fell by Rs 1,300 to Rs 4,000 per quintal at the Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, on Tuesday. The average price was as high as Rs 5,300 per quintal at the market a day earlier, but the price correction began following the increased arrival of summer onions in the market due to a host of reasons. “The farmers have now started clearing their stocks ahead of Diwali. Moreover, traders have also slowed down purchases as the order flow has reduced due to the stock limit imposed by the Centre,” said APMC officials. The officials said that the Union government’s decision to import 15,000 tonnes of onions through the National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed) has also made an impact on the wholesale prices in Nashik. Nafed has already floated bids for import of onions through different agencies at the earliest. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 1,001 and Rs 5,300 per quintal, respectively, at Lasalgaon on Tuesday, and around 9,140 quintal were auctioned off. Last week, the arrival of onions at Lasalgaon was in the range of 3,000-4000 quintal a day, which has increased to 10,000 quintal a day. Presently, onions arriving at the market are of summer variety harvested in March and April. The shelf life of these onions is six months. According to traders, the shelf life of summer onions has almost ended and farmers still have some stocks that may last till Diwali. “Farmers have started clearing their stocks as the market will be closed for a week for Diwali and the arrival of new kharif variety will increase after it reopens. This is the reason for the increased quantity in the market,” said the traders. The traders said that another reason for the increased supply is that orders from traders from other states have decreased due to the stock limit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-price-drops-by-1300-to-4k/quintal/articleshow/79026855.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Swan Energy acquires India’s first FSRU, to commission Jafrabad terminal by 2021||Ahmedabad: Moving closer to its plans of setting up the country’s first FSRU (floating, storage and re-gasification unit) based LNG port near Jafrabad in Gujarat, Swan Energy Ltd has recently acquired FSRU named Vasant 1. The FSRU, with 180,000 cubic metres of storage capacity is the first Indian-owned and Indian Flag FSRU which shall be used for storage and re-gasification of the liquified natural gas, according to a company official. Swan Energy has recently submitted a proposal to the state government for pushing its plans by another year for completion of construction of Jafrabad Port facility. According to Swan’s earlier plans, it aimed to complete the project by 2019. There have been some delays in construction on account of Vaayu cyclone last year and Covid-19 crisis this year, said a company official. The company aims to complete the port facility and commission the FSRU at Jafrabad by 2021. Vasant–1 vessel is a dual-purpose vehicle that can operate as LNG carrier and can switch to FSRU mode for re-gasification purposes. “Till the time the port is built, Vasant-1 will be utilized as LNG carrier in international as well as Indian waters. Presently, it is in Malyasia,” according to the official. It will be brought to Jafrabad a little closer to commissioning of the port, he added. Swan LNG Private Limited (SLPL), another subsidiary of Swan Energy Limited, will use the FSRU under 20 years Bare Boat Charter Agreement for the LNG-dedicated Port Project being implemented near Jafrabad, Gujarat. The FSRU is owned by Triumph Offshore Private Limited (TOPL), a subsidiary of Swan Energy Limited with 51% equity stakes and balance 49% is held by Indian Farmers Fertilizers Cooperative (IFFCO) Limited. Swan LNG Private is a fully owned special purpose vehicle set up for the project by the Nikhil Merchant-led Swan Energy which is developing the all-weather port at Jafrabad in Amreli district with a total capacity of handling 10 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) of LNG. The project cost has been downsized from Rs 5,900 crore to about Rs 4,000 crore, said sources. Swan Energy Limited is the lead promoter for the project with 63% equity stake and 11% equity held by FSRU Venture India One Pvt Ltd, the Indian subsidiary company of Mitsui OSK Lines, Japan which is also the technical partner for the project. The other shareholders in the project include Gujarat Maritime Board with 15% and Gujarat State Petronet Ltd holding 11% equity stake. The port project by Swan LNG Pvt Ltd is based on ‘Tolling Model’ where the company has entered into firm long-term re-gasification agreements for 90% capacity booking on “Use or Pay” basis with the PSU oil and gas companies including GSPC (1.5 MMTPA), BPCL, IOCL and ONGC (1 MMTPA each).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/swan-energy-acquires-indias-first-fsru-to-commission-jafrabad-terminal-by-2021/articleshow/79028129.cms||Maulik Pathak
November 4, 2020||Goa||Move to commence physical classes gets mixed reactions||Panaji: As chief minister Pramod Sawant announced on Tuesday that physical classes for Class X and XII students would finally begin from November 21, the different associations of school heads and teachers said that they support the decision, but SOPs should be issued by the state government. School heads said that stakeholders, however, had conveyed to the government that the time is not yet right to start physical classes. “If the government says situation is improving, we do not mind, provided that classes are started with all the SOPs in place. Hope everything goes well, that is our only fear. Parents should also cooperate with schools and send their children. Schools may be ready, but parents may not be ready,” said Mariano Valadares, president of Goa School Headmasters’ Association. He said most stakeholders had told the state that they are against reopening of schools yet for students. “The government should have taken the stakeholders into consideration. Most of the stakeholders had said no to reopening schools. Even in the departmental survey, parents had said no to calling students to schools yet. But if the government says the number of cases are down then we are with the government,” said Valadares. Anant Pissurlekar, president of Higher Secondary School Teachers Association, said conducting classes as per normal hours may be a problem because of restrictions like requirement to wear mask at all times. “If any student or students test positive, they will go into quarantine and this particular student or students will be left behind in the portion taught. The teacher will have to teach it to them again separately. Then again another student or students may test positive. This will be an added burden on the teachers,” said Pissurlekar. He said the state should also relax norms for appointment of substitute teachers, when a teacher tests positive and has to go into quarantine. “As per norms, a substitute is allowed to be appointed if a teacher has to be absent for 45 days or more. Now, if a teacher goes into quarantine for around 14 days, this 45-day norm should be relaxed and a substitute should be appointed to the school without any delay. CM should work out with a solution for this,” said Pissurlekar. Dattatrey Naik of All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association said the state itself should issue uniform SOPs for schools to implement. “We had already said that classes are needed for weaker students in Class X and XII otherwise it will be difficult for them to face the board exams. Schools should be given maintenance grants to implement the SOPs or else implementing the SOPs may be difficult,” said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/move-to-commence-physical-classes-gets-mixed-reactions/articleshow/79029864.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nashik||CBD asks residents to use app||Nashik: The Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has started taking in sanitation-related complaints on the Swachhata mobile application, which was started 10 days ago. Until Tuesday, the CBD had received 20 complaints through the mobile app. Senior CBD officials said residents of the cantonment are getting familiarised with the app. They requested more people to start using the app to register their complaints. In the Deolali camp area, complaints are mainly related to sanitation in public places, electricity supply and cleanliness of public toilets. CBD health inspector Aman Gupta said: “The application has been prepared by the housing and urban affairs ministry. Earlier, there used to be a delay in the complaint reaching us. Now, we are able to see a complaint as soon as it is lodged. This also helps maintain transparency,” he said. Senior officials said the aim is to resolve complaints within 24 hours. Of the 20 complaints so far, 19 had been already been resolved, they said. After registering on the app, the user has to click a photograph of the cleanliness-related problem and submit it. The app verifies the user location and sends the complaint to the urban local body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-asks-residents-to-use-app/articleshow/79026864.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 4, 2020||Nashik||Children paint imaginations on wall of govt complex in Malegaon||Nashik : About 25 odd children from Malegaon have painted the wall of a government complex in the textile town by using their creative imagination and colours, converting it into an art gallery. The 900-feet-long wall at Lodha Bhuvan that houses the Malegaon Municipal Corporation building was littered with paan stains and garbage. However, after receiving a makeover, the wall has now turned into a selfie spot for many. “The wall adjoining our colony was filled with filth and garbage. And, we thought why not transform this wall into something beautiful that would reflect our thoughts. Only cleaning the wall and the area surrounding it would not have helped our cause. Later, the idea of ‘My Colony My Responsibility’ came to our mind and we decided on painting the wall,” said Siddharth Lodha, an industrialist from Malegaon. While Siddharth proposed the idea to his friends, they collectively promoted it to their children and encouraged them to come forward with ideas to express their feelings. His wife Sneha, an architect by profession, chiselled the thoughts of children to create a ‘master piece’ on a wall at Satana Road. “Ideas by children were fantastic and we just gave final touches to them. Children like the idea so much that they themselves went around the colony with about 700 residents for raising contributions,” said Sneha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/children-paint-imaginations-on-wall-of-govt-complex-in-malegaon/articleshow/79026874.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Parents fume over schools’‘no-fees, no-exam’ stand||Aurangabad: Several private schools in the city have been keeping students away from the first-term exams over non-payment of fees, triggering angry reaction from parents. A section of parents has expressed inability to pay the fees citing financial crisis due to Covid-19 and sought government intervention while the schools have adopted the “no-fees, no-exam” stand. The Maharashtra English Schools Trustees Association (MESTA) has, however, defended the stand, saying that they have to pay staff salaries and bear other expenses as well to run the institutions. Manishraj Jaiswal, whose daughter studies in Class VII, said the school concerned has started conducting exams of only those students who have paid the fees. “Even if the school classes are on with restricted hours, the school is asking for full fees without divulging expenditure details. There is limitation on income of many parents like me due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The state government should step in and rein in such schools,” he said. Durga Hire, a parent whose son studies in another private school, said the institution has created separate WhatsApp groups for virtual working on the basis of payment of fees. “The school has already conducted exams of students who have paid the fees in phases. The school authorities are pestering us with calls for fees. We run a small restaurant and our income has shrunk due to the pandemic,” she said. MESTA president Sanjay Tayde said school managements and teachers are struggling for existence and parents should cooperate by paying fees in fully or partial. “Schools are not demanding fees in lump sum, but requesting parents to pay in instalments. Managements have to pay staff salaries and EMIs towards banks loans taken for raising school buildings and purchasing student transportation facilities. After showing a lot of patience, schools have now resorted to the ‘no-fees, no-exam’ stand.” Maharashtra education Minister Varsha Gaikwadi could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts. Minister of state for education Bacchu Kadu also failed to respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parents-fume-over-schoolsno-fees-no-exam-stand/articleshow/79025783.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Goa||Cases dipping, but can’t lower guard: Epidemiologist||Panaji: On Tuesday, Goa reported 235 new cases of Covid-19, 239 recoveries and two deaths. The active caseload marginally dropped to 2,208, while the death count touched 619. A 66-year-old woman from Ponda and a 72-year-old man from Vasco, both having comorbid conditions succumbed to the virus at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. The state’s case positivity rate was at 14% on Tuesday, and it has been in the range of 10 to 15 % after Goa began witnessing a reduction in Covid infections since last month. “Cases are certainly dropping and there will be further reduction, but we will need to take precautions to prevent another spike,” said Dr Utkarsh Betodkar, state epidemiologist. With Goa’s winters not as severe as in northern states, Betodkar said Goa possibly might not have a second wave. But with lockdown being slowly undone totally and with the possibility of tourism picking up in coming months, he said the state needs to take more precautions. “The end of November and entire December... we will have more tourists visiting Goa. We will have to continue to take precautions,” he said. As per emerging trends, the cases are dropping, but Goa will have to wait till December. With classes for X and XII students starting this month, school managements will have to take the entire exercise seriously and follow protocols for the safety of their pupils as well as staff, he said. “Only if they do that will they be prepared to handle next batches. The situation is much better now. But we cannot lower our guard,” he said. In fact, he said people will have to be more guarded as the infections reduce further so that the state does not witness a second wave. Besides, people should try and avoid unnecessary travel. While the number of hospital admissions haae not gone down, recoveries have been higher, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cases-dipping-but-cant-lower-guard-epidemiologist/articleshow/79029883.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Dehradun||FDA launches drive against sale of synthetic khoya||Dehradun: In the run-up to Diwali, the Food and Drug Administration teams on Tuesday launched a campaign against the sale of synthetic and adulterated khoya/mawa (reduced dry milk used in sweets) in the state. The teams held random inspections at some of the most prominent khoya supply centres of Dehradun, including those at Hanuman Chowk and Canal Road. The teams also collected the samples of khoya kept at these centres. Senior Food Safety Officer Ramesh Singh told TOI, “Besides, checking the sale of adulterated and synthetic khoya, we are also requesting the wholesalers as well as the retailers to follow the social distancing norms and not sell any product to people who were not wearing masks. In the inspections on Tuesday, we have directed the wholesalers and retailers to ensure that only a limited number of customers are allowed inside the shop. They were also asked to develop a mechanism through which the supply could be made without overcrowding at shops.” Singh pointed out that the drive is being led by departmental head ASP Mithlesh Kumar Singh. “The samples have been taken and further steps will be taken after we get the test reports. Taking into account the festive season, we will soon be starting the drive against adulterated sweets and other food products as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fda-launches-drive-against-sale-of-synthetic-khoya/articleshow/79026871.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 4, 2020||Goa||New health cards for non-dependent kin of govt staffers||Panaji: Non-dependent family members of government employees, who were listed under the Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojna (DDSSY) cards issued to government staffers, will be able to make fresh cards on payment of fees. Non-dependent family members were erroneously added on DDSSY cards issued to government employees, when the government brought its staffers under DDSSY ambit more than two years ago. The employees were earlier availing mediclaim benefit under a different scheme. However, this move was undone after the government employees’ association requested the government that the staffers would like to continue to avail medical insurance benefit under the old scheme rather under DDSSY. Under the mediclaim scheme, government employees and their dependent family - spouse and children - were able to claim medical insurance up to Rs 10 lakh, while the amount under DDSSY was less. Under DDSSY, a family of four and more members can claim insurance benefit of Rs 4 lakh annually. A health officer said non-dependent family members of a government staffer are not entitled to mediclaim benefit. “When the government brought its employees under the cover of DDSSY, non-dependent members were added as beneficiaries on DDSSY cards issued to government employees. It was a mistake,” he said. In October last year, the government issued an order stating its employees and their dependents shall not be entitled under DDSSY, and their cards were blocked, thus reverting their mediclaim insurance under the old scheme. In the bargain, non-dependent members were also unable to claim benefits under DDSSY as their cards were blocked , the officer said. Last month, an order allowing non-dependent members on DDSSY cards, which now stands blocked, to make fresh cards was issued so that they would be able to avail of DDSSY benefit.  The officer said there was no need in the first place to include government employees under DDSSY and then to add names of non-dependent members. “It took a year to correct that mistake,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-health-cards-for-non-dependent-kin-of-govt-staffers/articleshow/79029887.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 4, 2020||Lucknow||Aliganj noisiest residential area in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The residential areas of Aliganj are the noisiest in the city followed by those in Vikasnagar, Indiranagar and Gomtinagar. The post-monsoon assessment report for September and October prepared by the Indian Institute of Toxicology Research revealed that the average noise level during day-time in Aliganj was 72.8 decibel, 72.6 in Indiranagar, 71.8 in Gomtinagar and 64.8 in Vikasnagar, still much above the permissible limit of 55 decibel. The average noise level at night was also the highest in Aliganj at 65.6 decibel, followed by Vikasnagar (65.5), Indiranagar (58.5) and Gomtinagar (48.7), all the values well above the permissible limit of 45 decibel. In commercial areas, Chowk was the noisiest during the day with an average of 76.5 decibel, followed by Alambagh (76.2), Aminabad (70.3) and Charbagh (70.1). At night, Aminabad was noisiest with 74.7 decibel followed by Charbagh (73.4). Alambagh (71.6) and Chowk (70.7). In comparison to last year’s report for the same period, the noise levels have increased in Aliganj, Indiranagar, Gomtinagar, but declined in Vikasnagar and Charbagh. Aliganj, Vikasnagar and Charbagh witnessed a spike at night, while Indiranagar and Gomtinagar were less noisy. AccoExperts said noise levels are high where vehicular traffic and construction activities are more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aliganj-noisiest-residential-area/articleshow/79030546.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Now, e-transit pass system for timber sale in Nagpur circle||NAGPUR: In a first, the Maharashtra forest department will launch an e-transit pass (e-TP) system for the sale of timber. The pilot project, which has been granted permission from the government, will be implemented in Nagpur circle comprising Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, and Gondia forest divisions. Currently, every state has a different set of rules on TP but now states will have to connect with the new online National Transit Pass System (NTPS) launched by Union forest minister Prakash Javadekar in July for timber, bamboo, and other forest produce. The pilot project is being made functional in Madhya Pradesh and Telangana. In this system, an applicant has to register and then apply for a transit pass. The application will move to the range forest office concerned. After following the state-specific procedure of verification, a transit pass will be issued. The applicant will receive a message of issuance and the transit pass can be downloaded and viewed. “Nagpur circle will be first to implement the system in Maharashtra. We are ready with the system which has several features. We had almost got dates of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to launch it but now as model code of conduct has come into force for graduates and teachers’ constituency polls, the opening will be deferred,” said MK Rao, PCCF (information technology & policy). Rao said, “We are ahead in e-governance and most of our range offices have internet. It will bring ease of business and expedite the issuance of transit permits for timber without physically going to forest offices. This system helps in monitoring and keeping records of transit permits for inter-state and intra-state transportation of timber.” Nagpur CCF P Kalyan Kumar said, “Our preparatory work has already started and a webinar was organized for field staff a few days back to explain the software. Capacity building of staff to implement e-TP will be done shortly. Soon, e-TP will be issued through the desktop-based web portal as well as a mobile application.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-e-tp-system-for-timber-sale-in-ngp-circle/articleshow/79028346.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 4, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra panel asks sawmills to stop use of AHBS licences||NAGPUR: After ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) cancelled additional horizontal band saw (AHBS) licences to 50 sawmills, state-level committee (SLC) has asked these units to stop operating these saws and send compliance report to principal chief conservator of forests (head of forestry force), who heads the SLC. The directives were issued to CCFs of Chandrapur, Kolhapur, Nashik and Dhule by SLC member-secretary SS Dahiwale on November 2. Copy of the order with TOI shows that one of the beneficiaries was KS Chandel, owner of Kiran Saw Mill in Central Chanda forest division. Chandel is brother of CS Chandel, who was chairman of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) when these licences were issued by the SLC on July 23, 2018, by ex-PCCF UK Agrawal. Chandel was a close confidant of then forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar. In the backdrop of the MoEFCC order, the SLC met on November 2 and decided to cancel the licences. This means that SLC will not challenge the order issued by the MoEFCC. Of the 50 licenses, 34 were issued in Kolhapur circle, 10 in Nashik, five in Chandrapur, and one in Dhule. Even as the SLC has asked sawmill owners to stop the use of latest AHBS, the PCCF office should have issued order to CCFs asking them to make necessary correction in respective licenses and to ensure no AHBS is operational. “The SLC directive is not in letter and spirit of the order of MoEFCC issued on October 30, through which 50 AHBS licences were quashed and set aside,” says appellant environment lawyer Manish Jeswani. “Since addition of one machine enhances capacity of the sawmill, the original license needs to be modified by cancelling it for AHBS and necessary correction should be made on the license itself. On the contrary, the SLC order simply asks CCFs to ensure these machines are non-operational. The forest department should ideally uproot the 42 inches AHBS saws and remove them from licensed premises, for avoiding misuse,” said Jeswani. The SLC directive is also silent on initiation of inquiry and contempt proceedings against ex-PCCF Agrawal for misuse of power. It also doesn’t speak anything on the revision of working plans which are about to expire in the next 2-3 years. The MoEFCC has also ordered to identify land for compensatory afforestation on war-footing as Maharashtra has many upcoming infrastructure projects for which forest land has been proposed for diversion under FCA. It also doesn’t give necessary direction to stakeholders of wood-based industries for plantation of at least 10 trees per cubic metre wood consumed in order to enhance forest cover in the Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-panel-asks-sawmills-to-stop-use-of-ahbs-licences/articleshow/79028354.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi air was dirtier this October than in 2019||NEW DELHI: Delhi saw worse air pollution this October than in the same month in 2019, despite Diwali falling in October last year, CPCB data shows. Delhi averaged an AQI of 265 (poor) in October this year as compared to 234 last October. Track the pollution level in your cityThis despite air quality having fallen to “severe” on the final couple of days of October last year, following Diwali celebrations on the 27th. This October, the AQI did not touch severe levels but pollution was high due to meteorological factors and a sharp increase in farm fires in Punjab. November pain could be sharperOctober 2020 has, however, fared marginally better than October 2018, which had an average AQI of 269, data shows. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Though the monsoon withdrawal happened on September 30 this year, Delhi did not receive rainfall since September 8. In 2019, the capital received moderate showers of 47.3 mm on October 4 and trace rainfall on October 1, while there was extended monsoon till October 10 last year.” “Moderate to high rainfall helps in settling down pollutants while light rain could make air quality worse,” Srivastava said. He added that calm winds prevailed during most of the nights in October this year impacting dispersion of pollutants while wind speed was nil in the third week of the month in 2019. While October 2017 had the highest average AQI amongst the four years, Delhi only had half the number of stations then (17) than it does now (36), while Diwali had also come much earlier that year (October 19). Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said, “Stubble burning started earlier this year and its contribution to Delhi’s PM2.5 was substantially high on a few days. Last year, the air quality deteriorated during Diwali time but AQI was affected this October due to stubble burning and winter conditions.” Historical data shows November remains the most crucial month in terms of air pollution however, with the peak daily fire count generally recorded in the first week of November. This year, Diwali is also on November 14, making November an important month for air quality control. Watch Delhi’s October AQI worse than in 2019||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-air-was-dirtier-this-october-than-in-2019/articleshow/79031656.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: From record 5,900 last Friday, Delhi cases soar to 6,725||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 6,725 new cases of Covid-19 - its highest single-day tally - on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to over 400,000 even as hospitals struggled to accommodate the critically ill patients due to paucity of ICU beds. The 6,725 fresh cases came out of 59,540 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, the government said. Covid-19 cases are rising across the US tooThis is the first time when the number of daily cases has crossed the 6,000-mark in Delhi. Earlier, on October 30, the city had reported a high of 5,891 cases. Forty-eight new fatalities were recorded on Tuesday, pushing the toll in the capital to 6,652. The medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, Dr Suresh Kumar, said the spike in daily cases has led to a rise in demand for hospital beds. "We are getting 90 to 100 new Covid-19 patients daily over the past 2-3 days. In August, we were getting less than 30 patients daily," he added. City’s positivity rate of 11.3% four times India avgLok Nayak Hospital, which is run by the Delhi government, has 2,000 beds for Covid-19 patients, of which 200 have ventilators attached. Only 11 ventilators were available on Tuesday. Overall, data shared by the hospitals showed that 68% of ventilator beds and 70% of ICU beds without ventilators were occupied. “The situation is grave. New cases are increasing and many people are still not following any preventive measures. This can lead to a spiralling effect in the next four to six weeks as the infection spreads further in communities," said Dr S K Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. The positivity rate — number of positive cases among those tested — in Delhi is 11.3% at present, nearly four times the rate in the country. The case fatality rate is 1.7% which is also higher than the national average of 1.5%. Critical care specialist Dr Shrikanth Srinivasan of Manipal Hospital said Delhi is facing the double impact of a Covid-19 outbreak and increased air pollution, both leading to an increase in severe symptoms among those infected. “Social-distancing norms, hand hygiene and wearing of masks should be strictly adhered to. Early testing and seeking appropriate healthcare are paramount and could make the difference between life and death,” he said. According to Dr Priyadarshini Pal Singh, who heads emergency and critical care at Apollo Hospital, delay in admission is one of the reasons behind the rise in critical illness due to Covid. "If someone has Covid-19 symptoms, for example fever, cough or difficulty in breathing, s/he should get tested immediately. Even those under home isolation should be under medical supervision," she said. Dr Singh said deterioration of symptoms could be very sudden in the novel coronavirus. “Covid-19 is known to cause happy hypoxia, an unusual complication portrayed by low oxygen level in blood without obvious breathing difficulty.” On Monday, the Union home ministry held a review meeting to assess the deteriorating situation in the national capital and decided on a series of measures, including targeted RT-PCR testing in critical zones like marketplaces, restaurants, salons and barber shops to control the spread of the disease. It was also felt that Delhi Metro travel needs to be regulated strictly in line with the laid-down standard operating procedure. Watch COVID-19 crisis: Delhi records 6,725 cases, marks highest single-day tally||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-from-record-5900-last-friday-delhi-cases-soar-to-6725/articleshow/79031687.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 4, 2020||India||‘Indo-Pacific hub of 21st century’s political and security issues’||NEW DELHI: Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla n Tuesday called the Indo-Pacific the “21st century’s locus of political and security concerns and competition for growth and development and of technology incubation”, even as stressed on freedom of navigation and respect for sovereignty of all states in the region. Speaking at the Policy Exchange in London, a think tank believed to be influential in the Boris Johnson government, Shringla explained India’s Indo-Pacific policy, as one that “depends on securing end-to-end supply chains in the region; no disproportionate dependence on a single country; and ensuring prosperity for all stakeholder nations. An Indo-Pacific guided by norms and governed by rules, with freedom of navigation, open connectivity and respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states”. On the last leg of his European tour, Shringla focused on a subject that has been the running thread in all his discussions in Paris and Berlin. Germany has just announced its own guidelines for Indo-Pacific, following France, which has an active Indo-Pacific policy. Shringla’s speech focused on the shift in the “economic trajectory from the Atlantic to the Indo-Pacific”. “The rise of China and the imperative for a global rebalancing have added to the mix. A rules-based international order is achievable only with a rules-based Indo-Pacific,” he said. He dwelt on India’s role as a net security provider in the region, like in peacekeeping or anti-piracy missions, or in the recent instance of containing oil spill off Mauritius. “The Indo-Pacific is a network of partnerships and groupings such as Quad, with India, the United States, Japan and Australia as participants, and the India-Japan-US, India-France-Australia and India-Indonesia-Australia trilateral arrangements,” he said. “India’s Indo-Pacific geography can perhaps be best described as a succession of semi-circles. The innermost semi-circle incorporates our closest neighbours. These are South Asian countries that share with us the waters of the Indian Ocean, that have shared our civilisational and cultural heritage, and by way of proximity, inevitably share our joys and our sorrows. The arc of the outer neighbourhood covers the Gulf states to our west and Southeast Asia and the ASEAN countries to our east,” he added. India’s Indo-Pacific strategy, Shringla said, consists of “partnerships and mechanisms with countries whose opportunities, concerns and stakes intersect with ours”. He said this stretches from “the Pacific Islands to the archipelagos of the western Indian Ocean and off the eastern coast of Africa”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indo-pacific-hub-of-21st-centurys-political-and-security-issues/articleshow/79031646.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Mercury down to 10°C, cold wave may hit Delhi today||NEW DELHI/GURUGRAM: The season's lowest temperature in the capital dipped further on Tuesday when the mercury touched 10 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. On Monday, it was 10.8 degrees Celsius. "A cold wave condition is predicted in Delhi for Wednesday. It has been predicted that the minimum temperature at a few stations will be 10 degrees Celsius on Wednesday," said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. The maximum temperature was 31.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. In the National Capital Region, Faridabad recorded the minimum temperature of 9.5° C on Tuesday, the season's lowest, while the maximum was 30°. IMD said the minimum temperature of Gurugram on Monday was 10.2° C, the season's lowest for the station. However, Tuesday's data was not available. Meanwhile, Delhi's air quality deteriorated on Tuesday and was back in the "very poor" category with an air quality index of 302. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a central forecasting body, said 3,068 fire counts were recorded on Monday in north Indian. However, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 fell to 10% on Tuesday as the wind direction changed from north-westerly to south-westerly in the morning. Delhi's minimum temperature has been falling since Sunday. "The calm wind and lack of cloud cover are affecting night temperature. As the upper reaches of hilly areas have received light snowfall and rainfall, it has led to a decrease in temperature," Srivastava said. "A marginal deterioration in Delhi's air quality is predicted for Wednesday and Thursday as AQI is likely to reach middle of the 'very poor' category," SAFAR stated. Boundary layer winds are likely to shift to north-westerly but with slower wind speed, some increased intrusion and marginal deterioration are expected, it added. According to Met officials, the minimum temperature in Gurugram will hover around 10° C for the next seven days. With inputs from Gurugram bureau||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mercury-down-to-10c-cold-wave-may-hit-delhi-today/articleshow/79031750.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Delhi||Mercury down to 10°C, cold wave may hit Delhi today||NEW DELHI/GURUGRAM: The season's lowest temperature in the capital dipped further on Tuesday when the mercury touched 10 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. On Monday, it was 10.8 degrees Celsius. "A cold wave condition is predicted in Delhi for Wednesday. It has been predicted that the minimum temperature at a few stations will be 10 degrees Celsius on Wednesday," said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. The maximum temperature was 31.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. In the National Capital Region, Faridabad recorded the minimum temperature of 9.5° C on Tuesday, the season's lowest, while the maximum was 30°. IMD said the minimum temperature of Gurugram on Monday was 10.2° C, the season's lowest for the station. However, Tuesday's data was not available. Meanwhile, Delhi's air quality deteriorated on Tuesday and was back in the "very poor" category with an air quality index of 302. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a central forecasting body, said 3,068 fire counts were recorded on Monday in north Indian. However, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 fell to 10% on Tuesday as the wind direction changed from north-westerly to south-westerly in the morning. Delhi's minimum temperature has been falling since Sunday. "The calm wind and lack of cloud cover are affecting night temperature. As the upper reaches of hilly areas have received light snowfall and rainfall, it has led to a decrease in temperature," Srivastava said. "A marginal deterioration in Delhi's air quality is predicted for Wednesday and Thursday as AQI is likely to reach middle of the 'very poor' category," SAFAR stated. Boundary layer winds are likely to shift to north-westerly but with slower wind speed, some increased intrusion and marginal deterioration are expected, it added. According to Met officials, the minimum temperature in Gurugram will hover around 10° C for the next seven days. With inputs from Gurugram bureau||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-down-to-10c-cold-wave-may-hit-delhi-today/articleshow/79031708.cms||---
November 4, 2020||India||Customs to move Interpol on ex-UAE consulate official||KOCHI: The customs department has initiated procedures to arraign Egyptian national and former head of finance at the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, Khaled Al Shoukary, in the case relating to the smuggling of $1,90,000 (equivalent to over Rs 1.4 crore) in August 2019 to Cairo via Oman. Customs approached the additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) court on Tuesday to have Khaled named as a respondent. The court will hear the plea on Thursday.Armed with a nonbailable warrant, which has been sought in the petition, customs plans to approach Interpol to issue a red-corner notice against Khaled and pin him down for extradition. Customs said Swapna Suresh and Sarith P S, key accused in the gold smuggling case, were also involved in the dollar smuggling. Khaled, the consul general’s confidential partner, allegedly smuggled out the cash while traveling to Cairo from Trivandrum Airport on August 7 last year. Swapna, during her interrogation, admitted Khaled had travelled to Cairo via Muscat from the state capital on the said date. Moreover, in her statement, Swapna told officials she and Sarith had accompanied him till Muscat to facilitate Khaled’s hassle-free security clearance at the airport, and later travelled to Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/customs-to-move-interpol-on-ex-uae-consulate-official/articleshow/79031709.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Chandigarh||President declines time to Punjab CM, Amarinder Singh to begin relay dharna||CHANDIGARH: With Punjab on the brink of a power crisis and the President declining Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s request for a meeting on November 4, the latter announced on Tuesday that he would lead a relay dharna of MLAs at Delhi’s Rajghat on Wednesday to highlight the state’s power and critical essential supplies situation due to the Centre’s adamant refusal to allow movement of goods trains. Since Section 144 has been imposed in Delhi, MLAs will go from Punjab Bhawan to Rajghat in batches of four only, with the chief minister leading the first one at 10.30 am. Amarinder also once again urged MLAs of other Punjab parties to join the dharnas in the interest of the state, which was facing a dire situation after the last private power plans (GVK) shut operations on Tuesday due to no coal supply. Two Lok Insaaf Party MLAs will also join the Congress sit-in. Freight trains stopped as if to teach Punjab a lesson. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar will not join the party MLAs’ protest at Rajghat as he is not keeping well. There is still no word on whether Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will attend the protest. Party incharge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat is likely to participate. Most Congress MLAs left for Delhi on Tuesday for the dharna. Before proceeding for the sit-in, the CM will hold a meeting of the Punjab MLAs at 10 am. Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said it was unfortunate that the Centre was not willing to listen to the state’s view on the farm laws. “The freight rail service has been deliberately stopped, as if to teach a lesson to the state. They plan to ruin the economy of the state,” he added. The CM said the situation on the ground was grim as the state had run out of coal, urea/DAP and other essential supplies due to the decision of the Railways not to ply goods trains even after the farmers eased their blockade to allow such movement. With its bid for power purchase not cleared on Tuesday, the state was facing extreme power shortage, all agricultural and vegetable supplies had been curtailed, and high loss feeder power supply had been cut, he said, adding that the people of Punjab were staring at a dark festival season. The continued and inexplicable suspension of goods trains by the Railways was also having serious consequences for other states such as Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh, Amarinder pointed out, reiterating his warning of the armed forces becoming sitting ducks for the enemies if they do not get their essential supplies before the snow sets in. Expressing concern over not getting an appointment with the President, Amarinder said as far as the State Amendment Bills, introduced under Article 254 (ii) were concerned, the Governor’s role was limited to forwarding these to the President in accordance with the Constitutional provisions. He pointed out that the letter from his office had made it clear that was not the only issue on which the state needed the President’s intervention. Amarinder also accused the Centre of step motherly treatment towards Punjab and said that it was pushing the state into a deep crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/president-declines-time-to-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-to-begin-relay-dharna/articleshow/79031690.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab stares at power cuts as coal stocks dry up completely||CHANDIGARH: Punjab is bracing for “massive power cuts” after coal stocks in the state were exhausted completely on Tuesday as a result of prolonged suspension of goods trains. Day-time power shortage rose to 1,000 to 1,500 MW with the last of the state’s power plants, GVK Thermal, running out of stocks. The other two private thermal power plants NPL and TSPL have already exhausted their coal supplies and are out of operation. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Parsad said, “All private power plants are shut in Punjab, while one unit each at government run plants has been started. Power cuts are already being imposed in the state in agriculture, domestic and commercial sectors, while at some places, power cuts of around 5 hours were imposed.” The state’s own thermal power stations of Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat are also boxed up at present. However, one unit at each of these plants was synchronised by the evening to make up for GVK generation loss and provide stability to the system. These plants have five-six days coal stock reserved if run on full load. An official spokesperson said the power department is left with no option but to impose power cuts on all residential, commercial and agricultural consumers from Tuesday evening. Day-time demand in the state is about 5,100 to 5,200 MW and night-time is about 3,400 MW. Supply, on the other hand, is totally inadequate with only agricultural power (AP) load of vegetable feeders (800 MW) being given supply for four-five hours daily. The other AP load is currently insignificant (about 300 MW), he said. Due to increase in market rates, load shedding had to be carried out on Tuesday on all AP /vegetable and Urban Pattern Power Supply (UPS) in rural feeders early in the morning. Otherwise too, load shedding is being conducted regularly on various feeders of the state after 4pm for four-five hours daily, while AP/vegetable supply is being curtailed on a regular basis, the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-stares-at-power-cuts-as-coal-stocks-dry-up-completely/articleshow/79030025.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Mumbai||Centre tells Bombay HC in plea that it is owner of salt pan lands in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The Centre has petitioned Bombay high court to challenge a November 2018 order of the Maharashtra revenue minister declaring the state to be the owner of various salt pan lands in Mumbai and declaring that some were privately-owned too. The petition was filed a week before the state decided to transfer 102 acres of Kanjurmarg land to MMRDA for a Metro rail car shed. The deputy salt commissioner, claiming ownership of the Kanjurmarg plot, filed the petition on September 22. The Centre last month wrote to the state chief secretary informing him that the Kanjurmarg plot, transferred for a car shed, is among the lands under challenge in its petition. The state transferred the Kanjurmarg land to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) on October 6. The petition is scheduled to be heard after Diwali. The lands in the state revenue minister’s order “erroneously” included those in Nahur, Malwani, Mandale, Mulund, Pahadi Mithagar, Trombay and Kanjurmarg, said the petition. These lands, “including Kanjurmarg survey number 275 (pt)” are owned by the Centre, it stated. The Centre sought directions to the minister to consider a compilation of its documents submitted in November 2016, as it said the order was passed without considering the compilation to back its claim. The Centre also wants the HC to restrain the state from creating any third-party rights or transferring the lands which it (Maharashtra government) has been declared to be holders of. The dispute dates back to 1981, said the Centre. The Centre said that in February 1981, the additional collector of Mumbai suburban district had said “claims over ownership of salt pan lands was (sic) under examination.” The Centre said the collector had asked a tehsildar in Kurla to give “a list of salt pan lands which were lying vacant and where salt manufacture had ceased” and it said the tehsildar “entered the name of the government of Maharashtra as holders in the 7/12 extract (which details land holding).” In 1983, the salt department challenged the additional collector’s order before an additional divisional commissioner, Konkan division, the appellate authority under Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, passed an order. In 1991 an order was passed. The salt department again filed a revision plea before an officer on special duty who in May 1991 sent the matter back to the collector for an enquiry. Almost 23 years later, in January 2014, the collector disposed of claims filed by the Central government and declared Maharashtra government as holders of all the lands under dispute. The Centre again challenged the collector’s 2014 order in Round Two. In 2015, it challenged the order of the Konkan division commissioner, which was in the state’s favour, before the revenue minister, who upheld the state ownership in 2018. The Centre said the minister’s “common Judgment” has “virtually replicated” the 2015 order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-tells-bombay-hc-in-plea-that-it-is-owner-of-salt-pan-lands-in-mumbai/articleshow/79031751.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 4, 2020||World||FBI investigates robocalls warning voters to 'stay home'||TRAVERSE CITY: Voters across the US received anonymous robocalls in the days and weeks before Election Day urging them to ``stay safe and stay home'' _ an ominous warning that election experts said could be an effort to scare voters into sitting out the election. The FBI is investigating calls that seek to discourage people from voting, a senior official at the Department of Homeland Security told reporters Tuesday. Authorities wouldn't offer details. The brief calls, which featured a computerized female voice, made no mention of the election. But given the lack of details, and the timing, the message was clear, according to Dan Doughty, a Kansas City resident who received the robocall Tuesday morning. ``It felt like voter suppression,'' Doughty told The Associated Press. ``It was even so vague that whoever did it could say it was about COVID.'' The automated calls were placed to residents in nearly 90 percent of U.S. area codes, according to an analysis by YouMail, a tech company that makes anti-robocall software. YouMail's findings were reported Tuesday in The Washington Post. YouMail found that the calls began over the summer but increased dramatically in recent weeks. In October alone there were 10 million calls, according to Alex Quilici, YouMail's chief executive. On Tuesday, they were reported in states including Iowa, Kansas, Florida, Nebraska and Missouri. ``This is just a test call.,`` the voice says in one version of the robocall. ``Time to stay home. Stay safe and stay home.'' Whoever created the robocalls used sophisticated tactics, routing the calls in a way that masked their identity and location, Quilici said. And unlike most robocalls, the message didn't ask for personal information or urge respondents to take any particular action _ suggesting confusion and fear may have been the goal. Those could all be clues as to who is behind the effort, he said. ``It's not a 12-year-old with a computer. This feels like maybe it's state sponsored,`` Quilici said. ``If you want to cause mischief, you want to do it to everybody.'' In a statement, the FBI said ``We are aware of reports of robocalls and have no further comment. As a reminder, the FBI encourages the American public to verify any election and voting information they may receive through their local election officials.'' The Homeland Security official, who spoke on the condition that they not be further identified, cautioned that ``robocalls of this nature happen every election'' and advised people to ``keep calm, vote on.'' Officials warned of a separate spate of robocalls made Tuesday to voters in Flint, Michigan, suggesting falsely that they could wait until Wednesday to vote in person because of long lines at polling places on Tuesday. In fact, Tuesday is the last day to vote. ``Obviously this is FALSE and an effort to suppress the vote,`` Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel tweeted. ``No long lines and today is the last day to vote. Don't believe the lies! Have your voice heard!'' Michigan is a critical swing state that President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden have both targeted in the campaign's final days. Flint is a heavily Democratic city and the majority of its residents are Black. Nessel filed charges Oct. 1 against two political operatives accused of orchestrating a series of robocalls ``aimed at suppressing the vote'' in the general election. The calls went to nearly 12,000 Detroit-area residents, she said. Those calls falsely claimed that voting by mail would allow personal information to become part of a database used by police and creditors to trace people for mandatory vaccines, Nessel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/fbi-investigates-robocalls-warning-voters-to-stay-home/articleshow/79031719.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||East Godavari the microcosm of Andhra Pradesh’s Covid-19 experience||VISAKHAPATNAM: Long known as the bellwether in Andhra Pradesh politics, East Godavari, the most populous district of the state, has now shown a trajectory similar to the state in terms of growth of Covid-19 cases and recovery rate. It was the only district to report one lakh cases a month ago on October 4 and reached 1,16,783 lakh cases as of Tuesday, while neighbouring West Godavari came a distant second at 86,835 cases. East Godavari logged an 18% growth rate in cases in October, whereas Andhra Pradesh recorded a 16% growth rate during the same period. While East Godavari topped all districts in the country in terms of percentage of increase in cases in July, Andhra Pradesh reported a near 900% increase in cases in July. However, the district also achieved a 96% recovery rate, in sync with the state’s recovery rate of over 96%. Similar to state numbers, cases appeared to be under control in East Godavari till June, before they surged with the start of the ‘Unlock’ process. With the gradual decline in case numbers over the last two months, officials in the district de-notified 17 of the 32 Covid-19 designated hospitals. East Godavari was also the first district in the state to take advantage of the home isolation facility for Covid-19 cases. In the initial months of the outbreak, Kakinada and Rajahmundry rural and urban mandals contributed between 80-90% of cases. But now, rural parts of the district are reporting more cases, which is a state-wide phenomenon. With a town or city within a radius of every 10-20 kilometres, the district is marked by a blend of rural, urban and tribal, reflecting the landscape of the state and may offer an explanation for the district posting almost similar Covid-19 numbers as the state for the last six months. East Godavari district medical and health officer Dr KVS Gowreswara Rao said people should not become complacent with the declining case numbers in the district. “We request the public to adhere to all Covid-19 precautions such as wearing a mask, physical distancing and hand hygiene,” said Dr Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/east-godavari-the-microcosm-of-states-covid-19-experience/articleshow/79027415.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 recoveries cross 8-lakh mark in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,849 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,30,731. The toll increased to 6,734 as 15 more people succumbed to the virus. The cumulative recoveries crossed the 8-lakh mark to reach 8,02,325 after 3,700 patients were discharged from various treating facilities. The latest one-lakh recoveries came in 22 days, outnumbering the fresh cases of about 75,000 during the same period. The overall recovery rate stood over 96%. Other than Krishna and Guntur, all other districts achieved at least 95% recovery rate. Chittoor reported 436 fresh infections, followed by Krishna (421), East Godavari (394) and West Godavari (386). Four districts recorded less than 100 cases. Prakasam crossed the 60,000-case mark, while Krishna breached the 40,000-case mark. Of the 15 deaths, three each are from Anantapur and Guntur, two each from Chittoor and Krishna, and one each from East Godavari, Nellore, Prakasam, Srikakulam and West Godavari districts. The state has so far conducted 82,66,800 Covid-19 tests, including the 84,534 people tested for the virus on Tuesday. The overall case positivity rate stood at 10% as against Tuesday’s positivity rate of near 3%. The case positivity rate decreased to 4% range in the last two weeks from its peak of 17% in August. The mortality rate remained stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-recoveries-cross-8-lakh-mark-in-ap/articleshow/79027429.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||400 electric vehicles charging stations to come up across Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to push for electric vehicles (EV), the state government has decided to set up 400 charging stations in the state. Further, the state government is also considering a proposal to study real-time performance impact of providing electric two-wheelers to ward and village secretariat staff. The government also has plans to set up testing facilities for vehicles and components, and intelligence testing tracks for electric vehicles with an investment of Rs 250crore. In a webinar conducted on the ‘Go Electric’ campaign organised with support of Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM), energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said that the state government is taking steps to establish charging infrastructure for every 25 kilometres on national highways. “We want to make more charging stations available to citizens in coming days. Installing charging stations will boost confidence of users of electric vehicles. This will also encourage companies to launch more electric vehicles. This would also help the state in taking a lead in the emerging electric vehicles industry, increase energy security, control pollution and improve air quality,” the energy secretary said. The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has launched the ‘Go Electric’ campaign in the state in coordination with APSECM. The Non-conventional Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Limited (NREDCAP) was nominated by the government as the state nodal agency to set up charging stations. NREDCAP vice-chairman and managing director S Ramana Reddy said that it has entered into a MoU with EESL for deployment of electric cars and has already deployed 300 electric cars in various government departments. “There are also MoUs between NREDCAP and NTPC and NREDCAP and RIEL for establishment of charging infrastructure in the state. Charging stations will be installed in 83 locations across the state under FAME II scheme,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/400-ev-charging-stns-to-come-up-across-ap/articleshow/79027441.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Two die as unidentified vehicle rams into ambulance on NH-16||VIJAYAWADA: Two persons died on the spot after an unidentified vehicle rammed into their ambulance on National Highway (NH)-16 near Bharat Petrol Station under Gannavaram police station limits early on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Bhaskar Batla Srinivas (50) and an unidentified youth—both said to be from Jamshedpur in Jharkhand. According to Gannavaram circle inspector K Sivaji, the incident happened at around 3 am when a group of people were travelling in two vehicles towards Puttaparthi Sai Baba temple to attend an event—one an ambulance belonging to Puttaparthi Sai Baba trust and the other a Maruthi Omni van. Based on an investigation at the crime scene, police said they found the rear end of the ambulance damaged and both the driver and the passenger had fallen out of the vehicle. “One of them was found dead in the bushes and another one on the road and we suspect that the same unidentified vehicle which hit the ambulance might have run over that person,” Sivaji told TOI. Police said they shifted the bodies to Gannavaram Primary Health Centre and further investigation is still on. A case under section 304A of IPC (causing death due to negligence) has been registered and officials are examining the highway CCTV footage to identify the unknown vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-die-as-unidentified-vehicle-rams-into-ambulance-on-nh-16/articleshow/79027543.cms||---
November 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport on high alert after intelligence on December 26 terror strike plan||NEW DELHI: Security agencies have sounded a high alert for Mumbai airport following intelligence inputs that terrorist organisations could be planning to target this vital hub on December 26. The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) issued the alert on Monday and listed the steps to be taken to strengthen security like stricter access control, enhanced screening of passengers and baggage, being on the vigil for drones and keeping close tabs on non-scheduled aircraft movement. “In view of inputs received from central security agencies regarding attack at Mumbai airport on December 26 by some terrorist organisations, it is necessary to enhance existing security measures at Mumbai airport-…learnt that they (terror outfits) have selected 22 persons to carry out coordination for said attack and cash rewards of Rs 20 lakh to each has also been announced by the terrorist organisation,” stated the alert that has been sent to the CISF, Mumbai Police and aviation authorities. BCAS has asked these agencies to ensure “strict access control to regulate entry into terminal building, airside, all operational area and other aviation facilities” and closely monitor operations of “non-conventional aerial platforms” like drones, microlite aircraft, paragliders and hot air balloons. It has also directed enhanced screening of passengers and staff, including increased random screening at the main gate, while seeking the same caution with baggage. Anti-terror/sabotage measures will be strengthened and quick reaction teams will keep a hawk eye for perimeter patrolling. The aviation security regulator has directed “intensive checking of vehicles/ persons at the approach to airport terminals/ installations and enhanced random check at the entry of terminal building, including utilisation of dog squad at entry point.” It has barred vehicle parking in front of terminal and sought intensive checking of vehicles entering parking area. Pre-embarkation security checks will be enhanced and same measures will be taken at the cargo terminal. BCAS has directed for “strict monitoring of nonscheduled flight operations, including air ambulance” and airlines have been asked to conduct “thorough search and anti-sabotage check of aircraft (and ensure no) unauthorised access to aircraft”. Security agencies have been asked to ensure that no unauthorised person be allowed access to aero bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-airport-on-high-alert-after-intel-on-december-26-terror-strike-plan/articleshow/79031791.cms||---
