November 5, 2020||Business||Irdai asks life insurers to settle claims in flood-hit areas expeditiously||HYDERABAD: The insurance regulator, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), on Wednesday directed life insurance players to extend every possible facilitation for quick and timely settlement of claims that have arisen due to loss of human lives in rains and floods in certain districts of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka. The regulator has directed the life insurers to nominate a senior level officer who would act as a nodal officer in the state as well as district-level to liaise with the respective state administration to facilitate identification of policyholders among the deceased due to floods. The insurance regulator has asked insurers to initiate immediate action to ensure that all reported claims are registered and eligible claims are settled expeditiously. It said that with regard to claims involving loss of life, where difficulty is experienced in obtaining a death certificate due to non-recovery of body, the process followed in the case of Chennai floods in 2015 may be considered. It said that a suitably simplified process including relaxations in the usual requirements wherever feasible may be considered to expedite claims settlement. Besides, it also asked life insurers to encourage and motivate their policyholders to adopt e-modes, wherever possible for correspondence while intimating the claim and the procedure for filing all the relevant documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irdai-asks-life-insurers-to-settle-claims-in-flood-hit-areas-expeditiously/articleshow/79048702.cms||Swati Rathor
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana reports 46 new Covid cases, 3 deaths||LUDHIANA: Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma on Wednesday said that the district reported 46 new Covid-19 cases and three coronavirus-related fatalities on Wednesday. Sharma said that the district now had 454 active patients. Sharma said that till date, 47,301 people have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 997.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-reports-46-new-covid-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/79048848.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Next generation vaccine carrier unveiled||MANGALURU: Blackfrog Technologies Pvt. Ltd., a healthcare technology company based out of Manipal, unveiled ‘Emvolio Pro’, a next-generation vaccine carrier, on Wednesday. Mayur U Shetty, CEO and product architect, said, ‘Emvolio Pro’ has been designed as per the draft specifications laid out by WHO for effective transportation of vaccines. This will prove to be critical when the Covid-19 vaccines which are now under way, are finally approved and deployed at scale. The team at Blackfrog has conducted extensive qualitative studies over the past six months, coordinating with multiple healthcare partners to understand the field-level requirements when large-scale immunisation has to be carried out for Covid-19. Blackfrog is now exploring options to scale-up its production capacity for its flagship product, so that the vaccines can reach the farthest corners of India and beyond, without compromising safety. The company incubated with Manipal Universal Technology Business Incubator (MUTBI) is supported by the department of science and technology (DST). With support from BIRAC and Venture Centre (NCL, Pune), the company had previously developed a portable medical-grade refrigeration system for the last-mile delivery of vaccines. This patented technology was initially supported with a fellowship grant from DST, India, through the NIDHI-EIR scheme, said Donson D’Souza, chief-of-operations, Blackfrog. On the company’s fifth anniversary, Dr Arun Shanbhag- chief innovation officer of MAHE, unveiled the newest product in the line of vaccine-carrier variants developed by Blackfrog, in the presence of Dr Shrihari Upadhyaya, CEO of MUTBI, Dr Raviraja N S, director, corporate relations, MAHE, and Dr Manesh Thomas, CEO of GoK-Bioincubator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/next-generation-vaccine-carrier-unveiled/articleshow/79047766.cms||Deepthi Sridhar
November 5, 2020||World||Trump campaign sues to stop ballot count in Michigan||WASHINGTON: The campaign of President Donald Trump has filed a lawsuit in Michigan to stop the counting of ballots in the presidential election. "We have filed suit today in the Michigan Court of Claims to halt counting until meaningful access has been granted. We also demand to review those ballots which were opened and counted while we did not have meaningful access," the campaign said in a statement. There is no clear presidential winner in the swing state, which has 16 electoral votes, according to Edison Research. Republican Trump's opponent, Democrat Joe Biden, has a razor-thin margin in Michigan, where 92% of the expected vote is in. Trump's campaign is also demanding a recount in Wisconsin, another state where he is neck and neck with Biden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-campaign-sues-to-stop-ballot-count-in-michigan/articleshow/79049845.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||At 33%, Telangana’s unemployment rate higher than national average||HYDERABAD: Exactly three years ago (Oct 30, 2017), chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had reiterated that his government was committed to filling up 1.12 lakh vacant posts in various government departments to fulfil the dreams of job aspirants. This was in response to questions raised by the opposition legislators in the legislative assembly with an assurance that nobody needs to doubt the government’s commitment. Three years later, Telangana stands among the states where unemployment continues to be very high, especially among graduates, those who have completed secondary education and women. The periodic labour force survey (PLFS), which was released recently by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation, says the unemployment rate among these sections of people in Telangana is high. While the national unemployment rate is 21.6%, Telangana’s unemployment rate is worrisome at 33.9%. Economists studying the unemployment trend say that workforce participation rate (WPR) in the state portrays a disturbing picture. “It has been crashing all the way in Telangana, more so among women. There are social and cultural reasons for this falling trend,” Revathi Ellanki, director, Centre for Economic and Social Studies (CESS), says. Aparna Penumarthi, assistant professor with CESS, who is preparing a paper on unemployment in Telangana, chips in, “We have calculated the male and female unemployment rate (both in urban and rural areas) in the age group of 15-29. Based on PLFS, unemployment rate among women rose to 31.5% in 2018-19 when compared to 25.7% in 2017-18.” Is there any particular reason for the growing joblessness numbers among women? Aparna attributes it to some women seeking safer jobs and some preferring to be unemployed. “In-depth reasons for the growing unemployment rate can be gauged by doing a primary survey among women,” she says. Social activists say family issues are forcing women to drop out of jobs. “The dropout trend begins at the school stage itself for girls. Then, it extends to higher education which percolates to employment as well,” V Sandhya of Progressive Organisation of Women explains. In a typical scenario, men want to excel in their careers with a single-point agenda. “Women have to be good at managing the family also,” Sandhya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-33-ts-unemployment-rate-higher-than-natl-avg/articleshow/79049761.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 5, 2020||India||Key project under scanner, Kerala moves to block CBI||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala on Wednesday became the fifth non-BJP state to have withdrawn “general consent” for the CBI to conduct any new investigation within its jurisdiction. Maharashtra was the last state to issue such an order in October. While the agency henceforth cannot start a probe without the state’s approval, the restriction isn’t applicable to either existing cases under CBI investigation or those sanctioned by a court of law. Sources said the trigger for the cabinet’s decision to withdraw automatic consent to any CBI probe, including suo motu ones, was the agency’s investigation into foreign funding for the CPM-led government’s flagship Life Mission social welfare housing project. The investigation was based on a complaint filed by Congress MLA Anil Akkara. The agency had summoned the CEO of Life Mission and other officials based on the complaint, which apparently irked the state government. The Kerala HC last month issued an interim stay on the probe. “It has been decided to withdraw the notification (of general consent), based on the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act of 1946, which gave the central agency power to conduct investigation in the state and take up cases suo motu,” a source said. The state government will issue an executive order on Thursday. The Life Mission probe had started after names of key accused in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling scandal popped up in connection with the project in Wadakkancherry. Besides allegations about the project getting illegal foreign funding, there was also talk of the main link in the smuggling racket earning a commission through it. CM Pinarayi Vijayan recently accused the CBI of “crossing boundaries” by interfering in policy decisions of the state government. The CPM politburo believes the Centre is using central agencies to settle political scores. The prod to withdraw general consent to the CBI came from the politburo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/key-project-under-scanner-kerala-moves-to-block-cbi/articleshow/79051664.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami’s arrest is as per law, no political vendetta: Maharashtra government||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government defended itself against charges of political vendetta in the arrest of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami in a suicide abetment case from 2018. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said, “Nobody is above the law and Maharashtra police will take appropriate action as per the law.” Deshmukh had ordered a fresh probe into the suicides of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother after he was approached by Naik’s daughter. Naik allegedly named Goswami and two others in a suicide note, blaming them for non-payment of dues and his financial woes. The case had been closed for lack of evidence but Alibaug police moved a local court for permission to re-investigate. “Why is BJP behaving like Arnab Goswami is a BJP worker? It looks like their par rot has been put in a cage. Why are they defending a man who has been accused in a suicide case?” asked transport minister Anil Parab. Parab said the arrest had nothing to do with clamping down on media freedom and could not be compared to arrests during the Emergency. The previous government had failed to act on Anvay Naik’s suicide note, Parab alleged. “The family went to court. The court gave directions to the police to investigate and the police is doing its job,” he said. Parab also pointed out that the victim was a Maharashtrian. “If action is being taken in a case where a Marathi woman became a widow, why is BJP opposing it?” he asked. Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut said, “The government has nothing to do with it. If we break the law, police will not spare us either. Police can’t be accused of acting out of vengeance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arnabs-arrest-is-as-per-law-no-political-vendetta-maharashtra-govt/articleshow/79051680.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
November 5, 2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami files plea against arrest, Bombay HC to hear case today||MUMBAI: Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami on Wednesday filed a petition in the Bombay HC to challenge his “illegal arrest” by Mumbai police on November 4. He sought directions from the court to have an FIR against him for abetment of suicide quashed. Goswami also sought urgent orders to stay the probe into the two-yearold abetment to suicide case which has been reopened. He urged that no coercive steps be taken against him and employees of his channel in connection with the matter. The HC has fixed the matter for a hearing at 3pm on Thursday. The FIR against him is dated May 5, 2018, and registered at Alibaug police station, Raigad, under Sections 306 and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. Detailing the circumstances of his arrest, the petition says the action “was preceded by the Mumbai police encircling his house by vehicles in the early hours of 4 November”. The arrest was in violation of fundamental rights to life, personal liberty and dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution, it said. The petitioner and his son were assaulted and dragged into a police vehicle, it said. “It is shocking that a case that was decisively closed has been reopened with the sole purpose of misusing power, concocting facts and forcefully arresting the petitioner in a prima facie act of revenge and vengeance for his news coverage which questioned those in power in the state of Maharashtra,’’ the petition said. Senior counsel Mahesh Jethmalani at around 5 pm sought an urgent hearing before bench of Justices S S Shinde and MS Karnik. The petition said ARG Outlier paid over Rs 5 crore-- over 90 percent of amounts due to Naik’s company Concorde Designs. It said it was never his intention to avoid paying the rest which was “transferred in July 2019 to Concorde’s bank account but was returned as the account was inoperative.’’  In April 2019, ARG said it would pay Rs 39 lakh since it had to spend on “independent contractors” for some work. In July 2019, Naik’s “wife” Akshata said Rs 88 lakh was due, which ARG refuted. Goswami said he “no direct interaction” with Naik and nor “any intention to instigate or aid’’ the suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/goswami-files-plea-against-arrest-hc-to-hear-case-today/articleshow/79051819.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 5, 2020||Mumbai||Arrest is an assault on free press: Republic||MUMBAI: Describing Arnab Goswami’s arrest as the action of “a police state”, Republic Media Network said Mumbai police had launched an “assault on the free press” and attacked the “democratic ethos” of the country. Read AlsoRepublic TV’s Arnab Goswami held in 2018 abetment to suicide caseThe Alibaug police, assisted by cops from Mumbai, arrested Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami from his Worli residence in a two-year-old abetment to suicide case involving a man and his mother. ​​Goswami was taken to Alibaug in a police van and produced in the local court there. TheThe channel said its editor-in-chief Goswami was an “independent journalist” who was paying a price for seeking “accountability and answerability from the system.” He was not even served a summons nor allowed access to his legal team, it said. His “house was encircled, his home barged into... he was physically assaulted and dragged out… in a police van.” Read AlsoNo suicide note in Sushant’s case, but my hubby left one: Anvay Naik's wifeThe wife and daughter of Anvay Naik, who allegedly killed himself in 2018 and named Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two others in his suicide note, thanked Maharashtra police for action in the case on Wednesday and said they finally hope for justice.The channel said, “the attack on the Fourth Estate without evidence or verifiable facts, on the basis of a closed case being reopened” was shocking. “Mumbai police in brazen disregard for all due process, integrity and any semblance of fair investigation, dragged Arnab Goswami by the collar to a crime branch unit police,” it said. The channel also accused encounter cop Sachin Vaze who led the team to Goswami’s house of criminal intimidation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arrest-is-an-assault-on-free-press-republic/articleshow/79051849.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19 effect: Cops’ permission must to host events in Mysuru||MYSURU: The city police has made it mandatory for all public and private organisations/ establishments, which provide space for conducting indoor and outdoor events, including parties, to obtain prior permission from the office of the city police commissioner from Friday. The restrictions will be applicable till the end of this month. City police commissioner Chandragupta on Thursday issued the directive in the wake of rising Covid cases. People are said to have found attending events flouting the related SOPs, by not maintaining social distancing and not wearing masks. “The parties concerned need to obtain prior permission and clearance from the office of the assistant police commissioner coming under their limits. It is applicable to managements of hotels, commercial establishments, markets, conference halls, cinema halls, religious places, government offices and private or public buildings which provide space for all indoor and outdoor events. They must allow a maximum of only 200 invitees. The restrictions are to bring down Covid-19 cases,” said a statement from the office of the city police commissioner. Meanwhile, DCP (law and order) A N Prakash Gowda has directed wedding hall owners to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the government to check the virus spread. He has directed them to ensure social distancing among the invitees at weddings and other events. At a meeting, the DCP told the hall owners: “As per the top cop’s directive, they will book cases against both event organisers (hosts) and the hall owners if they fail to follow the SOPs,” he warned. The hall owners and the hosts must thermal-screen the guests at entry and exit points, keep sanitisers for them, and ensure that they, as also cooks and electricians, wear the mask without fail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-19-effect-cops-permission-must-to-host-events/articleshow/79067845.cms||---
November 5, 2020||---||From selfie corner to crèche, arrangements impress Patna voters||PATNA: One of the city landmarks, Patna Women’s College was decked with white and blue balloons with a selfie corner and crèche. As voters reached there for exercising their franchise, the first thing which greeted them was a hand-held infrared thermometer at the entrance. A person was allowed further only after passing this temperature test. A group of ASHA workers and ANMs could be spotted sitting behind tables with sanitisers and gloves to ensure that everyone sanitised his or her hand and got one glove before entering the polling booths while maintaining social distancing to press the EVM button. Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi said there were 11 ‘Shashakt Matdaan Kendras’ on this sprawling campus. He said there were 251 such booths across the district managed by women staff only. “These are like model polling booths and civil defence volunteers have been roped in to facilitate old people and those with disabilities. While ICDS employees were deputed at crèche, ASHA workers were asked to measure temperature and provide gloves,” Ravi said. Voters of old age and with disabilities were provided e-rickshaws and wheel chairs to take them inside the campus from the main gate. Vishaka Sinha, one of the polling officials there, said, “It has been ensured that old aged and those with disabilities do not suffer any problem. We are also giving certificates to them as a mark of respect and appreciation,” said Sinha. Another official, Rashmi Roy, pointed to a crèche which had toys, slides and tiny chairs for the little ones, along with caretakers. “Many people stay in nuclear families and cannot leave their kids alone. So, these facilities are worth appreciating,” said Manjula Verma. Another voter, Sarmistha Tiwari took her over 3 years old daughter Dhiya Tiwari to the polling booth. “This facility is really good. Since I cannot leave her alone at home, I brought her with myself,” she said. Even voters appreciated the facilities at these model booths. Vikas Kumar, who resides in Shri Krishna Nagar said, “I was a bit hesitant in moving out, but I found no chaos and crowd. Not only administration, even people are following all norms amid Covoid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/from-selfie-corner-to-crche-arrangements-impress-voters/articleshow/79028269.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 5, 2020||Patna||Sonbarsa PHC incharge succumbs to Covid||PATNA: Medical officer incharge of Sonbarsa primary health centre (PHC) Dr Pramod Kumar Gautam died at AIIMS-Patna on Tuesday after being infected with coronavirus. Gautam is the second doctor to die within the last 48 hours at AIIMS-Patna. As per the information shared by the health department, officially five deaths were reported on Wednesday, following which the toll reached 1,113. It also reported 541 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 2,19,505. However, with 2,11,831 recoveries, there are 6,559 active cases in Bihar. Patna reported less than 100 new cases with 98 people getting infected with coronavirus. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said, “Gopalganj-based senior gynecologist Dr Rajendra Thakur had also died on Tuesday.” This hospital reported total four deaths on Wednesday including Dr Gautam’s case. Other deceased include a 59-year-old male of Papur village in Patna, a 65-year-old male of Jogiyan village in Saran and a 76-year-old male of Beloniya in Saran. The hospital administration further informed that Supaul MP Dileshwar Kamat, who was admitted on October 30 at the hospital was showing signs of improvement and was shifted to a ward from the ICU. While 15 patients got discharged on recovery, 11 new patients got admitted and at present there are 166 Covid-19 patients at AIIMS-Patna. Health department reported one death each from Banka, Purnia, Begusarai, Saran and Gopalganj on Wednesday. New Covid-19 cases registered in some other districts include Munger (35), Araria (31), Madhepaura (24) and Bhagalpur (17). As per the tweet shared by state health minister Mangal Pandey, 976 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the state's recovery rate was 96.5%. He further informed that 12,6,822 samples were tested in the same period and so far over 1.14 lakh samples have been tested in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sonbarsa-phc-incharge-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/79048193.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 5, 2020||Business||Rupee hits 10-wk low, yuan plunges 1.4%||Mumbai: The rupee closed at a 10-week low, inching toward the 75 level against the dollar as uncertainty over the US election outcome increased demand for the greenback, which is seen as a safe haven currency. The local unit opened at 74.74 and hit a low of 74.9 before recovering to 74.75, 34 paise below its previous close of 74.41. China’s offshore yuan also briefly plunged 1.4% against the dollar on Wednesday, its biggest single-day fall since February 2018. “The big risk to the currency market is the uncertainty over the new US President and the inconclusive election result. The Democrats are leading but Republicans are catching up. In such a scenario, trades are preferring to go against the rupee. The dollar-rupee spot is respecting the immediate resistance of 75, but the caution and volatility will keep the appreciation intact. We expect dollar-rupee spot to trade between 74-75.5,” said Rahul Gupta, head of research (currency), at Emkay Global Financial Services. TNN & agencies “A lack of clarity on the outcome of the US Presidential election has created a lot of uncertainties. Global equity and currency market have reacted according to it. With the dollar gaining strength, the rupee saw a decline, as it slipped towards the crucial 75 mark,” said Nish Bhatt, founder & CEO, Millwood Kane International — an investment consulting firm. He added that the domestic currency will continue to be in focus till clarity emerges on the US election outcome and the latest tranche of fiscal stimulus. “In times of uncertainty, investors tend to rush towards the dollar, which is a safe haven. The Indian government is working on a stimulus package, but expect it to be smaller in size as the Centre will look to limit its deficit,” he added. However, economists do not see any major risks in terms of rupee depreciation because of the current account surplus and anticipated capital flows. “For the full fiscal year, we continue to see a strong current account surplus likely coming in at $35 billion (1.4% of GDP), with risks tilted to the upside. Chunky FDI inflows, coupled with a large current account surplus, will be the dominant drivers of India’s external position, boosting foreign reserves,’ said Rahul Bajoria, chief economist, Barclays India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rupee-hits-10-wk-low-yuan-plunges-1-4/articleshow/79051130.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Patna||Forensic test of pellets used in Munger firing soon: SP||PATNA: Only the forensic analysis of the pellets retrieved from the body of the one killed and another injured will determine whether the bullets fired in Munger on October 26 night during the Durga idol immersion procession were of prohibited bore or used by policemen, SP Manavjeet Singh Dhillon said on Wednesday. Mob violence took place in the town on October 29 in retaliation of the firing and stone pelting incident in which several people and policemen were also injured, leading to immediate removal of the then DM Rajesh Meena and SP Lipi Singh. Dhillon told TOI that the metal residues extracted from the slain youth’s head during postmortem would be sent for forensic test soon. “Another pellet has been retrieved from the body of an injured youth, who is undergoing treatment at Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Bhagalpur,” Dhillon said. He said the postmortem report said the youth was shot in the back of his head at point-blank range and there was an exit wound near the left eye socket. “Of the six injured civilians, four had splinter injuries, which can’t be caused by police firearms. Two had bullet injuries,” he said. Dhillon said the youth missing since October 26 returned home on Wednesday. “He was undergoing treatment for mental ailment. The youth told the police that he had himself left home,” he said. He said one Krishna Kumar from Mokama is accused of thrashing civilians along with police personnel during the clash. “He is an accused along with four police personnel in an FIR lodged with Kotwali police station for excessive use of force on devotees,” Dhillon said. The FIR was registered on the basis of a WhatsApp video showing security personnel thrashing devotees sitting around Goddess Durga idol. “Police would soon write to WhatsApp for authenticating the origin of the video so that it is made admissible in court as evidence against erring police personnel,” he said. “No has been arrested yet to avoid any resentment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/forensic-test-of-pellets-used-in-munger-firing-soon-sp/articleshow/79048226.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 5, 2020||Varanasi||Blast rips through Kushinagar cracker godown, four killed||Gorakhpur: At least four people were killed and 12 injured after a blast ripped through an illegal firecracker godown in the cramped Kaptanganj area of Kushinagar district early Wednesday. The impact of the explosion was felt at least 500m away even as smoke enveloped the neighbourhood and it took three hours for two fire tenders to control the blaze. The densely populated area had been a tinderbox with tonnes of crackers stashed away in the godown, but police chose to turn a blind eye till tragedy struck. And just hours after the blast, four policemen were suspended for dereliction of duty. Around 7am on Wednesday, a minor spark ignited LPG cylinders in the basement and spiralled into a raging inferno, blowing up the house of the godown owner, Javed, in a congested bylane of Ward No. 11 of Aryanagar locality. Adjoining houses were also wrecked in the blast. Kushinagar superintendent of police Vinod Kumar Singh rushed to the spot even as firemen battled the blaze. “Three residents were charred in the fire, while the fourth succumbed to burns on way to the district hospital. At least 12 people were injured and are battling for life. Strict action will be taken against those operating the godown,” said Singh. The suspended cops include sub-inspector Ritesh Singh, head constable Manik Chand, constable Santosh Kumar and constable Manish Prasad. Circle officer Kasya is leading the investigation. The deceased were identified as Nazia, 14, godown owner Javed, 35, his mother Fatima, 65, and his wife, Anwari, 32, who died on way to Gorakhpur hospital. The injured are undergoing treatment in Kushinagar district hospital and BRD Medical College, Gorakhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/blast-rips-through-kushinagar-cracker-godown-four-killed/articleshow/79048876.cms||Arjumand Bano
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Railways proposes resumption with 230 local services||KOLKATA: The state wants the railways to run as many suburban services as possible while maintaining Covid-safety protocol. The railways has proposed to start with 15% services, which would mean about 200 services, in the Howrah and Sealdah divisions of Eastern Railway (ER) and about 30 in the Kharagpur division of South Eastern Railway (SER). This was discussed during a meeting at Nabanna on Wednesday. Among those present from the state were home secretary H K Dwivedi, director general of police Virendra and DG (Railways) Adhir Ranjan Sharma. The railways team included ER additional general manager Aneet Dulat and the divisional railway managers of Howrah, Sealdah and Kharagpur. “We propose to resume operations with about 15% services. The date of resumption and the standard operating procedure (SOP) will be finalized after another meeting on Thursday with the state chief secretary. The number of services will gradually be taken up to 25%. Then, nearly 330 services will be run by ER and about 45 by SER. This will happen only after the initial response is studied. Most of the services will be in the mornings and evening peak hours (8am-11am and 4.30pm-7.30pm),” a railway official said. The state wants gaps to be maintained between two consecutive trains reaching terminals stations to prevent overcrowding and quicker dispersal of passengers. The state wants the railways to arrange for vending machines to dispense sanitizer and masks. Railway officials have maintained that it may not be possible to distribute sanitizer and masks or carry out thermal scanning for all commuters. While those without masks will not be allowed on station premises, there will be random thermal scanning. Unlike in Maharashtra, Bengal is unlikely to draw up a list of people who will be allowed to take suburban trains. This will be a challenge for the railways that will have equal responsibility in maintaining social distancing in stations. “We have also proposed that only a limited number of tickets be issued. However, given our experience in the suburban sections, this is likely to make much difference to crowding. Checking of tickets of all passengers won’t be possible. We have also told the state that there is no need to bring out a special timetable. We will work out the trains that will run and those that won’t based on the existing timetable. This is likely to be finalized on Thursday. We expect the state to provide all assistance to prevent the spread of Covid,” another railway official said. According to those present at Monday’s meeting on the subject, a state official expressed apprehension that there may be a spurt in the number of Covid cases after suburban services resume, even in a limited manner. The state has also made it clear that no force should be used to control crowds at stations. An official pointed out that law and order in the concourse area of stations is the responsibility of the state. “Nothing concrete has been decided yet. Something may come of Thursday’s meeting when SOPs will be worked out. Only after that will we be able to say from when suburban services will resume,” said Nikhil Kr Chakraborty, CPRO, ER.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rlys-proposes-resumption-with-230-local-services/articleshow/79048444.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 5, 2020||Mysuru||MUDA makes fresh attempt for layout creation on site sharing basis||MYSURU: After Ballahalli project hit a roadblock following demand for more share from landlords, Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) is making fresh attempts to press ahead with its plans for a new joint venture. MUDA Commissioner DB Natesh confirmed to TOI that a fresh proposal is being sent to the government to take up a new project under the scheme. The first of its kind project in Karnataka, conceptualised almost five years ago, was aimed at developing sites on 50:50 sharing basis with farmers. The land losers would get 50% of developed sites. As per the scheme, farmers were not asked to pay anything to the urban body, rather they were to receive the developed sites in the layout. The scheme was received by farmers but over the period, landlords led by a section of farmer leaders started demanding for more share. After years of protest, the project hit rough weather due to legal issues. MUDA had proposed to develop at least 4,000 sites on site sharing basis and distribute sites to applicants near Ballahalli and surrounding areas. In about a dozen villagers farmers had come forward to share their land for the proposed project. As MUDA is finding it difficult to get a large chunk of land, it came up with the proposal. Currently, about 85,000 applicants are waiting for sites from the urban body. MUDA is left with no option due to land unavailability. It has been over a decade now, but MUDA is yet to come up with new projects to provide sites to thousands of applicants. MUDA chairman HV Rajiv says MUDA is treading cautiously and making fresh attempts to avoid any trouble in the later stages of the project like it did earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/muda-makes-fresh-attempt-for-layout-creation-on-site-sharing-basis/articleshow/79048195.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: NDA government to deport back Infiltrators, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||PATNA: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday sought votes for the BJP and other NDA candidates in Purnia, Katihar, Kishanganj and Araria districts in the name of deporting Bangladeshi infiltrators, considered living in the area. They are called ‘Bangla infiltrators.’ These areas will go to the polls in the third and last phase on November 7. Addressing a physical rally at Katihar in favour of BJP’s three-time MLA Tar Kishore Prasad, Adityanath said, I have heard that Katihar and its adjoining areas are afflicted with the problem of Bangla infiltrators. People are angry about it. If any infiltrator (from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan) tries to sneak into India, he will be deported back to his country.” Later, he also addressed rallies at Bisfi (Madhubani), Keoti (Darbhanga) and Simri Bakhtairpur (Saharsa) which also have Muslim population. “PM Narendra Modi’s government at the Centre has adopted a policy in this regard. Under the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the Centre gives citizenship to minority people persecuted in Bangladesh and Pakistan, but if anyone tries to infiltrate into India, he will be deported,” he said. Incidentally, the Muslim presence in the four Seemanchal districts is significant and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the RSS, conducted campaigns in the area for the identification of the alleged ‘Bangla infiltrators’ even under the NDA government led by CM Nitish Kumar in Bihar. Adityanath largely concentrated on enumerating the welfare steps taken by PM Modi and, in the process, sought votes to form an NDA government in the state again, so as to run the state affairs and fulfil the developmental needs of people. Even as Adityanath was addressing the NDA supporters, they kept on chanting ‘Modi, Modi, Modi’ every time he referred to the steps taken by the Centre. He also referred to the abolition of triple talaq, befitting air strike on terror centres inside Pakistan after the Pulwama attack in Jammu and Kashmir, and also the abrogation of Article 370 that “will now facilitate unencumbered purchase of land by a Bihari or a resident of Katihar in J&K, as much as people from there can purchase land here and settle.” Adityanath said PM Modi had started the process for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya. “Once the temple is constructed, I will invite you to participate in the function there,” he also said. That apart, while he did not mention ‘jungle raj’, Adityanath said the people’s welfare in the state was not on the agenda of the Congress or RJD. “Instead, they believed in family rule and amassing of wealth by the family. For them the party has become synonymous with one family, and they thought that the country and its resources were meant for the family,” Adityanath said, adding that they “divided the society on caste lines and practised appeasement policy (towards Muslims).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/caa-would-help-get-rid-of-intruders-yogi/articleshow/79053277.cms||Abhay Singh
November 5, 2020||Patna||Give equal preference to DElEd, BEd: Patna HC||PATNA: The Patna high court on Wednesday directed the state government to give equal preference to TET qualified Diploma in Elementary Education (DElEd) and BEd candidates by preparing combined merit list for recruitment against 64,446 vacant posts of primary teachers in panchayat level schools across the state. A bench of Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay simultaneously quashed the education department’s order dated December 7 last year for preparing fresh and separate merit lists with preference to DElEd candidates in recruitment and to consider BEd candidates only after accommodating candidates with the other qualifications. Terming the order as coloured exercise of power, the bench observed that change in norms are not applicable once selection process has commenced. Altogether 12,74,848 applications of DElEd and 13,76,059 of BEd candidates were received against the vacant posts. The final merit list was to be published till November 14, 2019. Hareram Kumar of Begusarai and 34 others had challenged the education department’s order on the grounds that the selection process was over and combined merit lists of candidates were also published in several districts for recruitment till November 6.As per the NCTE rules, BEd candidates are required to undergo NCTE-recognized six months’ bridge course in elementary education within two years of their appointments. The HC observed that decline in education standards in state in the last one decade was a matter of concern for all. “The whole world had witnessed it on national television. The teachers (niyojit shikshak) did not correctly answer the names of 7 days of a week and 12 months of a calendar year. It appears that education in primary schools is the most neglected section where deeper scrutiny is required so that the backbone of the education is strengthened,” it observed. It also observed that both types of candidates had passed rigorous TET and preference to DElEd has no rational. The state government submitted that the two-year DElEd is a certificate teacher training programme specifically meant and suited for imparting teaching to the students of classes I to V while BEd is a bachelor’s degree designed and meant for imparting education to the students of class VI and above. NCTE also urged the court to dismiss the writ petition on the same grounds. However, the court was not satisfied with these submissions. YV Giri and Ashish Giri appeared for the petitioners while additional advocate general Ashutosh Ranjan Pandey, Shilpa Singh and Abhanjali represented the state government. Sunil Kumar Singh represented NCTE. P K Shahi, D K Sinha, SS Sundaram, Mrigank Mauli and Prince Kumar Mishra appeared for intervener respondents. Altogether 123 DElEd candidates as intervener, along with the state government, education department and NCTE, were respondents in the case. The intervener petitioners pleaded that BEd candidates had larger avenues while they had limited scope in primary teaching and they were specially trained in child psychology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-give-equal-preference-to-deled-bed/articleshow/79048101.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 5, 2020||Business||Gland Pharma eyes Rs 6,500 crore from biggest drug company IPO||MUMBAI: Gland Pharma, majority owned by China’s Fosun Pharma group, is launching India’s biggest initial public offering (IPO) for the sector, to raise about Rs 6,500 crore. The existing shareholders will offload stake worth about 80% of the total offer size, while the company will mobilise Rs 1,250 crore for its own use. The company on Wednesday said that the price band for the IPO is fixed at Rs 1,490-1,500 per share and the offer will be open between November 9 and 11. The Rs 1,741-crore IPO by Eris Lifesciences, closed in 2017, is the biggest pharma IPO till date. Gland Pharma is among the first Chinese majority owned companies operating in India that is eyeing a listing on the country’s bourses. The company plans to use the IPO’s proceeds for funding its incremental working capital, capex requirements and general corporate purposes. In October 2017, Fosun Pharma wanted to acquire a little over 86% in the Hyderabad-based company for around $1.1 billion, which at that time would have become the single-largest Chinese investment in India. However, after the government flagged concerns over the proprietary technology developed by the Indian company falling into Chinese hands, the deal was scaled down to 74%. This deal was announced a few months after Indian and Chinese armies were involved in a border dispute at Doklam near Bhutan. Gland Pharma had filed its IPO document in July this year, a couple of months after the Galwan Valley clash in the Ladakh region. Interestingly, the Raju family of Satyam Computers group had 60 lakh shares of Gland Pharma, which are now being transferred to an escrow account. At the upper band of the price band, the shares are worth Rs 900 crore. The company has approached markets regulator Sebi to exempt these shares from being under compulsory post-offer lock-in under current IPO rules. Kotak Mahindra Capital Company, Citigroup, Haitong Securities and Nomura are managing the offer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gland-pharma-eyes-rs-6500cr-from-biggest-drug-co-ipo/articleshow/79051125.cms||---
November 5, 2020||---||‘Narendra Modi voting machines’ can’t stop us in Bihar: Rahul Gandhi||PATNA: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in his last two rallies in Bihar on Wednesday, went for the jugular attacking PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish Kumar over lack of job opportunities for the youth in the state, woes of migrants during the lockdown and the new farm laws, which will worsen farmers problems. Terming his fight against PM Modi as an “ideological fight against hatred”, the former Congress chief described the EVMs as MVMs or ‘Modi Voting Machines’ but asserted that it would not make a difference this time. “There is anger in the youth of Bihar and so EVM or MVM it doesn’t matter, the Mahagatbandhan will form the government in Bihar,” Rahul said, promising increased minimum support prices for farmers and food and grain processing units across the state after coming to power. “They spread hatred against me, but I answer with love. Hate can only be defeated with love. We are fighting for ideology, and I will not take a step back unless I defeat Narendra Modi Ji,” said Rahul, adding he has come to develop "a long-term relationship with the people of Bihar". He addressed one rally each in Bihariganj and Ararai on Wednesday and at both the places he took a jibe at the two-crore job promises made by the PM and promises which CM Nitish had made in 2015 assembly elections for developing Bihar. “Now when the youths are asking about what happened to the jobs and other promises, Nitish Ji is getting angry,” said Rahul. Raising the problems faced by Bihar migrants at his rally in Araria, Rahul told the crowd that it exposed the true colours of Modi. “A PM who has any love for the poor and labourers would have never acted like that. Without giving any notice, he announced sudden lockdown and left the poor without train, buses, food and water. He has no place in his heart for poor,” Rahul said. “Also, every year you face the fury of floods in this region. Youths here have to migrate to other places for work. And yet Modi Ji and Nitish Ji did nothing, but now they are shamelessly coming and asking you for votes,” he added. Rahul also talked about farmers’ and migrant labourers’ issues and criticised PM Modi for the three new farm laws. “PM has paved the way for the two biggest middlemen, Ambani and Adani, who will benefit through these laws. The biggest godowns will hoard your produce. Look how the price of vegetables and onions have increased manifold. Modi Ji is saying that a farmer is free to sell his produce anywhere. Will he go by plane and sell his produce to another state?” Continuing his attack on Ambani and Adani, Rahul said demonetisation was done to benefit them. “You stood in long queues and deposited your money. Then Modi Ji waived off their loan with the same money.” At Bihariganj, Rahul appealed to people to vote for Congress candidate Subhashini Raj Rao, reminding them of Subhashini’s father and veteran leader Sharad Yadav. “He has been my guru, and Subhashini is my sister. Right now Sharad Ji is ill and you have to make Subhashini win this election for yourself and for Sharad Ji.” This was Rahul’s last visit to Bihar in this assembly election. While he had addressed two rallies each in the first and second phase, in the third phase, he addressed four rallies in two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/modi-voting-machines-cant-stop-us-in-bihar-rahul/articleshow/79048200.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 5, 2020||---||AIMIM-BSP alliance in Bihar to favour BJP: Congress||PATNA: Senior UP Congress leader Pramod Tiwari on Wednesday accused Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM and Mayawati’s BSP of forging an alliance in Bihar only to benefit BJP. He has made this statement when the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region will go to the polls in the third and last phase of assembly elections on November 7. “Both (Owaisi and Mayawati) are fulfilling their responsibility towards BJP,” Tiwari said. He also questions Mayawati’s decision to field her party candidates in the byelections in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “After her defeat in the byelection in Bijnor at the hands of Congress’s Meira Kumar in 1985, Mayawati’s party never contesting any bypoll. But now her party is fighting in UP and the candidate is of BJP’s choice,” Tiwari alleged and said she was compelled to take such a step or “files against her will be opened”. He also took a jibe at JD(U) and BJP’s alliance saying he agreed it was a double-engine moving in opposite directions. “People sitting in this train are suffering jolts. Then there is a Chirag (Paswan) which has darkness and light,” Tiwari said, pointing to the LJP chief. He also lashed out at PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish Kumar for not helping the migrants and urged people to vote in favour of the Mahagathbandhan candidates in the third phase also. In another press conference in Purnia, Congress national secretary general Randeep Singh Surjewala cited a report published by the Institute of Social Science that 50% of the families in Bihar were compelled to migrate to other states in search of jobs and majority of them were from the Seemanchal region. He also lashed out at the NDA government for the treatment meted out to migrant labrourers while they were returning home. “An NGO has reported that 159 migrants died on the way because of accident, hunger and thirst and 630 were seriously injured.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/aimim-bsp-alliance-to-favour-bjp-cong/articleshow/79048276.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 73% of RJD candidates in third phase polls face criminal cases||PATNA: Nearly 31% (371) of the candidates contesting in the 78 constituencies in the third phase of Bihar assembly elections have criminal cases pending against them while 30% (361) of them have assets worth Rs1 crore or more, according to a report released by election watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Bihar Election Watch (BEW). The findings are based on the self-sworn affidavits submitted by 1,195 out of the 1,207 candidates in the fray in the third and last phase of the polls. There are 110 women and 1,088 men contesting in the third phase of polls to be held on November 7. RJD had the maximum 32 (73%) out of its 44 candidates facing criminal cases, including 22 (50%) having serious charges like murder and rape against them. Of the 34 BJP candidates, 26 have declared criminal cases against themselves while 22 have serious criminal cases pending against them. JAP-L has 22 candidates in this round facing criminal cases, followed by 21 of JD(U), 19 of Congress, 18 of LJP and 16 of RLSP. The remaining 233 candidates are from registered smaller parties or independents. Of the 78 seats in the third phase, 72 are declared as red alert constituencies (where 3 or more contesting candidates have declared criminal cases against themselves). As per the report, as many as 282 candidates are facing serious criminal offences, including 37 booked for crime against women. Of them, five candidates have declared cases related to rape. Around 20 candidates have murder cases and 73 face attempt to murder charges. Among all candidates contesting the election, JAP-L chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav from Madhepura has the highest number of 132 criminal cases pending against him. Bima Bharti from JD(U), Mehboob Alam and Birendra Prasad Gupta of CPI(ML), LJP’s Shanker Singh and Amit Chaudhary and RJD’s Om Prakash Chaudhary are among those facing murder charges. Meanwhile, the richest among the candidates in this phase is RLSP’s BK Singh from Warisnagar in Samastipur. He has movable and immovable assets worth Rs85.89 crore. The second wealthiest candidate is Om Prakash Chaudhary of RJD from Motihari seat. He has declared his assets worth Rs45.37 crore. Shankar Kumar Jha, an independent candidate from Darbhanga, has assets worth Rs32.19 crore. At least 35 contesting candidates from RJD are crorepatis, closely followed by 31 each in BJP and LJP. Total 30 JD(U) candidates are crorepatis while Congress has 17. When it comes to educational qualification, the report reveals that most of the candidates are not even graduates. Around 499 (42%) candidates have declared their educational qualification between classes V and XII while 552 (46%) are graduates or above. Total 126 candidates are literate. There are 5 candidates who are illiterates and 12 are diploma holders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/73-of-rjd-candidates-in-3rd-phase-polls-face-criminal-cases/articleshow/79056767.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Bands torn between getting back on stage & keeping control of crowds||KOLKATA: It’s a Catch-22 situation for Bangla band members after the state allowed live gigs at open venues. While they are euphoric about being able to get back on stage, they are also worried about ensuring physical distancing at the high-energy shows. Cactus frontman Sidhu, who studied medicine at the National Medical College, is eager to return to the stage after a hiatus of eight months. “Since we have waited for so long, we might as well be a little more patient till December. We still don’t know the impact of Durga Puja on the number of infected cases. Resumption of local train services will be another acid test. I wouldn’t recommend doing our kind of shows right away, risking the health of listeners,” he said. Gaurab Chatterjee, founder member and drummer of Lakkhichhara, also wants to wait and watch. “We are not sure how safe it will be to perform live now. We want to first see how the government norms are being followed at shows,” said Chatterjee, who had last performed live in March. Fossils manager Rupsha Dasgupta has been racking her brains over how to handle this challenge. On March 7, the band had its last show at PC Chandra Gardens in front of a 3,000-strong crowd. Though during lockdown, digital shows have been held aplenty, she said they don’t match up to the effects of a live show. Soon after the government order was issued, Dasgupta received a call from an organizer in Kalyani for whom the band has been doing shows for 17 years now. “Botuda, as he is known, wants to do a show on January 17. His shows are massive and usually have a turnout of 20,000 people. When I asked him how he will manage the crowd of this magnitude, he assured me things will settle down by January,” Dasgupta said. However, Band Fossils isn’t too sure of that yet. “We need 70 people from our end to do a show. In some cases, there are no chairs for the audience. How do we expect someone who is headbanging to maintain a distance of six feet?” she asked. Anindya Chattopadhyay, the frontman of Chandrabindoo, is equally apprehensive. “I don’t know how to control the crowd frenzy. We have performed in front of a 25,000-strong crowd where the audience literally climbed on stage,” he said. But the audience, he added, keep their request when asked not to go overboard. “Since everything will get done differently now, we will have to keep our fingers crossed,” Chattopadhyay said. Bhoomi frontman Soumitra Ray is more optimistic. Enquiries have come in and Ray expects to be back on stage in a couple of weeks. He understands there is a difference between Bhoomi’s shows and classical music concerts where people can sit apart. “We sing to make people dance. There is no point asking them not to groove. Let them enjoy and also ensure that they wear masks and are not in close proximity while dancing. We have to be cautious. If required, I will stop singing and ask them not to over-crowd. For starters, I want to perform in front of a 400-strong crowd,” Ray said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bands-torn-between-getting-back-on-stage-keeping-control-of-crowds/articleshow/79048489.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 5, 2020||Chennai||It’s high time the seven are freed, Stalin writes to Purohit||Chennai: Days after the Supreme Court expressed unhappiness over Tamil Nadu governor delaying decision on remission of life sentence of Rajiv assassination convict A G Perarivalan, DMK leader M K Stalin on Thursday wrote a letter to governor Banwarilal Purohit demanding release of all the convicts in the case. Noting that seven people have been imprisoned for decades, Stalin said it was time they were released. The Tamil Nadu cabinet, on September 9, 2018, recommended release of convicts Nalini Sriharan, her husband Sriharan (alias) Murugan, Santhan, Robert Piyus, Jayakumar, R Ravichandran and A G Perarivalan under the provisions of Article 161 of the Constitution. Stalin claimed the state government had taken the decision following pressure from the DMK. He added that the SC had held time and again that Constitutional authorities should not delay taking decisions. The governor has put the recommendation on hold, stating that he has been waiting for the outcome of the multi-disciplinary monitoring committee probe into the assassination. Meanwhile, VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan has urged the state government to grant parole to the convicts. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind to facilitate their release. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/its-high-time-the-seven-are-freed-stalin-writes-to-purohit/articleshow/79068940.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||Give correct bills at doorstep for power dues’ recovery: Uttar Pradesh energy minister Shrikant Sharma||LUCKNOW: Amid mounting losses of power distribution companies in the state, energy minister Shrikant Sharma on Wednesday called for a special campaign where consumers should be provided accurate bills at their doorsteps for the recovery of pending dues. The minister also interacted with the residents in LESA’s cis-Gomti area and urged power consumers to cooperate with UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL). “Consumers want to pay electricity bill which is evident from the fact that revenue worth over Rs 1,300 crore was collected recently. If we provide them accurate bills on time, consumers will also respond positively. A special campaign is being launched where our engineers will reach the doorsteps of consumers and provide them bills,” said Sharma after he visited Bangla Bazaar substation on a bicycle. After inspecting infrastructure at the substation, the minister asked executive engineer and sub-divisional officer to step up efforts to recover pending dues. At least 5,600 consumers haven’t paid their bills. “UPPCL is facing losses to the tune of Rs 90,000 crore as 25-30% consumers in urban areas and 75% in rural parts of the state are not paying bills. Disconnection of supply is not a solution, therefore, we need help from consumers,” he said. “Our objective is to bring down aggregate and technical losses to 15% and provide glitch-free power supply round-the-clock. If consumers pay bills on time it would be easy for us to provide them cheap electricity,” the minister added. Last month, TOI had highlighted that out of 2.8 crore power consumers registered with four discoms, 1.1 crore never paid electricity bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/give-correct-bills-at-doorstep-for-powerdues-recovery-min/articleshow/79050875.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lalbazar cops to talk to clubs this weekend||KOLKATA: Lalbazar has decided to convene a coordination meeting for Kali Puja organizers to explain the government directives this season. The meeting has been scheduled for the weekend, allowing the opportunity to study any possible high court order pertaining to Diwali. Calcutta High Court is likely to hear the plea for a restricted Kali Puja this week. “Kali Puja is on November 14. If we plan the meeting for Saturday, it will give us and the organizers a week to prepare,” said an officer at Lalbazar. TimesViewRestraint is essential this year. Crowding and social interactions during every festival have the potential to add to the case load.A joint commissioner confirmed that guidelines will be issued to all Kali Puja and Jagaddhatri Puja organizers. The cops believe that the state will come up with a guideline by the time the meeting is convened. Unlike last time, police permission — at least at the divisional level — will also be necessary for all organizers. “We shall follow orders and guidelines pertaining to crackers issued by courts and pollution control board,” explained an officer. Last year, PCB had lodged 11 FIRs. The fate of those as also the action plan for this year, is likely to come up this year. Unlike the Durga Pujas, the Kali Pujas are much more localized. “If we have to keep cops at each of the pandals, our anti-noise cracker exercise will get affected. We need more clarity from the headquarters on this,” said an OC from a north Kolkata police station. An organizer from Naba Yuba Sangha on Amherst Street said they were planning to issue ID cards to locals during Kali Puja days to restrict access. A senior officer listed the advantages of Kali Puja and why it is easier to regulate. “Not many pujas are as elaborate and big as Durga Puja. The pandals are mostly located on the roads and are open, allowing pandal hoppers to view the idols from a long distance. The duration of the pujas are much shorter too,” an officer said. But there are certain disadvantages too. “Each year, some pujas fail to take police permission. In addition, there are some major local fairs associated with the pujas, which will be absent this year,” recalled an officer. Police sources said they may take the opinion of the newly formed Forum for Kali Puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-to-talk-to-clubs-this-weekend/articleshow/79048639.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Majerhat ROB ready for load-testing next week||KOLKATA: The 650m-long cable-stayed Majerhat ROB is currently getting finishing touches and load testing, the most crucial aspect of the construction, is likely to commence next week. A span of the bridge that connected the city to Behala and beyond had collapsed on September 4, 2018. The state public works department is implementing the Rs 250 crore reconstruction project, which was due to be completed in September 2019. The old structure could barely carry 150 tonnes while the newly built bridge is being equipped to carry around 350 tonnes. The ROB portion falls within the zonal railway or Eastern Railway’s ambit and the latter must clear the load testing before it can be carried out. “Load testing is a non-destructive test where static load is imposed on the structure to check how it behaves. The elasticity of the cable-stayed spans will be studied. A span deflection of less than 6mm is acceptable for any modern bridge. After the load is removed, the bridge has to come to its original position,” said an engineer. PWD and contractors, the Haryana-based SP Singla, have completed tarring of two layers of dense bituminous macadam and bitumen of 50mm and 30mm thickness respectively. The road surface has been laid and asphalting done. The four cement crash barriers, covering around 1,300m, are also complete. The bridge has also got its first coat of paint. After the load testing, another very complex job is scheduled — instrumentation. The new Majerhat ROB promises to be city’s safest bridge since it will be equipped with sensors and instrumentation or structural monitoring to provide real-time data showing the structure’s functions against static and dynamic vehicular load. Courtesy of the instrumentation, computers in the control room will analyze the data in real time. The data will show engineers if the structure is functioning well or if there are issues that need to be taken care of. The onus of maintaining Kolkata’s first “instrumented” road bridge will be on the PWD. But ER will have direct access to the data analysis. Should ER find that the “instrumentation” is failing for more than a month, it will suspend plying of vehicles on the ROB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/majerhat-rob-ready-for-load-testing-next-week/articleshow/79048473.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 5, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: NDA, GA locked in direct contest in Samastipur||SAMASTIPUR: In the five assembly constituencies of the district which will go to polls in the third phase on November 7, there seems to be a direct contest between the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan or the Grand Alliance (GA). Sarairanjan: In Sarairanjan, the sitting JD (U) candidate Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, who is also the speaker of the Vidhan Sabha, is pitted against Arvind Sahni of RJD. According to the local political observers, Chaudhary is likely to emerge victorious this time too for he has gained popularity with the voters of his constituency. He has always been available to them whenever they needed him. He has been well- behaved and he has also worked for the development of the area. The electorates are happy about the proposed medical college at Narghoghi in Sarairajan and an engineering college also in the constituency and they give the credit for the same to Chaudhary, who has been very close to CM Nitish Kumar. Kalyanpur: In Kalyanpur (SC), there seems to be a tough, straight contest between the sitting JD(U) MLA and minister in the Nitish cabinet Maheswar Hazari and CPI(ML)’s Ranjit Ram. LJP candidate Sundeshwar Ram is likely to cut into the vote banks of both the JD(U) and the CPI(ML). Shashibhushan Sharma, a resident of Phulwaria, Kalyanpur and trade union leader said, “The BJP supporters will vote for the JD(U) and not the LJP.” Warisnagar: In Warisnagar, the sitting JD(U) candidate Ashok Kumar is engaged in a triangular contest. Urmila Sinha wife of Gajendra Singh, a former minister, is a formidable candidate here. Phool Babu Singh of ML is also optimistic about his win with RJD’s support. The key to success in Warisnagar, said a resident of Hansa village, will depend on the upper caste voters this time. Morwa: In Morwa , there is a straight contest between the sitting JD(U) MLA Vidyasagar Nishad and RJD's Ranvijay Sahu. Nishad’s prospect, said a Morwa resident DP Sharma, is shaky for he has not been in touch with the people of his constituency and done precious little for the development of the area. Samastipur: In Samastipur, the sitting RJD MLA Md Akhtarul Islam Shahin is facing Ashwamedh Devi of JD(U). LJP candidate Mahendra Pradhan is also contesting. Surendra Prasad Singh, a CPI(ML) activist said, “Shahin may win by a good margin as he has the support of ML activists.” In fact, the CPI(ML)’s acceptance in the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan has given the RJD more acceptability among the dalits and other poor sections of the society, said Kranti Kumar and Mukund Kumar, senior teachers of Samastipur College, Samastipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nda-ga-locked-in-direct-contest-in-samastipur/articleshow/79048323.cms||S K Jain
November 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: NDA, GA locked in direct contest in Samastipur||SAMASTIPUR: In the five assembly constituencies of the district which will go to polls in the third phase on November 7, there seems to be a direct contest between the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan or the Grand Alliance (GA). Sarairanjan: In Sarairanjan, the sitting JD (U) candidate Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, who is also the speaker of the Vidhan Sabha, is pitted against Arvind Sahni of RJD. According to the local political observers, Chaudhary is likely to emerge victorious this time too for he has gained popularity with the voters of his constituency. He has always been available to them whenever they needed him. He has been well- behaved and he has also worked for the development of the area. The electorates are happy about the proposed medical college at Narghoghi in Sarairajan and an engineering college also in the constituency and they give the credit for the same to Chaudhary, who has been very close to CM Nitish Kumar. Kalyanpur: In Kalyanpur (SC), there seems to be a tough, straight contest between the sitting JD(U) MLA and minister in the Nitish cabinet Maheswar Hazari and CPI(ML)’s Ranjit Ram. LJP candidate Sundeshwar Ram is likely to cut into the vote banks of both the JD(U) and the CPI(ML). Shashibhushan Sharma, a resident of Phulwaria, Kalyanpur and trade union leader said, “The BJP supporters will vote for the JD(U) and not the LJP.” Warisnagar: In Warisnagar, the sitting JD(U) candidate Ashok Kumar is engaged in a triangular contest. Urmila Sinha wife of Gajendra Singh, a former minister, is a formidable candidate here. Phool Babu Singh of ML is also optimistic about his win with RJD’s support. The key to success in Warisnagar, said a resident of Hansa village, will depend on the upper caste voters this time. Morwa: In Morwa , there is a straight contest between the sitting JD(U) MLA Vidyasagar Nishad and RJD's Ranvijay Sahu. Nishad’s prospect, said a Morwa resident DP Sharma, is shaky for he has not been in touch with the people of his constituency and done precious little for the development of the area. Samastipur: In Samastipur, the sitting RJD MLA Md Akhtarul Islam Shahin is facing Ashwamedh Devi of JD(U). LJP candidate Mahendra Pradhan is also contesting. Surendra Prasad Singh, a CPI(ML) activist said, “Shahin may win by a good margin as he has the support of ML activists.” In fact, the CPI(ML)’s acceptance in the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan has given the RJD more acceptability among the dalits and other poor sections of the society, said Kranti Kumar and Mukund Kumar, senior teachers of Samastipur College, Samastipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-ga-locked-in-direct-contest-in-samastipur/articleshow/79056175.cms||S K Jain
November 5, 2020||Patna||AIMIM-BSP alliance in Bihar to favour BJP: Congress||PATNA: Senior UP Congress leader Pramod Tiwari on Wednesday accused Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM and Mayawati’s BSP of forging an alliance in Bihar only to benefit BJP. He has made this statement when the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region will go to the polls in the third and last phase of assembly elections on November 7. “Both (Owaisi and Mayawati) are fulfilling their responsibility towards BJP,” Tiwari said. He also questions Mayawati’s decision to field her party candidates in the byelections in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “After her defeat in the byelection in Bijnor at the hands of Congress’s Meira Kumar in 1985, Mayawati’s party never contesting any bypoll. But now her party is fighting in UP and the candidate is of BJP’s choice,” Tiwari alleged and said she was compelled to take such a step or “files against her will be opened”. He also took a jibe at JD(U) and BJP’s alliance saying he agreed it was a double-engine moving in opposite directions. “People sitting in this train are suffering jolts. Then there is a Chirag (Paswan) which has darkness and light,” Tiwari said, pointing to the LJP chief. He also lashed out at PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish Kumar for not helping the migrants and urged people to vote in favour of the Mahagathbandhan candidates in the third phase also. In another press conference in Purnia, Congress national secretary general Randeep Singh Surjewala cited a report published by the Institute of Social Science that 50% of the families in Bihar were compelled to migrate to other states in search of jobs and majority of them were from the Seemanchal region. He also lashed out at the NDA government for the treatment meted out to migrant labrourers while they were returning home. “An NGO has reported that 159 migrants died on the way because of accident, hunger and thirst and 630 were seriously injured.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aimim-bsp-alliance-to-favour-bjp-cong/articleshow/79056560.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls: Family fights in Jokihat and Narkatiaganj seats||PATNA: The third phase of the assembly elections in Bihar for 78 seats on November 7 is set to witness family fights in some areas. One such constituency is Jokihat in Araria, where former Union minister late Mohammad Taslimuddin’s elder son and former MP Sarfaraz Alam of RJD is pitted against his younger brother Md Shahnawaz, who is contesting from Assaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM). Taslimuddin, also known as the ‘Seemanchal Gandhi’, had represented Jokihat five times. He was first elected in 1969 on a Congress ticket. Sarfaraz was elected thrice — in 2000, 2010 and 2015 — first on the RJD ticket and the next two times as a JD(U) candidate. Voters of Jokihat elected Sarfaraz of JD(U) in the 2015 assembly election. He had secured 92,890 votes against Congress’s Ranjeet Yadav’s 38,910 votes. Later, JD(U) suspended him after an FIR was lodged against him for allegedly misbehaving with a couple in a train in January 2016. Sarfaraz rejoined RJD in 2018 and contested the parliamentary bypoll from Araria in 2018 after the death of his father and won and resigned as the Jokihat MLA. Shahnawaz won the seat later. After Sarfaraz lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election against BJP, he returned to his traditional Jokihat seat and got the RJD ticket. Shahnawaz quit RJD and got ticket from AIMIM to contest against his brother. In Jokihat, minorities constitute around 77% of the population and most of them belong to Kulhaiya sub-group of the Sheikh community. The two brothers belong to the same community. In Narkatiaganj, sitting Congress MLA Vinay Varma is contesting against his younger cousin brother’s wife and BJP candidate Rashmi Varma, who had won the seat in the 2010. Rashmi is the wife of late Alok Prasad Varma. It is not the first time that Rashmi is contesting against Vinay. In 2015, when Vinay defeated BJP candidate Renu Devi by a margin of 16,061 votes, Rashmi had contested as an independent candidate. Had she not got the BJP ticket this time, she could have contested again as an independent candidate. Varma joined the Youth Congress in 1975 as a grassroots worker. He was the mukhiya of Shikarpur panchayat from 1978 to 2000. He was later elected as pramukh of Narkatiaganj block in 2001. His father Sigheshwar Varma was an MLA from Narkatiaganj and his grandfather Bipin Behari Varma was a Lok Sabha member for two consecutive terms from Champaran till 1962. He later became a member of the Rajya Sabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/family-fights-in-jokihat-and-narkatiaganj-seats/articleshow/79056705.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 5, 2020||---||Bihar: 73% of RJD candidates in third phase polls face criminal cases||PATNA: Nearly 31% (371) of the candidates contesting in the 78 constituencies in the third phase of Bihar assembly elections have criminal cases pending against them while 30% (361) of them have assets worth Rs1 crore or more, according to a report released by election watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Bihar Election Watch (BEW). The findings are based on the self-sworn affidavits submitted by 1,195 out of the 1,207 candidates in the fray in the third and last phase of the polls. There are 110 women and 1,088 men contesting in the third phase of polls to be held on November 7. RJD had the maximum 32 (73%) out of its 44 candidates facing criminal cases, including 22 (50%) having serious charges like murder and rape against them. Of the 34 BJP candidates, 26 have declared criminal cases against themselves while 22 have serious criminal cases pending against them. JAP-L has 22 candidates in this round facing criminal cases, followed by 21 of JD(U), 19 of Congress, 18 of LJP and 16 of RLSP. The remaining 233 candidates are from registered smaller parties or independents. Of the 78 seats in the third phase, 72 are declared as red alert constituencies (where 3 or more contesting candidates have declared criminal cases against themselves). As per the report, as many as 282 candidates are facing serious criminal offences, including 37 booked for crime against women. Of them, five candidates have declared cases related to rape. Around 20 candidates have murder cases and 73 face attempt to murder charges. Among all candidates contesting the election, JAP-L chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav from Madhepura has the highest number of 132 criminal cases pending against him. Bima Bharti from JD(U), Mehboob Alam and Birendra Prasad Gupta of CPI(ML), LJP’s Shanker Singh and Amit Chaudhary and RJD’s Om Prakash Chaudhary are among those facing murder charges. Meanwhile, the richest among the candidates in this phase is RLSP’s BK Singh from Warisnagar in Samastipur. He has movable and immovable assets worth Rs85.89 crore. The second wealthiest candidate is Om Prakash Chaudhary of RJD from Motihari seat. He has declared his assets worth Rs45.37 crore. Shankar Kumar Jha, an independent candidate from Darbhanga, has assets worth Rs32.19 crore. At least 35 contesting candidates from RJD are crorepatis, closely followed by 31 each in BJP and LJP. Total 30 JD(U) candidates are crorepatis while Congress has 17. When it comes to educational qualification, the report reveals that most of the candidates are not even graduates. Around 499 (42%) candidates have declared their educational qualification between classes V and XII while 552 (46%) are graduates or above. Total 126 candidates are literate. There are 5 candidates who are illiterates and 12 are diploma holders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/73-of-rjd-candidates-in-3rd-phase-polls-face-criminal-cases/articleshow/79048062.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 5, 2020||---||Bihar elections: JP Nadda attacks RJD, calls ally CPI(ML) a party of ‘killers’||PATNA: BJP national president J P Nadda on Wednesday said that a Mahagathbandhan government will derail the state’s developmental process, as RJD, Congress and the Left combine do not have the track record of bringing development to the state. Calling the RJD allies as ‘jungle raj’ partners, Nadda said, “What do RJD and CPI(ML) know about development work? The CPI(ML) used to do killings and had even killed a gram sewak. RJD and CPI(ML) have formed a team and the Congress has also joined them.” Stating that criminal elements used to have a field day in the state in the past, Nadda said Nitish brought peace and order to the state. “The criminal elements will remain in their houses till the Nitish government is around. Once the grand alliance rule comes to the state, the same elements will come out of their houses and derail the developmental track record of the state,” he added. Nadda was addressing a rally at Lauria in West Champaran seeking votes for all NDA candidates, including Bhagirathi Devi (Ramnagar), Rashmi Verma (Narkatiaganj), Ram Singh (Bagaha), Vinay Bihari (Lauria) and Khursheed Alam (Sikta). He also sought votes for Sunil Kumar of JD(U), who is contesting the parliamentary by-election for the Valmiki Nagar seat that had fallen vacant due to the death of Baidyanath Mahto, father of Kumar. The by-election will be held on November 7, the day of the third phase of polling in the state. State BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, party’s Lok Sabha MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy, its Rajya Sabha member Satish Chandra Dubey, and the JD(U) candidate for the Valmiki Nagar by-election Sunil Kumar also addressed the rally. Nadda recounted the developmental steps taken by the Centre as part of the PM’s package worth Rs 1.25 lakh crore. He said the two ‘jungle raj wale Yuvraj’ – Rahul Gandhi and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav– have also started talking about development, as PM Modi had changed the discourse of the country since 2014. On the 10 lakh government jobs promise made by Tejashwi to the youths of the state, Nadda said, “Don’t get confused by them. On the contrary, PM Modi has provided for teaching in the Hindi language in medical and engineering institutes. Not only English knowing people will become doctors and engineers, but also those who read and write in the Hindi language.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nadda-attacks-rjd-calls-ally-cpiml-a-party-of-killers/articleshow/79048253.cms||Abhay Singh
November 5, 2020||Business||SBI reports 52% growth in Q2 net at Rs 4,574 crore||Mumbai: State Bank of India’s net profit for the quarter ended September 2020 rose 52% to Rs 4,574 crore from Rs 3,012 crore a year ago. Profits rose as provisions for bad loans almost halved to Rs 5,619 crore during the quarter from Rs 11,040 crore a year ago, said SBI chairman Dinesh Khara. This is the first time after the global financial crisis that a new chairman in SBI has not announced a drop in profits. SBI chairman Pratip Chaudhuri had announced a 99% drop in profits for the first quarter (Q4FY11) that he took charge as the bank had underprovided for bad loans and employee costs earlier. His successor Arundhati Bhattacharya too had announced a 35% drop in profits for Q2FY14 due to higher provisions immediately after taking charge. Khara’s predecessor Rajnish Kumar started his innings with a 38% drop in net profit for Q2FY18. Khara said SBI’s deposits at the end of the quarter stood at Rs 34.7 lakh crore — an increase of 14% from Rs 30.3 lakh crore a year ago. Advances stood at Rs 22.9 lakh crore, which was 6% higher than Rs 21.5 lakh crore a year earlier. “While the credit growth is only 6%, if you look at the investment book as well, the growth is back to pre-Covid levels,” said Khara. The bank has reported a strong growth of 14.6% in retail loans, which has prompted it to revise its growth forecast to 8-9% from 8% earlier. Khara said that the collection efficiency has improved to 97.5% and the bank has made more than adequate provisions for anticipated bad loans. According to him, the collection efficiency would only improve as the economy opened and there would be more liquidity in the hands of borrowers. The bank has also started the process of crediting the ex-gratia interest relief to the accounts of borrowers, which was announced by the government last month. “The bank expects total slippages and restructuring book to be around Rs 60,000 crore (2.5% of advances) by end of FY21. We have a positive view on SBI considering inexpensive valuation, higher provision coverage, and healthy business growth reported by the subsidiaries,” said Angel Broking senior equity research analyst Jaikishan Parmar. The bank reported gross non-performing assets (NPAs) of 5.28%, down from 7.2% a year ago. Net NPAs stood at 1.59% as against 2.8% a year earlier. Without a Supreme Court stay on classifying loans during Covid-19 as NPAs, the bank’s gross and net NPAs would have been 5.88% and 2% respectively.The bank’s net interest income rose by around 6% to Rs 28,816 crore despite interest income remaining flat. Margins improved because of a sharp drop in cost of funds with interest expenditure down by 3%. In his interaction, Khara said that there were signs that the economy was recovering, and most companies were reporting operations at 70% of pre-Covid levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-reports-52-growth-in-q2-net-at-rs-4574-crore/articleshow/79051114.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hubballi||Slew of programmes to mark Mahatma Gandhi’s visit to Dharwad||DHARWAD: Not many people, particularly younger generation, are aware that Mahatma Gandhi had visited several places in Dharwad before travelling to Belagavi to participate in the All India Congress meet. It was on November 10, 1920 that Gandhi had come to Dharwad and visited freedom fighters’ houses at Kelgeri, Saraswathpur and Ulavi Chennabasaveshwar temple and had held public gathering to elicit suggestions from the people here on the future course of freedom struggle. Later, Gandhi had visited Siddharoodh Mutt in Hubballi. To commemorate the 100th year of Gandhi’s visit to Dharwad Gandhi Peace Foundation, the Center for Gandhian Studies, Chitra Film Society and DASA Trust will organise several programmes on November 10 and 11 in Dharwad and Hubballi respectively. Giving details of the programmes here on Wednesday, linguist Ganesh Devy and Dr Sanjiv Kulkarni said that there will be a meeting of pourakarmikas at 6am on November 10, followed by all-religion prayer and bhajan rendition at the Gandhi Peace Foundation and tree plantation at WALMI. At 9am, children will be served free breakfast at Buddha Rakkita School near old DySP Circle and a special programme at Anjuman College will be held wherein writers and intellectuals will speak on Gandhi. A painting expo by students of Bala Balaga School will also be held. Dramatised reading of ‘Hind Swaraj’ written by Gandhi will follow. There will be a meeting of lawyers at the Dharwad Bar Association at 2pm. A special cover brought out by India Posts will be released at Srujana auditorium at 4 pm. Chitra Film Society will screen the movie The Making of Mahatma at 4:30pm at Srujana. On November 11, there will be performances by students at Sana College in Hubballi at 9am, followed by Shramik meeting at the APMC yard. Release of special postcard and meeting at Mahila Vidyapeeth will be followed by another meeting at Congress Bhavan at 2pm and visit to Siddharoodh Mutt at 3pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/slew-of-programmes-to-mark-mahatmas-visit-to-dharwad/articleshow/79046621.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Panchalinga Darshana to now go virtual||MYSURU: Panchalinga Darshana is one of the major events of South India and is held on the banks of river Cauvery in Talakadu. After seven years, this event will be celebrated this December. Keeping in mind the Covid-19 crisis, the state government decided to celebrate the event in a virtual way like Mysuru Dasara. A decision in this regard was taken at a preparatory meeting chaired by district minister ST Somashekhar here on Wednesday. Deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri Dasari and other officials were present. It was decided to send a committee of experts to Talakadu and submit a report on organising this event and SoPs. “As the event is in winter, we must be very careful,” said Somashekhar. He added that the committee will comprise the DC and Mysuru SP. It was also decided that the event will be a simple one and that the district administration will submit a proposal on the required funding. Officials said rs9 lakh is needed to organise the event virtually and Rs.32 lakhs for various religious events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/panchalinga-darshana-to-now-go-virtual/articleshow/79048113.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC shifts plea on same-sex marriage to another bench, hearing on November 19||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Wednesday transferred to another bench a PIL seeking legal recognition of same sex marriage under the Hindu Marriage Act. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan sent the petition to another bench that was hearing similar pleas related to the legal recognition of same sex marriage, and listed it for hearing on November 19. The plea challenged the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act on the ground that these didn’t recognise union between same sex couples. It submitted that, as of now, the law sees the members of the LGBT community as individuals and not as couples, denying them right to get married to person of their own choice. It said that denying the community the option to marry was discriminatory and treated them as a second class citizen. The petitioners also argued there was nothing in the Hindu Marriage Act that mandated that marriage should take place only between a Hindu man and a Hindu woman. Moreover, Section 5 of the Act clearly lays down that marriage can be performed between “any two Hindus”, it added. Earlier, the Centre had opposed the plea arguing that the sought relief could not be granted for two reasons — first, the petitioner was asking the judiciary to legislate, and any recognition of same sex marriages “would run contrary to various statutory provisions” as marriage-related laws talk of husband and wife, and in a same sex marriage, these roles could not be defined. In the other plea, two gay couples had said, “Despite the fact that there is no statutory bar under the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955 and the Special Marriage Act of 1956 against gay marriage, the same are not being registered throughout the country and in Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-shifts-plea-on-same-sex-marriage-to-another-bench-hearing-on-nov-19/articleshow/79048632.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Patna||‘Narendra Modi voting machines’ can’t stop us in Bihar: Rahul Gandhi||PATNA: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in his last two rallies in Bihar on Wednesday, went for the jugular attacking PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish Kumar over lack of job opportunities for the youth in the state, woes of migrants during the lockdown and the new farm laws, which will worsen farmers problems. Terming his fight against PM Modi as an “ideological fight against hatred”, the former Congress chief described the EVMs as MVMs or ‘Modi Voting Machines’ but asserted that it would not make a difference this time. “There is anger in the youth of Bihar and so EVM or MVM it doesn’t matter, the Mahagatbandhan will form the government in Bihar,” Rahul said, promising increased minimum support prices for farmers and food and grain processing units across the state after coming to power. “They spread hatred against me, but I answer with love. Hate can only be defeated with love. We are fighting for ideology, and I will not take a step back unless I defeat Narendra Modi Ji,” said Rahul, adding he has come to develop "a long-term relationship with the people of Bihar". He addressed one rally each in Bihariganj and Ararai on Wednesday and at both the places he took a jibe at the two-crore job promises made by the PM and promises which CM Nitish had made in 2015 assembly elections for developing Bihar. “Now when the youths are asking about what happened to the jobs and other promises, Nitish Ji is getting angry,” said Rahul. Raising the problems faced by Bihar migrants at his rally in Araria, Rahul told the crowd that it exposed the true colours of Modi. “A PM who has any love for the poor and labourers would have never acted like that. Without giving any notice, he announced sudden lockdown and left the poor without train, buses, food and water. He has no place in his heart for poor,” Rahul said. “Also, every year you face the fury of floods in this region. Youths here have to migrate to other places for work. And yet Modi Ji and Nitish Ji did nothing, but now they are shamelessly coming and asking you for votes,” he added. Rahul also talked about farmers’ and migrant labourers’ issues and criticised PM Modi for the three new farm laws. “PM has paved the way for the two biggest middlemen, Ambani and Adani, who will benefit through these laws. The biggest godowns will hoard your produce. Look how the price of vegetables and onions have increased manifold. Modi Ji is saying that a farmer is free to sell his produce anywhere. Will he go by plane and sell his produce to another state?” Continuing his attack on Ambani and Adani, Rahul said demonetisation was done to benefit them. “You stood in long queues and deposited your money. Then Modi Ji waived off their loan with the same money.” At Bihariganj, Rahul appealed to people to vote for Congress candidate Subhashini Raj Rao, reminding them of Subhashini’s father and veteran leader Sharad Yadav. “He has been my guru, and Subhashini is my sister. Right now Sharad Ji is ill and you have to make Subhashini win this election for yourself and for Sharad Ji.” This was Rahul’s last visit to Bihar in this assembly election. While he had addressed two rallies each in the first and second phase, in the third phase, he addressed four rallies in two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/modi-voting-machines-cant-stop-us-in-bihar-rahul/articleshow/79056109.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: JP Nadda attacks RJD, calls ally CPI(ML) a party of ‘killers’||PATNA: BJP national president J P Nadda on Wednesday said that a Mahagathbandhan government will derail the state’s developmental process, as RJD, Congress and the Left combine do not have the track record of bringing development to the state. Calling the RJD allies as ‘jungle raj’ partners, Nadda said, “What do RJD and CPI(ML) know about development work? The CPI(ML) used to do killings and had even killed a gram sewak. RJD and CPI(ML) have formed a team and the Congress has also joined them.” Stating that criminal elements used to have a field day in the state in the past, Nadda said Nitish brought peace and order to the state. “The criminal elements will remain in their houses till the Nitish government is around. Once the grand alliance rule comes to the state, the same elements will come out of their houses and derail the developmental track record of the state,” he added. Nadda was addressing a rally at Lauria in West Champaran seeking votes for all NDA candidates, including Bhagirathi Devi (Ramnagar), Rashmi Verma (Narkatiaganj), Ram Singh (Bagaha), Vinay Bihari (Lauria) and Khursheed Alam (Sikta). He also sought votes for Sunil Kumar of JD(U), who is contesting the parliamentary by-election for the Valmiki Nagar seat that had fallen vacant due to the death of Baidyanath Mahto, father of Kumar. The by-election will be held on November 7, the day of the third phase of polling in the state. State BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, party’s Lok Sabha MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy, its Rajya Sabha member Satish Chandra Dubey, and the JD(U) candidate for the Valmiki Nagar by-election Sunil Kumar also addressed the rally. Nadda recounted the developmental steps taken by the Centre as part of the PM’s package worth Rs 1.25 lakh crore. He said the two ‘jungle raj wale Yuvraj’ – Rahul Gandhi and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav– have also started talking about development, as PM Modi had changed the discourse of the country since 2014. On the 10 lakh government jobs promise made by Tejashwi to the youths of the state, Nadda said, “Don’t get confused by them. On the contrary, PM Modi has provided for teaching in the Hindi language in medical and engineering institutes. Not only English knowing people will become doctors and engineers, but also those who read and write in the Hindi language.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nadda-attacks-rjd-calls-ally-cpiml-a-party-of-killers/articleshow/79056614.cms||Abhay Singh
November 5, 2020||---||Bihar polls: Family fights in Jokihat and Narkatiaganj seats||PATNA: The third phase of the assembly elections in Bihar for 78 seats on November 7 is set to witness family fights in some areas. One such constituency is Jokihat in Araria, where former Union minister late Mohammad Taslimuddin’s elder son and former MP Sarfaraz Alam of RJD is pitted against his younger brother Md Shahnawaz, who is contesting from Assaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM). Taslimuddin, also known as the ‘Seemanchal Gandhi’, had represented Jokihat five times. He was first elected in 1969 on a Congress ticket. Sarfaraz was elected thrice — in 2000, 2010 and 2015 — first on the RJD ticket and the next two times as a JD(U) candidate. Voters of Jokihat elected Sarfaraz of JD(U) in the 2015 assembly election. He had secured 92,890 votes against Congress’s Ranjeet Yadav’s 38,910 votes. Later, JD(U) suspended him after an FIR was lodged against him for allegedly misbehaving with a couple in a train in January 2016. Sarfaraz rejoined RJD in 2018 and contested the parliamentary bypoll from Araria in 2018 after the death of his father and won and resigned as the Jokihat MLA. Shahnawaz won the seat later. After Sarfaraz lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election against BJP, he returned to his traditional Jokihat seat and got the RJD ticket. Shahnawaz quit RJD and got ticket from AIMIM to contest against his brother. In Jokihat, minorities constitute around 77% of the population and most of them belong to Kulhaiya sub-group of the Sheikh community. The two brothers belong to the same community. In Narkatiaganj, sitting Congress MLA Vinay Varma is contesting against his younger cousin brother’s wife and BJP candidate Rashmi Varma, who had won the seat in the 2010. Rashmi is the wife of late Alok Prasad Varma. It is not the first time that Rashmi is contesting against Vinay. In 2015, when Vinay defeated BJP candidate Renu Devi by a margin of 16,061 votes, Rashmi had contested as an independent candidate. Had she not got the BJP ticket this time, she could have contested again as an independent candidate. Varma joined the Youth Congress in 1975 as a grassroots worker. He was the mukhiya of Shikarpur panchayat from 1978 to 2000. He was later elected as pramukh of Narkatiaganj block in 2001. His father Sigheshwar Varma was an MLA from Narkatiaganj and his grandfather Bipin Behari Varma was a Lok Sabha member for two consecutive terms from Champaran till 1962. He later became a member of the Rajya Sabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/family-fights-in-jokihat-and-narkatiaganj-seats/articleshow/79048345.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 5, 2020||Patna||From selfie corner to crèche, arrangements impress Patna voters||PATNA: One of the city landmarks, Patna Women’s College was decked with white and blue balloons with a selfie corner and crèche. As voters reached there for exercising their franchise, the first thing which greeted them was a hand-held infrared thermometer at the entrance. A person was allowed further only after passing this temperature test. A group of ASHA workers and ANMs could be spotted sitting behind tables with sanitisers and gloves to ensure that everyone sanitised his or her hand and got one glove before entering the polling booths while maintaining social distancing to press the EVM button. Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi said there were 11 ‘Shashakt Matdaan Kendras’ on this sprawling campus. He said there were 251 such booths across the district managed by women staff only. “These are like model polling booths and civil defence volunteers have been roped in to facilitate old people and those with disabilities. While ICDS employees were deputed at crèche, ASHA workers were asked to measure temperature and provide gloves,” Ravi said. Voters of old age and with disabilities were provided e-rickshaws and wheel chairs to take them inside the campus from the main gate. Vishaka Sinha, one of the polling officials there, said, “It has been ensured that old aged and those with disabilities do not suffer any problem. We are also giving certificates to them as a mark of respect and appreciation,” said Sinha. Another official, Rashmi Roy, pointed to a crèche which had toys, slides and tiny chairs for the little ones, along with caretakers. “Many people stay in nuclear families and cannot leave their kids alone. So, these facilities are worth appreciating,” said Manjula Verma. Another voter, Sarmistha Tiwari took her over 3 years old daughter Dhiya Tiwari to the polling booth. “This facility is really good. Since I cannot leave her alone at home, I brought her with myself,” she said. Even voters appreciated the facilities at these model booths. Vikas Kumar, who resides in Shri Krishna Nagar said, “I was a bit hesitant in moving out, but I found no chaos and crowd. Not only administration, even people are following all norms amid Covoid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/from-selfie-corner-to-crche-arrangements-impress-voters/articleshow/79036044.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 5, 2020||Patna||Fate of several high-profile candidates sealed in Phase II||PATNA: The second phase of the assembly polls held in 94 constituencies on Tuesday sealed the fate of several high-profile candidates, including RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s two sons Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav, four ministers of the Nitish Kumar cabinet, senior politician and actor Shatrughan Sinha’s son Luv Sinha, RJD’s senior leader Alok Mehta and Pushpam Priya Choudhary of Plurals Party. The second phase was also important for some other prominent contestants like Tej Pratap Yadav’s estranged father in-law Chandrika Rai, former MP Anand Mohan’s son Chetan Anand, Speaker of outgoing assembly Vijay Choudhary besides a few bahubalis (musclemen). such as Ritlal Yadav, Munna Shukla, Rama Singh’s wife Veena Singh, Manoranjan Kumar Singh alias Dhumal Singh’s spouse Sita Devi and former MLA Ranbir Yadav’s wife Poonam Devi. While Tejashwi, the CM face of RJD-led Grand Alliance, was in fray from Raghopur in Vaishali district, his elder brother Tej Pratap contested from Hasanpur constituency in Samastipur district. Tejashwi, who is challenged by BJP’s Satish Kumar, addressed four election meetings, including two in diara belt, in a bid to consolidate his supporters. Satish had emerged as a giant killer when he defeated former CM Rabri Devi from Raghopur in 2010 on a JD(U) ticket. This time he is contesting as BJP candidate. Tej, on the other hand, is pitted against two-term MLA Raj Kumar Rai of JD(U). Tejashwi campaigned in Hasanpur to garner support for his elder brother, who had earlier won from Mahua in 2015 election. Tej’s father in-law Chandrika Rai is seeking re-election from the Parsa assembly seat, but this time on a JD(U) ticket. He switched over to JD(U) from RJD after the relations of his daughter soured with Lalu’s family members. Chandrika is facing a tough contest from his rival Chhote Lal Rai of RJD. LJP has fielded Rakesh Singh from this seat. Nand Kishore Yadav, a minister in the outgoing Nitish Kumar government, is seeking re-election for a seventh term from Patna Sahib on a BJP ticket. Patna Sahib is considered a BJP stronghold. He is pitted against Pravin Singh of Congress. RLSP has fielded Jagdip Prasad Verma from the seat. Yadav has been winning election from the seat since 1995. Shrawan Kumar, a minister in the Nitish Kumar government, is seeking re-election from Nalanda seat. Kumar, considered close to Nitish, is facing a stiff challenge from his nearest rival Gunjan Patel of Congress. While LJP has fielded Ramkeshwar Prasad, Sonu Kumar is in the fray on an RLSP ticket from the seat. BJP MLA Rana Randhir Singh, a minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet, is seeking re-election from Madhuban seat. He is pitted against Madan Sah of RJD. State social welfare minister Ram Sevak Singh, RJD leaders Alok Kumar Mehta, Shailesh Kumar and former MP Anand Mohan’s son Chetan Anand are contesting from Hathua, Ujiarpur, Bihpur and Sheohar constituencies, respectively. Anand Mohan is serving life term in former Gopalganj DM G Krishnaiah murder case. Bankipur constituency in Patna saw a tough contest among three young leaders —Nitin Naveen of BJP, Luv Sinha of Congress and Pushpam Priya Choudhary of Plurals Party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fate-of-several-high-profile-candidates-sealed-in-phase-ii/articleshow/79028254.cms||Ramashankar
November 5, 2020||Business||Pandemic pushes users to try out new brands||Namrata.Singh@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Brand loyalty is being put to the test with homemakers open to trying fresh alternatives and adopting them too. The trend of consumers switching to other brands has been clearly visible during the pandemic. A study by EY on the impact of Covid on homemakers, which has been shared exclusively with TOI, reveals that a little more than half (53%) tried a new brand during the pandemic. Of this, 35% liked the new brand and stayed with it, while 38% switched back to their original brand. The study, conducted in July-August this year, pertains to essentials, non-essentials, household cleaning, perishables and personal care categories. EY collected responses from 385 homemakers from different age groups, family types and spend categories across various cities. The consultancy said brands will need to build strong differentiators to hold the increasingly flexible customer base as consumer baskets are growing, with room for experimentation. One seldom finds a homemaker experimenting frequently with new brands and products. EY partner (design thinking & digital transformation) Shashank Shwet said the pandemic served as a critical event that compelled consumers to explore and accept new brands based on availability. “Initially, consumers were seen adjusting to the lockdown by becoming more flexible and buying new specialty food and DIY items to compensate for lack of entertainment options. This not only force-changed consumer preferences but also paved the way for new product categories with a thrust of localism. Therefore, the switch to new brands was triggered by factors like convenience, availability and pricing,” said Shwet. Jyothy Labs joint MD Ullas Kamath said during disruptive times like Covid when there’s non-availability of a certain brand, consumers may opt for others but such a switch is temporary in nature. In the FMCG business, continuous supply of products and its availability across all formats of stores is critical, added Kamath. “Products/brands with strong differentiations will always have loyal customers. We at Jyothy not only offer differentiated products to our loyal consumers, we have also ensured that products were made available pan-India during tough and testing times like Covid. We also have the offerings at different price points to cater to the needs of every consumer — both urban and rural,” said Kamath. Shwet said for brands to be successful post-Covid, it will be important for them to uphold the brand promise consistently with an equal focus on the intent to prioritise safety and hygiene, health and natural foods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pandemic-pushes-users-to-try-out-new-brands/articleshow/79051052.cms||Namrata Singh
November 5, 2020||Business||Bulls trump bears on Wall Street as investors gear up for new normal||Trading on Dalal Street witnessed substantial volatility. The sensex closed nearly 355 points, or 1%, higher at 40,616 points. In early trades on Wall Street, investors were rushing to buy, which reflected in the Dow Jones rallying over 2% to regain the 28k mark, while the broader S&P 500 index was up nearly 3% to over 3,450 points. Lack of clarity about the US election results gripped the domestic market during the closing hours, traders said. According to a note by Axis Securities chief investment officer Naveen Kulkarni, currently it’s unclear how the results will pan out. “Even in case of a Democrat presidential win, the Senate control could still be in the hands of Republicans. This would translate into a weaker Democrat win. The emphatic stimulus that was expected after elections will take more time,” Kulkarni said. “Markets in the short term could be jittery as the election verdict could still swing either way. The election has turned out to be much tighter than anticipated with new challenges emerging.” Top brokers are also looking at the post-US poll scenario for India and believe domestic fundamentals would dictate the medium-term trend more than external factors. According to Motilal Oswal Financial Services head (retail research) Siddhartha Khemka, the overall structure of the market remains positive. “Economic recovery continues, with high-frequency data (GST collections, manufacturing PMI index, rail freight, power demand, etc) for October coming in quite strong,” he said. According to Khemka, at expected fiscal 2022 earnings and current valuations, Nifty stocks do not offer much margin of safety. “Thus, we expect market to be in a tight range for some time with stock-specific action and sectoral rotation.” In Wednesday’s session, strong buying in Reliance Industries, Infosys, Kotak Bank and HDFC Bank contributed the most, while selling in HDFC and ICICI Bank limited the gains to some extent. RIL, which has the highest weight in sensex, closed 3.5% higher after falling 9.6% in the previous three sessions. Foreign investors were net buyers at Rs 146 crore, while domestic funds were net sellers at just Rs 8 crore, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bulls-trump-bears-on-wall-street-as-investors-gear-up-for-new-normal/articleshow/79051136.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Didi gives freehold land rights to colony residents||Kolkata: In a meeting with representatives of numerous backward classes and communities in West Bengal on Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee gave freehold land rights to refugees in colonies, eased norms for caste certificates and further widened the ambit of state-run health scheme Swasthya Sathi. “We have already given pattas (long-term settlement rights on government land) to 3.5 lakh families since we came to power in 2011. We will give land rights to another 1.5 lakh families living in refugee colonies,” the CM said at the meeting at Nabanna Sabhaghar. “Anybody who lives in a refugee colony will get a patta, in phases, so that no one can take away the land from them. We will also ensure people don’t face problems regarding certificates and documents. Documents from the 1950s are not required,” she said. Bengal has 94 refugee colonies on state land and 237 such colonies on central government land, where almost 1.5 lakh families, who have mainly crossed over from Bangladesh, live. The state government has already regularised 94 colonies on its own land, and has initiated a process to give freehold land rights to residents of the colonies. The state has also started the process of giving similar right to residents of 119 colonies on Central land. “We have recognised all colonies in the state and we are also trying to recognise all the central and private colonies as well. As it was the demand of Matuas and other communities as well, we will give rights to all the families living in colonies. The process has started today and 25,000 families would get the rights now. The remaining families would get it soon,” Banerjee said. She also announced a development board for Matuas and allotted Rs 10 crore to it. The CM’s gift to Matuas, Bagdis, Bauris, Dhules, Majhis and Kirtaniyas indicated her outreach to backward classes and communities in semi-urban and rural Bengal who had sided with BJP in the last Lok Sabha elections. “Cultural boards will be created for Bauris/Dhules, Bagdis and Majhis so that they can preserve their cultural heritage. We will distribute bikes to 2 lakh people by taking loan from our cooperative banks,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-gives-freehold-land-rights-to-colony-residents/articleshow/79051106.cms||Saibal Gupta
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Illness, home loan drive lawyer to suicide||Nagpur: A 45-year-old lawyer allegedly died by suicide at his residence in Swavalambi Nagar on Tuesday. He was driven to end life by his illness and the burden of a home loan, as per his suicide note. Sources said Shrikant Maraskar was an empanelled lawyer in some banks and used to operate from his office in Sadar. It’s learnt he was a bachelor and so were his two sisters. One of the sisters, who was at home, tried to call Maraskar for lunch but there was no response from his room. She alerted her elder sister, who was in the market. The family and neighbours went inside his room to find him hanging. A case of accidental death has been registered at Ranapratap Nagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/illness-home-loan-drive-lawyer-to-suicide/articleshow/79048627.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Stubble burning sounds health alarm in Kolkata's New Town||KOLKATA: For most people living in a ‘green city’ the acrid smell of burning hay and grass mixed with plastic and garbage would be unimaginable. Yet, this is exactly what New Town residents are being greeted with for the past few weeks when they open their windows in the morning for a breath of fresh air. Stubble burning on vacant plots has now become a serious issue as it is heavily polluting the air in the township. With winter due in a few weeks, this has raised concerns over health complications. Track the pollution level in your city“We have informed the police and the pollution control board. This needs to stop,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of New Town Forum and News (NTFN) a local NGO. NTFN’s citizen and animal welfare team on Wednesday lodged a complaint at Eco Park police station over the deaths of four red munia chicks a few days ago and the growing air pollution due to stubble burning. Locals said this has been happening for the last few years. “Plastic and garbage are also burnt along with the stubble. This produces very toxic smoke and can have dangerous consequences, including infliction of respiratory ailments. A mass-awareness drive in association with the police has become very much necessary,” said Pranab Das, an advocate and resident of Uttara Tritiya housing complex in New Town. New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) chairman Debashis Sen said, “We are involving locals, NGOs, the management of Eco Park and the police to form vigilance teams to stop this.” Doctors said that the smoke from stubble is very harmful for those who have respiratory problems. “This smoke can aggravate the condition of asthma and COPD patients and render them more vulnerable to infections. Exposure to this smoke for long can permanently damage lungs of even healthy people,” said pulmonologist Dhiman Ganguly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stubble-burning-sounds-health-alarm-in-new-town/articleshow/79048623.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Assembly election candidate shot at in Samastipur||PATNA: One Sanjay Kumar Das, who is contesting the assembly election from Kalyanpur (reserved) seat from Yuva Kranti Dal, was shot at in Vishanpur under Mufassil police station area in Samastipur district on Wednesday morning. Mufassil police station SHO Vikram Acharya said Das was shot at in his left knee. “The named accused, Guddu Das, has been arrested. He is the Sanjay’s neighbour,” the SHO said. Polling in Kalyanpur is scheduled in the third phase on November 7. Sadar SDPO Pritish Kumar said land dispute between Sanjay and Guddu was the reason behind the incident and it had nothing to do with election. “FIRs had been lodged by both sides in the past over the land dispute,” he added. “Sanjay is undergoing treatment at a hospital and his condition is stable. No empty cartridge were recovered from the spot,” Acharya said. He said Sanjay lodged an FIR against Guddu and an unknown person. He said the incident took place at around 5.30am outside Sanjay’s house. “Three bike-borne criminals reached there and fired. The bodyguard provided to Sanjay by the administration could not retaliate as they sped away,” he said. On Tuesday evening, miscreants had allegedly opened fire and pelted stones on the vehicle of JD(U)’s Parbatta candidate Dr Sanjay Kumar near a booth at Dhanketa under Gogri police station area of Khagaria district. Gogri SHO Sharad Kumar said investigation was going on in the matter. He said Kumar escaped unhurt in the incident. Polling took place in Parbatta on Tuesday. On October 31 night, miscreants had opened fire on the residence of RLSP candidate from Dhamdhaha, Ramesh Kumar Mehta, soon after he had returned home from campaigning. Earlier, Shree Narayan Singh, a candidate from Sheohar assembly constituency, was shot dead at Hathsar under Purnahia police station area in Sheohar district on October 24 during campaigning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/candidate-shot-at-in-samastipur/articleshow/79048269.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 5, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: NDA government to deport back Infiltrators, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||PATNA: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday sought votes for the BJP and other NDA candidates in Purnia, Katihar, Kishanganj and Araria districts in the name of deporting Bangladeshi infiltrators, considered living in the area. They are called ‘Bangla infiltrators.’ These areas will go to the polls in the third and last phase on November 7. Addressing a physical rally at Katihar in favour of BJP’s three-time MLA Tar Kishore Prasad, Adityanath said, I have heard that Katihar and its adjoining areas are afflicted with the problem of Bangla infiltrators. People are angry about it. If any infiltrator (from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan) tries to sneak into India, he will be deported back to his country.” Later, he also addressed rallies at Bisfi (Madhubani), Keoti (Darbhanga) and Simri Bakhtairpur (Saharsa) which also have Muslim population. “PM Narendra Modi’s government at the Centre has adopted a policy in this regard. Under the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the Centre gives citizenship to minority people persecuted in Bangladesh and Pakistan, but if anyone tries to infiltrate into India, he will be deported,” he said. Incidentally, the Muslim presence in the four Seemanchal districts is significant and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the RSS, conducted campaigns in the area for the identification of the alleged ‘Bangla infiltrators’ even under the NDA government led by CM Nitish Kumar in Bihar. Adityanath largely concentrated on enumerating the welfare steps taken by PM Modi and, in the process, sought votes to form an NDA government in the state again, so as to run the state affairs and fulfil the developmental needs of people. Even as Adityanath was addressing the NDA supporters, they kept on chanting ‘Modi, Modi, Modi’ every time he referred to the steps taken by the Centre. He also referred to the abolition of triple talaq, befitting air strike on terror centres inside Pakistan after the Pulwama attack in Jammu and Kashmir, and also the abrogation of Article 370 that “will now facilitate unencumbered purchase of land by a Bihari or a resident of Katihar in J&K, as much as people from there can purchase land here and settle.” Adityanath said PM Modi had started the process for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya. “Once the temple is constructed, I will invite you to participate in the function there,” he also said. That apart, while he did not mention ‘jungle raj’, Adityanath said the people’s welfare in the state was not on the agenda of the Congress or RJD. “Instead, they believed in family rule and amassing of wealth by the family. For them the party has become synonymous with one family, and they thought that the country and its resources were meant for the family,” Adityanath said, adding that they “divided the society on caste lines and practised appeasement policy (towards Muslims).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/caa-would-help-get-rid-of-intruders-yogi/articleshow/79048133.cms||Abhay Singh
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Bengalis in US anxious about Donald Trump-Joe Biden close contest||KOLKATA: The Bengali diaspora in the US woke up to a suspense-filled Wednesday morning that threatened to spill over to Thursday and even Friday as the US election results appear to be heading down to the wire. Those who had campaigned for Democrat Joe Biden and were expecting him to pull off a landslide victory grudgingly accepted that the road to White House wouldn’t be as smooth with Donald Trump faring far better than the pollsters had predicted. Sohini Sen, who lives in Virginia, a purple state in the past and increasingly bluish purple over the past decade, is dismayed at how close the election is. “We have been monitoring inputs from various sources and believe Biden will win when all votes are counted. But Trump has done far better than what we had thought. My friends and I, who are essentially independent, have been leaning more and more towards the Democratic Party due to the policies pursued by the Trump administration and how the climate has gotten vitiated by his words. Prior to the election, we campaigned on the phone for the Democratic Party and even knocked on doors. Though Virginia has been called for Biden, we are still anxious about the close contest in several key states,” she recounted. Saurav Roychoudhury, professor of finance and economics at Capital University, Columbus, Ohio, which is a traditionally swing state, isn’t surprised at Bengalis rooting for Biden but feels it is naive to believe that urban votes can make all the difference. “US voters are no different from Indian voters. They are influenced by emotions, myopia, and fake news. Initially, Democrats had a lead in the metro areas of Cleveland, Cincinnati and Columbus where early votes were counted. But gradually, the result from the rural and suburban areas showed the results lean towards Republican,” he pointed out, adding that no Republican has ever won the presidency without carrying Ohio. Arya Choudhury, a senior executive with a consulting organization in Maryland, said Biden was leading in the state that was traditionally blue. But his friends in Florida, Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania or Arizona were tense about which way the votes would swing. “It is much closer than many had initially thought,” he conceded. “It is much closer than we had initially thought,” he conceded. Partha Ghosh, an accountancy firm owner settled in Dallas, also acknowledged Trump’s sway over rural areas. “Trump won in Texas but he didn’t come out on top in big metropolitan cities, like Dallas, Houston and Austin. There is excitement all over the country, though the result is suspended as counting of mail-in ballots is going on. We expected this to happen, but we do not know how much trouble Trump will create now. We know they will bring some lawsuits to stop counting,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengalis-in-us-anxious-about-trump-biden-close-contest/articleshow/79048491.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad cop nabbed for taking Rs 10,000 bribe||AURANGABAD: A 55-year-old head constable was arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000. The suspect — Bhagwan Jadhav, who was attached with Satara area police station — had demanded Rs 20,000 from the complainant for taking appropriate action in a case registered by him. Perturbed by the alleged demand for acting on his complaint, the complainant reached out to the ACB and lodged a complaint. After verifying contents of the complaint, ACB’s Aurangabad unit laid a trap at Deolai Chowk where the accused had asked complainant to come with the money. Soon after Jadhav accepted the money, he was nabbed by the ACB team. An offence against the accused was registered with Satara police station. Much to the awe of police authorities, the head constable landed in the trap after the morning roll-call wherein senior officers had briefed the policemen to avoid getting involved to corrupt practices and eventually bringing bad name to the police department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-cop-nabbed-for-taking-rs-10000-bribe/articleshow/79051092.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Catch them young: PCB’s awareness video for kids||Kolkata: The West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) is planning a digital conference with school and college students to sensitize them against firecrackers. Doctors will be asked to participate in the meeting to explain the hazards behind lighting fireworks amid the Covid pandemic.At the meeting, students will be requested to shun fireworks and celebrate the festival by lighting diyas, fancy bulbs and candles to keep the environment clean so that the contagion chain is broken and the distress of Covid patients is not aggravated.Sources in WBPCB said this meet will be held in addition to its annual Kali Puja meeting with housing society representatives. WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra is likely to address secretaries of around 300 housing societies on Friday to ask them to ensure no firecrackers are burst this year. The date of the meeting with the students hasn’t been fixed yet.Before Kali Puja every year, WBPCB convenes a meeting with representatives of gated communities to reiterate the firecracker norms. This time, there will be a video conference, to which doctors will be invited to explain how crackers generate suspended particulate matter that can carry the coronavirus and how rising pollution levels would aggravate the condition of the Covid-affected.“A similar meeting is being planned with students where doctors will be asked to tell them how firecrackers harm Covid patients and spread the virus,” a state official said. Punyabrata Goon, acting convenor, West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, said, “Students are seen as the prime consumers of the firecracker traders. So, the right awareness among the student community is the need of the hour.”Schoolchildren, however, much as they are believed to be the biggest users of fireworks, don’t need much coaxing, it seemed. Class-XII student of DPS Ruby Park Kaulik Mitra, who lives at Ruchira Residency on EM Bypass, said, “Much before the authorities announced, my brother and I had decided to stay away from firecrackers. They should be banned forever.” South Point School student Arnab Chatterjee, who lives in Salt Lake, said, “Our school has been talking about the ill-effects of fireworks for a long time. We have been made aware of the damage that the noise and smoke does to the environment. It’s time we completely shunned crackers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/catch-them-young-pcbs-awareness-video-for-kids/articleshow/79048658.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 5, 2020||Delhi||Harassment? Guest teacher in Delhi tries to kill self, blames school head||NEW DELHI: A guest teacher of a government school in southeast Delhi attempted suicide on its premises on Wednesday, alleging harassment by the head of the institute. The education department has sought a report from the district education officer. Rahul Malik, a 30-year-old guest teacher at Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya No. 1 Molarband, recorded the incident live on Facebook and claimed, “For many months, I had been opposing the wrong doings in the school. I am saddened by the injustice, discrimination and mental harassment. Out of compulsion, a teacher of the school is now forced to commit suicide.” He reportedly reached the school with a bottle of tablets and a lighter, and sprinkled petrol on himself. “Before the suicide, I am making the last video from the school courtyard to show the injustice and dictatorship of the HoS,” Malik, who has been teaching in the school since 2003, said in the video. He also referred to an incident of August 31, but didn’t share any detail. Another teacher who was present at the school said, “Malik was having some problems with the head of the school (HoS). When he came, he also consumed tablets but could not finish all as some teachers stopped him and also snatched the lighter.” A call was made to the police control room and Malik was taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre. “Malik, a resident of Vasant Vihar Palwal, had put petrol on himself and also taken sulphas. He said that as per government guidelines, guest teachers are to be called to school on alternate days but the principal of the school called him daily and harassed him. Due to this harassment, he tried to commit suicide,” said R P Meena, DCP (southeast). Malik’s statement will be recorded after his treatment, Meena added. The head of the school, Balee Ram Nath, did not respond to calls and messages. According to Malik’s relative, his recent tussle with Nath was over a new job. Urging the education minister and the director of education to initiate action against Nath, All India Guest Teachers Association said, “It is a grave situation, the way guest teachers are being exploited by the head of the school.” Malik is an office-bearer of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/harassment-guest-teacher-tries-to-kill-self-blames-school-head/articleshow/79048659.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Concern over fee hikes at St Stephen’s College||NEW DELHI: A day before the meeting of the governing body, elected representatives of the second and third year of Delhi University’s St Stephen’s College have raised concerns about the gradual increase in their college fees over the past three years. The letter comes after the publication of the odd semester term bill for the year 2020. The students said that they were charged Rs 2,400 for the use of electricity and water, Rs 2,000 for IRC and IT fee and Rs 900 for the library fee in spite of not using any of these services for the past several months. The elected representatives said that other than providing ad-hoc professors with institutional IDs to access GSuite, which is freely accessible for educational institutions, there has been no institutional support for online classes. “Professors and students have been incurring high costs for internet connections and devices,” the students alleged. “Thus, that online education cannot be cited as a justification for an enhanced IRC fee.” The letter to the college GB also stated that students have been charged a hefty ‘establishment fee’ of Rs 9,600 without any transparency around its use. Complaining that the deadline for payment of fees is November 20, the representatives claimed the deadline is too soon, specially at a time of “grave economic uncertainty”. The letter has also requested the GB to rollback fees under heads of services which the newly admitted students will not be able to avail. Despite attempts made by TOI, principal of the college John Varghese refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/concern-over-fee-hikes-at-st-stephens-college/articleshow/79048683.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,600 new infections, six fatalities||Hyderabad: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 1,637 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths, raising the total count of cases to 2,44,143 and the toll to 1,357. So far, 2,24,686 patients have recovered in the state, while the number of active cases in the state have increased further to 18,100 now.  The case fatality rate (CFR) which is a measure of the percentage of patients succumbing to the virus as compared to patients getting infected; is continuing its decline. The CFR is currently 0.55 percent in the state. Recovery rate meanwhile is 92.03 percent which is on par with the national average recovery rate. Recovery rate shows the percentage of infected patients getting recovered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-1600-new-infections-six-fatalities/articleshow/79050231.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||Scrap urban development authorities: U’khand BJP chief asks CM||Dehradun: Bansidhar Bhagat, chief of Uttarakhand unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), met chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday and requested for the scrapping of urban development authorities as he claimed that “they are not fulfilling the purpose they were created for”. Bhagat handed over a memorandum to the CM and requested for a stand on the issue. An official communication from the Uttarakhand BJP mentioned that during his tour to various urban areas, Bhagat received a high number of complaints related to urban development authorities. Bhagat said that the BJP workers as well as the locals have complained that the development authorities are not working as per the expectations of the people. Bhagat further said that there have been complaints that people are being harassed by the authorities and even the simple procedures are being made complex. He added that the authorities were appointed so that people get the due help and right advice but they are not fulfilling their purpose. Bhagat said that people are forced to run behind development authorities and yet their complaints remain unresolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/scrap-urban-development-authorities-ukhand-bjp-chief-asks-cm/articleshow/79047363.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 5, 2020||Bhopal||Bhagwat in Bhopal, likely to meet CM||Bhopal: A two-day meeting of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ‘s (RSS) ‘karyakari mandal’ (executive board) central zone, will begin here on Thursday under the leadership of sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat and his deputy Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi. Bhagwat arrived herel on Wednesday for the two-day session, which is likely to be held in Sharda Vihar, on the city outskirts. RSS has made special arrangements for the meeting in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A statement issued by the RSS said that normally, the national working committee of the body meets before Diwali. However, owing to the pandemic situation, there has been a change in the format. It has been decided to hold separate meetings in various zones of the country. Bhagwat is also likely to meet top BJP leaders, including chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. However, an official confirmation is still awaited. The central zone (madhya kshetra) meeting will be attended by top RSS functionaries from Madhya Bharat, Malwa, Mahakaushal and Chhattisgarh regions. They will hold a brainstorming session on crucial issues, including the political situation in the state. Bhopal being centrally placed among 11 regions, has been chosen as a venue of the meeting, said RSS regional publicity in-charge Omprakash Sisodia. The meeting holds significance in view of the Dussehra speech by theRSS chief who touched several issues from abrogation of Article 370 to foundation laying and construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.  Incidentally, this is Bhagwat’s fourth visit to the state capital since March. Sources said that he is likely to stay in Bhopal till Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhagwat-in-bhopal-likely-to-meet-cm/articleshow/79048664.cms||Rajendra Sharma
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Active cases go up after six weeks of continuous decline||LUCKNOW: For the first time in over six weeks, the state recorded a hike in the number of active infections. Though the rise was marginal, the trend left health authorities worried. “After September 17, UP saw a slight rise in its active cases on Wednesday. This is due to the continuously falling daily new cases. Against 2,204 new cases, recoveries were 2,014. Active cases have now gone up by 138 since Tuesday to reach 22,676,” said principal secretary, health and family welfare, Alok Kumar. Officials also warned against Covid fatigue and against dropping precautions around the festival season. “The decline in the number of cases over the past few weeks has created a false sense of security. But the fact is that the pandemic virus is still on the prowl and prevention against it is mandatory,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, the official bulletin revealed that Covid-19 tally reached 4.89 lakh while the number of recovered cases crossed 4.59 lakh. The state, however, recorded 16 deaths taking the total casualties to 7,104. He reiterated that Covid-19 prevention measures were the only instrument against the pandemic virus at the moment and everyone must follow the same in their individual interest and also in the interest of their families. Officials also underscored that the present weather conditions and increased economic activity had made it easier for the virus to spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-cases-go-up-after-six-weeks-of-continuous-decline/articleshow/79050950.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 5, 2020||Varanasi||Readymade garments second one district one product of Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: Readymade garments has been added as the second one district one product (ODOP) of Gorakhpur after terracotta, the district information department informed on Wednesday. “The area has huge potential in the sphere of readymade garment and 3,000 people will be directly benefited by this decision. The industrialists are very happy. We will provide the needed training to unskilled and semiskilled workers besides funds to encourage self-employment and enterprise,” said deputy commissioner, industries, R K Sharma. Former chairman of the Chamber of Industries S K Agarwal praised the decision of the state government. “A large number of people in the industry will be benefited. Around 100 readymade garments units are functional and the 15,000 workers of the industry who came during lockdown will also get employment. I think more than 500 crore will be invested in the industry in the next two years and more than 20,000 people will get employment. People will get loans easily without guarantee,” he added. “Terracotta is limited to few villages, but readymade garment business is in the whole district and will affect more than 7 crore people. I hope the dream of a textile park at Purvanchal Expressway also becomes a reality,” he said. Businessman Amar Tulsiyan said, “Gorakhpur has a lot of potential. I am very happy that readymade garments are now in the ODOP list. This decision will be a game changer for UP.” “We will meet CM Yogi to thank him. Right now, the readymade garment business is scattered in Gorakhpur. If we get infrastructure under the proposed textile park, many people with even small capital will be able to start business easily in an organized way and earn a good name for Gorakhpur readymade garment market,” said chairman of Chamber of Industries, Vishnu Ajit Saria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/readymade-garments-second-odop-of-gorakhpur/articleshow/79048841.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: 3 smugglers arrested with Rs 200-crore drugs||LUDHIANA: The Special Task Force (STF) on Wednesday claimed to have arrested three drug smugglers with 28kg heroin and 6kg ‘ice’ drug. The seizure is worth Rs 200 crore in the international market. It includes Rs 140-crore heroin and Rs 60-crore ‘ice’. The STF officials said the accused supplied drugs to different states and were likely to have links with international smugglers. Those arrested are Manjit Singh Manna, 30, of New Bhagwan Nagar, Jodhewal; Vishal, 20, of Dogra Mohalla, Batala, Gurdaspur; and Angrej Singh, 40, of Patiala. Their on-the-run accomplices are Rajan Sharma, Happy Randhawa, Harminder Singh of Batala, Sunny of Australia and Tanveer Bedi. STF IG RK Jaiswal said, “On a tip-off, Manjit was arrested near Sahnewal on the evening of November 2. He was commuting in his SUV (DL 4C AF 1440). On checking, 18-kg heroin and 6-kg ‘ice’ drug were found hidden in a secret compartment in the boot and in doors of the SUV. During interrogation, Manjit told about his accomplices.” On his information, Vishal and Angrej were arrested from Behram toll plaza on Phagwara–Banga Road a day later. “We recovered 10kg heroin from their possession. They too had kept the consignment in a hidden compartment in the boot of their car and in its doors. They had procured the contraband from Jammu and Kashmir to supply it in and outside Punjab,” he added. STF AIG Snehdeep Sharma said, “During questioning, the accused revealed about their links with international smugglers. Their claims, however, are yet to be verified. Angrez said that he worked at the car parking of Books Market, Ludhiana. Various cases, including those of theft and drug trafficking, were lodged against him. Vishal told cops that he started peddling drugs a few months ago. It is being checked if Manjit has a criminal background.” Another STF official said the arrested accused used to procure and supply drugs on the directions of their accomplices, who were at large. “The accused have a godown in Rajpura, where they keep the drugs. They have links with several smugglers and peddlers. We are trying to trace them. After getting details of their properties, we would get those seized,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-smugglers-arrested-with-rs-200-crore-drugs/articleshow/79047377.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS gets possession of land in Delhi to build party office||HYDERABAD: Paving the way for construction of party office by Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in Delhi, the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Wednesday handed over physical possession of 1,100 square metres at Vasant Vihar. R&B minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy collected the papers from the Centre on behalf of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. Sources said that the TRS would construct the office at a cost of Rs 25 crore with all facilities. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to lay the foundation stone for the party office in Delhi in a month. Apart from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Telugu Desam Party was given 1,065 square metres on MR Road in Delhi in 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-given-possession-of-land-in-delhi/articleshow/79050237.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||Masks, sanitizer & distancing: Covid precautions mark Karwa Chauth celebrations||Lucknow: For the last 26 years, Alka (51), a homemaker, has been celebrating Karva Chauth with her friends and family but this was for the first time that she wore a facemask. In view of the coronavirus spread, her children also kept texting her to remind her about the use of sanitizer while performing puja. “My daughter kept asking me to use sanitizer, not to remove my mask and not to get too close to other women. When I returned home after puja, she even asked me to change my clothes for sighting of the moon,” she said. Many women in the city celebrated the festival in smaller groups, wearing masks and gloves with fancy attires. They used hand sanitizer after every ritual and decided not to dine out in view of Covid-19 pandemic. For Kamna Handa (69), a retired teacher, health and safety were the highest priorities. She used homemade ‘prasad’ for puja and avoided any community celebration. “This is my 48th Karva Chauth but this was the first time when I celebrated at home. I usually visit houses of my acquaintances to narrate the story behind the festival, but this year, I stayed back at home,” she said. “Earlier, after the community ritual, 15-20 women in the colony used to get together for dinner and bring food items from their houses,” she said, adding that coronavirus had changed the way people celebrated the occasion. Homemaker Kavita Verma celebrated the day by logging on to YouTube to complete her ritual. “According to the ritual, the puja is done on terrace or in open space. I took my laptop along with my puja thali, and listened to the story. In the evening, I performed the remaining rituals with my husband,” she added. Women’s jail inmates perform puja Women convicts at Lucknow Nari Bandi Niketan celebrated Karva Chauth on Wednesday. Respecting the customs and emotions of women prisoners, jail authorities made special arrangements for the inmates and provided puja material for the rituals. Nari Bandi Niketan is the only women’s jail in UP where convicts serving jail term of more than five years from across the state are kept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/masks-sanitizer-distancing-covid-precautions-mark-karwa-chauth-celebrations/articleshow/79050909.cms||Aditi Singh
November 5, 2020||Madurai||South, central districts see mild spike in fresh cases||Madurai/Trichy: The southern and the central districts of the state on Wednesday reported a mild increase in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases. The ten southern districts reported 264 cases and the eight central districts 245 cases, while both the regions recorded two deaths each. In the south, the number of fresh cases has crossed 250 after eight days and active cases also increased after ten days. The deaths are recorded in Madurai. All the districts recorded less than 50 fresh cases each. Madurai (49) recorded the highest number of fresh cases, followed by Kanyakumari (42) and Tuticorin (42). The lowest number of fresh cases was recorded in Ramanathapuram (13), followed by Virudhunagar (15), Tenkasi (17), Theni (19), Dindigul (19), Tirunelveli (21) and Sivagangai (24). The number of active cases has climbed from 1,711 on Tuesday to 1,803 on Wednesday. Except for Virudhunagar, where active cases dropped from 96 to 91 on Wednesday, all the other nine districts in the region witnessed an increase in the number of active cases. In addition to Virudhunagar four more districts – Ramanathapuram (58), Tenkasi (60), Theni (75) and Dindigul (96) – recorded less than 100 active cases. In the central region, the number of active cases was increased from 1,663 on Tuesday to 1,719 on Wednesday taking the total tally to 66,383. The total number of recovery is 63,792 in the region. The public health department officials raised an apprehension that the increase in the Covid-19 fresh cases may indicate the spread of the disease due to Diwali crowds. Thanjavur recorded 54 fresh cases, while Perambalur reported seven cases. Ariyalur also recorded nine fresh cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-central-districts-see-mild-spike-in-fresh-cases/articleshow/79051110.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT-Hyderabad opens doors for doctoral programme||HYDERABAD: Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) has opened its doors for students keen to pursue doctoral programme and are affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The IIT-H has given a special call to Indian students from centrally funded institutions, who secured more than 8.5 cumulative grade point average in undergraduate/postgraduate and secured a job but could not join. Doctoral programme is also open for candidates, who secured PhD admission in one of the top 300 QS ranked overseas universities, but could not join. “From August, we have called back our PhD students to the campus, so that their research remains unaffected. We resolved to take under our wing the academically bright and committed scholars whose doctoral/job prospects have been adversely affected by the pandemic,” said Prof BS Murty, director, IIT-H, adding that PhDs account for more than 25 per cent of the total student strength. The intake for PhD scholars in this special scheme will be decided based on the number of applications that the institute receives. The last date for application to doctoral programmes for Indian students affected by the pandemic is November 15, 2020. The intake for PhD scholars in this special scheme will be decided based on number of applications received. Last date for application to doctoral programmes is November 15||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-h-opens-doors-for-doctoral-prog/articleshow/79050250.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Convince farmers to move away from tracks, bizmen tell Congress government||LUDHIANA: The fight against central government’s new farm laws by the farmers has resulted in huge loss for them, claimed city businessmen adding that it is time state government resolve the crisis by putting an end to rail roko andolan by convincing farmers. The business community of Ludhiana said the leaders, instead of solving the issue, are playing blame games and indulging in publicity stunts like dharna in New Delhi. Vinod Thapar, chairman of the Knitwear Club said, “Be it garment, bicycle, auto parts or sewing machine industry, all of us are facing extreme shortage of raw materials and are unable to ship consignments of finished goods due to the rail roko andolan. But instead of taking steps to address this, our elected representatives are giving dharna in Delhi, which is not going to yield any result. We request Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to convince the farmers to allow movement of the goods trains before factories shut down permanently and thousands of jobs are lost.” According to Jagbeer Sokhi, president of the Sewing Machine Development Club, “The dharna at Delhi by the ruling party leaders of Punjab is not going to have any impact on the central government as it has already cleared its stand on farm bills and even on the movement of the trains that it will only start when state government assures full clearance of the tracks. Why is the state government non-committal on the clearance of the tracks and instead still blame the Centre for not running the goods trains?” According to Sunil Mehra, state general secretary of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, “We sympathise with our farmers, who work so hard to feed us. But their misfortune is being manipulated by the state government, which, by not making sure goods trains continue uninterrupted, has crippled the entire trade and industry and is causing losses worth several thousand crores in Punjab. It would have been better if the leaders of the state instead of giving dharna in Delhi would have organised at meeting with the farmers and convinced them to give up rail roko andolan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/convince-farmers-to-move-away-from-tracks-bizmen-tell-cong-govt/articleshow/79047382.cms||Mohit Behl
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Samajwadi Party announces nominees for Parishad polls||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday declared names of five candidates for the graduate constituency polls of the state Council. Yadav also declared six candidates of the Teachers constituency for the Council polls. For the graduate constituency polls, the party has announced Ram Singh Rana from Lucknow graduate constituency, Dr Aseem from Agra, Shamshad Ali from Meerut, Ashutosh Sinha from Varanasi and Dr Maan Singh from Allahabad–Jhansi graduate constituency. From teachers constituency, the party has fielded Umashanker Chaudhary Patel from Lucknow, Lal Bihari from Varanasi, Sanjay Kumar Misra from Bareilly-Moradabad, Dharmendra Kumar from Meerut, Hevendra Singh Chaudhary from Agra and Awdesh Kumar from Gorakhpur – Faizabad teachers constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-announces-nominees-for-parishad-polls/articleshow/79051001.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP registers rise in revenuefor third consecutive month||Lucknow: Signalling a fast economic recovery in the state, the Yogi government for the third consecutive month after lockdown posted an impressive revenue receipt of Rs 10,672 crore in October which was Rs 1,828 crore more than what it received in the same month previous year. In August and September, too, the state had registered a jump of Rs 600 crore and Rs 891 crore in revenues as compared to the corresponding period in 2019. Talking to reporters on Wednesday, finance minister Suresh Khanna said, “Despite prolonged lockdown in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic during which most economic activities had come to a standstill, no other state has shown such a record growth in revenue realisation.” As the economy is back on track, the UP government would announce bonus for state employees soon, he added. Khanna said that the state had collected tax revenue of Rs 8,844 crore in October 2019, while this October the revenue receipts increased by Rs 1,828 crore, posing a jump of 20.6%. Besides, the state reported an increase in GST and VAT collections this month, the minister said, adding that in October the state realised Rs 3795 crore GST and Rs 1802 crore in VAT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-registers-rise-in-revenuefor-third-consecutive-month/articleshow/79051033.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC: Temple land can’t be used for other purposes||CHENNAI: Making it clear that temples have perpetual right of possession and enjoyment over parcels of temple land, the Madras high court asserted that such assets could be used only for the beneficial interest of the temple. “This court, time and again observed that temples in Tamil Nadu are not only a source of identification of the ancient culture, but also a testimony of pride and knowledge of the talent in the field of arts, science and sculpture and a conduit for spiritual activities as well,” Justice R Mahadevan said on Wednesday. The court then directed the HR&CE department to initiate appropriate action to retrieve the land owned by Sri Sakthi Muthamman Temple, Neelankarai and Arulmighu Kottaimariamman Thirukoil, Omalur, Salem and remove all the encroachments, if any, and maintain the same with utmost care and for beneficial interests of the temples. “It is made clear that the land parcels belonging to the subject temples shall not be alienated or leased or encumbered illegally and against the interests of such temples,” the court said. The department has been directed to take steps to construct a compound wall to secure safety of the lands. The properties of religious institutions, more particularly the temples, have to be maintained properly in order to derive more income to spend for their betterment, the court said. The court made the observations while setting aside alienation of parcels of land owned by various temples to other state departments, including 2.03 acres owned by Sakthi Muthamman temple near Neelankarai to Tamil Nadu fisheries department. In the case on hand, the disputed land, which had been in the continuous possession and enjoyment of the respective temples, were transferred to other departments. However, the HR&CE which is the custodians of the temple properties, had not taken any steps to protect the interest of the temples, the court said. Such callous attitude on their part cannot be countenanced, Justice Mahadevan said. This apart, the court directed the state government to provide necessary assistance to the department for proper maintenance and protection of the temples and their properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-temple-land-cant-be-used-for-other-purposes/articleshow/79048703.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Salem||Madras HC: Temple land can’t be used for other purposes||CHENNAI: Making it clear that temples have perpetual right of possession and enjoyment over parcels of temple land, the Madras high court asserted that such assets could be used only for the beneficial interest of the temple. “This court, time and again observed that temples in Tamil Nadu are not only a source of identification of the ancient culture, but also a testimony of pride and knowledge of the talent in the field of arts, science and sculpture and a conduit for spiritual activities as well,” Justice R Mahadevan said on Wednesday. The court then directed the HR&CE department to initiate appropriate action to retrieve the land owned by Sri Sakthi Muthamman Temple, Neelankarai and Arulmighu Kottaimariamman Thirukoil, Omalur, Salem and remove all the encroachments, if any, and maintain the same with utmost care and for beneficial interests of the temples. “It is made clear that the land parcels belonging to the subject temples shall not be alienated or leased or encumbered illegally and against the interests of such temples,” the court said. The department has been directed to take steps to construct a compound wall to secure safety of the lands. The properties of religious institutions, more particularly the temples, have to be maintained properly in order to derive more income to spend for their betterment, the court said. The court made the observations while setting aside alienation of parcels of land owned by various temples to other state departments, including 2.03 acres owned by Sakthi Muthamman temple near Neelankarai to Tamil Nadu fisheries department. In the case on hand, the disputed land, which had been in the continuous possession and enjoyment of the respective temples, were transferred to other departments. However, the HR&CE which is the custodians of the temple properties, had not taken any steps to protect the interest of the temples, the court said. Such callous attitude on their part cannot be countenanced, Justice Mahadevan said. This apart, the court directed the state government to provide necessary assistance to the department for proper maintenance and protection of the temples and their properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/hc-temple-land-cant-be-used-for-other-purposes/articleshow/79053709.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Amid fight against Covid-19, dengue cases shoot up in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Amid the ongoing fight against Covid-19 pandemic in Ludhiana, now dengue cases are on the rise in the district and the number of patients so far this year is more than double the last year’s count. As per a health department data, the number of confirmed dengue cases in the district till November 3 was 1,181 as against 486 cases reported last year till then, showing a jump of almost 143% this year. The data puts the number of confirmed dengue cases till November 3 in 2018 at 346. In other words, compared to 2018, this year 241.3% more dengue cases have been registered up to that date. Confirmed dengue cases in 2020 more than doubled between October 11 and November 3. While the confirmed dengue cases on October 11 were 571, they rose to 1,181 by November 3, an increase of 610 cases in a span of 23 days. Reflecting on the reasons for the unusually high number of dengue cases, president of Ludhiana unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Sunil Katyal said, “I feel that possibly both government and people got busy with Covid and the dengue threat got ignored. If the dengue larvae had been destroyed right in the beginning, this situation could have been averted. Even now it’s not too late to control the mosquitoes. If fogging is done at regular intervals and people are informed about how to prevent dengue, the situation can be controlled.” However, the health department authorities said they are ascertaining the reason for the sudden jump in cases this year. “We have called a meeting to deliberate on what caused such a rise in dengue cases this year. We are ready for the challenge and are implementing the plan to check dengue,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. “Besides, the municipal corporation teams are also at work. Their 18 teams comprising two members each, including an assistant malaria officer (AMO), are visiting each sub-division. We have divided the city into two parts and deputed male supervisors and multipurpose health workers, who are monitoring the high-risk areas,” he said. The civil surgeon also advised people to wear clothes that fully cover the body and use mosquito repellents. Meanwhile, many residents complained that fogging is not being done regularly in their areas. “Though initially they (MC officials) did carry out fogging in our area, they have not repeated it the last around 10 days,” complained Kulwant Singh, who lives near Dhuri Lines. ‘No connection between Covid, dengue’ Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said there is no connection between the coronavirus and dengue infections. Those contracting Covid-19 infection are not necessarily prone to catching dengue fever as well, he said and added that dengue is spread through mosquito bite and could affect anyone with or without Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/amid-fight-against-covid-19-dengue-cases-shoot-up-in-ludhiana/articleshow/79047387.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 5, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Obscene messages case, conditional bail to accused||KANPUR: Additional sessions judge (XII) Kanpur Nagar Vinay Kumar Singh on Wednesday granted conditional bail to accused Munaja Refai, a resident of Bangalore who was arrested by the Gwaltoli police under the IT Act.Munaja had been arrested by the Bangalore police in another case and the Gwaltoli police brought her to Kanpur through B warrant on the complaint lodged by one Om Pal Singh in Kanpur According to additional district government counsel SB Goswami, the complainant Om Pal Singh, who is a manager in Mirza International Ltd, had stated in his report that someone used to send obscene messages and obscene pictures of women members on mobile phones of the director of the company with an intention to defame them. The ADGC stated that a report on the same facts had been lodged by one Rumana Beg in Bangalore in which the bail application of accused Munaja Refai was accepted on September 25. As the present case was connected with that of the Bangalore case, the accused was brought to Kanpur through B warrant issued by the court. She was produced before CMM Kanpur on October 23 and was sent to jail in judicial custody. Munaja, in her bail application pleaded that she had never posted any message but instead she herself used to receive obscene messages and pictures on her mobile phone and she had lodged a report at the cyber cell in Bangalore in that regard. The defence counsel argued that as nothing had been recovered from her possession, therefore, her bail application should be granted. But the same was rejected by the chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM). The accused stated in her bail application that she had an affair with Rumana Beg who had physically exploited her and later fabricated her in cases to get rid of her. As the investigation officer in his report had not mentioned any criminal history of Munaja, therefore ,there was sufficient ground to grant her bail, the court said The judge stated in his order that the accused have to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and two bail bonds of the like amount. One of the bail bonds must be of one of the family members of the accused. The accused would not change her address and co operate with the court. The accused would neither induce nor threaten the witnesses. An undertaking to the same effect should be submitted by the accused to the court for its satisfaction, the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/obscene-messages-case-conditional-bail-to-accused/articleshow/79049345.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mumbai||No suicide note in Sushant’s case, but my hubby left one: Anvay Naik's wife||MUMBAI: The wife and daughter of Anvay Naik, who allegedly killed himself in 2018 and named Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two others in his suicide note, thanked Maharashtra police for action in the case on Wednesday and said they finally hope for justice. “I don’t know why no action was taken in the case since 2018. I lost my husband and my mother-in-law. My husband had written names of three people in the suicide note. If he had got the money (allegedly owed by them to him), he and his mother would have been alive today. He was trapped in a vicious circle and his rightful dues were not paid to him,” said Akshata Naik, Anvay’s wife, speaking to journalists on Wednesday outside their Prabhadevi residence. Anvay allegedly strangled his mother before he killed himself; his note started with ‘We are committing suicide due to...’. “We have gone through a lot since the (abetment) case was filed. We have received numerous threat calls, people have followed us, our phones were tapped. All we wanted was justice for my husband whom I loved dearly,” said Akshata. According to the family, Anvay mentioned in his suicide note that dues worth Rs 83 lakh were not cleared by Republic TV and Rs 55 lakh and Rs 4 crore by the two others who were arrested on Wednesday. She questioned the initial role of Raigad police and said that senior inspector Suresh Warade of Alibaug police station, who was investigating the case, and Raigad’s former SP, Anil Paraskar, misguided the family on the case’s progress. Akshata’s daughter Adnya said, “The entire investigation by police was botched up. In 2019, they tried to make my mother sign a paper which said in Marathi ‘I want to take back the case and I had filed the case out of revenge’. But when we made noise and tried to take a photo of the paper, Warade snatched it and threw it in the dustbin.” Read AlsoRepublic TV’s Arnab Goswami held in 2018 abetment to suicide caseThe Alibaug police, assisted by cops from Mumbai, arrested Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami from his Worli residence in a two-year-old abetment to suicide case involving a man and his mother. ​​Goswami was taken to Alibaug in a police van and produced in the local court there. TheShe said the police kept telling them the investigation was on and they would be called in court. “We got to know from a statement issued by Republic TV that the case was closed. Then we sent out lawyers to get a closure report copy. Why was there so much secrecy around it?” Adnya asked. “Arnab demanded an arrest in the Sushant Singh Rajput case when there was no suicide note. But in my husband’s case, there is a suicide note and his name is mentioned in it. Why was there no action” said Akshata. Read AlsoArnab Goswami claims assault, doctors’ report shows no evidence: JudgeHigh drama marked the arrest of Arnab Goswami on Wednesday when an Alibaug police team, along with a Mumbai police team, went to his Worli residence.Adnya said police had written that Arnab was called to Alibaug police station to record his statement, but the truth is that his statement was recorded at the joint commissioner of police’s office in Mumbai. “Why was Arnab given so many privileges as an accused? Is he some god?” she said, adding that they met home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking protection and gave a representation to the current SP of Raigad seeking a re-investigation in October. “We don’t want to get into politics. We had written even to PM Modi seeking help earlier, but no one helped us,” she said. Read AlsoArnab Goswami's arrest: BJP leaders slam Mumbai police action; ‘emergency revisited’Senior BJP leaders, including home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, party chief JP Nadda and several ministers, criticised the arrest of TV journalist Arnab Goswami by Mumbai police.Watch Suicide abetment case: Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami arrested in Mumbai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-suicide-note-in-sushants-case-but-my-hubby-left-one/articleshow/79051898.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||3 succumb to the virus, district toll mounts to 842||LUDHIANA: Three residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 46 tested positive on Wednesday. As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 32-year-old man of Chak Kalan village, who had chronic kidney disease and a heart problem; a 68-year-old man of Jandiali, who had renal tubular acidosis; and a 37-year-old man of Focal Point, Phase-II, who had tuberculosis. The day also saw a patient from outside the district succumbing to the virus and 17 outsiders testing positive here. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the toll tally has mounted to 842 and that of outsiders to 329. So far, 3,96,802 persons have been tested for Covid-19. Of the 46 new cases, 24 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), nine positive cases’ contacts, eight from OPD, one healthcare worker, and four through tracing process. The local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count has increased to 20,520 and that of outsiders to 2,810. The civil surgeon said to date, 19,221 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.66% of the total cases. There are 454 active cases here. The number of persons home quarantined is 997. On Wednesday, 97 persons were quarantined and 1,428 samples were collected. There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals that include four government ones installed at CMCH. Ten patients, including five Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-succumb-to-the-virus-dist-toll-mounts-to-842/articleshow/79047399.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Madurai||CPI calls for inquiry into temple jewellery weight reduction issue||Ramanathapuram: A high-level inquiry should be conducted into the issue of weight reduction of temple jewellery at the Sri Ramanathaswamy temple in Rameswaram and a white paper on the same should be released, Tamil Nadu state secretary of the CPI, R Mutharasan,said. Speaking to reporters in Rameswaram on Wednesday, he said a team of appraisers, who took stock of the jewellery belonging to the temple, have stated that the weight of the gold, silver, diamond, cats-eye, coral and pearl jewellery, has decreased. The temple administration has issued notices to the priests. The Tamil Nadu government should order a proper inquiry into this issue, and all concerned with the handling of the jewellery of the temple, should be questioned, he said. Mutharasan said that there were many temples under the Tamil Nadu government, which had treasures including very ancient jewellery that were being replaced with replicas and this was a continuous occurrence. He said that the jewellery belonging to the temple should be kept for public viewing. A petition in this regard was also submitted to the joint commissioner of the Ramanathaswamy temple Kalyani by the CPI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cpi-calls-for-inquiry-into-temple-jewellery-weight-reduction-issue/articleshow/79051126.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Two deputy commissioners suspended for graft, laxity||LUCKNOW: Two deputy commissioners in self-employment scheme of rural development department in Varanasi and Bahraich were suspended on Wednesday, following complaints of corruption and impropriety. The duo faced action on chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s directive, pending departmental inquiry. A government spokesperson said, Bahraich deputy commissioner Surendra Kumar Gupta was block development officer in Hardoi district’s Ahirori block when a controversy arose over construction of an anganwadi centre in Kharaheda village. Not only was Gupta embroiled in financial irregularities, he did not source construction material from an authorised vendor or conduct quality tests before ordering payments. The Chief Minister viewed this as indiscipline, carelessness and arbitrariness. While ordering his suspension, he also sought a department probe. Joint development commissioner, Lucknow division, has been appointed investigation officer. During the suspension period, Gupta will be attached to commissioner’s office, rural development, Lucknow. The other official, Suresh Chandra Kesarwani, has been accused of laxity in rural livelihood mission works, misbehaviour with subordinates, use of inappropriate language and threats. Earlier, chief development officer, Varanasi, unearthed financial irregularities and missed target deadlines during a surprise inspection at Kesarwani’s office. Also, he failed to fulfil his responsibilities as additional in charge of Harhua development block. A departmental inquiry was also set up against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-deputy-commissioners-suspended-for-graft-laxity/articleshow/79050958.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Govts giving lame excuses for privatisation, says Kanimozhi||Madurai: Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi said that the central and state governments were giving lame excuses for privatisation of the public sector industries and that the DMK has been continuously opposing it. She met the protesting employees of TNEB in front of the office of the superintending engineer of TNEB in Tuticorin on Wednesday and expressed solidarity with them. She said that electricity works were affected due to the protest held in Tuticorin. The Tamil Nadu Electricity Board chairman never interacted with the TNEB trade unions or their leaders. Steps should be taken to address their issues with immediate effect. The EB substations should not be handed over to the private sector on a contract basis. Filling up the vacancies with retired personnel without conducting a proper recruitment process was condemnable. She added that 40,000 vacancies should be filled up immediately and that the demands of the workers including increments and bonus should be considered and dialogue to this effect should be initiated immediately.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govts-giving-lame-excuses-for-privatisation-says-kanimozhi/articleshow/79051143.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajpath Club AGM today||Ahmedabad: The annual general meeting of Rajpath Club is set to be held on Thursday. It is for the first time that the meeting will be held virtually instead of an in-person meeting. Besides presenting of the audited accounts of the club in addition to forthcoming plans for the club by the management, the results for the club elections held on Thursday will also be announced. Voting for the posts of some 10 board of directors was held on Thursday. The entire electoral process, for the first time, was held online, as part of which, members voted using a unique password. Interestingly, the online election process was outsourced to an agency and the club shelled out a sum of Rs 1 lakh approximately to complete the electoral process, said club sources. Some 12 candidates were in the fray for the elections at Rajpath Club. These include Narendra Somani, Ashesh Patel, Mihir Shah, Dr Vikram Shah, Manish Shah, Jigish Shah, Prince Bhuptani, Kandarp Amin, Naginbhai Patel, Naginesh Patel, Nainesh Patel and Krishnakant Aggarwal. Club sources are abuzz with the word on the nomination of Nagin Patel who is also the president of Karnavati Club. “He has not kept well over a period of time and due to this, the management of Karnavati Club is also being looked after by other management members. It is surprising that he filed his nomination for the Rajpath Club elections,” said a source. The results will be announced during the AGM today.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rajpath-club-agm-today/articleshow/79048754.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Posco court rejects bail application of rape accused||KANPUR: The designated Pocsot court, Kanpur Nagar, on Wednesday rejected the criminal appeal of rape accused Dinesh Kumar in which he had challenged the order of the juvenile justice board. Ganga Prasad Yadav, special prosecutor, stated that one Dinesh was arrested by the Naubasta police on the complaint filed by the victim's mother in which she had alleged that her six year old daughter had gone to attend the Tilak ceremony at Vijay Munshi’s house on June 2, 2019. Around 9.30 pm, one Satyam Gautam, a resident of the same locality, came to her with her daughter whose clothes had blood stains. Satyam said that Dinesh, a resident of Nayee Basti Panki, had enticed the girl and took her to a brick kiln and physically exploited her. Police registered a case against Dinesh under section 376 IPC and section 3/4 of the Pocso Act. Since the age of the accused was 16 years, police filed the chargesheet in the court of juvenile justice board where the accused filed his bail application.The juvenile justice board sought a report from the district probation officer. The special prosecutor said the probation officer in his report said that there were all possibilities that the accused might have been involved in other crimes, therefore, it was not in the interest of justice to grant him bail. The juvenile justice board, taking cognizance of the report, rejected the bail application and observed that there was no ground to grant him bail. The accused then filed a criminal appeal before the Pocso court and urged that the juvenile justice board had not paid attention to his bail application and ignored the grounds of bail. He pleaded that he was a student and was living with his family, and that the police report was not reliable. The designated Posco court judge Rajveer Singh in his order observed that the juvenile justice board had rejected the bail application of the accused on the ground that there were possibilities that he might join bad elements and commit more crimes. The victim in her statement had narrated the act of the accused, therefore there was no need to interfere in the order passed by the juvenile justice board hence criminal appeal was being rejected and order passed by the board had been confirmed, the judge said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/posco-court-rejects-bail-application-of-rape-accused/articleshow/79049373.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||‘Made in Uttar Pradesh’ idols on sale at exhibition||LUCKNOW: Buying Ganesh-Lakshmi idols will not be a tiresome task this Diwali as standardized idols will be available at an exhibition being organized by UP Mati Kala Board in Lucknow from November 4-13. Artisans from Azamgarh, Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Varanasi and other districts will put up the idols for sale during the exhibition at the Board’s office in Lucknow’s Dalibagh area. These idols will be made through standardized dies and moulds which will ensure uniform size and shape. At least 30 stalls will be set up for the sale of wide range of clay products. To curb the sale of Chinese idols and products during festive season and to reclaim domestic market, the state government had roped in empanelled artists to prepare standardized dies for clay artisans who have been making clay products for generations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/made-in-up-idols-on-sale-at-exhibition/articleshow/79051038.cms||Neha Shukla
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt links heritage trees to ecotourism||LUCKNOW: In yet another attempt to conserve ecology, the state government has decided to develop spots with heritage trees as ecotourism sites. There are more than a thousand trees that have been shortlisted by a committee set up by the UP State Biodiversity Board. Close to 35 different species have been identified as heritage trees which are being verified by the Institute of Wildlife Sciences, Lucknow University. Institute of Wildlife Sciences will verify the details and pick up the ones which fit the criteria of being heritage tree. “Reaching the exact location of every tree, clicking pictures and collecting details from local people is a tedious process,” said Amita Kannaujia, coordinator. Species which have been identified are Kusum, Bahera, Harr, Sal, Oak, Banyan, Mango, Peepal, Imli and Parijaat.The deadline of November 30 has been fixed for finalising the list of heritage trees. Sources in the committee said while a 100 prominent ones might feature in a coffee table book, others will also be popularised. At least three trees may be chosen from bigger districts like Lucknow for coffee table book while smaller districts will contribute one tree each. “Besides conserving them, the idea is to develop these trees as ecotourism spots. The route map of other heritage trees which fail to make it to the book, but are important as per the criteria, will be printed. It will help interested people reach locations of these trees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-links-heritage-trees-to-ecotourism/articleshow/79050990.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Commercial complex, two colonies demolished||LUCKNOW: Two housing colonies and a commercial complex were among the unauthorised constructions which were bulldozed by joint teams of Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) and district administration on the third day of the three-month long drive on Wednesday. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash, who also has the charge of LDA vice-chairperson, said total 6.8 hectare land worth Rs 5.9 crore was freed during the exercise. “So far, over 34 hectare worth about Rs 50 crore has been made free of encroachment,” he said. A housing colony on 50 bigha land on Jail Road under Gosainganj police station was demolished. The colony was being constructed without due approval of the map from the development authority. The developer was warned several times but when he did not pay heed, the LDA squad razed all the unauthorised construction, officials said. Another housing colony on Bharwara road, which was being constructed without the approval of map, was also demolished. Similarly, a three-storey commercial complex being constructed without map approval in Balaganj was bulldozed. The owner was sent notice two weeks ago to vacate the premises. At Amausi village in Sarojininagar, encroachment of two bigha land was removed, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/commercial-complex-2-colonies-demolished/articleshow/79050922.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand schools record steady rise in attendance||DEHRADUN: Schools in Uttarakhand witnessed a slight increase in attendance on the third day of their reopening. According to the officials in the state education department, the attendance percentage in the state government-run schools has been around 25% since their reopening on November 2. However, the number of students coming to schools is witnessing a marginal rise daily. During a virtual conversation with the students, the state education minister Arvind Pandey assured them that schools are safe and have been properly sanitised. However, the parent bodies are still against the decision of reopening of the schools for Classes X and XII and have cited the recent examples of Ranikhet (Almora) and Srinagar (Pauri Garhwal) where schools had to be closed after a few students and teachers were found Covid-19 positive. Meanwhile, more than 80% of the private schools in the state are yet to reopen because they have either not been inspected by government officials or have not yet implemented the SOPs issued by the state government for school reopening. Also, some private schools have complained about the lack of funds for sanitisation and other facilities as mentioned in the SOP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-schools-record-steady-rise-in-attendance/articleshow/79047422.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 5, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC stays arrest of Mukhtar’s kin in land grab case||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has stayed the arrest of Anwar Shahzad and Sarjil Raza, brothers-in-law of mafia-turned politician Mukhtar Ansari if they cooperate in the investigation of a land grabbing case of Ghazipur. Hearing a writ petition filed by Shahzad and Raza, a division bench comprising Justice Manoj Misra and Justice SK Pachori observed, “Considering the fact that in the two cases cited against the petitioners, they were not named in the first information report and their name has been added through supplementary charge-sheet. Besides, the petitioners have been granted bail in those two cases. Hence, we deem it appropriate to dispose of the petition by providing that the investigation of the above case shall continue and brought to its logical conclusion but the petitioners shall not be arrested till submission of police report under Section 173 (2) Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), provided they co-operate in the investigation.” In their petition, the petitioners’ contention was that in 2019 their names were falsely implicated in two land grabbing cases, after which on September 11, 2020, an FIR was registered against them under Section 2/3(1) of UP Gangsters and Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, at Kotwali police station of Ghazipur in which it was alleged that the petitioners have a gang comprising the petitioners and one Aafsa Ansari who are involved in land grabbing and had been involved in acquiring movable and immovable property through benami transactions. However, the court after hearing concerned parties declined to quash the FIR against the petitioners and observed, “The allegations are in respect of constituting a gang for grabbing land and acquiring movable and immovable property through benami transactions, the matter would require investigation and therefore the prayer of the petitioners to quash the first information report cannot be accepted.” The court did not stay the investigation of the case but granted relief of stay from arrest till submission of police report. The order was passed on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-stays-arrest-of-mukhtars-kin-in-land-grab-case/articleshow/79049521.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid-19 positive woman gives birth to triplets||HYDERABAD: In a first-of-its-kind instance, a Covid-19 positive woman gave birth to triplets — two baby boys and a baby girl — in Government General Hospital (GGH), Nizamabad. This was the woman’s first pregnancy. The babies were kept under observation and discharged on Wednesday. Doctors said both the mother and the babies were safe and free from Covid-19 infection. “The infants weighed between 1.2 kg and 1.5 kg. A healthy baby’s weight is in the range of 2 kg,” Dr Kiran Madala, associate professor with the hospital, said. The woman complained of fever, cough and developed other complications when she came to GGH. This is the second such instance in the hospital after a separate operation theatre was set up for Covid-19 pregnant women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-ve-woman-gives-birth-to-triplets/articleshow/79050311.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 5, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Vikas Dubey told men not to fire in air, but directly at cops||KANPUR: Slain Bikru gangster Vikas Dubey had hatched his savage and barbaric plan for bloodbath much before the police team reached his village on July 2 night to arrest him and had ordered his aides to fire directly and indiscriminately at the men in khaki and distinctly instructed them not to fire in air. The shocking revelations were made by Dubey’s aide Umashankar Yadav, who had surrendered in court, on Wednesday. “Besides, Dubey had planned and discussed the ambush strategy in detail and had sent a message to all his aides to assemble at his residence with firearms by 4pm on July 2,” SP (rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava told reporters on Wednesday. “Umashankar revealed that Dubey had sent his close aides Gopal Saini and Prabhat Mishra to his residence on July 2 afternoon to fetch his licensed gun. Umashankar himself reached Dubey’s house at 8pm and saw the latter’s aides equipped with licensed and illegal firearms. Dubey instructed all the men to fire directly and constantly on the policemen. Following his instructions, the gangster’s aides fired bullets directly at policemen non-stop for half-an-hour after taking positions on roof tops,” the SP added. Court had on Tuesday remanded Yadav, a resident of nearby Sujja Newada village, arrested for his alleged involvement in killing eight policemen, in police custody from 8am to 4pm. “Court remanded Yadav in police custody to enable recovery of the weapon, a country-made pistol of 315 bore, used by him and for his custodial interrogation as part of the ongoing probe,” said police. On the basis of inputs provided by Yadav, police recovered a country-made firearm of 315 bore, two live cartridges and one empty shell from a sand dump near his house. Dubey and his nearly 36 aides have been accused of killing eight policemen, including deputy SP Devendra Kumar Mishra and three sub-inspectors, and injuring seven others in Bikru village on the fateful night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dubey-told-men-not-to-fire-in-air-but-directly-at-cops/articleshow/79049390.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 5, 2020||Mysuru||Tourists made to travel 50km to pick up trash they discarded||Madikeri: In a recent incident, residents of Kadagadalu in Madikeri decided not to accept callous behaviour from visitors and held tourists who had left their village a littered mess accountable. Consequently, two tourists who had discarded trash by the side of the road were made to retrace their journey, travelling back 50km from Periyapatna to Kadagadalu, and collect the waste themselves. Kadagadalu resident Madetira Thimmaiah, also secretary of Green City Forum, on finding a takeaway bag of a fastfood chain dumped on the roadside, decided to contact those who had discarded the trash there – the names and contact information he found from the bill he found inside the bag. The order had been delivered to Akshatha KK and Chirag, and their numbers had been mentioned on the bill. Thimmaiah proceeded to make a video to inform the public of what had transpired. The video subsequently went viral, with Thimmaiah appealing to the public to call the tourists who had discarded the trash, and ask them to return to collect the same. Madikeri town circle inspector Anoop Madappa also called the two tourists and asked them to carry the discarded bags. Akshatha and Chirag, who were in Periyapatna when they started receiving calls, rushed back to Kadagadalu village and collected the waste they had earlier discarded on the side of the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tourists-made-to-travel-50km-to-pick-up-trash-they-discarded/articleshow/79047429.cms||G RAJENDRA
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||One hurt in firing between smugglers & forest dept officials on Indo-Nepal border||Nainital: An official of the forest department was admitted to hospital after he sustained bullet injuries in an attack by smugglers in Khatima area of Udham Singh Nagar district on the Indo-Nepal border. According to police, a gunfight of sorts took place between the forest department officials and smugglers late on Monday night when the officials on duty heard the sound of some people chopping wood. When the officials approached them, the miscreants opened fire on them. A bullet hit an official near his collarbone. In retaliation, the forest officials fired in the air but the smugglers had managed to escape towards the Nepal border by then. The police, meanwhile, have registered an FIR against unidentified persons under section 307 of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-hurt-in-firing-between-smugglers-forest-dept-officials-on-indo-nepal-border/articleshow/79047435.cms||Prashant Jha
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||NCR corona surge hits west Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: As Delhi heads towards another peak and is reporting a record of over 6,000 new cases daily, cities in west UP adjoining the capital are also staring at a spike in infection. On Wednesday, Noida reported 339 cases, beating even Lucknow, which has consistently been the district with the highest number of new Covid-19 cases across the state since the past several days. Ghaziabad reported 130 cases on Wednesday, while Meerut reported 175. Together, the three districts contributed 29.21% to the state’s daily positive cases. If combined with Lucknow, the four districts accounted for 41.78% of the total new cases in the state on Wednesday. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to increase surveillance and testing in these areas to keep control over the rise in cases. “Cases in all cities bordering Delhi have been reflecting the trend seen in the capital as there are lakhs of people who live in these cities across the border, but work in Delhi and vice versa. Delhi’s cases have been rising since the past week or 10 days and we can see that getting reflected in Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut. We need to be very careful in these areas,” said an official. He added that the high pollution concentration in the capital had also affected these areas, which could have contributed to an increase in the number of new cases per day. On October 25, total active cases in Gautam Budh Nagar were 1,082 which then gradually rose to 1,261 on November 1 and again went on to touch 1,443 on November 4. Similarly, Ghaziabad moved from 1,142 cases on October 25 to 1,041 on November 1 and now to 1,146. Meerut, meanwhile, went up from 1,351 to 1,431 and then to 1,498 in the same duration. Gautam Budh Nagar with 339 cases and 177 recoveries on Wednesday upset the state’s Covid recovery data. Officials say the sharp spike in this district is especially worrying. Since November 1, the district has reported 839 positive cases. “The district administration has been told to strengthen contact tracing and surveillance in this district especially. With Diwali coming up, it is imperative to ensure that the situation does not get out of hand,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ncr-corona-surge-hits-west-up/articleshow/79050943.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 5, 2020||Chennai||God of all things||Chennai: In January, a team of researchers led by Stanford psychologist Steven O Roberts conducted a study with more than a thousand American Christians. At the end of it, they concluded that people who conceptualised god as a white man were more likely to trust white male candidates for leadership positions over black and women applicants. Read the entire story on TOI+ How they got gods to spark a discussion among lesser mortals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/god-of-all-things/articleshow/79048756.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
November 5, 2020||Bhopal||9.81 lakh Covid tests in a month, MP still way behind other states in tests per million||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh is on 16th rank among the states with highest number of the Covid-19 patients. In a month between October 1 and November 3, a whopping 9.81 lakh samples were tested. Test per million—number of samples tested per 1 million population—has improved considerably during this period. It was 23492 on October 1, now it is 34587 on November 3—but still Madhya Pradesh is worst when it comes to test per million figures among these 16 states which have reported maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases. States like West Bengal (47924 tests per million), West Bengal (47924 tests per million), Rajasthan (48993) are better than Madhya Pradesh. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh which are populous states have also tested much more than Madhya Pradesh. Tests per million in Bihar is 94844 and that of Uttar Pradesh is 68038. There has been decline in number of cases in the recent times in state and positivity rate has also come down in past one month. The sampling and testing has also increased of late, but one reason for less number of tests reported in the state could also be the less number of tests, said sources. Government has increased sampling in recent times, sources, however, say that people are not voluntarily coming up for testing at fever clinics, despite the fact that the government has started a no question asked policy for testing. It means that anyone who walks at the fever clinic and says that he/she wants to get tested for Covid-19, will be tested without any questions asked. Tests Per Million States Tests/M Rank (Cases) Rank (Test/M) Madhya Pradesh 35,487 16 1 West Bengal 47,924 8 2 Rajasthan 48,993 13 3 Chhattisgarh 64,333 14 4 Uttar Pradesh 68,038 5 5 Maharashtra 74,211 1 6 Gujarat 91,417 15 7 Bihar 94,844 11 8 Odisha 1,07,331 9 9 Telangana 1,18,063 10 10 Karnataka 1,24,406 2 11 Tamil Nadu 1,34,353 4 12 Kerala 1,36,357.00 6 13 Assam 1,37,046 12 14 Andhra Pradesh 1,58,304 3 15 Delhi 2,43,339 7 16||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/9-81-lakh-covid-tests-in-a-month-mp-still-way-behind-other-states-in-tests-per-million/articleshow/79048759.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seaplane grounded for two days||Ahmedabad: The seaplane service from Ahmedabad to Kevadia and vice versa has been suspended for two days. The service did not operate on Wednesday and isn’t expected to operate on Thursday, well-placed sources said. The aircraft has been taken for maintenance for two days and operations have been suspended. “This is the first time the aircraft’s maintenance is taking place in India and therefore it is being done during the day under guidance. Once it is done, flight operations will resume,” a source said. SpiceJet officials claim that some 3,000 booking requests were received on the first day of the service, but barely any flights operated at full capacity. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seaplane-grounded-for-two-days/articleshow/79048763.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid: 15,000 samples to be tested with mobile testing vehicles||HYDERABAD: Anticipating an increase in Covid-19 positive cases in the winter if social distancing norms are not followed strictly, the health department is all set to test 15,000 samples with the help of mobile testing vehicles. Since many countries across the world are witnessing a spike in cases, especially in the winters, officials said the health department is making arrangements to do more testing. The target for daily testing is set at 60,000, which is hovering around 40,000 now. Till now, through mobile vehicles, the government has conducted around 5,000 tests. The health department officials will head to crowded places, including rythu bazaar and auto stands and do testing. “Cab drivers are maintaining social distancing norms. But, auto drivers are not following these norms. We will go to places where people are assembling in large numbers,” Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director, public health, said. The health department has deployed 310 mobile testing vehicle units. Among these, 300 vehicles are from Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram used in schools. Since schools are yet to be opened, these vehicles are being utilised for Covid-19 testing, officials said. Greater Hyderabad and Rangareddy district are already doing more tests with the help of these vehicles. Health officials said though there was no major increase in the number of cases post Dasara, they would maintain caution till January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15000-samples-to-be-testedwith-mobile-testing-vehicles/articleshow/79050354.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Meet on two-hour green cracker window plea today||KOLKATA: The state government has convened a meeting between an umbrella body of fireworks manufacturers and sellers in Bengal and senior officials of the administration on Thursday to discuss the issue of Baji Bazaar that is organised at five locations and consider a proposal on a two-hour window on Kali Puja and Diwali evenings to celebrate with green fireworks. The proposal was sent to the CM by Sara Bangla Atoshbaji Unnayan Samity (All Bengal Fireworks Welfare Association) a day after the state chief secretary appealed against use of fireworks this year keeping in mind the pandemic as pollution can turn patients with early signs of respiratory distress critical. "We submitted an appeal to the CM to allow two hours to celebrate Kali Puja and Diwali with fireworks that don't cause pollution. Following the Supreme Court order in 2018, Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu has been manufacturing fireworks that do not contain banned chamicals. The fireworks have even been certified by the National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) as non-polluting. Thereafter, a meeting has been convened at Nabanna on Thursday where chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and home secretary H K Dwivedi will be present," association chairman Babla Roy said. Though the state has issued only an appeal and not banned fireworks, a petition on ban on fireworks during this Diwali given the Covid situation will be heard at the Calcutta high court on Thursday. If the court issues a ban, the assciation said it would move Supreme Court. “The fireworks industry has not received any financial assistance due to the Covid. Of the Rs 6,000 crore business that is done in Bengal annually, around 10%, or Rs 600 crore, happens during the three days around Kali Puja and Diwali. Of this, 30%, or Rs 180 crore, business happens in Kolkata,” said Roy. Fireworks dealers said the police had discreetly asked wholesellers in fireworks not to release any goods to dealers and retailers following the appeal from the chief secretary. “We are now hoping Thursday’s meeting at Nabanna leads to the Baji Bazaars being organised. Unlike Rajasthan and Odisha governments, no ban has been declared by the Bengal government,” Burrabazar Fireworks Dealers’ Association member Sushil Kumar Golcha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/meet-on-two-hour-green-cracker-window-plea-today/articleshow/79048749.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Two firecracker hubs in West Bengal see order cancellations ahead of Kali Puja||KOLKATA: Large-scale cancellation of bulk orders of fireworks this week, especially during the last two days, have cast a shadow of gloom in Bengal’s biggest cracker hubs at Champahati and Nungi in South 24 Parganas. Local manufacturers here cater to temporary cracker stalls across Kolkata and other areas of the state. After the chief secertary on Tuesday made an appeal to citizens to avoid bursting crackers during Kali Puja and Diwali, many local dealers who supply fireworks sourced from Champahati and Nungi cancelled the orders on Wednesday. “If baji bazaars are not organized and police don’t allow us to set up stalls in neighbourhoods, what will we do with the stock? We were forced to make the cancellations though we know that most of the manufacturing units are ready to deliver the orders,” said a fireworks dealer in Burrabazar. Unlike the local centres from which consignments come a few days before the fesivals, those from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu arrive earlier and are now lying in the godowns of wholesale traders. In Champahati, where nearly 1.5 lakh people are involved in making fireworks in the months preceding Kali Puja and Diwali, anxiety is evident with unsold stocks piling up in almost all shops. “I am nervous to even respond to phone calls. I have had five cancellations in the past 12 hours, which is nearly half of the Rs 7-lakh order I had. I do not what to do now,” said Sudhanshu Das, a trader and a member of the Champahati Fireworks Union. According to locals, in the three gram panchayats of Begumpur, South Garia and Champahati and in Nungi (Mahestala), nearly every home are engaged in making firecrackers. For the initial investments, the firecracker markets fetch a profit margin of 7%-8%. Medium to bigger traders, sources said, invest anything from a lakh to Rs 5 crore against the initial orders and sale commitments. Das argued: “The problem is this has happened less than a week before sales. Every trader is stocked with crackers.” Howrah’s Ramrajatala resident Arup Santra has cancelled orders worth Rs 4 lakh. “I am a regular every year. But this year, even though I placed the order, I cancelled it because I feel like I may harm people by selling these,” he said. Kamal Das, a small-time Champahati trader, added: “It is not the daily sales, but pre-ordered firecrackers make up for a bulk of our business. With these cancellations, it will be very difficult to manage the loss. In many households, they invest after taking loans from local money lenders. And the loans hinge on the amount of confirmed orders they have.” Sukhdeb Naskar, the Mahestala-Budge Budge firework traders’ body’s general secretary, said: “These are very trying times. People have taken loans. Some have even taken money against mortgages.” Nungi trader Satyarup Naskar also highlighted another plight. “Given the various directives, several traders had invested more on safe crackers. These require more investments than the rest. But these too are piling up,” he explained. Traders said they were hoping that the state agreed to a two-hour window to clear some of their stock to cut down losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-firecracker-hubs-see-order-cancellations-ahead-of-kali-puja/articleshow/79048742.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||Man killed in land dispute near Manglaur||Roorkee: A person succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday in Manglaur after his brother along with his family assaulted him over a parental land dispute. Soon after the incident, local police took two persons in custody for interrogation. According to SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh, one Jitender Kumar (45), resident of Nagla Eimad village near Manglaur, had a dispute over a piece of parental land with his brother Satender for a long time. On Monday, the brother duo and members of their respective families engaged in an altercation and attacked each other with wooden batons and sharp-edged weapons. During the conflict, Jitender sustained critical injuries. Later, he was rushed to a higher centre in Dehradun for treatment but he succumbed to.his injuries on Wednesday. “We have registered a case against Satender and others on the complaint of the victim’s wife. We have taken two persons in custody for interrogation,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-killed-in-land-dispute-near-manglaur/articleshow/79047444.cms||Tapan Susheel
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||Make app for wildlife tourism: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday directed forest department officials to introduce a single-window system and make a booking application for promoting tourism in wildlife protected areas in Uttarakhand. On Wednesday, CM Rawat and cabinet minister Harak Singh Rawat reviewed the work and progress of the forest department. CM Rawat also told the officials to make a mobile application for online booking.He also said that officials must ensure that people who have applied for wood and River Bed Material (RBM) must get permission on time and that they do not face any inconvenience. “Forest department must make an action plan for protection of trees planted by it in different parts of the state. Our aim should not only be limited to plantations, but the responsibility should also be fixed for their safety,” added the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/make-app-for-wildlife-tourism-cm-rawat/articleshow/79047454.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt outlets to sell onion, other veggies cheap||LUCKNOW: The state government has rushed in to control soaring prices of onions, tomatoes and potatoes which will now be available at Parag Dairy, UP State Horticulture Cooperative Marketing Federation (HOFED) and UP Food and Essential Commodities Corporation Limited outlets at cheaper rate. Agriculture production commissioner Alok Sinha issued an order saying onions, tomatoes and potatoes will be sold at these outlets on no profit, no loss basis, on less than prevailing market prices. Onions are selling for Rs 40-50 per kg, tomatoes for Rs 40-70 and potatoes for Rs 35-34 in retail markets. “HAFED has already started selling the vegetables while others will begin shortly. The vegetables will be purchased from wholesalers. We have also issued directions to SDMs to crack down on hoarding. Our aim is to stabilise prices,” said additional chief secretary, horticulture, Manoj Singh. Currently, there is shortage of 33 lakh tonne potatoes in the state. Compared to 1.33 lakh tonne of potatoes in the cold storage last year, currently there are just 98,000 tonne, he added. “These are perishable items and so we cannot take them out of cold storage in one go. We are expecting arrival of new potato crop in the market in another 15 days or so, and therefore, this supply crisis should be there only till month-end,” Singh said. UP has also requested National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED) for supply as is likely to import potatoes from Bhutan. Onions, which come from Maharashtra, Gujarat and MP, are also in short supply and likely to be imported as well. APC Alok Sinha said onion crop was destroyed due to heavy rain in Maharashtra and MP. This, along with poor kharif crop in UP led to a rise in onion prices. The tomato crop was also ruined due to rain in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and UP, leading to short supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-outlets-to-sell-onion-other-veggies-cheap/articleshow/79050996.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Info sought in questions must be given’||Ahmedabad: In a significant order, the information commissioner has ruled that government agencies are not obliged to provide information on the reasons for a particular decision, project or scheme, but information should not be withheld under this pretext under the Right to Information (RTI). The order came after an appeal was filed by environmentalist Mahesh Pandya, after GPCB refused to provide information on a proposed pipeline project to carry treated effluent from cities and discharge it into the Arabian Sea. Pandya received a copy of the October 22 order on Tuesday. Surprisingly, GPCB declined to provide the information sought by Pandya in his application dated February 27, 2019, on grounds that the information sought by him was in “question form”, which does not fall under the definition of “information.” Information commissioner K M Adhvaryu, in his order, said, “The public information officer is not obliged to provide information on the reasons for actions, but it is improper to deny information which has been sought in the form of questions. He cited an April 3, 2008 order of the Bombay High Court (writ petition no 419/2007 Dr Celsa Pinto vs Goa State Information Commissioner) in this regard. “I am happy with the order. Information is generally sought by asking questions. GPCB claimed questions do not constitute information. I had not sought reasons for any aspect of the project in my RTI application,” Pandya told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/info-sought-in-questions-must-be-given/articleshow/79048814.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Lake regulars seek West Bengal government SOP for Chhath||KOLKATA: Environmentalists, birders, civil society members and morning walkers at Rabindra Sarobar have appealed to the government to issue an advisory and SOP on Chhath similar to the ones it has issued for Durga Puja and Kali Puja to ensure social distancing and prevent pollution. “The appeal that the state chief secretary made on Tuesday, urging citizens not to burst crackers this Kali Puja and Diwali and keep the air clean, is laudable. We urge the government to issue a similar appeal on the occasion of Chhath Puja to save the micro-environment at Rabindra Sarobar,” said Sumita Banerjee, a morning walker and activist who has been working relentlessly for the conservation of the lake that is included under the National Lake Conservation Plan. Businessmen Amarjit Singh and Sagarmal Mall, who also begins the day with a walk at Sarobar, said the government needed to keep the lake pristine and adhere to the National Green Tribunal order barring social and religious functions to protect its bio-dliversity. Though Debashis Kumar, who is in charge of parks and squares in the city, had taken the lead by creating a temporary waterbody in Panditya for offering prayers during Chhath, other political leaders have refused to comply with the NGT directive and even backed those who violated the order. “KMDA, the lake’s custodian, did attempt to make alternative arrangements last year and carried out sensitization programmes. The lake was secured by police and mornings walkers weren’t allowed. Yet, on the day of Chhath, the police disappeared and goons stormed the gates in the morning. In the end, it was all about awareness and no implementation. This year, KMDA has even shed the pretence of protecting the lake and has gone to Supreme Court to allow Chhath Puja,” Sabuj Mancha secretary Naba Datta pointed out. Subhas Datta, who had moved NGT for the lake’s preservation in 2016 that led to the 2017 order banning Chhath Puja here, will start preparations on Thursday for the Supreme Court hearing on the KMDA review petition scheduled on November 16. “I don’t understand how KMDA can move the court to support an event that damages flora and fauna,” he said. While he and others see the KMDA’s recent decision to open the lake during the evening hours as a step to pave the way for Chhath, a KMDA official denied any correlation and said it was a long-term demand from locals and that alternative Chhath arrangements were anyway under way at 44 waterbodies for devotees to observe the rituals, up from 10 waterbodies last year. West Bengal Bihari Samaj president Mani Prasad Singh said the community was open to being frisked for crackers while entering the lake premises and also limiting the number of devotees. “Chhat is a religious festival very closed to our heart. We hope the apex court will allow Chhath at Rabindra Sarobar with the government taking all environmental safeguards,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lake-regulars-seek-govt-sop-for-chhath/articleshow/79048760.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC: How’s absconding life convict active on Facebook||PRAYAGRAJ: Taking a serious note of the disclosure that an absconding life convict is active on social media, the Allahabad high court has directed the principal secretary, department of home affairs, Uttar Pradesh to file an affidavit stating complete details relating to the efforts made by the state to ensure arrest of the convicted absconder. Hearing a PIL filed by one Abhishek Som, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma directed to list the PIL on by the next date of hearing, i.e., November 23. In the PIL, the petitioner alleged that one Badan Singh Baddo, convicted for life term imprisonment, absconded from custody on March 28, 2019, but no efforts have been made to arrest him. The petitioner also placed before the court certain documents to substantiate the fact that the convict is regularly operating his social media pages including a Facebook account. STF constituted to arrest Baddo, govt tells courtIt was also stated that the absconder is having political connections and only because of that no action is being taken against him. However, the state counsel stated that a Special Task Force (STF) has already been constituted to arrest the absconding convict Baddo. The court passed this order on November 2. In March last year, Gangster Badan Singh Baddo had escaped from police clutches in Meerut district during transit from Ghaziabad court to Fatehgarh central jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-hows-absconding-life-convict-active-on-fb/articleshow/79051019.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 5, 2020||Chennai||When a spelling error threw a writer off guard||By K R A NarasiahTamil writer with a love for Carnatic music, T Janakiraman, whose centenary year has begun, was among the rare breed with an understanding of the cultural fabric of his times. Chitti Sundararajan used to say there were only two Tamil writers who deserve the Gyanpeeth award — Jayakanthan and T Janakiraman and Jayakanthan eventually did get it. Janakiraman’s father Thygaraja Sastrigal was well versed in music and so Janakiraman was introduced to it early on. Carnatic music runs like a thread in almost all his works. After his graduation and training as a teacher he worked for 11 years with music in Thanjavur and with the help of Chitti Sundararajan joined the All India Radio. On the recommendation of Chitti Sundararajan, the then director of All India Radio Madras station K P Rangachari, appointed Janakiraman in the department of educational broadcast. Then, Janakiraman was living with his mother in Madras while his wife Rajam was in Bengaluru with her father who was working in the army canteen there. One day Rangachari received a message through Army telegraph service that was a harbinger of bad news. He came rushing to Chitti’s room and informed him of the message that said that Rajam (his wife) had expired. Both of them were in shock. At the time, Rangachari with his influence arranged for a train ticket for Janakiraman. After Janakiraman had left, Chitti went to Janakiraman’s work desk and found a postcard informing Janakiraman that his wife was arriving by Bangalore express and that he was to receive her at the station as she was new to Madras. Chitti realised there must have been some confusion in the message and ran to Rangachari, who in turn tried to get through to Janakiraman. Again because of his influence in the railways, Rangachari could manage to contact Janakiraman through railway officials. Janakiraman was contacted by the station master in one of the wayside stations and assisted in getting a ticket back toMadras.The source of confusion seems to have started with the message that Janakiraman’s father-in-law had sent after seeing off his daughter on the Bangalore Express. He had asked the army signal department to send a short message "Rajam left by express" to the Fort St George army division to be forwarded to AIR station. Unfortunately the message instead of "left by express" became "expired!".Both Rangachari and Chitti did not tell this to Janakiraman till much later. A true case of comedy of errors! Chitti recounted this to me while I was writing his biography.(The writer is a history enthusiast)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-a-spelling-error-threw-a-writer-off-guard/articleshow/79048797.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Lawbreakers to ‘chill’ in Government Railway Police & Railway Protection Force lockups||VARANASI: The remodeling and upgradation of the Varanasi Junction building will also be a ‘boon’ for the lawbreakers nabbed by Government Railway Police (GRP) Cantt and Railway Protection Force (RPF), and will literally ‘cool’ their heels in the lockups till they are produced before the court. Yes, the reason being that the lockups of GRP and RPF will be located in the state-of-art centrally air-conditioned newly expanded main building of Varanasi Junction. Persons caught for theft, snatching, travelling without ticket, stealing railway property or causing harm to it, staging protests on tracks, begging and illegal vending will now ‘chill’ in air-conditioned lockups if caught at Varanasi junction or under the jurisdiction of GRP Cantt and RPF. While GRP’s new accommodation is ready in the expanded lobby of Varanasi Junction at eastern end of platform 1 for shifting its office and other setup from platform 4/5, RPF’s office-cum-lockup will be ready in a couple of months. Station director Anand Mohan told TOI on Wednesday, “The upgradation and remodeling of Varanasi junction is being done under a Rs 568 crore project. The station’s main building on eastern side is being expanded. It has a waiting lobby, escalators, new foot over bridge, cafeteria, passenger amenities and GRP, RPF stations. The entire building is centrally air-conditioned.” “The lockup is also located in the centrally air-conditioned building,” said GRP inspector Ashok Kumar Dubey. RPF inspector Anup Sinha said no separate ducts will be given in lockups due to security reasons, but air-conditioning will be there in the gallery leading to them. The GRP and RPF stations will have separate chambers for station in-charges, sub-inspectors, office room and armoury. The RPF station will also have an integrated CCTV monitoring room for the railway station, which had witnessed a terror blast on March 7, 2006. The GRP station was on platform 4/5 while RPF is operating from three places. “The premises at platform 4/5 are being abandoned for demolition as these platforms will be trimmed for laying one extra line,” said the station director. On an average, six miscreants involved in theft or mobile, chain, purse snatching are nabbed every day and kept in lockup which can accommodate 10 persons, said GRP inspector Dubey. RPF inspector Sinha said all violators of Rail Act and Railway Property Unlawful Possession Act, are kept in lockups on being caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/lawbreakers-to-chill-in-grp-rpf-lockups/articleshow/79048807.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 5, 2020||Madurai||DMK forms new dist units in Tenkasi, Tirunelveli||Madurai: DMK general secretary S Durai Murugan announced bifurcation of the party’s Tirunelveli district unit for administrative purpose and strengthening the party. At present, the Tirunelveli district unit has three party district units – Tirunelveli East, Tirunelveli West and Tirunelveli Central. Following the bifurcation of Tirunelveli district as Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts by the state government, the DMK has now announced two district units in Tirunelveli – Tirunelveli East and Tirunelveli Central – and two in Tenkasi district – Tenkasi North and Tenkasi South. Tirunelveli East district unit will have three assembly segments – Ambasamudram, Nanguneri and Radhapuram. Former assembly speaker R Avudaiyappan has been appointed party in-charge for the east district unit. M Abdul Wahab will be in charge of the Tirunelveli central district unit that comprises two assembly segments – Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai. In Tenkasi district, the Tenkasi north unit will comprise two assembly segments – Vasudevanallur (SC) and Kadayanallur – for which A Durai will be in-charge. For Tenkasi south unit comprising three assembly segments – Sankarankovil (SC), Tenkasi and Alangulam – P Sivapadmanabhan will be the man in-charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-forms-new-dist-units-in-tenkasi-tirunelveli/articleshow/79051149.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Special Investigation Team calls for action against 75 officials for Vikas Dubey links||LUCKNOW: The three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed by the state government to probe into the crime history of gangster Vikas Dubey, has recommended action against 75 officials, including 40 cops, for their direct or indirect association with him. Most of these officials are of lower ranks. Others are from the departments of revenue, food and district administration. Dubey had his gang had killed eight policemen in his Bikru village of Kanpur in a late night ambush when the cops had gone to arrest him. He was killed a week later in a police encounter when he was being brought to Kanpur from Ujjain after being arrested. The SIT, led by additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy, submitted its 3200-page report on Wednesday evening. Senior officials kept quiet about further details of the report and only confirmed its submission to the government. However, the sources revealed that home department officials will examine it and then initiate action. Sources also claimed that not much landed property was found to be in possession of Vikas Dubey outside Bikru village, as per the SIT report. It also analysed Dubey's call detail records in the past one year and found that he was in touch with the cops posted at nearby Chaubeypur police station. The Uttar Pradesh government had set up a three-member which also had two IPS officers, ADG Hariram Sharma and DIG J Ravindra Goud as members, to probe into the entire sequence of events relating to the ambush, the properties amassed by the gangster and his henchmen and also how he managed to procure huge cache of arms and ammunition at his residence in Kanpur on July 2 when as many as eight cops, including a DySP, were killed by him and his aides. The SIT report is based on all the nine points it was asked to probe by the state government. It questioned around 150 officials of departments including that of police, excise, district administration, food and civil supplies, revenue. Sources claimed that evidence of a tip-off of a police raid on ganglord Vikas Dubey was also mentioned in the report. Details of all the licensed firearms owned by Dubey’s family have also been mentioned in the report. Senior home officials said the report would be examined and then action would be taken against all those indicted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-calls-for-action-against-75-officials/articleshow/79051008.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya: Trust invites global ideas for Ram temple design||AYODHYA: The Ram Janambhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust on Wednesday invited creative design suggestions from citizens and global professionals for inclusion in the master plan of the 70-acre Ram Mandir complex. The Trust had hired leading construction company Larsen and Turbo and later roped in Tata Group engineers for building the temple while seeking expert opinion from IIT-Roorkee and IIT-Madras on soil testing and pillar strength of the foundation. This was part of the Trust’s determination to build a robust, elegant temple that can withstand natural calamities for at least 1,000 years. Talking to TOI, Trust member Dr Anil Mishra, said, “We invite suggestions from experts from across the world for incorporation in the temple master plan. This will address design issues for accommodating large pilgrim congregations, rituals and cultural meets.” Pandemic cloud: 14 kosi & 5 kosi parikramas scrappedExperts, architects and designers may submit their suggestion by November 25 on trust emails — aida.rjbayohya@gmail.com and design@tce.co.in.The Ayodhya administration also decided to scrap the 5 kosi and 14 kosi parikramas held after Diwali due to Covid-19 pandemic as these processions draw huge crowds. However, the traditional grandeur of three-day Deepotsav will prevail with the government setting a target of lighting 5.5lakh earthen lamps, said district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha. Also, a procession will be taken out from Saket College to Saryu banks to celebrate the coronation ceremony of Lord Ram in which select 200 seers can participate. Covid protocols will be strictly adhered during the deepotsav celebrations, said Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/trust-invites-global-ideas-for-ram-temple-design/articleshow/79051014.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 5, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University declares results of postgraduate admission test||PRAYAGRAJ: Authorities of Allahabad University have announced the results of postgraduate admission test (PGAT) on Wednesday. This year, the counselling for admissions in undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be held online. The postgraduate admission test (PGAT) was conducted last month by the university for admission in all the PG courses for the academic session 2020-21. “Candidates can check their results on the official website of AU: www.aupravesh2020.com,” said admission director Prof Prashant Agarwal. In the overall merit list, Ila Dwivedi of Aliganj, Sultanpur topped PGAT with the highest score of 260.40 marks. She had applied for Geography. Member of admission cell, Shailendra Rai said that the admission process will soon start through online mode. Kulendra Chaturvedi and Sarvesh Mishra topped the Hindi entrance test. Both of them scored 256 marks. Mukund Mishra (Ancient History), Shalvika Upadhyay (Anthropology), Aman Singh Gargvanshi (Botany), Ajay Pal (Chemistry), Shivang Shukla (Computer Science), Intezar Ansari (Defense Studies), Sonam Priya (Economics), Divya Tiwari (Education), Amit Kumar Yadav (English Language) and Yashita Mishra (English Literature) topped the test in their respective subjects. In Statistics, Vaibhav Singh and Shankar Gulati topped with 196 points. Himanshu Balian and Kanchan Patel scored 202 points in Medieval and Modern History. Cut-offs for BSc courses declared: AU has declared the cut-off marks for admissions in BSc courses. The online admission window will open from November 6. The cut-off marks for BSc (Maths) has been set at 182 for all categories. Students can visit the website for detailed information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-declares-results-of-pg-admission-test/articleshow/79049475.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vadodara||BSF jawan from Jhalod dies during Bihar poll duty||Vadodara: A jawan of the Border Security Force (BSF), who had ad died in an accident in Bihar where he gone for poll duty, was cremated with honours at the Nani Simalkhedi village of Jhalod taluka in Panchmahal district on Wednesday afternoon. Sources said that jawan Ramesh Kishori died in an accident there and his body was brought to Dahod on Wednesday morning. A large crowd had gathered to pay last respects at his village while a funeral procession was brought out in a truck with hundreds of mourners following it. The exact details of the incident were not known to the local officials as well as police too. Sources said that they would be gathering more details once the last rites were completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bsf-jawan-from-jhalod-dies-during-bihar-poll-duty/articleshow/79048831.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||CAA to help get rid of intruders: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Three days before the final phase of polling in Bihar assembly elections, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that the citizenship ammendment act (CAA) would come in handy to get rid of intruders and provide shelter to minorities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. He tore into Congress and RJD calling them parties of one ‘parivar’ (family) which cannot think beyond promoting and adhering to nepotism. “Agar koi ghuspathiya Bharat ki seema mein ghusne ka kutsit prayas kar raha hai use bharat ki seema se bahar karne ka prayas karenge… (If an intruder tries to invade Indian Territory then the government would throw him out of the country),” Yogi said, while addressing a rally in Kathihar assembly seat in Bihar. ‘Teach lesson to pol parties which favour nepotism’ Yogi also addressed the public in Bisfi, Kewati and Simri Bakhtiyarpur assembly seats. The UP CM said if Congress and RJD came to power, they would spread anarchy like that in Shaheen Bagh, a Delhi-based locality which had become an epicentre of protest against CAA. “We know that some of the areas in Bihar, including Katihar face the problem Cnd dear ones badly. Yogi said that the BJP government would not tolerate any fiddling with the security and sovereignty of the country. “This is happening because BJP is working for all 135 crore people of the country,” he said, while targeting Congress and RJD for dividing people in term of caste and religion. Sharpening his attack on Congress and RJD, Yogi exhorted the people to teach a lesson to parties which favour nepotism, casteism and appeasement for political gains. He appealed to people to overcome coronavirus and increase the voter turn out, insisting that the voters will have to choose between the parties which have been pursuing the policy of dividing people and the BJP which stood for a unified India and establish it as a super power in the world. Coming down heavily on Congress and accusing it of seeking to establish ownership of one particular community over country resources, Yogi said that PM Narendra Modi has always favoured giving weightage to poor and farmers irrespective of religion and caste. “He has been clearly saying that the government would ensure development of all but would not resort to appeasement of any one community,” he said. The benefits of the government schemes would be given to all without any discrimination, he added, while recounting various government schemes including Ayushman Bharat Yojana, Kisan Samman Nidhi and free ration to the needy during Corona pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/caa-to-help-get-rid-of-intruders-yogi/articleshow/79051025.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Diwali rush on trains back to pre-Covid level||Nagpur: With Diwali just a week away, railways is witnessing last-minute rush as people are trying to book tickets so that they can spend the festival of lights with family. Earlier it was apprehended that in view of the coronavirus spread, people won’t make travel plans and take a train journey. But defying the logic, trains, especially Pune-Nagpur and Nagpur-Pune, are full leaving many on waiting list during the Diwali vacation. “Last year, getting a berth in trains during festivals was very difficult. Two weeks ago, booking from Nagpur to Pune was sluggish with little over 250 bookings and it was feared there will be few travellers this time. However, there is a waiting list from November 9 to 12 in Maharashtra Express as well as Pune Express,” said railway officials. Though there is some availability in trains like Ajni-Pune and Howrah-Pune specials on November 10 and 12, mostly there is rush from November 11 when people will either leave for Pune or come to Nagpur from there for Laxmipujan on November 14. The booking data shows there is more rush in all trains starting from Pune from November 11 to 18. “This indicates that many working in Pune will arrive here to celebrate the festival of lights. There will be a rush soon after the celebrations also,” said officials. On the contrary, Nagpur Private Travels Association (NPTA) president Mahendra Luley was not upbeat. He said, “We have still not been allowed to operate with 100% capacity. Even if it is allowed in a day or two, it won’t make much difference as most of the IT sector employees and students are still in the city and region after Covid-19 lockdown. This class of travellers used to prefer buses due to last-minute travel plans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/diwali-rush-on-trains-back-to-pre-covid-level/articleshow/79048900.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||Dharchula & nearby areas most seismically-active region in Himalayan belt: Study||Nainital: Scientists have found that the Kumaon Central Himalayan region – which is a part of the central seismic gap (CSG) region – is one of the most seismically-active regions of the Himalayan belt that has experienced several moderate to strong earthquakes ranging from 4.0 to 5.0 magnitudes on the Richter scale. The scientists cite critical stress as a major reason for the large concentration of micro and moderate magnitude earthquakes in Dharchula and adjoining areas. The findings come as scientists from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology established a network of 15 broadband seismological stations along the Kali river valley. The study, conducted with the support of the ministry of earth sciences, investigated the subsurface configuration and causes of these frequent earthquakes in the Kumaon Himalayan region. Geophysicist Dr Devajit Hazarika, who was part of the study, said, "The aim of the project was to find the reason behind these frequent earthquakes in and around Dharchula town in Pithoragarh district. We have now found that the stress was caused by a ramp (thin-skinned thrust fault geometry that forms a step-like pattern) on the Main Himalayan Thrust (a gliding plane between two rock masses under the Himalayan range) beneath the Chiplakot Crystalline Belt, a geological unit in the lesser Himalayas." Hazarika added that the findings would help scientists to better prepare for the future, and would help in planning of development work in the region that is located along the India-Nepal border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dharchula-nearby-areas-most-seismically-active-region-in-himalayan-belt-study/articleshow/79047474.cms||Prashant Jha
November 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru City Corporation moves to recover waste management dues from ULBs||MANGALURU: Faced with the task of scientifically disposing waste from urban local bodies abutting its boundaries, the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) is now mulling to recover dues that ULBs owe it for doing so. The council of MCC which at its October 28 meeting decided to stop accepting solid waste from neighbouring ULBs three months from that date, is now striving to ensure that it also recovers costs, partially, if not fully, towards that end. The council decision is borne from the fact that ULBs receive government funds from under the finance commission recommendation, specifically for handling their solid waste. While agreeing not to put the skids on accepting ‘external’ waste straightaway, as demanded by a section of councillors, Akshy Sridhar, commissioner, said MCC will insist that these ULBs clear dues it owes to MCC for handling their waste in the past. Madhu S Manohar, environment engineer, told TOI that the Ullal City Municipal Council, as on September 2020, owed MCC Rs 97.7 lakh for handling its waste. Likewise, Bantwal town municipal council too owes MCC Rs 39.7 lakh, he said. Kotekar town panchayat on the other hand owes MCC Rs 1.5 lakh. In addition, around 15 gram panchayats abutting the MCC, too send their waste to the Pachanady landfill, Madhu said. The gram panchayats include Moodushedde, Bajpe, Gurupura, Bala, Thumbe, Kaikamba, Padu, Adyar, Farangipete, Konaje and Deralakatte, he said. These gram panchayats, unlike the aforementioned ULBs, pay a processing fee upfront, and this helps MCC deal with financial implications of handling the solid waste, he said. MCC, which hitherto used to accept solid waste from Moodbidri and Mulki, has since stopped this for the past 4 years, he said. “Demand notices have been issued to ULBs. MCC has not received payment from them as on date,” he said. “MCC is receiving a daily average of around 276 tonnes of segregated waste at its compost plant at Pachanady and 45 tonnes from these ULBs and GPs,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-moves-to-recover-waste-management-dues-from-ulbs/articleshow/79047492.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Mumbai siblings, 5 & 7, rescued from Badnera station||Nagpur: Two brothers from Mumbai, aged seven and five years, were rescued from Badnera station by the Government Railway Police (GRP) staffers on Tuesday. The brothers, who were travelling from Mumbai to Igatpuri along with their mother, had dozed off in the train after boarding it. The brothers landed up at Badnera station after getting separated from their mother. It’s still not clear how their mother got down from the train without the children. The children belong to a poor family residing at Kandivli in Mumbai suburbs. Sub-inspector Prakash Shelke of GRP Badnera and his staffers attended to the children after learning about them loitering on the station unattended. They immediately alerted NGO Childline to attend to the children and counsel them. Women staffers of GRP post also rushed to help the distressed children. The famished children were provided food and milk after which they were also medically examined. The GRP staffers also informed SP M Rajkumar in Nagpur, who instructed them to approach Child Welfare Committee for further directions regarding the children and also try to establish contact with their parents. GRP Badnera post incharge API Ajitsingh Rajput said the elder of the two brothers was able to recall the father’s mobile number. “The father of the two boys is reaching here now. As he said that it will take him two days to reach here, we produced the children before the Child Welfare Committee, which issued an order to keep the brothers at a shelter home at Amravati,” said Rajput.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mumbai-siblings-5-7-rescued-from-badnera-station/articleshow/79048914.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 5, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Sub-inspector booked for seeking sexual favour from complainant||VARANASI: A woman, who was ousted from home by her stepmother and approached the police, was allegedly asked by a sub-inspector to share bed with him in lieu of help. Following a probe, the SI has been suspended and an FIR lodged against him. SP Bhadohi RB Singh said, “I had ordered a probe by ASP Ravindra Verma in this episode. The ASP found the allegations of the woman correct and gave his report, following which the accused Kasba outpost in-charge Santosh Rai has been suspended and as FIR has been lodged against him.” Inspector Bhadohi Sadanand Singh said that the FIR was lodged against Rai on Wednesday under sections 354, 506 of IPC and also sections of SC/ST Act and further investigation has also been started in this connection. The woman had made a complaint against Rai with SP Bhadohi and also given clips of call recording of her conversation with the SI. The woman contacted Bhadohi police station to make a complaint against her stepmother and was asked to go to Kasba outpost. He alleged that along with her complaint, the outpost in-charge took her mobile number. Instead of initiating any action on her complaint, the SI started talking to her, she alleged. She added, the SI started asking to sleep with him to initiate action against her stepmother. She alleged that despite her refusal, he continued in his advances. She then recorded the conversations and gave the audio clips to the SP along with a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/si-booked-for-seeking-sexualfavour-from-complainant/articleshow/79048911.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Sub-collector’s driver caught taking bribe||RAMANATHAPURAM: The driver of Ramanathapuram sub-collector was caught red-handed while receiving a Rs 15,000 bribe on Wednesday for issuing licences to two people for setting up temporary cracker retail units for Diwali. A team from Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Ramanathapuram arrested Singaram, 53, driver of IAS officer and sub-collector N Sugaputhira. Police said one Thanasekaran from Alavaikaraivadi village near Keelakarai recently approached revenue department officials to get a licence for himself and his friend. Permission from revenue as well as fire and rescue department is essential to set up a shop. A visit would be made to check the place where the cracker shop is proposed to be set up before taking a decision, officials said. When approached, Singaram demanded Rs 10,000 from each of them. After negotiation, Thanasekaran agreed to give him Rs 15,000. Simultaneously, he approached DVAC officials, who set a trap and caught him while receiving the chemical-smeared cash from Thanasekaran. He was subsequently arrested. During inquiries, he told the officials that he used to collect money and hand it over to one Abdul Khadeer, dabethar of the sub-collector, and used to share it among various officials. DSP Unnikrishnan who led the DVAC team said an inquiry was conducted with Abdul Khadeer. However, action has been taken against Singaram only so far. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sub-collectors-driver-caught-taking-bribe/articleshow/79051161.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Agra||Mathura chief judicial magistrate court grants 48-hr police remand of Kerala journalist, three others||AGRA: The court of Mathura chief judicial magistrate (CJM) on Wednesday granted 48-hour police remand to the UP Special Task Force (STF) for questioning four alleged Popular Front of India (PFI) activists, including a Kerala journalist. The four men — journalist Siddique Kappan, Masood Ahmad, Atikur Rahman and Mohammad Aalam — have been charged with sedition in two separate cases by Hathras police. Aalam was the driver of the car in which the other three were travelling to Hathras to meet the gang rape victim’s family. They were arrested by Mathura police last month for allegedly being part of an internationally-funded “conspiracy” to stoke caste riots in UP in wake of the Hathras gang rape. Though the STF had sought remand for 10 days, the court granted them only two days' remand. After getting a nod, STF cops reached the Mathura district jail and took the four with them to their office in Noida, said sources. Confirming this, senior superintendent of district jail, Shailendra Maitrey, said that all the four men had been taken by STF sleuths and they will be brought back to the jail by Friday evening. The basis of the FIR in Mathura was a close examination of the “evidence” — six smartphones, a laptop and pamphlets of ‘Justice for Hathras Victim’ — that, according to the police, had “revealed that the men were going to Hathras to disrupt peace”. The FIR had stated that the money to fund a protest website, JusticeForHathrasVictim, was not channelled through legitimate means and meant to “incite riots and disrupt peace”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cjm-court-grants-48-hr-police-remand-of-kerala-journalist-3-others-arrested-on-sedition-charges/articleshow/79046590.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 5, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: 11 years later, six get life term for killing Mota Mava sarpanch||RAJKOT: Rajkot sessions court on Wednesday convicted six people including three women for a sensational daylight murder of a sarpanch of Mota Mava in 2009. Additional district judge H M Pavar sentenced them to life imprisonment and also convicted the accused in IPC sections 396, 143, 147 148 and 149. Two accused in the case were given benefit of doubt while one died during trial. The murder of Mayur Singala that shook the entire region was carried out in broad daylight on November 18, 2009 by accused Gandu Bharvad who was nursing his pride wounded by the defeat in the elections. According to the charge sheet, there was a clash in the village between Patel, Bharvad and Dalit communities. Cross FIRs were registered in the clash by both Patel and Bharvad communities. According to the police, deceased Singala belonged to the Patel community. In his complaint, deceased’s brother Bharat Singala accused Gandu Bhura, Mahesh Gandu, Vinu Makwana, Jayesh Makwana, and Ramesh Makwana of carrying out a pre-planned conspiracy to kill his brother and said they called him near a hotel. There the accused, including the women of the family, killed Singala with sharp-edged weapons including knife, bill hook, sword and other murderous weapons. Special prosecutor in the case, Niranjan Daftari said, “The court convicted Gandu Vakatar (71), Mahesh Vakatar (30), Uttam Vakatar (31), Vaji Vakatar (61), Hansa Vakatar (33) and Lata Vakatar (32) and sentenced them to imprisonment for life.” Advocate of the complainant, Suresh Faldu said, “We had produced a total of 31 witnesses in the court in this case but only three of them turned hostile. There was no contradiction in the statements of witnesses and there were strong evidence against the accused. Looking into all of this, the court convicted the six accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/11-years-later-six-get-life-term-for-killing-mota-mava-sarpanch/articleshow/79047512.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Capital records lower weekly positivity rates in October||Thiruvananthapuram: Even with lesser number of samples tested compared to October, September recorded higher weekly positivity rates in the capital, shows an analysis of weekly testing data of Thiruvananthapuram. The weekly positivity rate in the district rose from 13.3% in the first week of September to 17.6% by the month end. As many as 24,411 cases were detected in five weeks out of 1,55,342 tests which were done in September. Over 1.6 lakh samples were tested in October in first four weeks itself and the weekly positivity rate ranged between 13.7% and 16.8%. Right from the first week of October, which recorded the highest number of samples tested for a week so far, positivity rate has dropped slightly from 17%. The data shows that since the second week of July, Thiruvananthapuram’s weekly positivity rate has never gone below 5%. From the third week of July when disease spread among coastal community ballooned to a huge crisis for the district, the positivity rate has gone above 10%. There has been an evident decline in the number of active cases in the district, however when it comes to weekly positivity rates recorded by government sector (government hospitals and labs) the dip has been nominal. In September, the positivity rate in government sector leapt from 14.9% to 20.65% by the last week of the month. In October, the rates didn’t improve much for the government sector. The positivity rates in October in government sector swayed between 18.18% and 19.17%. In private sector where testing became active since September, the highest weekly positivity rate so far has been 13.43% which was reported in the fifth week of September. In October, the positivity rates in private sector have dropped from 13.29% to 9.25%. While antigen tests have far exceeded RT PCR tests in the district, the weekly positivity rate of RT PCR has shown a steady decline between September and October. RT PCR weekly positivity rate came down to 10% and below twice in two months since July in the capital. In the second week of September, RT PCR positivity rate was 9.8% and by third and fourth week of October, it dropped from 17.5% to 10.4%. Rapid antigen test results also showed high positivity rates under categories like influenza-like-illness, sentinel surveillance and testing in containment zones in October. Some areas like Poonthura, Valiyathura and Puthukurichi where disease spread was at the peak in July and August also showed random spurt during sentinel surveillance using antigen tests. The officials said that the post Onam peak, which was reported in the district across all regions, led to sudden spike in weekly positivity rates from the third week of September. In October, the spread was more uniform, we haven’t had region wise peak like what happened in coastal areas, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/capital-records-lower-weekly-positivity-rates-in-october/articleshow/79051985.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||HC names chief wildlife warden respondent in PIL against illegal resorts at Binsar sanctuary||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court has on Wednesday impleaded the chief wildlife warden (CWW) of the state in a public interest litigation alleging setting up of illegal resorts in the Binsar Wildlife Sanctuary. Located at an average altitude of 2400 metres above sea level in Almora district, Binsar sanctuary is a protected area and even has a reserve forest which is home to leopards, wild boars and deer among other species. The PIL, filed last year, has alleged that several resorts are functioning illegally in the sanctuary and inside the reserve forest posing serious threat to the local ecology. Hence, the petitioner has made over a dozen resorts in the area party to the case. When the matter came up for hearing on Wednesday, a bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani made the chief wildlife warden a respondent in the case and gave him two weeks to file his response to the PIL. An advocate present at the hearing said, “The state government is a respondent in the case and the CWW had earlier filed an affidavit on its behalf but he was not a party. Since the warden is the statutory authority under the Wildlife Protection Act, he has now been made a respondent.” The court had also directed the government to furnish the working plan for the sanctuary which is yet to be submitted. Meanwhile, the establishments made party to the case have argued that they are not resorts but heritage properties which have been in the area much before the sanctuary was set up in 1988. An advocate appearing for some of them said, “We have been functioning in the area for decades and have all the necessary permits and documents. Therefore, we are functioning in accordance with law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-names-chief-wildlife-warden-respondent-in-pil-against-illegal-resorts-at-binsar-sanctuary/articleshow/79047520.cms||Prashant Jha
November 5, 2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami's arrest: BJP leaders slam Mumbai police action; ‘emergency revisited’||NEW DELHI: Senior BJP leaders, including home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, party chief JP Nadda and several ministers, criticised the arrest of TV journalist Arnab Goswami by Mumbai police. Shah said that Congress and its allies had shamed democracy once again as “blatant misuse of state power” against Republic TV and Goswami was an attack on individual freedom and the fourth pillar of democracy. Read AlsoRepublic TV’s Arnab Goswami held in 2018 abetment to suicide caseThe Alibaug police, assisted by cops from Mumbai, arrested Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami from his Worli residence in a two-year-old abetment to suicide case involving a man and his mother. ​​Goswami was taken to Alibaug in a police van and produced in the local court there. The“It reminds us of the Emergency. This attack on free press must be and will be opposed,” he tweeted soon after the arrest. Rajnath Singh said the assault on Goswami was an attempt to weaken democracy and suppress the voice of dissent. “His arrest symbolises dictatorial mindset. Congress should take a cue from Emergency... several such instances of those trying to suppress the media had to pay a heavy price,” Singh said. Read AlsoArnab Goswami's arrest: BJP leaders slam Mumbai police action; ‘emergency revisited’Senior BJP leaders, including home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, party chief JP Nadda and several ministers, criticised the arrest of TV journalist Arnab Goswami by Mumbai police.CMs of most states where BJP is in office termed the arrest as an attack on freedom of expression. UP CM Yogi Adityanath mentioned Goswami’s arrest during a poll rally in Bihar. “Congress had earlier tried to stifle democracy in the country. Even today as you know, senior journalist Arnab Goswami was arrested in Mumbai at the behest of Congress, which is trying to kill democracy in India and taking steps to divert attention from its inefficiencies,” he said. Nadda said India didn’t forgive Indira Gandhi for the Emergency and never forgot Rajiv Gandhi’s assault on press freedom. “Now, India will punish Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi for their intimidating use of state power to get equal with journalists,” he said. I&B minister Prakash Javadekar said, “We condemn the attack on press freedom in Maharashtra. This reminds us of the Emergency days when the press was treated like this.” Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the arrest was “reprehensible, unwarranted and worrisome”. He said Sonia and Rahul had targeted the Modi government through motivated charges of attack on institutions but were completely silent on the actions of their own government in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-leaders-slam-mumbai-police-action-emergency-revisited/articleshow/79051979.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Invite Tesla to set up plant in Mihan, MPCC neta urges CM||Nagpur: As Maharashtra government is trying to invite world’s leading electric car manufacturer Tesla Inc to the state, Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee secretary Vishal Muttemwar has appealed to the government to bring the company’s project in Mihan. Son of former city MP and ex-Union minister Vilas Muttemwar, Vishal wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray pitching Mihan as an ideal destination for the American car manufacturer. During a recent visit of revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat to the city, Muttemwar explained to him the need for a big project in Mihan which would lead to setting up of allied industries and ultimately more jobs would be created. “The minister appreciated my proposal and assured that he would convey the demand to the CM. He also told me that he would set up a meeting with the CM in this regard and also raise the issue in the cabinet,” Muttemwar told TOI. He said when many other industrial centres like Aurangabad and Pune are vying for Tesla plant in their jurisdiction, no one had raised the demand for Nagpur. “If the plant is set up in Mihan, the project will have an extremely positive impact on the economy of not just the city, but also adjoining districts. It will open flood gates for many local entrepreneurs, who can facilitate ancillary products and services. It will generate thousands of direct as well as indirect jobs which are much needed in the region, ” he said. Muttemwar said Mihan is strategically located at the country's geometrical centre and is easily accessible by road, rail and air. “This is perhaps the only multi-product SEZ which is adjacent to an existing international airport. Nagpur has adequate availability of skilled manpower for the industry with 27 engineering colleges that produce about 8,500 engineers every year. The city also has 25 ITIs (Industrial Training Institutes) with around 60 trades, including mechanical, automotive, electrical, and fitter to meet the demand of skilled manpower for various sectors. A power plant of 246MW is also operational here,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/invite-tesla-to-set-up-plant-in-mihan-mpcc-neta-urges-cm/articleshow/79048929.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mysuru||Clamour for law against love jihad grows louder||CHIKKAMAGALURU: After BJP national general secretary CT Ravi, Chikmagalur-Udupi MP Shobha Karandlaje raised the issue of love jihad and said an effective law is required to curb the alleged practice. Speaking to reporters in Chikkamagaluru, she said love jihad is a conspiracy. It is not just love or marriage, it is beyond love, she added. “It is another face of terrorism,” she said and added that it’s a tool. She also accused Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi of openly supporting love jihad. “In Udupi, a love jihad case was reported. A youth eloped with a 17-year-old girl. It’s a planned conspiracy. The girl left her mobile phone at home and there is no trace of her. It is suspected that she has crossed the Karnataka border,” she said adding that some people are luring girls to convert by offering money. “The only solution for love jihad and religious conversion is a stringent law. Karnataka should have an anti-love jihad and religious conversion law because Karnataka shares border with Tamil Nadu and Kerala, where such cases are on the rise. I am requesting the state government to follow the Uttar Pradesh model to bring the law to save our daughters and punish the culprits,” she added. MP supports the proposal Mysuru- Kodagu MP Pratapsimha said he supports the Jihad Law enactment proposal by the Karnataka government banning religious conversions for marriages. He said love marriages should not be abided by the conversions. “Earlier, chief minisiter BS Yediyurappa took a bold decision to cancel Tipu jayanti and now I believe the new law will be introduced to counter religious fanaticism,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/clamour-for-law-against-love-jihad-grows-louder/articleshow/79047531.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Agra||Man behind Agra bus ‘hijacking’ booked under National Security Act||AGRA: Police on Wednesday slapped the stringent National Security Act (NSA) on the main accused behind the "hijacking" of a private bus in Agra, carrying 34 passengers from Haryana's Gurugram to Madhya Pradesh’s Panna three months ago. The accused, Pradeep Gupta, who was arrested after being injured in a brief encounter with the police two days after the incident on August 20, was trying to get bail, police said, adding that as he was a "threat to the society", section 3 (2) of the NSA was slapped on him. The Act allows preventive detention for months if the authorities feel that the person is a threat to national security and also law and order. In August, at least 34 passengers on a private bus were “held captive” for about 12 hours between August 18 and 19 by recovery agents, hired by Gupta, to get the money the owner of the bus owed him. The bus was stopped by a group of men at Agra’s Southern Bypass and they dragged the driver, the conductor and the helper out and one of the suspects drove off the bus with the passengers. Another group of men, including Gupta, sat inside a car, and they were identified in CCTV footage by the police later. Gupta worked as a broker at the regional transport office in Etawah. During interrogation, Gupta told police that a Gwalior resident Ashok Arora owed him Rs 67 lakh for the registration and permit of his buses, which he had arranged for him from Etawah and was not paying back despite repeated reminders. He told police that he had planned to take away his bus forcibly to recover the amount owed to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-behind-agra-bus-hijacking-booked-under-nsa/articleshow/79046600.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Rajkot||Engaged in marriage shoots, now wedded to films||RAJKOT: It’s literally year-on-year joy for Rajkot boy, 24-year-old Rohan Rao, who will showcase his second documentary film, ‘Viseltear Violins’, in the second consecutive year at the non-fictional film festival and America’s largest event -- the DOC NYC – to be held online from November 11 to 19 in New York City. Son of Rajkot-based orthopedic doctor Srinivas Roa and dietician mother Rima Rao, Rohan’s five-minute documentary talks about ace violin-maker Jason Viseltear whose sublime sense of the instrument, from wood to sound of the strings and the raw smell of polish – a sensory amalgamation for a perfect symphony. “I want to bring about change in the society with my films,” asserted Rohan, adding that his goal is not just earning money but bringing about a difference by showing real life events within a captured time frame on a bigger stage. While ‘Viseltear Violins’ makes it to the prestigious global screen in the festival, what is more interesting here is the fact that it all began for the filmmaker as a wedding shooter in Mumbai. The journey from the frozen lenses to the evocative art of making documentary films is as interesting as his documentary that glorifies the hands that creates the unique string which has its place of pride in most genres of music. “I want to shoot real life in real light and I like documentaries,” Rohan told TOI over from New York, where he is pursuing his masters from the School of Visual Arts’ Social Documentary Film since 2018 and has so far made around six films. He said that he learned about shooting real-life events mainly from wedding shoots he did in Mumbai as an under-grad student of English literature in St. Xavier’s College around 2014-15, under Rahul Sharma, an event photographer. “I shot about 11 weddings with him and five concerts, which too had no retakes, nor could you risk missing anything which taught me about time rules that I applied in docus. There is a script in fiction film but there is no script in real life film, so I follow the subject for months and years till the time I don’t get the story,” explained the budding filmmaker who also had his first film ‘Drive’ screened in the same film festival in 2019. Drive was the story of Jacob Brooke, a taxi driver for the past five decades. In both these documentaries, Rohan did everything – from shooting, editing to scripting and selecting the topics all by himself. “What actually kicked in me the love for documentary films was my stint with Oscar winner cinematographer Benjamin Wolf as an assistant at a production house in Delhi in 2014,” said Rohan who had shot another documentary titled “Three threads’ based on the life of a Dalit Kutch weaver of Bhujodi village which will release in April next year. “Rohan has been interested in photography since his childhood, ever since he had a point and shoot camera,” said mother Rima Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/engaged-in-marriage-shoots-now-wedded-to-films/articleshow/79047547.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||CM terms arrest of Arnab Goswami as attack on freedom of press||Dehradun: In a tweet on Wednesday, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat condemned the arrest of TV journalist Arnab Goswami by Mumbai police. In his post, the CM wrote that the arrest is “an attack on freedom of press and individual”. The tweet added, “It reeks of the days of Emergency and is reflective of the culture followed by the Congress. I strongly criticise the act which is aimed to silence the voice of honest journalism in democracy,” he said. The CM’s reaction came after the arrest of Goswami on charges of allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer two years ago. Other BJP leaders of the state also opposed the move claiming that it was an effort to suppress the voice of an individual and a journalist. On the other hand, the members of the state unit of Congress were quick to take a swipe at the BJP members for their views and tweets. Congress spokeswoman Garima Dasuni, in her tweet, said, “Look who’s talking.” Adding further she requested the CM to “conduct a research on the number of journalists who had been arrested in Uttarakhand and other states at the behest of his own party members”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-terms-arrest-of-arnab-goswami-as-attack-on-freedom-of-press/articleshow/79047541.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||Cabinet forms 2 committees for implementation of National Education Policy; approves 2 CBSE-affiliated Atal Utkrisht School in each block||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand cabinet constituted two committees for the implementation of National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, in the state on Wednesday. The panels would recommend a roadmap for effective implementation of the policy. The cabinet also gave its go ahead to opening of two CBSE-affiliated Atal Utkrisht School in each block, waiving off the house tax for 40 new wards of Dehradun Nagar Nigam for 10 years, starting one beekeeping centre in each of 95 blocks, and starting online Green Card registration for people coming to Uttarakhand in their vehicles. Sharing the information, urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “Effective implementation of the NEP is a big task. The first step was to adopt the NEP and we did it today. For implementation, the cabinet has approved the formation of two committees.” The steering committee would be headed by the chief secretary with officers of the education department, experts, and other stakeholders as members. “The second committee which would be a task force would be headed by school minister and higher education minister and if required, school and college owners and experts would be nominated as members. The steering committee and the task force would carry out a detailed study and prepare the roadmap for effective implementation of the policy.” On the decision of opening Atal Utkrisht Schools in each block, Kaushik said, “We will have two such schools in each block. These state-run schools would be affiliated with the CBSE board. The teachers will be appointed from those available with the education department and these schools will have state-of-the-art infrastructure and be equipped with all necessary facilities for the students,” he said. The minister added, “No new building would be made but the existing government schools would be updated and equipped with better facilities.” In another major decision, the cabinet has decided to exempt the residents of the newly-added wards in Dehradun from paying the house tax for a period of 10 years. Prior to the urban body polls last year, 40 new wards were added to the then existing 60 wards of Dehradun Nagar Nigam. The Uttarakhand cabinet has also decided to provide kiosks to 5,100 women across the state. “These kiosks would be developed by the state and handed over to women. It is estimated that a kiosk would cost Rs 1.5 lakh in the hills and Rs 1.25 lakh in the plains. Earlier, women used to get a 20% rebate but under the CM Swarozgar Yojana, we are providing another 20% rebate to them. Therefore, the beneficiaries would be required to give only 60% of the total amount,” said Kaushik. It was also decided in the meeting that a “madhu-gram” (beekeeping) centre will be opened in each of the 95 blocks. The total project is estimated to cost around Rs 2.60 crore, out of which the Centre and state would shell out 40% each and the beneficiary would be required to give only 20% of the project cost. The cabinet also decided that a total of 1,072 acre land would be taken from Pant Nagar University free of cost for developing the airport of Pantnagar as a greenfield airport. Further, the state cabinet decided to release Rs 30.61 crore for 2020-21 for the SC Post Matric Scholarship. To ensure Ease of Doing Business, the cabinet approved the online renewal of trading licenses. The issue of pending power dues was also discussed on the day. “Out of the pending power dues of Rs 257 crore of IDPL Rishikesh, the tourism department would pay Rs 46 crore and the remaining Rs 211 crore would be settled by the state government through Book Adjustment,” the minister said. In another welfare decision, the limit of annual income for availing the maintenance grant for mentally challenged and divorced women has been raised to Rs 48,000 in the state. Earlier, it was Rs 15,976 for rural areas and Rs 21,206 for urban areas. During the meet, it was also agreed that the Green Card to move around in Uttarakhand can be taken online for 10-seater vehicles or those with lower capacities. However, the Green Card for heavier vehicles would be provided at Rishikesh, the minister confirmed. It was also announced in the cabinet meeting that the state government has, till date, issued over 100 Government Orders to control Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-forms-2-committees-for-implementation-of-national-education-policy-approves-2-cbse-affiliated-atal-utkrisht-school-in-each-block/articleshow/79047573.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Special committee formed to address complaints of fishers||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has constituted a special monitoring committee to address the complaints of the local fishermen of Vizhinjam that there was an unjust delay in fulfilling promises made in view of rehabilitation of local population affected by the ongoing port works. The committee’s objective will be to review the progress of works related to the rehabilitation package and apprise the officials concerned. The order in this regard was issued by the government on Wednesday. Interestingly, this is the first government order issued after the local fishermen called off their one-month-long agitation, stalling the ongoing port works. While calling off their agitation, the fishermen had stated that it was only a temporary move. They would be closely watching how the government was working to fulfil the promises made to them for the next 30 days and if they felt there was any delay from the government they would relaunch the agitation. According to the order, Vizhinjam International Seaport Limited (VISL) special project director is the chairman off the committee. VISL director has been appointed as the chairman of the committee as the district collector is pre-occupied with Covid-19 duties. District sub-collector is the convener of the committee. Fisheries department deputy director, Matsyafed general manager, representatives of Adani Vizhinjam Port Private Ltd (AVPPL) and VISL and representatives of Our Lady of Good Voyage Church, Kottappuram, under whose aegis the agitation was held, are the members of the committee. The special monitoring committee must meet every 10 days and review the progress of rehabilitation projects. They must file reports to officials concerned and can even make recommendations on the course of action to be taken. AVPPL must provide infrastructure facilities for the committee to hold meetings, the order said. The fishermen had called off the agitation on Sunday after the government issued orders addressing their demands. . This includes the renovation of Gangayar drain, replacement of old drinking water pipelines and surplus kerosene for fishermen using motorised fishing boats to cover additional distance as they can no longer fish in the waters under port project area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/special-committee-formed-to-address-complaints-of-fishers/articleshow/79051989.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Reassess max flood level at Srisailam dam: Expert panel||AMARAVATI: The panel of experts (PoE) on Srisailam dam safety has suggested to the irrigation department to make immediate reassessment of probable maximum flood (PMF) level and get it approved by the central water commission (CWC) to take further measures for the safety of the project. While the designed capacity of the spill was around 13.2 lakh cusecs, the project witnessed a massive outflow of nearly 14.8 lakh cusecs during the 2009 floods. The PoE, headed by former CWC chairman AB Pandya, studied safety issues for over three years and submitted its final recommendations to the state government recently. The panel also suggested that National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) and National Institute of Rock Mechanics (NIRM) may be roped in to carry out geophysical studies on the soundness of the apron. It said the right side corner portion of old coffer dam cylinders needs attention as a large cavity has been observed at this portion. Almost all cylinders of the old coffer dam are damaged and need to be repaired. Cylinders at junctions due to change in alignment are badly damaged and rubble in the cylinders has come out and cavities formed. This needs to be rectified by filling the cavities with concrete, the panel suggested. As per BIS code, Srisailam project comes under the large dam category and has to be provided with spillway capacity for handling PMF without compromising the safety of the dam and appurtenant works. The panel said there is hardly any scope to accommodate the additional flood in the existing dam except to raise the maximum withdrawal level (MWL). It suggested five models to overcome the issues involving the safety of the dam, including pre-depletion of reservoir based on flood forecasting warning times, construction of additional spillway, diversion of part flood to neighbouring basin, and raising the MWL from the present 892 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/reassess-max-flood-level-at-srisailam-dam-expert-panel/articleshow/79047554.cms||Samdani MN
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||ASI to start conservation of world’s highest Shiva temple, Tungnath; declare it ‘monument of national importance’||Dehradun: The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has sought approval from the Centre to declare Tungnath temple in the Garhwal Himalayas as a “monument of national importance” and start work on its conservation. The temple, situated in Rudraprayag district, is believed to be more than 1,000 years old and is situated at an altitude of over 12,000 feet, making it the highest Shiva temple in the world. It is also referred to as ‘Tritiya Kedar’, since it is part of the ‘Panch Kedar’ cluster of Shiva temples spread across the Garhwal Himalayas. Even as the ASI team of Dehradun Circle awaits the Centre’s in-principle approval, it has started preparing for the conservation. One of the first steps, officials said, is revenue schedule preparation. Elaborating on the process, superintending archaeologist, Dehradun Circle, RK Patel told TOI, “This involves study of the minimum land required for the restoration and conservation process. A need might arise to open up some components, set up labs and recreate them, which will require additional land, apart from the one demarcated for the temple premises.” A few years ago, the state government had requested the ASI to declare the temple as a “protected monument” and start on its restoration and conservation work. The subject of renovating the temple had come up at the second meeting of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board as well on October 27, which was presided over by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. “It was after we received a request from the state that we conducted a study and made a request for technical approval to the Centre on October 12. We are waiting for an in-principal nod to declare the structure a “monument of national importance” – a provision under section 4 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act 1958 – which will allow us to start on its renovation,” Patel said. Among the ASI’s plans is renovating the ‘mandapa’ (main hall of the shrine), where cracks have appeared at different places. “There are cracks on the wall and some parts of the foundation have caved. These need immediate attention. The ‘mandapa’ has to be opened up and restored after consolidation work of the foundation is completed. We cannot risk any damage, as it is an ancient structure,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/asi-to-start-conservation-of-worlds-highest-shiva-temple-tungnath-declare-it-monument-of-national-importance/articleshow/79047612.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra’s maiden ‘Bird Week’ starts today||Nagpur: A host of events will mark the maiden birdwatching week from November 5 to 12. Pench tiger reserve has joined hands with the Central Indian Birds Academy (CIBA) to study the presence of forest owlets in the Pench landscape. This will include a survey of other birds, including vultures. The Nagpur forest division will also celebrate the bird week. Maharashtra houses 43.7% of the total Indian avifauna. To commemorate the rich avian diversity, Nagpur forest division will celebrate the week in association with Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), Heritage Conservation Society and Birds of Vidarbha. “The focus will be on surveying the rich avian diversity in Nagpur forest division in general, and at Ambazari biodiversity park in particular. As per earlier surveys, 270 species of birds are found in Ambazari,” said deputy conservator Prabhunath Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maharashtras-maiden-bird-week-starts-today/articleshow/79048985.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hubballi||Hubbali: Farmer critical as bear plucks his eye, disfigures face||DAVANAGERE: A 52-year-old farmer was severely injured when a bear attacked him while he was grazing his cattle in the field on Tuesday evening. The victim is Manjappa, resident of Hanumanthapura in Channagiri taluk of Davanagere district. The bear suddenly appeared from Laxmisgar minor forest range and pounced on the farmer who was looking into his cellphone sitting under a tree after letting his cattle graze in the field. The bear plucked one of his eyes and disfigured his face and head. Manjappa was shifted to Narayana Hospital in Shivamogga. He is being treated in ICU and is on ventilator support, said DCF KM Gamanagatti. RFO Mavinaholeyappa visited the hospital on Wednesday. He said that medical expenses of the victim will be borne by the forest department and compensation will be paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/farmer-critical-as-bear-plucks-his-eye-disfigures-face/articleshow/79046517.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Fireworks unit workers to protest ban by states||VIRUDHUNAGAR: Firework industry workers attached to the Virudhunagar district fireworks and matchbox workers association of the CITU will carry out protests across the district on Friday to grab the attention of the Centre and state government to get the fireworks’ ban imposed by various state governments revoked. “The protest will be held in at least 30 places,” CITU district secretary P N Deva said. He said that the governments of Rajasthan, Odisha and West Bengal have announced the ban on fireworks this Diwali season citing Covid-19 concerns. “Governments of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are among those holding discussions on this issue,” he said. According to him, a ban imposed by these states will affect 60% of the sale and directly impact the livelihood of the nearly eight lakh workers in and around Sivakasi. Workers fear that the ban could change the way the industry functions as those who migrated to Sivakasi would be forced to leave the town in search of livelihood. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fireworks-unit-workers-to-protest-ban-by-states/articleshow/79051174.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: P Biju was a frontline warrior in the fight against Covid-19||Thiruvananthapuram: State youth welfare board vice-chairman P Biju, 42, who died here on Wednesday due to post-covid health complications, was a familiar face in the agitations pertaining to self-financing colleges that rocked the UDF government in the early 2000s. Being a disabled person, he would be the first to fall down whenever the agitations turned violent. But for him, it was only another opportunity to hold his ground and shout out his slogans all the more loud. Lately, as the vice-chairman of state youth welfare board, he was waging another fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, leading the state voluntary youth action force from the front. Ironically, here too he became the first to fall. When he was tested positive for Covid-19, he found an opportunity in it too. “We have been carrying out a plasma donation drive among those who were cured of Covid-19. When he was infected, all he found was an opportunity to make his own donation to the drive,” said Diesnon L P, a staff of state youth welfare board. The Samoohika Sannadha Sena, the highly successful volunteer task force of the state government, which now boasts of more than three lakh memberships stemmed out of state voluntary youth task force, which Biju gave shape three years ago. The task force played a crucial role in the first phase of the lockdown induced by Covid-19 in distributing essential medicines to patients across the state. The task force volunteers had also actively participated in rescue works in the events of various disasters including the back-to-back floods. The task force members had assisted the police, fire force and national disaster force in Pettimudi landslide tragedy to search for people trapped under mud. Following this, he had even started special adventure training for volunteers in tasks such as river crossing, paragliding and scuba diving in association with an adventure club in Munnar. Formation of youth clubs and sports clubs for children from under privileged communities was one of his pet projects. In three years, around 220 sports kits worth Rs 8,000 were distributed to the clubs across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/p-biju-was-a-frontline-warrior-in-the-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/79051995.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
November 5, 2020||Goa||Can’t interfere where CRZ violation is clear: NGT||PANAJI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has refused to intervene in yet another case of Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) violation where the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) had ordered demolition of a structure at Gonsua, Salcete. The Tribunal said that it cannot interfere where it is clear that the construction is within 200m of the High Tide Line (HTL), in violation of CRZ norms. An appeal was filed against the GCZMA order issued in February 2019, directing demolition of a decorative retaining wall, restaurant and toilet block in a property at Gonsua. “We find that there was an inspection carried out during which conditions for permission were found to be violated. It is undisputed that the construction is within 200m of the HTL, which is a ‘No Development Zone’ even in CRZ area. Such permission was obviously subject to strict conditions. In the present case, there has been violation of such conditions. In view of the above, we do not find any ground to interfere with the impugned order,” the NGT said, dismissing the appeal. The appellant’s contention before the NGT was that the construction was raised under a valid permission, there was no sand dune as alleged, and structures were of temporary nature only for the purpose of holding marriage functions etc. The appeal also stated that the GCZMA quorum, when it was decided to issue the demolition order in 2019, was not as per law, as two of the ex-officio members did not personally attend the proceedings and nominated their deputies. The appeal said this was not permissible. “We do not find any merit in the appeal. As regards the defect of quorum, it remains undisputed that 11 out of 13 members were personally present. No prejudice has been caused to the proceedings. It is also well settled that in absence of a particular quorum, if the majority of members participate and take a decision, the same cannot be held invalid,” the NGT said in its order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cant-interfere-where-crz-violation-is-clear-ngt/articleshow/79050757.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mumbai||Delhi lawyer held for posts on Sushant Singh Rajput case gets bail||MUMBAI: The defence for Delhi lawyer Vibhor Anand, who was granted bail after being arrested for controversial online posts on actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide case, told the sessions court that after watching news channels, particularly R Bharat and it’s anchor, he was made to believe that certain persons had murdered the actor and Disha Salian,, whose deaths were connected. In a detailed bail order made available on Wednesday, the court, granting the 30-year-old bail, considered that he repented his actions. He was arrested on October 15. Anand’s defence told the court that he had no intention of defaming any person and would now post an apology on social media. The defence submitted that he would not repeat the act which would defame others. It submitted that if Anand was found to have misused his liberty and posted such derogatory posts about the case, the bail could be cancelled. “In view of the statement by the advocate for the applicant (Anand) that he is repenting the act which he allegedly committed... it would be just to exercise discretion in favour of him. Considering allegations made against... it can be said that most of the investigation on the applicant appears to have been completed. Therefore, I hold that the applicant is entitled to be released on bail,” the court said. Among other submissions, the defence placed on record articles stating similar allegations by Narayan and Nitesh Rane but they have not been prosecuted. Finding no merit in the submissions, the court said, “It is to be noted here that one of the persons who has made similar allegations has not been prosecuted by the prosecuting agency does not mean that the applicant has got a licence to make such allegations against other.” The prosecution had objected to the bail plea as Anand made defamatory statements on twitter, YouTube and other social media platforms without verifying the veracity of the information. It submitted that Anand had the tendency to “interfere with the judicial system”. “He had published a blog in the name of News Brad on News Portal on March 25. Earlier also his twitter account was suspended but it was reactivated by him,” the prosecution said. It said investigations were in progress with respect to funds collected by him for a trust, India Against Buyers Media. “If the applicant (Anand) is released on bail he will delete the posts on social media,” the prosecution said. The prosecution’s case was that Anand and others wrote objectionable posts against state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, and his son, tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and defamed them. The prosecution alleged that such posts had breached public peace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/delhi-lawyer-held-for-posts-on-sushant-gets-bail/articleshow/79048685.cms||Rebecca Samervel
November 5, 2020||Mysuru||Don’t make political prophecies, CM tells Siddaramaiah||MANGALURU/MYSURU: Chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday hit back at opposition leader Siddaramaiah for suggesting that he will be forced to step down after the bypolls. Speaking to the media, Yediyurappa said: “I would say that after the bypoll results which the BJP will win handsomely, Siddaramaiah will be forced out of his post as opposition leader.” In Mysuru, Siddaramaiah reiterated the statement and said the byelections will lead to downfall of the Yediyurappa government. “I’ve got information from Delhi about this. I’m very confident that Yediyurappa will not continue as the CM after the bypolls,” he said. Union minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi trashed suggestion by Siddaramaiah that Yediyurappa will be replaced. “Yediyurappa is our leader and he is doing a good job and there is no question of replacing him,’’ Joshi said. Interacting with media at Mangaluru International Airport on arrival for the state executive committee meeting of BJP on Thursday, Joshi said he is in sync with Allahabad HC judgement that voluntary conversion for the purpose of marriage, is invalid. “If the state government proposes to bring forth a law to curb this instance of ‘Love Jihad’, I welcome it,” he said. Many BJP ruled states are planning law on these lines. Later, Yediyurappa who arrived for the meeting, exhorted his bête noire Siddaramaiah to weigh his words and not make ‘political prophecies’. “Since these bypolls and elections to graduate teachers constituencies were fought under his leadership, elections in which Congress will face humiliating defeat, the moot question remains as to who will have to submit his resignation,” Yediyurappa said, exuding confidence about poll results. Dismissing the innuendo in a tweet that Siddaramaiah made about him having information from Delhi about the BJP planning to change him after the by polls, Yediyurappa said, “Even I can claim that I have inside information from Delhi that Congress leadership is planning to change Siddaramaiah after these poll results are out. But I will not stoop to such levels and Siddaramaih must be careful in making such tall claims about another party,” he noted Referring to the state executive committee meeting that is being held in the home town of state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Yediyurappa said the party leadership will take stock of the political situation in the state. “We will discuss problems that the state is facing as well as focus on the forthcoming polls to the panchayati raj bodies starting with the gram panchayat polls and chalk out organisational strategy for the same,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dont-make-political-prophecies-cm-tells-siddaramaiah/articleshow/79047587.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Two die after cars collide with truck on NH-13||CHITRADURGA: A journey to find a bride for a member of their family, hailing from Lakkavalli in Tarikere taluk in Chikkamagaluru district, turned tragic when the cars they were travelling in met with an accident on National Highway-13 resulting in the death of two. The members of the family were travelling in an SUV and a hatchback, the two cars travelling at high speeds on the highway. While Lohith Reddy was at the wheel of the SUV, Madan Reddy, for whom the family was hoping to find a bride, was driving the other car. It was when the cars had travelled past Holalkere police station in Chitradurga district that the SUV collided with a truck that was bearing down the highway from the opposite direction. Shambulingappa, 54, who was inside the SUV died on the spot, while 34-year-old Shobha Rani, who was admitted to the Chitradurga District Hospital, succumbed to her injuries later. Following the collision with the SUV, the truck swerved, and collided with the hatchback that Madan was driving. The car sustained damage and some of the passengers sustained injuries, but no fatalities were reported from the second collision. In all, seven individuals travelling in both the cars were injured in the accident: Mohan Reddy, Nagendra, Mala, Gaganashree, Monika, Lohith and Madan. Cops from the Holalkere police station visited the spot, and after a preliminary investigation, booked both Lohith and Madan for rash and negligent driving. Meanwhile, the bodies of the two victims were handed over to the bereaved family members after postmortem was performed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-die-after-cars-collide-with-truck-on-nh-13/articleshow/79046261.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mysuru||Miscreants duping youngsters with promise of job at Mysuru airport||MYSURU: The Mandakalli Airport in Mysuru finds itself, unwittingly, at the centre of a scam. For the past few weeks, youngsters with appointment letters have been turning up at the airport only to be informed that the documents they have are fake. Miscreants are trapping gullible aspirants with the promise of employment with the Airports Authority of India (AAI), which is responsible for the administration of Mandakalli Airport. Youngsters are being duped by miscreants, who are asking for money, and assuring the gullible aspirants of jobs with AAI by giving them fake appointment letters. Mandakalli Airport director R Manjunath said that the youngsters returned home dejected on learning that AAI was not hiring anyone in Mysuru. “This racket is being carried out online. The miscreants are communicating with youngsters over Email. They are extracting money from the youngsters in instalments, citing various stages in the recruitment process. The youngsters learn that they have been cheated only when they approach us,” Manjunath rued. Many of the youngsters falling prey to the scam are those rendered jobless owing to the Covid-19 crisis. In fact, many local youngsters from Mysuru are among those who have been cheated in this racket. Manjunath, however, pointed out that a few youngsters, their suspicions aroused, had approached the airport authorities before making the payment. Airport authorities, keen to prevent more youngsters from being duped by miscreants, said that any notification calling for applications to jobs at AAI would be published on: https://www.aai.aero/en/careers/recruitment. Spike in passenger traffic In the meanwhile, the Mysuru airport has registered a gradual rise in the number of passengers taking flights from the Heritage City following the easing of restrictions enforced during the lockdown. Sources attributed this to a revival in the local economy. Data from the Airports Authority of India indicates that, the number of passengers who used the airport in May was just 489, while it rose to 3,158 in June. The ensuing months of July and August registered a decline owing to the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mysuru, with just 2,795 passengers using the airport in July and 2,057 the succeeding month. The number spiked again in September (6,214) and the upward trend continued in October – 6,779.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/miscreants-duping-youngsters-with-promise-of-job-at-mysuru-airport/articleshow/79047293.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 5, 2020||Surat||Stem cell campaign for UK boy saves another life||Surat: Life is a gift to be lived and enjoyed while it lasts. And if it’s done in the right way, it’s a perfect living, they say. And so did Bhupendra Gudhka, a Mumbai resident, who registered himself for the stem cell donor match in the global campaign in a bid to save a four-year-old boy in the UK. His selfless zeal was rewarded when Gudhka was found to be a match with another patient in India and he was successful in saving that precious life with his gift of bone marrow. Meanwhile, Veer Gudhka, whose parents have their roots in Gujarat’s Jamnagar, continues to battle his rare genetic disorder, Fanconi anaemia, while the campaign raised by his desperate family – HelpVeerNow – is hunting a matching stem cell donor that will enable a bone marrow transplant to save his life. Nearly 1,549 people, mostly Gujaratis from Gujarat and Mumbai, registered for the campaign, and Bhupendra was one among them. Gudhka, a native of Jamnagar, said: “A year ago, a special camp was organised in Bhiwandi to register potential stem cell donors to save Veer’s life. I too registered as a prospective donor and a few weeks ago, received a call informing that they found a patient that matched my stem cell. I did not know whether I would ever be able to save someone with my stem cell, but God has been kind to me. I appeal to all people to register as a donor and help save Veer’s life,” the 48-year-old businessman told TOI. “Among the 1,549 people from India, mostly Gujaratis, who have registered as stem cell donors in this campaign so far, Bhupendra Gudhka too got registered and is lucky to save precious life of another patient,” said Jalpa Sukhanandi, region head, DATRI, India’s largest unrelated blood stem cell donors’ registry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/stem-cell-campaign-for-uk-boy-saves-another-life/articleshow/79047604.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh registers 10 Covid-19 deaths, lowest in 4 months||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,477 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,33,208. The toll increased to 6,744 as 10 more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus. This is the lowest single-day fatality count in almost four months after July 17, when 13 deaths were registered. From recording about 90 deaths a day in August, the daily casualty count has dropped to the 10-20 range in the last two weeks. As many as 2,701 patients were discharged from treatment facilities. There are currently 21,438 active cases besides 8,05,026 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 96%. East Godavari reported 424 new infections, followed by West Godavari (375), Krishna (332), Guntur (323) and Chittoor (321). Five districts recorded less than 100 cases. Of the 10 deaths, two each were from Guntur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Anantapur, Chittoor, East Godavari and West Godavari districts. The state conducted 75,465 Covid-19 tests, out of which 2,477 new cases emerged, which translates into a case positivity rate of about 3 per cent. Andhra Pradesh recorded its highest case positivity rate of 18% on September 4. Since then, there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate. It is now in the 3-4 per cent range. With declining case numbers, overall case positivity decreased to less than 10 per cent on Wednesday. It first crossed the 10% mark on August 15. The overall fatality rate was at 0.8%. About 80 per cent of the bed capacity at 192 Covid-19 designated hospitals remained vacant as conditions have improved over the last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-registers-10-covid-19-deaths-lowest-in-4-mnths/articleshow/79053620.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh registers 10 Covid-19 deaths, lowest in 4 months||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,477 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,33,208. The toll increased to 6,744 as 10 more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus. This is the lowest single-day fatality count in almost four months after July 17, when 13 deaths were registered. From recording about 90 deaths a day in August, the daily casualty count has dropped to the 10-20 range in the last two weeks. As many as 2,701 patients were discharged from treatment facilities. There are currently 21,438 active cases besides 8,05,026 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 96%. East Godavari reported 424 new infections, followed by West Godavari (375), Krishna (332), Guntur (323) and Chittoor (321). Five districts recorded less than 100 cases. Of the 10 deaths, two each were from Guntur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Anantapur, Chittoor, East Godavari and West Godavari districts. The state conducted 75,465 Covid-19 tests, out of which 2,477 new cases emerged, which translates into a case positivity rate of about 3 per cent. Andhra Pradesh recorded its highest case positivity rate of 18% on September 4. Since then, there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate. It is now in the 3-4 per cent range. With declining case numbers, overall case positivity decreased to less than 10 per cent on Wednesday. It first crossed the 10% mark on August 15. The overall fatality rate was at 0.8%. About 80 per cent of the bed capacity at 192 Covid-19 designated hospitals remained vacant as conditions have improved over the last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-registers-10-covid-19-deaths-lowest-in-4-mnths/articleshow/79047596.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Surat||SMC to get Rs 65 crore to improve air quality||SURAT: To improve cities’ ambient air quality across the country, the central government has allotted grants during 2020-21 under its clean air programme. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) is set to receive Rs 65.5 crore under this project. According to officials, the central government has already released grants to various cities across the country based on the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission. As per details, besides Surat, Ahmedabad will get Rs 91 crore, Rajkot Rs20 crore, Vadodara Rs26 crore under this programme. “We have already undertaken various measures to improve the air quality in the city and more programmes will be undertaken in coming future. We are going to add 10 more emission monitoring stations besides the two existing ones in the city. The government grants will be utilised to improve air quality mainly,” Banchhanidhi Pani, Surat municipal commissioner told TOI. "To improve air quality, we have already closed a solid waste dumping site at Khajod and are introducing electric buses in BRTS corridors while phasing out old vehicles at SMC,” Pani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-to-get-rs-65-cr-to-improve-air-quality/articleshow/79047627.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mumbai||Lawyer held for derogatory post||Mumbai: A 31-year-old lawyer was arrested by Kurar police on Tuesday in connection with a “derogatory post” on Facebook. Dhiraj Singh was produced before Borivli magistrate court on Wednesday, where colleagues turned up in support. Singh practices in the same court and lives in Malad (E). RPI worker Sanjay Borade had filed a police complaint on November 2 after being alerted by a friend about the post. Police said a morphed image of the star cast of a show was posted. Faces of the actors were replaced by those of Congress, BJP and RPI leaders, which Borade found offensive. “Singh was out of station. On his return on Monday, he was called to the police station, where he admitted he posted the image. He was taken into custody under sections 295 and 298 of IPC for insulting religion of any class,” said a Kurar police officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lawyer-held-for-derogatory-post/articleshow/79048687.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh registers 10 Covid-19 deaths, lowest in 4 months||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,477 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,33,208. The toll increased to 6,744 as 10 more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus. This is the lowest single-day fatality count in almost four months after July 17, when 13 deaths were registered. From recording about 90 deaths a day in August, the daily casualty count has dropped to the 10-20 range in the last two weeks. As many as 2,701 patients were discharged from treatment facilities. There are currently 21,438 active cases besides 8,05,026 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 96%. East Godavari reported 424 new infections, followed by West Godavari (375), Krishna (332), Guntur (323) and Chittoor (321). Five districts recorded less than 100 cases. Of the 10 deaths, two each were from Guntur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Anantapur, Chittoor, East Godavari and West Godavari districts. The state conducted 75,465 Covid-19 tests, out of which 2,477 new cases emerged, which translates into a case positivity rate of about 3 per cent. Andhra Pradesh recorded its highest case positivity rate of 18% on September 4. Since then, there has been a steady decline in the positivity rate. It is now in the 3-4 per cent range. With declining case numbers, overall case positivity decreased to less than 10 per cent on Wednesday. It first crossed the 10% mark on August 15. The overall fatality rate was at 0.8%. About 80 per cent of the bed capacity at 192 Covid-19 designated hospitals remained vacant as conditions have improved over the last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-registers-10-covid-19-deaths-lowest-in-4-mnths/articleshow/79053621.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||Army chief’s visit to Nepal brings hope to residents on both sides of border on early resolution of stand-off between two countries||Nainital: At a time when India-Nepal ties have been strained for months, Indian Army chief, General MM Naravane’s visit to Kathmandu, which began on Wednesday, has brought hope to locals on both sides of the border that there would now be a resolution of the disputes between the two countries. The tension between India and Nepal had escalated in May after Nepal alleged that Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura areas in Uttarakhand were part of its territory and had also issued an amended political map incorporating these areas. Speaking to TOI, many people on both the Indian side of the border as well as on the Nepalese side, said that General Naravane’s visit — which comes after a meeting between Indian ambassador to Nepal and the Nepalese foreign secretary — is a sign that the two countries are mending their relations. “There is a history of cultural and social bonds across the border and therefore we are hopeful that the relations of roti-beti (trade and familial ties) between our countries will remain intact. The fact that both India and Nepal are finally talking, raises that hope further,” said Harish Chandra Haisiyat, a resident of Tanakpur area of Champawat, one of the districts of Uttarakhand that shares a border with Nepal. Lal Bahadur Chand, a resident of Nepal’s Mahendranagar area, who works in India, said that he, like many others in Nepal, was hoping that the situation between the two countries normalises at the earliest. “There are thousands of people like me from Nepal who have been working in India for years although our families are in Nepal. Because of the closure of the border, all of us have been facing difficulties. We are hoping that the two countries will soon reach a decision on this matter and the centuries of ties that have connected us will become stronger.” Meanwhile, retired Indian Army officers said that even though the Army Chief’s visit is a routine visit, it is nonetheless significant “since it is an indicator that the basics in India’s relationship with Nepal remain undisturbed.” “The resumption of what is considered routine is an indicator that the basics in our relationship with Nepal remain intact. There is considerable internal resistance in Nepal's polity and the public towards any disturbance of the strong Indo-Nepal relationship. However, to achieve transformational levels of the past, some deliberate efforts will definitely be needed," said Lt Gen Syed Ata Hasnain (retired).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/army-chiefs-visit-to-nepal-brings-hope-to-residents-on-both-sides-of-border-on-early-resolution-of-stand-off-between-two-countries/articleshow/79047638.cms||Prashant Jha
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Three killed in road accident in Shahpura||Jaipur: Three persons were killed in Jaipur’s Shahpura on Wednesday morning after a truck hit them when they were crossing the road. One person has also suffered minor injuries. The truck has been seized and the driver arrested. The deceased were identified as: Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Pawan Kumar Verma and Kamal Kumar, all in their early 20s. Two of the victims worked at the Daulatpura toll plaza. Shahpura SHO Rakesh Kumar said, “On Wednesday morning, two of the victims were on a bike while the other two were on foot crossing the road when the heavy vehicle mowed them down. Out of the four, one person was saved as he managed to step back just in time.” Eyewitnesses claimed that the truck was speeding and the official said, “The container was transporting two wheelers and the driver was at such a high speed that he could not apply brakes and the victims came under it. There were others also who were crossing the road but could save themselves by getting out of the vehicle’s way, otherwise the casualties would have been higher. We have arrested the driver and booked him for culpable homicide not amounting to murder along with rash driving.” After the incident, locals gathered around the truck and informed the police so that the driver could not get away. “We reached the spot and took the bodies out but they had all died on the spot. The accident happened around 7am when the victims were heading to their workplaces,” said the official. The bodies were handed over to the deceased’s families after post-mortem on Wednesday.Ten days back, four persons were killed on Bhadra-Mothsara highway in Hanumangarh after the driver of the SUV in which they were travelling lost control and hit a roadside tree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-killed-in-road-accident-in-shahpura/articleshow/79049038.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Benefit of selection pay scale and time-bound promotion for administrators of profit-making co-ops||Jaipur: Cooperatives minister Udai Lal Anjana on Wednesday said the government, in the interest of cooperative societies, has decided to give the benefit of time-bound promotion and selection pay scale to administrators and assistants on completion of 9, 18 and 27 years of service like government servants.He said this demand of the administrators was pending for almost 25 years which would now benefit managers in about 3,000 cooperatives.Anjana said the decisions taken in the interest of the administrators will improve the functioning of cooperative societies and consumers and farmers will get good services. He informed that with this decision of the state government, the administrators and assistant administrators of about 3,000 cooperative societies will get the benefit of selection pay scales.The cooperative minister said that the benefit of selection pay scale will be given to administrators and assistant administrators of those cooperatives which are making profits for the last three years and also in the current year. Besides, the cooperatives which had fulfilled all mandatory transfers and paid dividend to the members. The societies must also fulfill the condition of audit of its accounts.Registrar Muktanand Aggarwal said that orders have been issued in this regard. The benefit of selection pay scale to the administrators of the eligible cooperative societies will also motivate the cooperatives which are running in loss. He said loss-making societies will now increase their business and adopt innovations and provide better service to the common people so that the administrators and assistant administrators of these cooperative societies could also get the benefit of selection pay scales and promotion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/benefit-of-selection-pay-scale-and-time-bound-promotion-for-administrators-of-profit-making-co-ops/articleshow/79049046.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||CM budgets addl Rs 899cr for Isarda water project||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has approved the increased cost of the ambitious Isarda Dam drinking water supply project for Dausa and Sawaimadhopur districts.Gehlot had announced this project costing Rs 3,159 crore for the supply of drinking water to five towns and 1,244 villages of Dausa and Sawai Madhopur in 2019-20 budget. In the original project, drinking water was to be supplied to the people of these villages and towns at 40 litres per person per day, including the local water source.Later, the cost of the project increased to Rs 899.12 crore with the addition of 12 villages and one town and the direction of the Centre to supply 55 litre per person per day under the Jal Jeevan Mission project.New police circle in Dungarpur The state government has decided to open a new police circle office at Seemalwara in Dungarpur district. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has approved the proposal of the finance department in this regard and has given financial approval for the creation of seven posts and infrastructure.Gehlot had announced to create a new circle office at Seemalwara during the review meeting of the home department in September 2020. In this regard, he has approved the formation of a new office, relaxing the terms of the austerity circular issued in view of the financial condition of the state government due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The annual financial burden on the creation of these posts is estimated at Rs 64.35 lakh. Also, there will be an expenditure of about Rs 1.4 lakh for providing necessary infrastructure like furniture, wireless sets, computer printer, telephone and vehicles etc. in the office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-budgets-addl-rs-899cr-for-isarda-water-project/articleshow/79049044.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mysuru||TB Jayachandra has accepted his defeat: ST Somashekhar||MYSURU: Sira Congress candidate and former minister TB Jayachandra has already accepted his defeat in the elections by raising the issue of electronic voting machine (EVM) fraud, said cooperation minister ST Somashekhar here on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, the minister referred to Jayachandra’s statement over election manipulation and said it indicates his trouncing in this election before the announcement of results. Somashekhar exuded confidence about his party candidate’s win in Sira. According to him, BJP will win in RR Nagar segment with a lead of 15,000 to 20,000 votes. He downplayed the poor turnout in RR Nagar, which he attributed to Covid-19 and asserted that it won’t affect the results. When asked about the cabinet reshuffle, he said he was not empowered to comment on it. According to him, if he comments on it, he could lose his minister's post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/jayachandra-has-accepted-his-defeat-somashekhar/articleshow/79047635.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Eight independents back Congress to form Jaipur Heritage board||JAIPUR: Congress seems to be in a comfortable position to form the board in Heritage Municipal Corporation (HMC) after eight independent candidates extended their support to the party on Wednesday. After securing 47 out of 100 seats, the party required 4 more seats for an absolute majority. The party now claims to have 55 candidates including independents to form the board. Cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said, “Out of 11 candidates, 8 have extended support to the Congress. Till the elections, all the newly elected candidates with stay with our candidates and participate in the strategy making exercise.” The BJP continued to accuse the Congress for bifurcating the wards on the basis of vote bank. BJP senior party member said, “The delimitation was based on polarisation. Congress divided the wards on Hindu & Muslim proportion and played dirty politics.” In these elections, there were many candidates who did not win but ruined the calculations of the party candidates. Moreover, NOTA also played a spoilsport and ended the perspective of many candidates to become councillors. People who boycotted the elections supported the candidates who contested under their banner. In Walled City area, independents got 1,09,114 votes out of 5,39,368 votes. This 20.22 per cent of vote share could have made a major difference both the parties. Abhishek Jain, spokesperson of Sanyukt Abhibhawak Sangh said, “We boycotted both the major parties and supported 10 candidates in Jaipur Heritage as our demands including school fee high were not met. People have expressed their anger against these major parties. More than 10,000 people opted for NOTA. Major parties will have to take public demand seriously as outcome will be different in coming years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/eight-independents-back-cong-to-form-jaipur-heritage-board/articleshow/79049047.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Surat||Lab technician at NCH ends life in Surat||SURAT: A 42-year-old lab technician at New Civil Hospital (NCH) ended life at her residence in the staff quarter of New Civil Hospital (NCH) on Wednesday afternoon. Ramixa Patel, was found hanging at her residence by family members and neighbours. Police recovered a suicide note from the room in which she held herself responsible for the extreme step. According to police, Patel after completing work went to her room in the afternoon. When she did not come out for some time, her mother-in-law knocked the door, but she did not respond. They later broke open the door and found her hanging. Registering a case of accidental death in Khatodara police station police started investigation. “The deceased claimed that she was fed-up with life and did not wish to live more. She has not held anyone responsible for the suicide,” said a police officer at Khatodara police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lab-technician-at-nch-ends-life/articleshow/79047642.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Over 120 teachers in Andhra Pradesh test Covid positive||Vijayawada: While educational institutes reopened on November 2 after a span of seven months, the education department has cause for concern after a number of teachers and students tested positive for Covid-19. In Chittoor district, 120 teachers have tested positive within a span of two days. A few days before schools in the state were set to reopen, the education department had Covid-19 tests conducted on all teachers. However, test reports later revealed that some teachers were infected with the virus. Meanwhile, a number of students and teachers from four schools in Prakasam district have also tested positive. Two teachers from Krishna district have tested positive, while in Jaggiahpet all teachers were sent for Covid-19 tests after reports for two teachers returned positive. In Krishna district, education officials declared that they would perform tests for all teachers working in government schools. The education department has directed district education officers (DEOs) to implement Covid-19 protocols and maintain physical distancing at schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-120-teachers-in-ap-test-positive/articleshow/79047621.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Overtaxed Asha workers fill in at understaffed secretariats||Visakhapatnam: Days after an Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers’ union held a protest in Visakhapatnam against the government’s decision to utilise their services at the ward and village secretariat level, a section of government officials explained that the move was compelled by the severe crunch in number of volunteers in secretariats. Officials, however, told TOI that Asha workers are overworked and their job role is, in fact, very different from that of a village or ward volunteer. “The problem is that several village and ward secretariat volunteers had to quit their job in the past nine months. New recruitments to fill up vacancies is still due. With the Covid-19 outbreak, jobs and responsibilities at the secretariats increased to a great extent. The government had to use the services of Asha workers—whose primary activity is to ensure birth control and safe delivery—for Covid-19 related activities, in addition to their original responsibilities,” a government official told TOI. Unemployment rights activists claimed graduates who had been selected as secretariat volunteers were looking forward to more lucrative government jobs. In the last few months, more than 7,000 of the 95,000-odd volunteers left their jobs after clearing various public service examinations. “When the recruitments were taking place in August 2019 we had raised a protest and demanded the government should not select graduates and those with higher degrees as secretariat volunteers. But the government did not pay heed to our demands then. Nor did the government fill up vacancies once volunteers started to quit,” Samyam Hemanth Kumar, state president of Andhra Pradesh Nirudyoga (Unemployed) Joint Action Committee, told TOI. On November 2, around 2,000 Asha workers under the aegis of the CITU-backed AP Asha Workers’ Union held a demonstration in front of the Gandhi Statue opposite the GVMC office and then headed towards the collector’s office. They were stopped by the police and their leaders arrested. “With a paltry salary of only Rs 10,000 these Asha workers toil hard. Now, as they are working at secretariats each of them are working for 5,000 people in rural areas, although as per norms there is one Asha worker for every 1,000 people. Most important, they are not entitled to any government welfare schemes,” said P Mani, honorary president of the union that spearheaded the agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/overtaxed-asha-workers-fill-in-at-understaffed-secretariats/articleshow/79047641.cms||Arpit Basu
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Minority candidate expected to hold top post in Jaipur Heritage Corporation||JAIPUR: The Congress will field a Muslim candidate on one of the key posts — mayor or deputy mayor — in Jaipur Heritage Corporation (JHC). As candidates belonging to minority community will play a crucial role in formation of the civic board in the Walled City, plans are afoot to reserve the top post for these candidates. The Congress secured 47 seats in JHC out of 100. The BJP is not far behind and won 42 seats. Independent candidates, who won 11 seats, will decide in formation of the board. Congress has fair chances of getting the support of the independents as eight out of 11 candidates belong to the minority community. The move to choose a mayor or deputy mayor candidate amongst the community will strengthen the board. “On 30% seats, there are minority community candidate including independents. Congress is having 22 councillors, while eight have given consent to join the party. After showing the strength in the board, senior community leaders are asserting for the top posts.” As results have settled the uncertainty, various organisations have come forward to put across their demands. Rajasthan Teli Mahapanchyat had written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot demanding to appoint mayor from the minority community. The letter states that despite decent representation of Muslim candidates in municipal elections, the community never claimed the senior post. “As the seat is reserved for woman OBC category, it’s an opportunity for the winning candidate belonging to the minority community,” said president Abdul Latif. Sources in the Congress party claimed that there is possibility to appoint a deputy mayor from the minority as for mayor an experienced politician is required for effective administration. “The Congress will form a board for the first time in history. Moreover, after the Walled City bagged the prestigious Unesco title, the responsibility will be bigger. An experienced person is required to head the corporation,” said Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi while asserting that no parachute candidate will be launched for the top posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minority-candidate-expected-to-hold-top-post-in-heritage/articleshow/79049055.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Suspected bookies attack cops in Chomu, 3 arrested||JAIPUR: Several cops were injured and police vehicles damaged after suspected bookies attacked a team when they went to arrest the accused in Chomu on Tuesday late night. So far, three persons have been arrested in tbhis case. Chomu SHO Hemraj Singh said, “We received information that bookies operating on IPL matches were operating in our area and and we conducted a raid around 11pm. When we reached the spot, around 30 persons attacked the cops with stones and rods. Several of our personnel were injured following which we arrested three persons.” During the attack, a cop suffered a fracture on his arm while several police vehicles’ window panes ere broken. Cops have registered a case under relevant IPC sections against the accused. In a parallel investigation into another betting racket, cops seized Rs 10 lakh. Just a week ago, police arrested six bookies from a farmhouse in Vishwakarma. In another raid, six bookies were arrested in Sez police station area by the Anti-Terrorism Squad. With IPL matches underway in UAE, Rajasthan police have been regularly arresting bookies. In a major action against them earlier this month, the ATS had simultaneously raided five locations in three states and arrested seven bookies from Cyberabad in Telangana while the remaining from Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-attacked-in-chomu/articleshow/79049049.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Congress makes inroads into few BJP strongholds||JAIPUR: Congress put a dent in several BJP strongholds as many candidates won seats from Vidhyadhar Nagar, Sanganer and Malviya Nagar. Earlier, Congress councillors used to find it tough to win seats from these areas. In Malviya Nagar legislative assembly, not even a single Congress councillor was able to bag a seat the last time. This year, the party won nine seats. Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said, “I lost the MLA election in close contest in 2019 but did not sit at home after that. This is a BJP stronghold but with continuous work since the municipal board was dissolved last year, we were able to make an impression in the minds of people who voted for us.” She said three of her candidates lost by a thin margin signalling that the next time, the results will be much better. Similarly in Sanganer, where Ashok Lahoty is the sitting MLA, 15 seats were won by the Congress. Some Congress candidates, however, faced embarrassment in the elections as well. Bhagwat Singh Deval, Rajesh Biwal, Gopal Krishna Sharma and Prakash were BJP rebels who supported Vishnu Lahta in the mayor election in 2019. They all lost the seat this year. Deval, a three-time councillor from the same ward, was sure of his victory, “It was shocking for me as I was expecting it to be a one-sided affair. But then sometimes, the situation is not in our control.” Meanwhile, candidates which the party replaced in place of its former councillors in Sanganer legislative area all lost the election. Dharam Singh, Mukesh Sharma and Dinesh Saini were former councillors of Congress who didn’t get tickets but still the party lost. “Congress would have gotten more seats if the ticket distribution was done in a better way. MLAs gave tickets to their acquaintances knowing well that the person wasn’t working on the ground. If the ticket distribution was done in a coordinated way, the Congress would have won more seats in JMC, Greater,” said a source in Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-makes-inroads-into-few-bjp-strongholds/articleshow/79049050.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||Uproar in Goa over Poonam Pandey nude video shoot||POINGUINIM: A video of actor Poonam Pandey shot in the nude at Chapoli dam in Canacona has led to an uproar among locals, who on Wednesday mobbed the deputy collector’s office demanding suspension of the Canacona police inspector Tukaram Chawan. Canacona residents, under the banner of Canacona Jagrut Samiti have called for an indefinite bandh in the entire taluka if the PI is not suspended by Thursday morning. Locals expressed their anger at police officials for being unable to prevent the vulgar video being shot in the area in broad daylight and also for allegedly delaying registering FIR against those involved in incident. Canacona Jagrut Samiti members have said they will block the NH66 as well as the new bypass as part of the bandh from Thursday. On Wednesday, residents told deputy collector Satish Prabhu that they want speedy investigation by South Goa Superintendent of police or DySP in the obscene video case. After the protestors demanded that either the collector or South Goa SP should come down to Canacona and hear them out, SP Pankaj Singh arrived and tried to pacify the crowd in front of Canacona deputy Collector’s office at Chaudi. But locals claimed Singh did not agree to their demand for Chawan’s suspension till the time investigation in the case of filming of the obscene video at Chapoli dam is completed. Canacona residents told Singh that Chawan was lax and registered the case only at 8pm on Tuesday after intervention by Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes. Watch Poonam Pandey: 'Topless' shoot sparks uproar in Goa||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/uproar-in-goa-over-poonam-pandey-nude-video-shoot/articleshow/79049059.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 12 killed by explosions at chemical unit near Pirana||AHMEDABAD: Twelve workers were killed and nine injured in multiple explosions at a chemical processing unit in Ganeshnagar on the Piplaj-Pirana road on Wednesday morning. People living within 5km of the incident reportedly heard the blasts which sounded like powerful bombs. While there was no human life lost at the unit in question, 12 persons working at a garments packaging unit in the neighbouring Nanubhai Estate, which shares a wall with the unit in question, were killed by the blast. The dead included five women workers. Eyewitnesses said that many workers were flung out of the industrial unit due to the shockwave while the rest were buried under debris which brought down concrete units. Officials of the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES), city police and Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) reportedly did not have a clue to the composition of the chemical which caused the deadly explosion. Locals said they heard six blasts from the small chemicals unit, which measures 25x50 feet. Cement and concrete structures were blown to smithereens in a 50m diameter. Human organs and limbs of victims were spotted 25 feet away from the site of the blasts. “We heard a loud explosion and felt tremors due to the blast. Smoke billowed into the sky even as the screams of people rented the air. On reaching the spot, we saw people dead and badly wounded,” said Nizamuddin Mansuri, a resident of Ganeshnagar. The state government swung into action after loss of human lives was reported and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh for the victims’ families. The government also set up an inquiry committee to investigate the incident. “The incident took place at around 11.30am on Wednesday. The blast was so powerful that it broke walls of three adjacent units where some 50 workers were packaging garments. Twelve people died and nine persons have been rescued,” said M F Dastoor, AFES chief fire officer. The operation to clear debris was on till late on Wednesday night. The injured persons were admitted to LG Hospital in Maninagar where two are stated to be critical. The incident, however, left local businessmen worried. Vinod Chopra, who runs a garment packaging unit and Amit Shah, the owner of a chemical processing unit, expressed shock that such dangerous chemicals were stored in the unit. “Such actions put businesses in the neighbourhood in jeopardy too. The authorities should carry out an in-depth inquiry to ensure lives are not endangered further,” said Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/12-killed-by-explosions-at-chemicals-unit-authorities-clueless/articleshow/79049090.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||388 new Covid-19 cases, five more deaths in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded 388 fresh infections of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 63,585. Also, five more fatalities on the day pushed the toll of the virus to 1,038 in the state. Among those Covid-19 patients who died on the day included a 13-year-old girl. She was undergoing treatment at AIIMS, Rishikesh. On Wednesday, Dehradun district reported the maximum of 121 Covid-19 cases, followed by Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts. Both the districts recorded 40 cases of the virus each. Meanwhile, Champawat registered the least number of new Covid-19 cases with three people catching the infection in the district. Significantly, there are 3,818 active cases in the state and 58,221 people have so far recovered from the Covid-19 infection. The recovery rate in the state continues to be over 90%, said an official. According to official data, 9,240 samples were sent for Covid-19 testing in the state on Wednesday and the results of 11,997 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/388-new-covid-19-cases-five-more-deaths-in-ukhand/articleshow/79047653.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Garment factory robbed in Sanganer||Jaipur:Unidentified men robbed a garment factory in Sanganer on Tuesday night and took off with goods worth approximately Rs 30 lakh. The factory owner got to know about the robbery on Wednesday morning following which the cops were informed. “There were 2-3 people who broke the locks of the factory and fled with the garments. Although there were CCTV cameras in the factory, we are unable to get a clear picture of the accused as they had tampered with the camera,” said an official of Sanganer police station. Cops are yet to trace the accused and will be questioning the factory staff as well. Elaborating on the investigation, the official said, “It is too early to rule out the involvement of employees as the accused knew about the cameras and were prepared to deal with them.” The factory had many orders for garments owing to the festive season because of which the large consignment was there and somehow the robbers came to know of it which is another reason police suspect involvement of a factory worker in the robbery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/garment-factory-robbed-in-sanganer/articleshow/79049053.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Hearing on petition challenging firecracker ban on Friday||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday postponed the hearing on the ban on firecrackers to Friday. The state government had banned the use of firecrackers during Diwali and imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on those who sell the product and Rs 2,000 on those who burst them. The state government’s decision to ban firecrackers has been challenged in the high court by Rajasthan Fireworks Dealers and Manufacturers’ Association.The petition said the ban has triggered a crisis of livelihood for thousands related to the business, said association secertary Zaheer Ahmed. “No agency or organisation has done research and claimed that the bursting of firecrackers will spread Covid-19. The smoke from firecrackers on Diwali spreads only 4% of pollution in two to three hours. Whereas smoke emitted from factories, vehicles and smoking spreads 96 per cent of the pollution. The state government should control pollution emanating from factories,” he said.In a review meeting held at the chief minister’s residence a few days back, the CM directed to take strict action against the sale of firecrackers in the state and polluting vehicles running without fitness to protect the health of coronavirus-infected patients and the public from the toxic smoke emitted from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hearing-on-petition-challenging-firecracker-ban-on-friday/articleshow/79049058.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Surat||Cong accuses Sumul of overcharging, seeks parity in milk prices||Surat: When Amul sells its Gold milk packets for Rs 56 per litre in Gujarat and elsewhere, Surtis are forced to shell out Rs 2 extra per litre. This was alleged in a memorandum that was submitted to the district collector by the Surat Youth Congress leaders on Tuesday demanding parity of rates across the state. Youth Congress members stated that Sumul dairy sells about 6.5 lakh litres of Amul Gold in Surat city and surrounding areas and earns about Rs 13 lakh daily by charging Rs 2 extra per litre. The total amount works out at Rs 47 crore per annum. Pradip Sindhav, national secretary of Indian Youth Congress (IYS) told TOI, “While Amul Gold sells for Rs56 per litre across states, Sumul is charging Surtis Rs 58 per litre. This way, Sumul is looting consumers by charging Rs 2 extra and earning Rs 13 lakh extra on a daily basis. This is a loot by the Sumul dairy and it should be stopped. We have submitted a memorandum to the district collector and will resort to city-wide agitation if needed.”When contacted, a senior officer of Sumul dairy on condition of anonymity told TOI, “We sell Amul Gold for Rs 58 per litre and the money earned is distributed among farmers in Surat region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cong-accuses-sumul-of-overcharging-seeks-parity-in-milk-prices/articleshow/79047661.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||27-year-old Kolkata municipal corporation engineer dies as dengue cases spike||KOLKATA: A 27-year-old engineer of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation died of dengue at a private hospital off EM Bypass on Wednesday. The deceased, Raheed Zaman, was the youngest assistant director in the civic body’s solid waste management department, who was assigned to look after the large areas of Joka under borough XVI. Originally a resident of Malda, Zaman had been staying at a Tangra neighbourhood for the past two years. He had joined the KMC as an assistant engineer two years ago and was recently promoted to the post of an assistant director, said a KMC source. According to a KMC health department official, the city witnessed a spike in dengue cases since September. “While we had fewer dengue cases till July, we witnessed emergence of some positive cases in September. In October, we noticed a rise in the number of dengue positive cases,” said a KMC health department official. “There has been an increasing number of dengue cases in our hospital in the past three months and most cases are from Park Circus, Topsia, Tiljata and Picnic Garden localities. We should not be neglecting dengue because of Covid, especially in paediatric patients, because dengue is more dangerous than Covid,” said Prabhas Prasun Giri, associate professor at Institute of Child Health (ICH). Sources at ICH there have been at least three dengue deaths in the past four months, mostly from the Tiljaja, Park Circus belt. The hospital currently has around 10 children under treatment for dengue. KMC sources claimed dengue deaths were of patients who had come to Kolkata for treatment. According to the KMC sources, Zaman was first admitted to a nursing home near Ultadanga a week ago after he had tested positive for dengue. As his condition deteriorated, civic officials shifted him to a private hospital off EM Bypass 48 hours ago. He died on Wednesday morning. KMC’s SWM department sources said the body was sent to his Malda residence on Wednesday night. With Zaman’s death, an alarm bell was sounded by the KMC health department, asking health workers in the civic body’s vector control department to keep a special vigil on the city’s dengue-prone areas.  “Though the number of dengue cases is much less, we can’t take chances till December, considering the emergence of sporadic cases from across the city. We need to intensify our dengue prevention drive along with keeping tabs on the existing pandemic,” said a KMC health department official. During the pandemic there have been a few cases of patients being infected by both dengue and Covid, including the death of a middle-aged man in MR Bangur Hospital in July due to the co-infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/27-yr-old-kmc-engineer-dies-as-dengue-cases-spike/articleshow/79049074.cms||Saikat Ray
November 5, 2020||Goa||Get IIT project to Farmagudi: Ramkrishna Dhavalikar||PANAJI: Maharashtra Gomantak Party (MGP) MLA and former minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar on Wednesday said the IIT’s permanent campus should be set up in the available government land at Farmagudi, as locals in Sattari are opposed to the project. “Raise the FAR (floor ratio area) so the infrastructure can come up vertically. Farmagudi has sufficient space on the plateau to accommodate the IIT. If commercial buildings can be given higher FAR, then why not an educational institute. Then the institute will not require the 2 lakh odd square metres of land it currently needs,” said Dhavalikar. He said the MGP will begin work of rebuilding the party after Gudi Padwa and will go to the 2022 assembly polls with more young faces. Dhavalikar said the party will also reject those who have cheated the MGP in the past, by changing sides on being elected, hinting at tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar. “We will go to the youth in a big way and create awareness among them about what MGP government has done as compared to the later BJP and Congress governments. Many ask me how come I was a minister in both BJP and Congress governments. You have to do it to form a government for stability or else we will have an election three times in five years. This won’t happen if voters elect 21 of our MLAs,” said Dhavalikar. He said the MGP is determined to give more tickets to youth at the upcoming polls wherever they show promise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/get-iit-project-to-farmagudi-dhavalikar/articleshow/79049065.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||Complaint should come from student or parent: Law college||PANAJI: The V M Salgaocar College of Law, Miramar, has told the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) it has not locus standi as a third party to complain against a teacher and that such a complaint should come either from a student or a parent as per norms. Officiating college principal Shabir Ali also told TOI that ABVP has been asked to submit evidence in the matter relating to the college teacher Shilpa Singh. It may be recalled that ABVP had complained to the college that Singh, who teaches political theory to first-year law students, was ‘promoting hateful thoughts against a particular religion’ during her online classes. Singh was subsequently asked by the college to respond to the complaint. “We had asked her to respond and in her reply she has also raised it that a third party does not have locus standi to make such a complaint. The complaint has to come from the parents or students. We have told ABVP this. We have also told them to provide us whatever evidence they have. Unless there is evidence, we cannot proceed,” professor Shabbir Ali said. He said ABVP has been given a week’s time to respond to the letter from the college. The college has already stated that as per the institute’s code of conduct for students, online lectures cannot be recorded, and violation of the norms can invite action against the student. Konkan state joint secretary for ABVP, Prabha Naik, had earlier said that the organisation has evidence of the ‘hateful’ portions of the lectures delivered by Singh in the form of recorded clips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/complaint-should-come-from-student-or-parent-law-college/articleshow/79049072.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Drug control official held for corruption||Vijayawada: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) raided the residence of deputy director of Drug Control Administration (DCA) in Guntur region and unearthed disproportionate assets on Wednesday. The accused was identified as Mothiki Venkata Siva Satyanarayana Vara (57). According to officials, they conducted simultaneous raids across four places in Vijayawada and Guntur and unearthed several movable and immovable properties belonging to Satyanarayana. ACB officials said the accused owns three buildings worth Rs 3.4 crore. Satyanarayana also owns three house sites, agricultural land and a flat. In terms of movable assets, sleuths found 1.1 kilos of gold, a bank balance of Rs 15.32 lakh, fixed deposits worth Rs 50 lakh and two vehicles—a car and a bike worth Rs 7.5 lakh. Officials said the disproportionate assets’ value is Rs 3.7 crore (document value).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/drug-control-official-held-for-corruption/articleshow/79047658.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||3 new caves at Kedarnath to be handed over to GMVN on Nov 11||Dehradun: After an overwhelming response to Rudra Cave – where Prime Minister Narendra Modi meditated in 2019 – at Kedarnath, the Uttarakhand government has come up with three new caves in the area. The three new caves would be handed over to the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam on November 11 and thereafter, bookings for them would start. Tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said, “A high number of pilgrims have shown interest in staying in the Rudra Cave at Kedarnath and bookings are made months in advance. In view of this, the state decided to come up with more caves in the areas.” He pointed out that after the three caves, the state is looking to come up with more caves in the area. “The tranquil atmosphere along with peaceful surroundings are drawing the people towards Rudra Cave,” said the minister. The caves are around two-km ahead of the revered Kedarnath temple and have a small window through which people can get a view of the shrine. Constructed with a budget of Rs 28 lakh, these caves have an attached washroom, a bed storage space, a mobile charging point, and a room service facility. On Wednesday, chief secretary Om Prakash, in a review meeting of Kedarnath-Badrinath reconstruction projects, said that authorities need to ensure that the projects are completed within the stipulated time span. He also directed authorities to increase the parking capacity at Sonprayag by December 31 and complete the financial bidding process of the parking at Sitapur by November 15. The CS asked the Public Works Department (PWD) staff to speed up the pace of work and complete the construction of the 60-metre-long bridge on Mandakini river by December. For road shifting, the CS has asked the PWD and the Border Road Organisation (BRO) to conduct a joint survey and directed them to take technical advice from experts on the feasibility test of the road and its safety in a landslide-prone area. He also took stock of the study required for the Badrinath master plan. He added that a deadline should be fixed for survey of the Badrinath masterplan. Meanwhile, RK Sudanshu, secretary of PWD, said that the heavy equipment required for work have been airlifted to Kedanath and would be assembled by November 17. He added that the work of constructing 50 fabricated shops near the helipad has been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-new-caves-at-kedarnath-to-be-handed-over-to-gmvn-on-nov-11/articleshow/79047670.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||School owners stir outside Udaipur collectorate over fee||UDAIPUR: Hundreds of private school owners held a protest outside the collectorate here on Wednesday against the fees issue that has been prevailing across the state since lockdown. The forum of private school owners of Udaipur announced temporary termination of online classes from Thursday and said classes will be resumed only after state government fulfils their demands. A delegation of the forum met the ADM, City, and submitted a memorandum of their demands. Girish Joshi, president of the forum, said that the school owners are facing extreme financial difficulties since parents have not been paying fees for some eight months now, since the lockdown. The amount due to schools to be paid by the state government under RTE provisions, too, has been pending and it has become difficult for schools to function since they have to pay salaries to teachers and other employees. Members said many primary and middle-level schools are on the verge of closure due to financial difficulties. Many workers, bus drivers and uniform suppliers are facing hard days since schools are not functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/school-owners-stir-outside-udaipur-collectorate-over-fee/articleshow/79049068.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Udaipur||School owners stir outside Udaipur collectorate over fee||UDAIPUR: Hundreds of private school owners held a protest outside the collectorate here on Wednesday against the fees issue that has been prevailing across the state since lockdown. The forum of private school owners of Udaipur announced temporary termination of online classes from Thursday and said classes will be resumed only after state government fulfils their demands. A delegation of the forum met the ADM, City, and submitted a memorandum of their demands. Girish Joshi, president of the forum, said that the school owners are facing extreme financial difficulties since parents have not been paying fees for some eight months now, since the lockdown. The amount due to schools to be paid by the state government under RTE provisions, too, has been pending and it has become difficult for schools to function since they have to pay salaries to teachers and other employees. Members said many primary and middle-level schools are on the verge of closure due to financial difficulties. Many workers, bus drivers and uniform suppliers are facing hard days since schools are not functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/school-owners-stir-outside-udaipur-collectorate-over-fee/articleshow/79053363.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||Finance department gets down to tackling unpaid bills, seeks data||PANAJI: In order to find a way to clear bills that are pending with all the departments, the state government has asked for a list of all such bills till September 30. The department of finance is holding daily meetings till Friday with various departments to understand the total liabilities of the state government. Under secretary for finance Pranab Gajanan Bhat issued a circular to all departments, including Goa police, Captain of Ports, art and culture, tourism, fisheries and IT, asking the accounts officers to submit data on unpaid bills starting with the oldest. “This is an exercise for assessment of liabilities and then to come up with a mechanism to clear these bills,” an official said. The first meeting for the government departments was held on Wednesday afternoon at the secretariat. At each meeting, just five to six department heads are called in. The finance department has requested for data on the amount due to the contractor, the name of the contractor and the date when the bill was submitted to the respective department. In a bid to clear bills of contractors and service agencies, the state government offered a discount-settlement system, but very few contractors came forward to avail the scheme. For now, only PWD and Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation have managed to settle small bills through Trade Receivables Discounting System (TreDS), an online electronic institutional mechanism aimed at clearing bills of MSMEs. Sources said that the government may be trying to find another way to settle pending bills. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who is also the finance minister, issued directions to the finance department to collect details on all pending bills and liabilities from the department heads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fin-dept-gets-down-to-tackling-unpaid-bills-seeks-data/articleshow/79049106.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur collector takes GGH doctors to task over Covid-19 care||GUNTUR: Alarmed by the increasing number of Covid-19 deaths, district collector Samuel Anand Kumar held an emergency review meeting with medical officers at the Government General Hospital (GGH) on Wednesday. The collector blamed senior medical officers in GGH as the district has been reporting at least four deaths each day, mostly from GGH. “I know the majority of you are very talented and highly-skilled medical professionals. Unfortunately, you are not working to save the lives of the poor coming to the GGH,” said the collector. The collector said a majority of heads of departments (HoDs) were not attending to patients in Covid-19 wards. He said that the entire burden of treatment for Covid-19 patients was left on the shoulders of the postgraduate doctors as the senior professionals were monitoring the cases remotely. The collector asked senior medical officers to visit the Covid-19 ward to monitor the treatment for the poor. “I came to know that doctors were attending cases only when references were received from legislators or ministers. I want that every patient admitted to GGH to be given the same quality of treatment,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-collector-takes-ggh-docs-to-task-over-covid-19-care/articleshow/79047672.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Live music banned in bars||Kolkata: The state excise department has reportedly stopped all live performances in bars from Wednesday night through a verbal order, which was also conveyed to the respective police stations. There are 20-21 singing and live performance bars across the city.  Sources said that the verbal order was given by the excise department following a spurt in Covid cases in the city. “Excise authorities are trying to reduce crowding in bars that they feel would reduce the chances of Covid spread. All the bars with live performances have already been informed about this and asked to discontinue live performances till further order. If anyone violates the instruction, cops may close the bar for the time being ,” sources said. Live performance in bars was allowed in October for one hour from 7pm to 8pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/live-music-banned-in-bars/articleshow/79049122.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Kota South: Tied at 36 each, Congress, BJP claim support of independents||KOTA: Claiming the support of at least four of the eight independents, both the Congress and the BJP, each with 36 winning candidates in 80 wards of Kota South, have asserted to form the municipal corporation board. The BJP, fearing poaching of its councillors, on Wednesday sent 36 candidates to a farmhouse in adjoining Madhya Pradesh. It claimed that four other independents have also joined them. Meanwhile, the Congress has avoided ‘confinement’ of its candidates and expressed confidence in them. A senior BJP leader with RSS background in Kota, on condition of anonymity, claimed ties between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former chief minister Vasundhara Raje to help the Congress form board and weaken local MP Om Birla’s clout. BJP MLA from Kota South Sandeep Sharma, who piloted the party’s polling campaign in Kota South, claimed to form the board with 36 its own and four independent candidates. “We (BJP) will form the board in Kota South as 36 of party’s candidates have won in 80 wards and four other independents expressed trust in the party for form the board. All councillors have been sent to a farmhouse in MP. Three of the independents also left from Kota to join them in the farmhouse in MP on Wednesday noon, while one other independent is going to join the other 39 in camp in the farmhouse later in the evening,” he said. Contrary to the BJP’s claim, Congress also asserted to form the board in Kota South notably with one to two BJP candidates and four of the eight independents. “Besides four of the eight independents already in our side with 36 party's winning candidates, one to two BJP candidates are in constant touch with us,” Kota Congress city president Ravinder Tyagi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-south-tied-at-36-each-cong-bjp-claim-support-of-independents/articleshow/79049082.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Dehradun||FDA launches extensive drive to check sale of adulterated food during festive season||Dehradun: In the run-up to Diwali, the Food and Drug Administration teams have launched an extensive drive to check the sale of adulterated food products. Food samples are being collected from prominent wholesalers and retailers in the city. The teams held random inspections at some of the most prominent khoya/mawa (reduced dry milk used in sweets) supply centres of Dehradun, including those at Hanuman Chowk and Canal Road. The teams also collected the samples of khoya kept at these centres and the drive continued in different shops on Wednesday as well. The collected food samples have been sent for lab tests. Ramesh Singh, senior food safety officer, told TOI, “In addition to checking the sale of adulterated and synthetic khoya, we are also requesting the wholesalers as well as the retailers to follow the social distancing norms and not sell any product to people who were not wearing masks. In the inspections on Tuesday, we have directed the wholesalers and retailers to ensure that only a limited number of customers are allowed inside the shop. They were also asked to develop a mechanism through which the supply could be made without overcrowding at shops.” Singh pointed out that the drive is being led by departmental head ASP Mithlesh Kumar Singh. “The samples have been taken and further steps will be taken after we get the test reports. Taking into account the festive season, we will soon be starting the drive against adulterated sweets and other food products as well. It is worth mentioning that from January to October this year, the FDA team had registered 41 cases. However, the teams collected 21 food samples in the one-month time span from October to November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fda-launches-extensive-drive-to-check-sale-of-adulterated-food-during-festive-season/articleshow/79047717.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Dining out slowly picks up in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: With Covid-19 cases reducing in the district, the city’s food joints and watering holes are limping back to normalcy. Resorts, hotels and restaurants were among the worst-hit businesses due to the pandemic. The eateries which were shut down in the end of March, gradually reopened in the end of July. Even after they reopened, there were no patrons due to the high number of Covid cases in the region, as well as the economic crisis. Of late, restaurateurs claim that the situation is improving. “The food and beverage business was one of the worst-hit after the lockdown was clamped and after it was lifted. With people adapting to the new normal, there is a ray of hope, and business is picking up in a slow manner,” says Vadi Shenoy of Tandoor Bar and Restaurant. “There are not many patrons on weekdays like earlier, but quite a few customers visit during weekends,” he adds. Nithin Shetty, manager of Diesel Café, a fine-dine restaurant, said that most of his customers were students from professional colleges. “We hope that business will pick up once colleges reopen. When it comes to families, we had some visiting thrice a week, especially for dinner, which has now reduced to just once a week.” Peter Nirmal, general manager of The Gateway Hotel, says that as of now, only 50% of rooms are booked. “The number is likely to increase once the operation of international flights returns to normal. We are expecting the situation to improve from December. Customers are still apprehensive about the spread of the virus, despite preventive measures being followed at the hotel,” he said. Meanwhile, police are heaving a sigh of relief as the city shuts down by 8pm on weekdays. Vinay Gaonkar, DCP (crime and traffic), Mangaluru, says he noticed that the city was shutting down, and the movement of people was limited during weekdays. “Currently, as per my observation, the city’s night life has gone back to what it was 20 years ago,” he said. Prajwal U, who loves to have tea and snacks with his friends late at night, says that some of the tea joints, which used to remain open till midnight, have remained shut since the shooting incident in Falnir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dining-out-slowly-picks-up-in-city/articleshow/79047685.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 5, 2020||India||Arnab Goswami claims assault, doctors’ report shows no evidence: Judge||MUMBAI: High drama marked the arrest of Arnab Goswami on Wednesday when an Alibaug police team, along with a Mumbai police team, went to his Worli residence. While Goswami claimed his son was roughed up, a policewoman filed a complaint at NM Joshi Marg police against the journalist, his wife Somyabrata Goswami, their son and others present at their home for manhandling public servants. Read AlsoRepublic TV’s Arnab Goswami held in 2018 abetment to suicide caseThe Alibaug police, assisted by cops from Mumbai, arrested Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami from his Worli residence in a two-year-old abetment to suicide case involving a man and his mother. ​​Goswami was taken to Alibaug in a police van and produced in the local court there. TheAlibaug deputy superintendent Praveen Patil’s name tag was torn off from his uniform, police said. The Alibaug magistrate said the medical report was filed and on its basis, it does not appear there was any mistreatment or excessive force or assault. There was no material to show any assault or use of force by police, the court said. A policeman said Alibaug cops had sought assistance from Mumbai police as it anticipated “obstacles”. “We knew he would allege assault, so two of our members were told to video-record the incident, from us entering his apartment to him entering the police van,” said an officer. Goswami was provided Y-plus security after he was attacked a few months ago. Read AlsoNo suicide note in Sushant’s case, but my hubby left one: Anvay Naik's wifeThe wife and daughter of Anvay Naik, who allegedly killed himself in 2018 and named Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two others in his suicide note, thanked Maharashtra police for action in the case on Wednesday and said they finally hope for justice.The operation began at 6am, with a team from the city crime branch, led by assistant inspector Sachin Waze, as well as a special operation squad from city police and the Alibaug team led by Patil reaching Goswami’s flat. Goswami didn’t open the door after seeing the police on CCTV and kept asking why they had come. He was heard making calls in the period. When he opened the door, his wife started video-recording and saying police were assaulting him. A journalist too tried to video-record the goings-on. In the FIR, inspector Sujata Tanavade said when policemen stopped Somyabrata from recording, she pushed the cops that led to Patil’s name tag falling off. Goswami started shouting at cops, they alleged, and asked his wife not to sign documents, leading to Somyabrata tearing up papers she’d signed. The policewoman alleged Goswami threatened cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/goswami-claims-assault-docs-report-shows-no-evidence-judge/articleshow/79052030.cms||Ahmed Ali
November 5, 2020||Goa||Shipping ministry to permit debarred seafarers to apply for CDC, says Shripad Naik||PANAJI: Spelling good news for the seafaring community, the Union ministry of shipping is likely to lift the ban imposed on seafarers who had forged documents to qualify for shipping jobs.  Minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya assured Ayush minister and minister of state for defence Shripad Naik that Goan seafarers, who were barred from applying for Indian Continuous Discharge Certificate, will be able to do so soon. Naik was with Mandaviya in Delhi where he discussed the apprehensions of Goan seamen who were worried that they may not be able to return to their jobs on vessels. “Mansukh Mandaviya has said that the ministry has already started the process and assured that the ban will be ended and process for applying of Indian CDC will restart afresh,” said Naik after the meeting. Once implemented, the move will give relief to Goan Seafarers who had been debarred for five years from applying to Indian CDC because they obtained forged SSC certificates and certificates of the mandatory Standards of Training, Certification and Watch-keeping (STCW) courses without attending any classes. Goan Seamen Association Of India (GSAI) had met Naik seeking the intervention and relaxation for the debarred seafarers. GSAI requested the Centre to consider the years of experience while issuing Indian CDC. “The seafarers who are already working and have secured jobs for past so many years will be at ease if this issue is resolved,” said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shipping-ministry-to-permit-debarredseafarers-to-apply-for-cdc-says-shripad/articleshow/79049123.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Fatalities in Krishna district rise||Vijayawada: The Krishna district administration is focusing its energies on minimising the Covid-19 death rate, fearing a second wave of the virus. The district reported 124 Covid-19 deaths in October, surpassing East Godavari and other distrcts that have a high caseload. Officials of the health wing are on alert following the death of four members of the Sultan Moosavi family. District collector A Md Imtiaz directed health wing officials to take measures to reduce the mortality rate. “People are voluntarily coming forward for treatment and we are able to assess the risk factor based on health records. We have improved infrastructure at the government hospital and the super-specialty hospital has also started functioning,” Imtiaz said. Health wing authorities alleged that corporate hospitals are providing treatment only to low-risk cases while high-risk cases in critical condition are being brought to the government hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fatalities-in-krishna-district-rise/articleshow/79047706.cms||Venu Lanka
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Tuticorin: Stone laid for Rs 15,000 crore industrial park||TUTICORIN: Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju laid the foundation stone for a private industrial estate at Vadalivilai village in Srivaikuntam taluk in the district on Wednesday. According to an official statement, a Rs 15,000 crore aerospace and industrial park will be established on 1,400 acres in the estate by Indian power projects limited and Vikas Industrial Park Private Limited. Over 30 companies will establish their facilities. The estate will also house a hospital and free education institution besides providing purified drinking water to villages in the vicinity. It will be completed in a couple of years and will provide direct employment to 3,000 people and many more indirectly, the statement added. The minister told reporters later at Kovilpatti that Kamal Haasan should talk keeping in mind that he is now the leader of a political party. He was responding to a question on an alleged comment by the actor-turned-politician that those in power are continuing to loot. “He should say what has gone wrong and where it has gone wrong with proof,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stone-laid-for-rs-15000-crore-industrial-park/articleshow/79051241.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||76% of schools in Gujarat lack fire NOCs||AHMEDABAD: Nearly 76% of schools across the state of Gujarat do not have the required fire no-objection certificates (NOCs) and the Gujarat State Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board on Wednesday instructed all district education officers (DEOs) to ensure that all schools have the requisite fire safety equipment in place. Details gathered by the board reveal that of the 16,187 schools in the state, 12,277 do not have valid fire NOCs. There are only 3,231 schools where proper fire safety systems are in place and they have valid fire NOCs issued by the fire department concerned. There are 679 schools which have initiated the process of obtaining either a fresh certificate or getting theirs renewed. While more than 50% schools in Ahmedabad city lack fire NOCs, none of the schools in Banaskantha district have the certificate. Against this, all schools in the tribal district of Dang have fire NOCs. Education department officials said that ever since the 2004 fire at a school in Kumbakonam in Tamil Nadu, schools across the state have time and again been reminded to make sure they are properly equipped to deal with fires. “There was another reminder issued after the Surat fire last year in which 22 students were killed in a coaching class,” the official said. The board issued instructions to all DEOs to quickly communicate with all schools and help them get fire NOCs immediately. The issue of the lack of fire NOCs plagues most old schools, whereas this problem is less in schools which have started recently because fire NOCs are mandatory while securing ‘Building Use’ permission for schools to start functioning, a board official said. Ahmedabad City DEO R C Patel said, “We have told most schools to have fire safety equipment in place and to secure fire NOCs. We have also sent reminders. If schools fail to comply, we plan to summon their managements. We have also told them that the education department will act as a bridge between the fire department and school managements.” On the exercise being undertaken to equip all schools with fire safety equipment, the board’s secretary Dinesh Patel said, “A public interest litigation is pending in the Gujarat high court and all DEOs have been asked to send their reports in this regard.” A board official highlighted the problems faced by schools in remote villages because they do not have any idea as to which authority will issue the certificate to them. “Such schools make up 30% of the schools in the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/76-of-schools-in-gujarat-lack-fire-nocs/articleshow/79049136.cms||Bharat Yagnik
November 5, 2020||Goa||Government gets new principal director of Income Tax at Panaji||Panaji: Hareshwar Sharma, a officer of 1988 batch of Indian Revenue Service (IT), has joined as principal director of Income Tax (Inv) at Panaji. He has worked in various divisions of the income tax department, including assessment, ITAT, TDS and has had a long experience of working in the investigation wing The officer has served in the Karnataka and Goa administrative region since 2017, and has earlier worked as principal commissioner of income tax, Belagavi and principal commissioner of income tax, Bengaluru. Sharma will be heading the income tax investigation wing at Panaji, having jurisdiction over Goa and 14 districts of north and central Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-gets-new-principal-director-of-i-t/articleshow/79049128.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Panel suggests ways to reduce landslides||Vijayawada: An expert panel of engineers has clarified that there is no permanent solution to prevent the occurrence of landslides on Indrakeeladri hill. The panel, which inspected the geophysical conditions of the hill, has also made a number of suggestions to minimise damage due to landslides. The expert panel, comprising M R Madhav, professor at IIT Kanpur, geologist Trimurthi Raju, retired engineer-in-chief Kondala Rao, Indian Institute of Science (IISc) professor G L Siva Kumar Babu inspected high-risk spots around the Kanaka Durga temple and has started to draft a report. Stagnation of water on the hilltop during the monsoons was identified as the main reason for landslides. The team also inspected the fencing, laid in 2008, to prevent boulders from rolling down on to the ghat road. The team suggested officials take up iron fencing at places where pilgrim congregation is high. Temple authorities were directed to focus on hydroseeding, in which a variety of plants is grown to prevent soil erosion. The temple trust board is focusing on safety measures and preparing estimates for safety works following a landslide on October 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/panel-suggests-ways-to-reduce-landslides/articleshow/79047719.cms||Venu Lanka
November 5, 2020||Surat||EC nod for Surat airport’s terminal expansion project||Surat: The expert appraisal committee (EAC) of the the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has recommended environmental clearance (EC) for the extension of terminal building at Surat airport. The meeting of the EAC was organised a meeting through video conference to decide on the much-awaited EC on October 21.The EAC observed that there was no compliance with regard to the Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) provisions for the rain water harvesting, setting up of the laboratory for environment management cell etc by the airport authorities.A senior office of Airport Authority of India (AAI) told TOI, “The EAC has recommended for the EC of the terminal expansion work at Surat airport. The pending works at the airport will be started without any delay. We expect that the expansion of terminal project will be completed very soon.”The terminal building of Surat Airport is being extended by the AAI at the cost of Rs 354 crore. The existing terminal building has an area of 8,474 square metre that will be extended by additional 17,046 square metre (excluding City Side and air side kerb) to have a total area of 25, 520 square metre.In absence of EC for the terminal extension project, no major work could start except for the design, drawing and diversion of underground utility services. It has been observed that the AAI could not get the EC despite the lapse of one year of the appointment of environmental consultant on January 18, 2019.During the lockdown in April, the contractor of the terminal expansion project, Siddhi Constructions, requested the AAI for the Extension of Time (EoT) of about 253 for the project completion target from April 14, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ec-nod-for-surat-airports-terminal-expansion-project/articleshow/79047731.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Carpet, bangle units turn city into hub for child labourers: Report||Jaipur: Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi’s NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) has highlighted the rampant use of child labourers in carpet and bangles factories/units in Jaipur making it a hub for trafficked children.A fact-finding report by the BBA has documented the death of four minors trafficked from Bihar under mysterious conditions while working in these factories illegally in the last five months.The report shared with TOI says that a 12-year-old boy Chotu (name changed) from Madhubani district in Bihar was found dead on October 23. The owner of the bangle unit was about to cremate the body.“As per the FIR, the body of the child had marks, both fresh and old of physical violence on neck, chest, stomach and underarms which makes it evident that the child was kept in an exploitative condition,” read the report.Another case studied by BBA is of a 16-year-old boy Raju (name changed) from Vaishali district Bihar was brought dead at Kanwatia Hospital on July 16. The child was working as a labourer in a bangle-making factory at Bhatta Basti, Jaipur. He was trafficked from Vaishali district along with other children from Samastipur district of Bihar. “It was found that the deceased child also died because of the accused’s negligence. As per the FIR, on boy’s head there was a wound with light blood,” reads the report.Another victim, a 13-year-old boy was brought to J K Lon Hospital in an inebriated condition died on August 14. He was a bonded labourer at a bangle unit. The victim family has refused to visit Jaipur due to the lockdown. The report reads that accused neither provide them with timely food nor took them to the doctor if they fall ill.“Our network in Jaipur says that close to 1,500 children were trafficked in the last few months or after the lockdown. These areas in Jaipur which are considered as the hub for child labourers are Bhatta Basti, Shastri Nagar and Sanganer,” said Sampurna Behura, director of BBA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/carpet-bangle-units-turn-city-into-hub-for-child-labourers-report/articleshow/79049131.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt anticipates second surge after Dec 15||Bhubaneswar: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday asked officers to remain extra careful to avoid a possible second wave of Covid-19 infections after the health department said there could be a fresh surge after December 15. “Many countries have gone into fresh lockdowns due to resurgence of the virus. Lockdowns can be harsh on the livelihood of many sections of the society. To avoid such a situation, we need to strictly follow the Covid protocols and advisories all the time. There is no room for any relaxation or lowering the guard,” Naveen said during a review meeting on the pandemic. Pointing out the need to be cautious during Diwali and the winter season, the chief minister said the collectors and SPs should ensure the order banning use of firecracker from November 10 to November 30 is implemented strictly across the state. Following instances of post-Covid complications among recovered patients, Naveen said the health department must closely monitor the situation and ensure proper protocols are in place. “Awareness campaigns should be launched so that people are educated regarding post-Covid care,” Naveen said. According to the health department’s assessment the second wave, if any, would hit Odisha between December 15 and January 15. Additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra said technical experts, having reviewed the situation globally, have seen that the second wave generally comes after four months of the first spike. “Given that the state’s infections started rising from mid-August, there may be a second wave after December 15,” Mohapatra said. In western European countries and the USA, the first surge was in April and the second surge happened in September-October. To minimise fresh infections during the winter, the health department has decided to intensify surveillance of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection and continue aggressive testing of suspected people, Mohapatra added. On Wednesday, 1474 more tested positive, increasing the total number of infected people to 2,95,889. The death of 12 more people raised the toll to 1364. Another 1520 patients recovered, raising the number of cured patients to 28,2073. It led to active cases going down to 12,399. At the current growth rate, the health department projected the virus caseload will increase to around 3,11,169 by November 15. The active positive cases will be 15,869 by then. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-anticipates-second-surge-after-dec-15/articleshow/79047742.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala State Road Transport Corporation to run more ‘Bond’ services for govt employees||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: KSRTC will operate more Bus On Demand (Bond) services in the district for employees of various government offices here.  Bond services are pre-booked buses that were launched to pick up regular passengers from centres outside the city and drop them off in the city. The services were launched in July this year primarily to aid the professionals, especially government employees working in the city. A special counter was opened at the secretariat in this regard and it started functioning from Monday. Even though there are various direct services to the secretariat from different parts of district, there are still many Secretariat employees coming from places where KSRTC do not have proper service. Such employees can make use of bond service to reach workplace and return home on time.  KSRTC would offer connection services to locations based on bookings. If the number of bookings from a location is more, they would offer special services.  KSRTC had also conducted a survey among the Secretariat employees before opening the special counter. A 15-member team of KSRTC staff had visited the Secretariat and conducted the survey in which more than 25 employees had expressed the need for special services to travel to and from work. KSRTC authorities have said these employees would be provided with connection services. Connection services are existing services that would cover extra distance, deviating from their normal route to pick up passengers. KSRTC authorities have also said they are also willing to operate long-distance services too besides the bond services if need arises. The bond service was launched on July 1 from Neyyatinkara town to the city. Soon, it was extended to Nedumangad town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-to-run-more-bondservices-for-govt-employees/articleshow/79052045.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Op Muskaan rescues over 16k, 240% more than earlier phases||VIJAYAWADA: Concluding the week-long Operation Muskaan, director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang said they had rescued over 240% more children compared to the previous two phases of the drive on Wednesday. Addressing a webinar at Andhra Pradesh Police Headquarters in Mangalagiri, Sawang said they are focusing on ensuring that the need to rescue children already rescued during previous Operation Muskaan drives does not arise again. In this regard, the DGP said they are now focusing on raising Operation Muskaan to another level by including the rescued children in the state’s welfare measures such as Amma Vodi, Jagan Anna Vidya Kanuka and Vasathi Deevena to ensure every child gets to go to school. The DGP presented a detailed analysis on Operation Muskaan and said 70% of the children who were rescued from October 28 till November 3 had turned to child labour due to poverty. Sawang also indicated that the police department is planning to build a rehabilitation mechanism to reduce recidivism and make the state child labour-free by means of state and central welfare measures. The third phase of Operation Muskaan this year saw 16,457 children being rescued, of which 82.6% were boys. Around 13% of the rescued children had never been to school, while 60% of child labourers had studied between class 6 to 10 and 27% had studied between Class 1 to 5. In terms of the types of labour done by these children, 53% had worked as coolies, 2.4% of had been forced to take to begging, 14% were living on the streets at the time of rescue and had never been to school, while 30% of rescued children were employed in a number of other jobs. Officials registered 370 cases against employers during the drive. “The police inspected all shops, hotels, dhabas, market yards, railway stations, bus stations and other places where the possibility of child labour is high to ensure that the drive is more efficient,” Sawang said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/op-muskaan-rescues-over-16k-240-more-than-earlier-phases/articleshow/79047741.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 5, 2020||Goa||Subsidised sale of onions at fair price shops from today in Goa||PANAJI: The state government has procured onions from the National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED) to be sold to ration card holders through fair price shops (FPS) at a subsidised rate. About 75 metric tonne (MT) of onions were distributed at civil supplies godowns in each taluka on Wednesday and are being sold at Rs 34.5 per kg from Thursday-Friday onwards. “We are distributing the stock we have received to our taluka godowns. From there, FPS owners will take the stock to their respective shops. It is their duty to ensure that the same reaches the community by Thursday or Friday,” civil supplies minister Govind Gaude said. Ration card holders are entitled to monthly purchase of commodities such as wheat and rice from the first to the 21st of the month. “The same criteria will be adopted for sale of onions. Only, for this month, since we are supposed to receive the entire quota by November 11 or 12, we will sell up to November 25 - 30,” Gaude said. Further, he said that the state is expecting a daily supply of 50 MTs of onions. “We will procure more onions next month as well.” he added. TOI had earlier reported that stock of onions, to be sold at a subsidised price to ration card holders, are likely to arrive soon. The state cabinet recently approved the purchase of 1,045 MT of onions from NAFED at about Rs 28,000 per MT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/subsidised-sale-of-onions-at-fair-price-shops-from-today/articleshow/79049138.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Child rights laws to be made stricter||Jaipur: Pink City continues to be the hotspot hosting trafficked child labourers from Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal indicating that the existing laws are falling short to address the problem. The law says child workers below 18 years is considered child labourers. Experts demand that stricter laws should be in place. “Prosecution in cases related to child abuse and rehabilitation of rescued children should be done in a time frame. Regular inspection of units/firms/factories by a competent body under the directorate of child rights or social welfare department should be made mandatory. The appointment in the child rights bodies should comprise those with prior experience in child rights. So far, the appointments are political in nature. The existing laws need to be amended to bring these changes,” said advocate Pranjal Singh of Abhyuthanam Society, which works for child rights.Right under the nose of the state government and other competent bodies that Bhatta Basti, Shastri Nagar and Sanganer have become hotspots for trafficked children, says Kailesh Satyarti’s NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan.“The crackdown on the units and firms employing these children, in most cases as bonded labourers, by the local administration is not happening giving rise to the problem. The state has policies and laws in place and all is needed is its effective implementation,” said Sampurna Behura, director of BBA.Highlighting the shortcomings in the system, Jayesh Joshi of Vaagdhara, an NGO working on child rights, said since the government has decentralised the system, monitoring and checking child rights/abuse has backfired. “The government has formed child rights bodies in states, districts, towns up to the block level. The labour department, the main executionary body, has been falling short of manpower to carry out inspections at firms/units. In the entire expansion process, the role at the state level has diminished leading to problem remained unsolved,” said Joshi. Jaipur’s district collector Antar Singh Nehra asked the BBA to provide information to his office for action. “If it is true, certainly action will be taken against those behind trafficking and employing them,” said Nehra. Reacting on the delay in the rehabilitation process, Mahendra Chandra Sharma, commissioner of child rights, said duration of the entire process is also dependent on the response from the children’s home state. “Rajasthan has its schemes and policies related to rehabilitation in place but one has to understand that without proper communication with the concerned states we cannot proceed. We have taken the respective state in the loop while processing the schemes which also involves financial assistance,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/child-rights-laws-to-be-made-stricter/articleshow/79049140.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Patient’s money retrieved from Bannur dump yard||MANGALURU: The family of a 60-year old patient admitted to a private hospital in Puttur were in a state of shock on realising that the cash brought to meet the medical expenses was missing. The patient was admitted on Monday morning and discharged the same day. The patient’s relative was upset on not being able to find the money and approached Dayananda M, an ambulance owner and driver and personal staff to Dr M K Prasad Bhandary. Dayananda told TOI, “I realised that the patient from Kadaba had saved money in his pocket underwear. At the time of admission, the patient was unconscious and had lost bowel control. The hospital staff who cleaned him dumped his undergarment in a waste bin. I checked the CCTV camera footage and realised that the hospital waste was cleared and was taken to the dumping yard in Bannur. The family hails from a poor background. I immediately called the dumping yard staff and requested them to search for the packet. They searchedfor nearly one hour, found the undergarment wrapped in a black plastic cover. The packet was handed over to the patient’s family,” he added. Lost gold chain found In another incident reported from the same hospital, a patient who had come for an x-ray on Tuesday claimed that he had lost his gold chain. “We checked the CCTV footage. First time I checked, we could not find the chain anywhere. The patient was upset. We checked again till he left the hospital. That is when we realised that in the parking lot, when he picked the bike key from his pocket, he dropped the chain. It was lying on the ground and later another person came and picked it up,” Dayananda said. From the footage, we realised that the person who picked the chain was a medical re who is a regular visitor to the hospital. “ He has promised to return the chain ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/patients-money-retrieved-from-bannur-dump-yard/articleshow/79047735.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Woman drowns in lake, daughter survives||Ajmer: A woman and her daughter who came to the dargah of Khwaja Moinudin Chisty from Jaipur fell in Anasagar Lake on Wednesday afternoon. While locals managed to rescue the daughter, the mother died while being taken to JLN Hospital.According to police, Ameena (40) and her daughter Merunisha (20), residents of Madina Nagar in Jaipur, came to Ajmer to offer prayers in the dargah. Later in afternoon, both went to see Anasagar Lake.Merunisha, who is recovering in JLN Hospital, told police that they were walking near the lake when her mother slipped into water. Shde immediately juimped to save her mother. People sitting near the lake jumped into the water to save duo and informed police. Both of them were brought out of the lake and were taken to JLN Hospital in an ambulance. Ameena was declared dead on arrival while the daughter survived. Sources said most of the devotees coming to the dargah also visit Anasagar Lake to collect holy water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-drowns-in-lake-daughter-survives/articleshow/79049149.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||‘No mask, no entry’ in Sarwar town||Ajmer: Sarwar town became the first sub-urban area in Ajmer district to take a pledge to follow Covid guidelines and implement ‘no mask, no entry’ rule in the market. The trade associations have decided to boycott people for not wearing masks.A marathon was organised on Tuesday in which students, shopkeepers, farmers and even women participated. Youth Congress leader Sagar Sharma flagged off the marathon and also distributed prizes to the winners.Sharma, son of health minister Raghu Sharma, said the state government is trying to control infections and a campaign like ‘no mask, no entry’ is the tool to fight against it.Members of the market association assured that the campaign will continue. During Diwali, shopkeepers will boycott those who come to shop without mask. Women were asked to maintain social distancing and use of face mask to save members of their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-mask-no-entry-in-sarwar-town/articleshow/79049143.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||All organ donations in Kerala now under govt control||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: All organ donations in the state have been brought under the state control. The decision was taken at the high-level meeting convened by principal secretary (health) Rajan N Khobragade here on Wednesday. The decision has been taken in the wake of the crime branch report that the organ donation racket is thriving in the state. The crime branch had found that exorbitant money is being collected from the recipients by this racket during the organ trade. It has been decided to create an online registry of both donors and recipients who are awaiting live organ transplants and willing to donate the organs. The registry will help in finding suitable donors for the needy. A society will also be formed under which all live organ donation and cadaver organ transplants will now come under. Presently, Mrithasanjeevani (Kerala Network of Organ Sharing) is the nodal agency for cadaver organ transplants. This will also be brought under the new society. The society will play the key role between the donors, recipients and also the hospitals where the live transplants are performed. With the setting up of this society, no hospital in the state will be allowed to carry out live organ transplants without the consent of this society. The society will also have the powers to screen and sanction permission for hospitals to carry out live organ donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/all-organ-donations-in-state-now-under-govt-control/articleshow/79047765.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM pleasing political bosses: BJP reacts to MLAs’ Delhi stir||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab BJP on Wednesday alleged that Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh was indulging in political drama at Rajghat and Jantar Mantar to please the Congress high command instead of advising farmers to withdraw their protest or change their mode of protest by vacating railway tracks. State BJP president Ashwani Sharma and party’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh attacked Amarinder for creating a deceptive hype on the three amendment bills passed by the Punjab legislative assembly. They said while these three amendment bills had been rejected by farmers’ organisations and the Congress government in Chhattisgarh for being unconstitutional, Amarinder was trying to score political brownie points to impress Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. They also blamed the chief minister for the coal crisis in Punjab, saying he had failed in his constitutional duty of restoring law and order in the state following which the power production at thermal plants had taken a hit. They said that freight trains were not coming to Punjab because at 29 railway platforms and three other places, railway tracks were blocked by farmers. “The chief minister has been secretly telling the farmers to keep the railway tracks blocked, so that he could play his political games in the name of farmers,” alleged the BJP leaders. Sharma said, “The chief minister’s visit to Rajghat, when Punjab was running gangs of liquor mafia and sand mafia, was a grossly immoral act. He has no moral right to visit such sacrosanct places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cm-pleasing-political-bosses-bjp-reacts-to-mlas-delhi-stir/articleshow/79050723.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||In a first, 4 held for selling crackers||Jaipur: In a major operation, Jaipur Rural police arrested four persons who were selling firecrackers despite ban on its sale and purchase by the state government. While one person was arrested in Renwal, three others were arrested in Pragpura. This is the first time in the state during the pandemic when people have been arrested for selling firecrackers and also possibly the first time in the country. Out of the four persons arrested, one had a licence, but even licence holders are prohibited from selling firecrackers.Brijesh Upadhay, IPS (probationer), SHO, Pragpura police station, said, “We arrested three persons in Pragpura area itself. First, we raided an accused’s store from where we seized firecrackers worth around Rs 3 lakh. He led us to another accused who had firecrackers worth around Rs 25 lakh which was a big haul. In this particular case, the accused had licence for one store but was selling from other locations including his grocery store. Firecrackers approximately worth Rs 1 lakh were being sold by him and in the warehouse we found over 3,000kg of firecrackers.”Pragpura police arrested one person with firecrackers valued around Rs 6 lakh, while Renwal police arrested a seller with Rs 5 lakh worth of crackers.The state government has banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers in view of its adverse impact on the Covid-19 patients and those suffering from heart and respiratory diseases. The decision was taken at the corona review meeting held at CM’s residence on Sunday.The official statement released by CM’s office said that the poisonous smoke emitted by crackers is a health hazard for people suffering from various diseases. “People should stay away from bursting firecrackers this Diwali. The ban is applicable to all kinds of events and marriages,” said the statement. The CM gave directions to revoke temporary licences issued for the sale of crackers. Heavy penalties have been decided on those purchasing and selling firecrackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-a-first-4-held-for-selling-crackers/articleshow/79049152.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Rajkot||Five-year-old killed by leopard||Rajkot: A five-year-old son of a migrant farm labourer was killed by leopard in Dhari taluka of Amreli district on Wednesday. Forest department officials said the victim, Paras Chhapaniya, was attacked when he was walking on a kutchha road from Paniya to Chanchai village. He died during the transit to Dhari community health centre. Cages have been set up to trap the leopard. His father Kuvarsinh along with the family had came to Paniya from a village of Dhar district in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-year-old-killed-by-leopard/articleshow/79047754.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Winter session of assembly from Nov 20||Bhubaneswar: The winter session of the state assembly will start from November 20 and continue till December 31. The assembly secretariat has issued a notification in this regard on Wednesday. According to the schedule, the winter session will have 40 working days, including five private members day. The first supplementary budget of the current 2020-21 financial year will be tabled by finance minister Niranjan Pujari on the first day of the session. While discussion of first supplementary budget will be held for three days from (November 26 to 28), the appropriation bill on the first supplementary budget will be passed on November 29. The house will also meet on all days, including Sundays except on November 30 (Rasa Purnima) and December 25 (Xmas day). Like the monsoon session, the winter session will also be held amid Covid-19 restrictions. Regarding Covid tests of MLAs, staffs, security personnel and media, a committee headed by speaker will take a call soon, said a senior assembly official. On convening the session for 40 days, the official said there are provisions that the assembly should mandatarily meet for 60 days in a year. Since the house has so far met for 20 days in two sessions, it has been convened for 40 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/winter-session-of-assembly-from-nov-20/articleshow/79047753.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Cracker dealers look to exhaust Ganesha fest stock||HUBBALLI: With Diwali just weeks away, dealers of crackers are gearing up after sales took a big hit during Ganesha festival. Dealers are expecting clearance from authorities to set up shop as they have already obtained permission for the sale of crackers from designated authorities. The association of Hubballi Fireworks have decided to sell the huge stock they had bought for Ganesha frstival. Vimal Talikoti, secretary, Hubballi Fireworks Dealers Association, Hubballi said the past few years have not seen good business with sale of crackers being affected either due to floods, drought or law and order situation. “We hoped that this Ganesha festival would bring us some cheer. But the pandemic and the curbs imposed on Ganesha festivities hit our sales once again,” he added. With most business establishments open now, dealers have decided to set up exclusive stalls to sell crackers at Nehru stadium. There are 10 licensed dealers of fireworks in Hubballi city, he said. With crackers bought for Ganesha festival still lying unsold, no dealer is keen to buy fresh stock despite transport clearance from Sivakasi. M D Nimbuwala, president, Hubballi Fireworks Dealers Association, said that we have already approached the authorities concerned to allow us to sell the fireworks by setting up shops at Nehru Stadium as earlier. “We will sell the crackers that we already have. No dealer is in a position to buy new stock in the present economic scenario,” he said. Prasad K, a resident of Gokul road, says he managed to convince his children not to use crackers during Ganesha festival, but they are keen to burst crackers for Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cracker-dealers-look-to-exhaust-ganesha-fest-stock/articleshow/79044909.cms||J Abbas Mulla
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||More schools in Kolkata mull ‘Covid fee’, Christian order holds meet||KOLKATA: After two prominent Kolkata schools introduced ‘Covid expenses’ in their revised fee structures, several others, too, indicated they were deliberating on a similar move. Sources indicated a meeting was held within a prominent Christian order in the city on Wednesday evening, that runs two of the city’s most prestigious schools, over the necessity of introducing a “Covid fee”. The two schools had announced this new fee head in the notice that had been uploaded on their websites, along with the declaration of the 20% waiver on tuition and session fees, as ordered by the Calcutta High Court. Both schools mentioned that every child would be charged Rs 500 for the expenditure the institutes were incurring in the pandemic.  The Christian order reportedly held a meeting of the school heads to discuss whether the Covid charge would remain or a review needed to be done. Till the end of day, however, the two notices on the school websites remained unchanged. The head of the order did not respond to the calls or messages sent to him. One school head indicated, “The Covid head remains as on date, but we are doing a review.” The notices at these two schools reasoned that the extra expenditures were for online platforms and sanitisation. Archbishop Thomas D Souza, head of the Roman Catholic Church in Kolkata, said the six schools that the archdiocese ran, had given 20% waiver on tuition fees following court orders. He added that though he had not introduced Covid expenses in the fee structure yet, there was no denying schools were incurring the essential expenses now. “Christian schools already give a lot of waivers to students who cannot afford fees and these are beyond what was stipulated by the court. So, a flat 20% concession will affect those who have been given more waivers,” Father D Souza said. Supriyo Dhar, secretary at La Martiniere Schools, said, “Covid expenses are part of our account books now and we are spending a lot of money on sanitisation, given our huge campus size. But we have not yet passed it on to fees.” Private schools, like South Point, agreed Covid expenses were huge but as institutes were shut now, those could be handled without passing them on to fees. Krishna Damani, spokesperson for South Point and MP Birla Foundation, said, “Covid-related expenses are big and will go up when schools re-open. But as schools are shut, we are saving on certain heads.” Christian schools (non-CNI) are uniting under West Bengal Association of Christian Schools to file an appeal in the Supreme Court this week, citing protection of the rights of minority schools and non-interference from outside. Some orders, like Loreto and Christian Brothers are not likely to join. CNI has also filed an appeal in the SC, and some Methodist schools and Calcutta Girls’ have joined them in this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-schools-mull-covid-fee-christian-order-holds-meet/articleshow/79049161.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Adulterated or unsafe oil flooding Madurai market||MADURAI: At least 26% of cooking oil samples tested by the food safety officials in Madurai in the last few months have been found to be unsafe for human consumption while 46% did not meet the standards laid down by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), according to food and safety and drug administration officials in the district. Officials said that 237 samples such as ground nut oil and gingelly oil were collected by the officials in the past seven months from various parts of the city and the rural areas. Results have been obtained for 207 samples. While 54 of them were unsafe, 96 samples were either misbranded or sub-standard. Officials said that misbranding happens when oil is sold under other name or oil meant for physical use is sold as cooking oil. The samples were tested at the Government Food Analysis Laboratory in Guindy. Consumption of such oils for a prolonged period may lead to various health problems, said the officials. Designed officer for food safety, Madurai district, Dr M Somasundaram said, “We tested the samples at the government lab. The owners of the shops were also asked to get samples tested simultaneously at an NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratory). Results from both the labs are matching,” he said. “The results reveal the unethical practices followed by oil traders merely for profit. Such huge amount of samples turning unsafe is not reported in anywhere in the country,” he said adding that the samples include packed and loose oil. Somasundaram said that after the results have come, traders were given an option of approaching the referral labouratory in case they want to contest the test results. Additional samples were collected for this purpose and kept separately. The trader has to bear the expense of testing if they want the sample to be tested in the referral laboratory in Kolkata, he said. President of Tamil Nadu Food Grains Merchant Association S P Jeyaprakasam said that the results are not acceptable as officials are getting results as they want from the lab. Food safety officials are against the sale of loose oil, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/adulterated-or-unsafe-oil-flooding-madurai-market/articleshow/79051252.cms||V Devanathan
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||GGH cancer wing begins operations||Guntur: Almost four months after its formal inauguration, the superspecialty cancer wing at Government General Hospital (GGH) has started operations. The 100-bed wing, equipped with most advanced equipment to take up all kinds of procedures, will provide relief to patients from BPL families. The wing’s sophisticated equipment got a further boost when a state-of-the art linear accelerator procured by the government reached the hospital on Tuesday. The government has spent close to Rs 15 crore to provide the linear accelerator to the wing, which will provide radiotherapy to patients. “This is the new generation linear accelerator, which will help reduce impact of radiation as it focuses only on the body part which requires the radiation,” said GGH superintendent Dr Neelam Prabhavati. Dr Prabhavati said services in the cancer block have been thrown open immediately after getting the linear accelerator as the government had already appointed required medical professionals and staff. The dedicated wing was constructed at a cost of nearly Rs 40 crore. The pharmaceutical major Natco industries bore the major burden of the project cost. Although the project cost was around Rs 16 crore when it was conceived in 2015, the cost shot up to Rs 40 crore due to delays in getting administrative clearances during the TDP regime. The state cabinet approved the proposal of Natco to develop the centre almost six months after getting the request and it took another six months to sign the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). Physical work on the project commenced only in the middle of 2017 despite Natco chairman VC Nannapaneni meeting the then CM Chandrababu Naidu to expedite clearances. The government had spent close to Rs 20 crore to procure equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ggh-cancer-wing-begins-operations/articleshow/79047757.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Gujjar-govt talks remain inconclusive||Jaipur: On the fourth day of Gujjar agitation, the meetings between state government representative Neeraj K Pawan and Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti convenor Kirori Singh Bainsla remained inconclusive on the issue of backlog in jobs and recruitments which are under process. Meanwhile, with 10 news trains, the routes of 30 trains have been diverted in the state because of Gujjar agitation in various districts. Around 200 buses have been affected in the Gujjar dominated villages and hamlets.There were several rounds of meetings between Pawan and Bainsla on Wednesday. Pawan also met the protestors at the railway track in Bayana, Bharatpur. He also invited them to come to Jaipur for further talks. Gujjar leader and Kirori Bainsla’s son Vijay Singh Bainsla said they are going to continue with the agitation. “There was no outcome of the meeting. The students and people from the community also had a discussion with Pawan on the issue of jobs. Now, it is for him and the state government to get back to people with the jobs. The agitation is not over. It will continue till the time they give us what they have promised us.”“Talks are still going on. Nothing has been finalized yet. They have raised various points with regard to the services. We are trying to find a solution,” said labour secretary Neeraj K Pawan.Jaipur divisional commissioner Somanth Mishra has extended the order to suspend Internet services in Jaipur district’s Kotputli, Paota, Shahpura, Viratnagar and Jamwaramgarh areas up to November 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gujjar-govt-talks-remain-inconclusive/articleshow/79049158.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Surat||Thief deposits booty in bank, seeks redemption from God||SURAT: A habitual thief, who targeted houses of several businessmen by getting employed as a domestic help, was caught from Amravati in Maharashtra's Vidharbha region, on Wednesday. Jayantilal alias Kamlesh Khetmal Oswal had fled the city after stealing Rs six lakh cash from the house of dyeing mill owner Radheshyam Garg in the City Light area on October 20. Oswal, 27, reached Vapi in a state transport bus from where he went to Nandurbar and then Amravati. Interestingly, he had deposited a portion of stolen cash in two bank accounts in Vapi and kept Rs 1.44 lakh with him for the treatment of piles. “We tracked him through electronic surveillance and nabbed him. He has developed a habit of thefts for easy and quick money,” said a police officer of the crime branch. The theft in Garg’s house was the 10th offence in which he has been arrested. He committed the crime on the 12th of getting a job as domestic help in the businessman’s house. Oswal had first stolen the key of a locker hidden between saris and then opened the safe. He took away cash but did not steal jewellery, police said. Earlier, Oswal has been arrested in different police stations of the city, mostly Umra. Crime branch sources said that he mostly targeted residences of Agrawal or Jain community businessmen to lay his hands on big amounts. Oswal is from Dechu village of Shergarh in Jodhpur district of Rajasthan. Temple run after crimeAfter every successful theft, barring the October 12 crime, Oswal used to visit temples and seek forgiveness for his sins, investigation revealed. He used to visit temples in Ahmedabad and other places. In some cases, police have also recovered the stolen valuables from lockers of the temples. Good mannerisms helped him get jobsJayantilal alias Kamlesh Khetmal Oswal used to first develop friendship with drivers of other workers of millionaire businessmen and ask for job. Due to his soft-spoken mannerisms, he got employed at most places. Spent lockdown begging under bridge After spending around seven months in jail after his arrest under PASA, Jayantilal alias Kamlesh Khetmal Oswal spent the entire lockdown in the city. He did not find work and lived under Anuvrat Dwar flyover bridge during this period. Suffering from piles, he begged and survived on food packets distributed by welfare organisations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/thief-deposits-booty-in-bank-seeks-redemption-from-god/articleshow/79047773.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||ACB probe into Jodhpur police varsity job scam||Jodhpur: The ACB has initiated an investigation into the recruitment of deputy registrar and controller of examination of Sardar Patel University of Police, Security and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur after governor Kalraj Mishra wrote to the agency to probe complaints of violation of eligibility conditions for the post.DGP (ACB) BL Soni said a case had been registered and investigation had been initiated.“We have sought records from the university in this regard. They have forwarded photocopies of some and few are not legible,” said Soni.On the other hand, former finance advisor of the university Manglaram Bishnoi has refuted allegations of financial misappropriation during his stint and APO orders in pursuance of these allegations.It may be noted that an inquiry had been initiated against him for transferring funds of the university to a private bank in Pali, where the son of the then registrar of the university JC Purohit was an employee.“I was never put on APO for these allegations as the inquiry into the matter nwas ever completed and no charge-sheet was served on me till today,” said Bishnoi, adding that even the home department returned the inquiry report for lack of clarity.Bishnoi asserted that the inquiry by the then divisional commissioner B L Kothari nowhere mentioned about bank and deposit and the allegations, which were levelled in the inquiry report were about holding some two files.Sharing his argument with TOI, he said that as a FA, he collected the entire funds of the university and deposited it in 11 different accounts at a meagre 3-4% interest rate and deposited in a private bank in Pali, which offered 8.1% interest.“This was transparent and taken with approval from registrar Purohit. It was solely based on the idea of getting a higher return on university funds. This brought Rs 10 lakh per quarter to the university exchequer,” he argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-probe-into-jodhpur-police-varsity-job-scam/articleshow/79049160.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bengaluru||At 43%, Ballari had most exposure to virus, Dharwad had least||BENGALURU: Ballari has emerged the district with the highest prevalence of Covid-19 with 43.1% of those covered under the serosurvey testing positive for either antibodies or active infection. Bengaluru (29%) is in 11th position. Districts like Udupi and Vijayapura, where cases surged in June and July, saw a high prevalence rate in September, when the serosurvey was conducted. In Udupi, exposure was 36.4%, while in Davanagere, it was 40.6 %. Vijayapura, which saw an influx of people returning from Maharashtra to their hometowns and villages post May, had a prevalence rate of 35.5%. Districts with a high prevalence are the ones that had already experienced a surge in cases. The focus experts say, must now shift to districts like Dharwad that showed 8.7 % prevalence, Gadag (9 %) and Bagalkot and Chikkaballapura (12% each). In these districts testing has to increase, say experts, so as to ensure early diagnosis, isolation and reduced risk of mortality. Health and family welfare department authorities say strategic management based on the serosurvey is already in place. “Even during the lockdown, districts like Ballari had a high number of cases due to an influx of migrants from other states,” said V Ravi, technical advisory committee member, and head of the department of neurovirology, Nimhans. “In districts where there was low prevalence, we need to be more vigilant and continue testing. We should not lower our guard. If we do, there will be a surge in these districts too.” Ravi, who was closely associated with the survey, said there are fewer fresh cases now across the state as many have already been exposed to the virus. It was estimated that there were 40 undetected infected individuals for every one RT-PCR confirmed case – a case-to-undetected-infections ratio (CIR) of 1:40. However, districtwise CIR has not been disclosed. The study says districts with high CIR (more than 40) need to improve detection of cases. “These districts are Vijayapura, Belagavi, Chitradurga, Tumakuru, Raichur, Ramanagar, Haveri, Chamarajanagar, Bidar, Davanagere, Yadgir, Kalaburagi, Kolar, Kodagu, Mandya, Chikkamagaluru, Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, Hassan,” the report states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/at-43-ballari-had-most-exposure-to-virus-dharwad-had-least/articleshow/79047818.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Fake letter with Prasar Bharati seal surfaces in Jeypore||Koraput: Authorities of All India Radia (AIR) filed a complaint at the Jeypore town police station after a fake appointment letter bearing the letter head of Prasar Bharati surfaced on Tuesday. Official sources said a woman of Godiadhoba Street in Jeypore received an appointment letter that she has been selected as the assistant section officer at the AIR’s Jeypore office. The letter bore the Prasar Bharati letterhead and seal. The woman was surprised after receiving the appointment letter as she had never applied for it and when she inquired about it, the letter was found to be fake, said Baleswar Gidhi, inspector-in-charge of Jeypore town police station. After learning about the incident, authorities of AIR, Jeypore, filed a complaint, he added. According to the officer, it might be the handiwork of some mischief mongers to dupe job aspirants. The appointment letter has been prepared in such a manner that on one can make out it that it is a fake. “Once the investigation is over, the details will be known,” he said. Unit head of AIR Jeypore, Goura Chandra Tripathy said, Prasar Bharati had never advertised for the post and the appointment letter is a fake one. Police complaints have been filed and we urge others to verify such appointment letters, if they receive them in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/fake-letter-with-prasar-bharati-seal-surfaces-in-jeypore/articleshow/79047791.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
November 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ivermectin can prevent Covid spread, claims AIIMS study||Bhubaneswar: Anti-parasite drug ivermectin can prevent Covid-19 infection to a great extent, AIIMS Bhubaneswar has claimed in a recent study. The researchers hoped the low-cost drug will offer a window of opportunity to governments and authorities trying to contain the virus spread as the world awaits a vaccine. AIIMS Bhubaneswar director Gitanjali Batmanabane, who is among the authors of the study, said though ivermectin is being used as an off-label treatment option for Covid-19 in some states, the findings on its effectiveness in preventing infection is significant. Talking about the study Batmanabane said in early September around 20 to 25 AIIMS staff were testing positive for Covid every day. The AIIMS then started administering ivermectin to healthcare workers – two doses in a 72-hour interval – after reviewing the available literature. It was voluntary. The infections fell sharply. “We found that those who received two doses of ivermectin had 73% less chance of getting infected for the next one month. We are confident it can be an effective tool to check the infection spread,” Batmanabane told TOI. Around 2,600 healthcare workers of AIIMS including doctors, nurses, paramedics and security staff were given tablets while 1,600 others did not take it voluntarily. The dose given was dependent on body weight at the rate of 0.3 mg per kg of body weight. Binod Patro, additional professor of community medicine at AIIMS, who is also an author, said the institute took a queue from a university in Egypt. “Given the fact that ivermectin is very low-cost, it can be a potent weapon to prevent virus spread among people in different settings. If it is used before the second wave, fresh infections could be far less,” he felt. Administering ivermectin tablets available in 3 mg, 6 mg and 12 mg may cost Rs 16 to Rs 24 per head. The study ‘Role of ivermectin in the prevention of COVID-19 infection among healthcare workers in India: A matched case-control study’ is in pre-print stage (https://www.medrxiv.org) and not yet peer-reviewed. Experts sounded optimistic regarding the findings. Jayant Panda, professor of internal medicine at SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, and technical adviser to the state government on Covid-19, said currently ivermectin is used in Odisha on identified Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms if they have indication of heart problems where hydroxychloroquine is not advised. “If it is working in prevention, it should be good news,” he said. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ivermectin-can-prevent-covid-spread-claims-aiims-study/articleshow/79047776.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kochi||Accused in Walayar minors’ death allegedly kills self||ALAPPUZHA/PALAKKAD: Pradeep Kumar, an accused in the Walayar Dalit minor girls’ rape and murder, allegedly committed suicide in his house at Vayalar near Cherthala in Alappuzha on Wednesday. Kumar was the fourth accused in the case. He was acquitted by the Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court on September 30, 2019, for want of evidence. Cherthala inspector of police P Sreekumar said Kumar along with his mother had gone to a cooperative bank in Vayalar seeking a loan of Rs 50,000 on Wednesday morning. “But he did not get the loan. He and mother returned home by around 12.30pm and he made a video call to his wife working in Palakkad. He told his wife that he was going to commit suicide. Soon his wife called his father over the phone and informed him. His parents checked his room and found hanging in his room. Though he was taken to hospital by his relatives, his life could not be saved,” police said. Sreekumar said that they suspect financial constraints might have forced Kumar to take the extreme step. His body was shifted to the morgue of Cherthala Taluk Hospital and postmortem examinations will be conducted at Alappuzha Medical College Hospital after testing him for Covid-19. Cherthala police have registered a case of unnatural death in connection with his death. Kumar was arrested from Cherthala on May 10, 2017 along with another accused M Madhu in the Pocso case. Kumar was the first to be acquitted by the court in the case. Later, the court acquitted three other accused. The postmortem examination reports of the two minor Dalit girls found hanging in their house under mysterious circumstances within a span of 56 days at Attappallam in Walayar, confirmed rape of the siblings as there were “clear-cut and firm evidence of multiple sexual assaults, including unnatural sexual abuse”. The state witnessed mass protests seeking justice for the girls. Earlier this year, based on Kerala high court order, the exonerated men, including Kumar, were rearrested. Kumar was on bail when he allegedly ended his life. Environmentalist CR Neelakantan of Walayar Neethi Samara Samithi —a collective for getting justice for the girls— alleged that there were strong suspicions of involvement of a sixth person in the crime. “Pradeep was suspected to have been connected to this sixth accused. So, Pradeep’s death should be probed and should not be considered suicide merely due to financial constraints,” he said in the press note. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/accused-in-walayar-minors-death-allegedly-kills-self/articleshow/79047826.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Bodies of a girl & boy found hanging from tree||Ajmer: The bodies of a young girl and as boy were found hanging from a tree near a field at Dhaka ki Dhani village in Jayal block of Nagaur district on Wednesday. Their mouths were gagged and police have not ruled out murder. Police said the boy was identified as Vikram (21) of Siloria village while the 19-year-old girl was identified as Yasmeen of Jayala village.Their mouths were tied up with clothes and no injuries were found on their bodies. The bodies have been sent to Nagaur government hospital for autopsy.Police suspect that the couple were in an affair though their family members denied it. No suicide note was recovered from them. Official said, “It looks like a case of suicide, but still they are looking into the murder angle as clothes were stuffed in their mouths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bodies-of-a-girl-boy-found-hanging-from-tree/articleshow/79049164.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: FPOs lack wherewithal to lead in agricultural markets||The Small Farmers’ Agribusiness Consortium set up seven Farmer Producer Companies in selected districts in Punjab on behalf of the state government during July-August 2013 and July-December 2014. However, these companies became defunct soon because, “instead of a group activity, the farmers were interested only in subsidy on hybrid seeds”. Nabard, so far, has sanctioned 103 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) in the state under different schemes. These FPOs have recorded a mixed performance, reveals a study by the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (Crrid). FPOs’ performance in PunjabThe study has documented the benefits of sale through FPOs by way of reduced production cost, price gains and higher net earnings, besides subtle diversification trends. But these benefits were not considered significant as the proportion of produce sold was miniscule. More significantly, only marginal and small farmer members were found selling their produce through FPOs in Punjab, as in Madhya Pradesh, while medium and large farmer members stayed away and sold directly. Evidently, marginal and small farmers need to collectivise to bolster their bargaining power in agri input and output markets. Farmers’ confidenceIt is disquieting that a significant proportion of farmer members, even in matured FPOs, in Punjab still perceive individual marketing channels more remunerative than the FPO, whereas the proportion selling through them in Madhya Pradesh was significant (as high as 95% in some FPOs). Indeed, Madhya Pradesh is the first state in the country that established FPOs under the District Poverty Initiative Programme (DPIP) with support from the World Bank. Such a support is absolutely essential, especially in Punjab which still has memories of a failed cooperative movement. Hand-holdingFPOs deal mostly with a single crop, i.e. vegetables that are grown on merely 1.3% of cropped area in the state. They hardly deal with foodgrains, especially wheat and paddy, which are grown on about 84.5% of the cropped area and comprise 76.58% of total agricultural production in Punjab. After a lot of persistence, some FPOs have been issued the arhtiya license, yet many could not sell their members’ produce for central procurement because of obstacles created by vested interests in APMC market. The FPOs are to be professionally managed and run like a business enterprise. Their hand-holding for a minimum of 5-7 years, according to UNDP (Policy Paper), is required to enable them to initiate viable business operations, though some regard even 8-10 years of support as insufficient. Initially, Nabard provided for three years of hand-holding, but it proved insufficient for an FPO to graduate to even the emerging stage. Moreover, the chief executive officer who is often a resourceful progressive member in the group has little knowledge about agri-marketing, processing, trade, finance and other business practices. Testing, storage, processing, pack house, an agri-machinery bank etc are the other ingredients of viable operation of an FPO. Finally, the FPOs do not have their own assets and hence lack credit linkage, which is necessary for them to undertake value addition and storage of the produce to realise better prices for farmers. The state FPO policy In its epoch-making recommendations, the committee of five MLAs headed by S. Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria (report submitted on March 28, 2018), stated that FPOs should be integrated in the state agricultural policy. It further stated that the government support is essential for sustainability of FPOs. All recommendations regarding FPOs by the committee seem to have been integrated in the recent ‘Farmer Producers Organisations Policy for State of Punjab’ notified by the government. The policy has articulated a vision, mission, and all the necessary logistics encompassing the scope and coverage, activities of FPOs, provisions for their promotion and development and finally the financial incentives. In line with the central policy, it undertakes to provide all benefits and facilities to FPOs at par with cooperative societies, and all necessary licenses, including that of arhtiya, to operate in the APMC market, besides providing for hand-holding over a wide spectrum of activities, and, above all, envisions nurturing them to become “Leaders in the National Market”. The challengesThe policy provides for handholding by the state departments concerned and universities of agriculture as resource institutions, but the challenge is whether these agencies are equipped with requisite skills to impart training, promote and develop an agricultural entity into a successful business enterprise. Moreover, the policy states that the state nodal agency “could help FPOs avail benefits under various central government and state government schemes”. But the mechanism to integrate the state policy with the central is missing. Finally, the role of the nodal agency should be to institute minimum regulation and maximum promotion. It is significant that the central government has earmarked a huge amount towards handholding of each of the 10,000 FPOs that it proposed to set up in the country in 2019-20 to 2023-24. Thus, FPOs are the future organisations in agriculture and slated to play a crucial role in fragmenting agriculture in the country. (The writer is RBI Chair Professor, Crrid. The views are personal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/guest-column-fpos-lack-wherewithal-to-lead-in-agri-markets/articleshow/79050755.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Pune||Best of 2 exams to count for SPPU students taking re-test||PUNE: The best of the two performances would be taken into consideration for the final-year students eligible for appearing for a re-test, Savitribai Phule Pune University officials said on Wednesday. The university will start the re-examination from Wednesday for those final-year students who faced technical problems during the regular examinations. The re-exam will go on till November 7. Around 26,000 students have applied for re-examination. Of these, 11,500 will appear for the re-test on Thursday which will be held for 634 subjects. On November 5, students from engineering, pharmacy, architecture, education streams will appear for the re-examination. “The university will consider the best-of-the two performances of a student taking the re-test. If the student performs badly in the re-test but has done better in the initial test, we would consider those marks as his or her final marks. Students need not worry,” Mahesh Kakade, director of examination and evaluation, said. A few students, who had filled the re-test forms, have complained that they have not received the mail for retest while some others who had not filled the form said they have received mail for the re-test. “My economics exam was a disaster because of technical errors during submission. I’ve filled every form, still haven’t received my retest email till now. I’m studying hard for it, but if we don’t even get a chance to give the exam, it will not be fair. It’s just going to make us fail,” a student posted on a social media platform. Kakade said,“Only those students who have given a genuine cause have been sent the mail for re-test. There was a proper process followed where students were told to fill in a google form and submit what problem they faced during the initial examination. After the scrutiny of those submissions, we have selected the students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/best-of-2-exams-to-count-for-sppu-pupils-taking-re-test/articleshow/79049212.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Day 1: 11 candidates file nominations for PS members, 3 filed for Zila Parishad members||Jaipur: The process of filling nomination for elections to zila parishad and panchayat samiti members in 21 districts began on Wednesday. Eleven candidates filed 11 nominations for the posts of panchayat samiti members and three candidates filed pazpers for the posts of zila parishad members on the first day.In 21 districts, there are 4,371 constituencies for panchayat samiti members and 636 constituencies for zila parishad members. The districts include Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur.The elections will be held in four phases starting November 23. The second phase will be held on November 27, third phase on December 1 and the fourth phase will be held on December 5. The counting of votes will be held at all the district headquarters on December 8. No nomination for Mayors’ posts on Day 1 Jaipur: No nominations were filed on the first day for elections to the posts of chairpersons in all the six municipal corporations. Thursday (tomorrow) is the last day for filing of nominations.The Congress has won the majority of seats in two municipal corporations — Jodhpur North and Kota North — and has taken a lead in Jaipur Heritage corporation. The BJP has crossed the majority mark in Jaipur Greater and Jodhpur South corporations. But both parties are facing a tie in Kota South with 36 seats each in a house of 80.The elections will be held on November 10 and the counting of votes will take on the same day.PWD: Online monitoring system for quality work Jaipur: Public Works Department (PWD) principal secretary Rajesh Yadav on Wednesday said that online monitoring system will be created for circle-level inspection to ensure quality work in road constructions across the state. Yadav also directed chief engineer (buildings) and chief engineer (quality control) to create two state level committees to ensure proper monitoring of works related to renovation of buildings, setting up new buildings and improving the quality of work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/day-1-11-candidates-file-nominations-for-ps-members-3-filed-for-zila-parishad-members/articleshow/79049193.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Malaysia airline shuts operations in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Malaysia-based Malindo Air has winded up its presence in Kolkata. The airline that used to operate four direct flights between Kolkata and Kuala Lumpur a week before the lockdown has shut their office at Kolkata airport and formally stopped operations. “The airline shut their office last month and informed us that they are closing down operations from the city,” Kolkata airport director, Kaushik Bhattacharjee, told TOI. The low cost international carrier had started operations in India in 2013 but had arrived in Kolkata only in October 2018. With AirAsia Berhad also liquidating major portions of its stake to survive the pandemic, tour operators say it might take a long time to revive air ties with Malaysia. “These are trying times. Full-fledged air travel is yet to begin in Malaysia. The airline must have shut the office to cut down on costs. We hope they come back once the situation improves,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman (east) Travel Agents Federation of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malaysia-airline-shuts-ops-in-city/articleshow/79049205.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Private schools to suspend online classes from today over fees||JAIPUR: Private schools in the state will discontinue online classes from Thursday, claiming that they have been forced to take this action due to financial distress caused by non-payment of fees. The decision is likely to affect over one crore students studying in 50,000 schools across the state. Some 11 lakh people are employed by these schools and authorities claimed that they do not have the money to pay the salaries of their staff. Anil Sharma, president of School Shiksha Pariwar, said that they have been forced into this move as most schools were going through their worst financial crisis. “We had warned the state government that if we do not get a proper order on relief regarding school fees, we will discontinue online classes from November 5,” Sharma said. “Most private schools have gone bankrupt and will be in more trouble if students do not pay fees,” Sharma said. Private school authorities in 22 districts also took out a procession on Wednesday demanding relief from the government. Sharma said that if schools do not receive fees before Diwali, family members of teachers and employees would take out a procession in Jaipur from Vidhan Sabha to Statue Circle. Meanwhile, Rajasthan Parents’ Association president Sunil Yadav termed this protest ‘dictatorial’. “This is sheer misuse of power by private school authorities. The case is pending before Rajasthan High Court. Parents have faced severe financial problems during this lockdown and now we are being pressured into paying fees. The government must interfere,” he said. Responding to a question, Jayshree Periwal, director of Jayshree Periwal Group of Schools, said that they were suspending online classes for their students from Thursday. Other schools that will stop providing online classes in Jaipur include Warren Academy, MPS Group of Schools, Blue Heaven Vidyalay, St Edmund’s School in Jawahar Nagar, and Tagore International School. However, some schools such as Maharaja Sawai Man Singh Vidyalaya and Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Vidhyashram are not participating in this. Though they have suffered losses, schools run by missionaries in Jaipur city too have decided not to participate in it for now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-schools-to-suspend-onlineclasses-from-today-over-fees/articleshow/79050750.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Jodhpur second district to breach 30,000 mark, Ajmer 6th to hit 10,000||JAIPUR: Jodhpur has become the second district after Jaipur to have breached the 30,000 mark in cumulative Covid cases. Ajmer has become the sixth district to have recorded over 10,000 cases. According to a health department report, Ajmer’s cumulative cases touched 10,330. The other five districts that have already breached the figure are are Jaipur (34,679), Jodhpur (30,213), Alwar (15,563), Bikaner (14,579) and Kota (11,333). In the last 24 hours, the state reported 1,770 new infections, taking the overall tally to 2,03,990. During the same period, nine persons died from the virus, which pushed the casualty count to 1,945. Jaipur reported its 378th Covid death, Jodhpur 188th, Udaipur 74th, Sikar 60th, Alwar 59th, Nagaur 58th, Jalore 38th, Barmer 36th and Churu reported its 25th Covid fatality. The health department said they have expanded healthcare facilities for Covid across the state due to which the recovery rate has improved a lot and the mortality rate has gone done significantly. “We have managed the pandemic well with the recovery rate being above 90% and the fatality rate being less than 1%. The testing facilities are available at 22 government and 16 private labs and hospitals where authentic RT-PCR tests are being done. The state has developed the infrastructure to conduct more than 52,000 tests per day. Two testing labs are about to be opened soon at Pratapgarh district hospital and at Nathdwara sub-district hospital and testing facilities will be started at all the district headquarters and district hospitals by the end of November,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. Twenty-nine districts of the state reported new infections. Districts which reported new cases are: Jaipur (320), Jodhpur (185), Bikaner (179), Alwar (145), Ajmer (125), Sikar (98), Kota (72), Sriganganagar (72), Nagaur (65), Pali (54), Jhunjhunu (46), Udaipur (45), Bharatpur (45), Jalore (42), Churu (39), Dausa (37), Barmer (34), Tonk (28), Dungarpur (28), Bhilwara (25), Hanumangarh (16), Sirohi (14), Bundi (13), Karauli (13), Rajsamand (11), Jhalawar (9), Chittorgarh (5), Jaisalmer (3) and Baran (2). BOX: Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasara’s wife and son have tested positive for Covid-19. Congress leader and MLA from Tonk Sachin Pilot tweeted, “Recieved information of state Congress president and education minister shree @GovindDotasara’s wife and son been tested positive for Covid-19. I pray to God for their speedy recovery.” BOX: Today’s positive: 1,770 Cumulative positive: 2,03,990 Today’s death: 9 Cumulative deaths: 1,945 Today’s recovered: 1,823 Cumulative recovered: 1,85,722 Active cases: 16,323||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-2nd-dist-to-breach-30k-mark-ajmer-6th-to-hit-10k/articleshow/79049256.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: No clarity on RTE bridge courses for new students||PUNE: As many as 80,000 admissions have been confirmed under the 25% quota under the RTE for the 1.15 lakh seats available in private schools in the state for free admission to students from social and economically disadvantaged families. However, there is no announcement as yet about the per-student reimbursement from the state to the schools that admit such students. The government has not made any plan about the bridge courses for students who have had no previous education to bring them level with the syllabus in the new class. If an out of school child is enrolled in a school, s/he has to be admitted into the age appropriate class. Special training called bridge courses is imparted to the child for a maximum of two years to bring him up to the level of class in which s/he is admitted, experts said. Joint director of primary education Dinkar Temkar, who is looking after RTE admissions in the state, said, “The per-student reimbursement for 2018-19 was announced. We are hoping it will be done for this year in 8 to 10 days.” As per the Right to Education Act of 2009, 25% of the seats in private schools are reserved for students from socially and economically backward communities. These students get free education, and the school is reimbursed by the government for their education. Every year, based on various calculations, an amount is announced by the government which is the per-student reimbursement for a year. This year, the admissions were extended till October 30. Students admitted under the RTE quota may struggle with the syllabus the have missed till now as they have had no access access to online education modes. Temkar said, “The schools can take additional classes whenever the schools open and bring these students on level with the rest of the class. The state will not be giving any bridge courses for such students as they are arranged when a student has never been to school, and is directly admitted to an age-appropriate class.” Many of these students have not been to nursery, junior KG or senior KG and may not have smartphones or laptops to access online classes. Temkar said, “Standard I is easy, and they can easily cope with the syllabus whenever schools starts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-clarity-on-rte-bridge-courses-for-new-students/articleshow/79049259.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Unemployed youths to field candidate against Cong for bypoll in Bhilwara||Jaipur: In a protest against the state government for not fulfilling their demands, the Rajasthan Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh, a group of unemployed youths, on Wednesday decided to field their candidate for the assembly bypoll at Sahada constituency in Bhilwara, the seat that fell vacant after the death of Congress MLA Kailash Trivedi last month.Convener of the Mahasangh Upen Yadav said 10,000 youths will travel to New Delhi on December 17 to meet former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. “We will ask him, when the youths of the state will get jobs?” said Yadav. Accusing the government of not making any progress on the issue of ensuring job quota for bona fide residents of the state and other demands, Yadav said, they will launch a signature campaign in the state in support of unemployed youths who are seeking government jobs on November 17.The campaign will start from Sikar district. Yadav said, they will announce their candidate after a meeting in Bhilwara on November 10. They will also oppose the Congress-led government in the zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections in 21 districts. A team of 50 members has been set up in all the 21 districts and an in-charge has been appointed for each team. In all, 1,050 unemployed youths are part of these teams. They will appeal to the people to not vote for Congress party by distributing leaflets in these elections.“We will also oppose AICC plenary session, if it happens in the state,” said Yadav. The other demands include conducting REET examination, 2020; computer teacher’s recruitment; ANM GNM nursing admission 2013; panchayati raj LDC admission, 2013; admissions of 1534 laboratory assistants; junior accountant recruitment 2013; Rajasthan police recruitment 2018; senior teacher’s recruitment 2016-2018 and 2013; to regularise recruitment of 7,000 students in Ayurved nursing admission; panchayati raj JEN recruitment and other recruitments.BoxResidential schools under Devanarayan scheme get financial sanctionThe department of social justice and empowerment has issued administrative and financial sanction of Rs 10.53 crore for the construction of four residential school buildings under Devanarayan scheme. The four residential schools are in Shahpura (Bhilwara), Pipra (Bharatpur), Ras (Pali) and Masuda (Ajmer). The land for the fifth residential school to be set up in Bharatpur will be allotted soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unemployed-youths-to-field-candidate-against-cong-for-bypoll-in-bhilwara/articleshow/79049218.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Trial run for ‘Paat Rani’ jute tram||Kolkata: A special tram ‘Paat Rani’ had its trial run on Wednesday. The tram was decorated with jute products made by the inmates of Presidency and Dum Dum correctional homes. It is also a mobile cafe serving people snacks, tea, coffee and fruit juice while there will be live commentary on the city’s heritage and traditional Bengali music. The inaugural fare is Rs 199 (irrespective of any travel distance) while compartment booking charge is for Rs 2,500 for the round trip between Shyambazar and Gariahat via Esplanade, according to officials. “Paat Rani combines two of Bengal’s icons — jute and trams”, said the MD WBTC, Rajanvir Singh Kapur. The West Bengal Transport Corporation that runs Kolkata Tramway came up with the idea of this special tram. The decoration with jute is taken care by Kolkata-based Rakshak Foundation, which works with the inmates of Presidency and Dum Dum Correctional homes to make exquisite jute products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trial-run-for-paat-rani-jute-tram/articleshow/79049242.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Ten people injured in road accident||Coimbatore: Ten people, who were travelling in a freight van, suffered injuries after the vehicle rammed the median near Kinathukadavu on Wednesday morning. Some of the injured were admitted to the government hospital while others were treated as outpatients, police sources said.“The freight van, carrying about 15 people, all from a family based in Athiyur village near Pollachi, was on the way to Kangayam, where the passengers wanted to attend in a temple function. When the vehicle neared Kinathukadavu, some more people boarded. They were in the cargo carrying area of the van. As it was crossing Kindathukadavu, the van rammed a median, throwing all those sitting in the rear portion of the vehicle on the road,” a police officer told TOI.Condition of passengers injured is stable, the officer added.The Kinathukadavu police have registered a case and are investigating the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ten-people-injured-in-road-accident/articleshow/79049265.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Amritsar||‘MSP stays, Congress adding fuel to fire’||BATHINDA: In a bid to strike a chord with the protesting farmers of Punjab, BJP national president J P Nadda on Wednesday chose Punjabi language to respond to the queries raised by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in an ‘open letter’ written to him recently. Taking to Twitter, where he also posted an English version of his letter, Nadda wrote that Singh’s open letter of November 1 never reached him, as he had apparently written it only for the media to gain political mileage. He mentioned that the Congress MPs had participated in the debates when the Parliament passed the farm bills, which are in favour of the farmers. “Despite all this, you and party crossed all limits of decency and started opposing these laws, participated in protests and rallies and used provocative words. You tried to add fuel to the fire by announcing that no FIR will be registered against those who are taking the law in hands by holding provocative protests,” he said. “It seems you are responsible for the condition of Punjab and its economic condition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/msp-stays-cong-adding-fuel-to-fire/articleshow/79050758.cms||Neel Kamal
November 5, 2020||Pune||Pune airport authorities start uploading schedule of flights on social media||PUNE: The authorities have started uploading the arrival and departure timing of flights on the city airport’s Twitter handle, giving some relief to flyers hassled by rescheduling and cancellation of planes following the suspension of night operations at the Lohegaon facility because of the runway re-carpeting work. The Twitter handle of the Pune airport (@aaipunairport) on Tuesday evening had a list of flights slated to fly on Wednesday, after senior officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), including Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh, said they would coordinate with the airlines to reduce the problems of flyers. “The passengers will now be able to check their flight timing and get updates on cancellation of planes hours before flying. It is not a permanent solution, though,” a source at the airport said. On Wednesday, a total of 32 departures of different airlines to destinations like Delhi, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Chennai, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad, among others, were listed. The total flight movements for Wednesday (including arrivals) was 64, according to the list. The source said, “The AAI has told the representatives of all airlines to talk to their headquarters and ensure that passengers don’t get hassled while bookings flights. They have also been told to inform flyers about any kind of change in flight timings. If a flyer is confused about the timing and still hasn’t received any information from the airline, they can refer to the list provided by the AAI. Still, flyers should stay in touch with the airlines to know the status of their flights.” He said, “The idea is to lessen the problem of people. In any case, the complaints of flyers are gradually coming down.” Another airport official said, “If we get positive feedback from flyers, we shall surely continue with this.” Some flyers felt that the initiative of the airport authorities would not be of much help. “The airport is uploading the information about all the flights an evening before. The flyers will be sure about their flights to an extent if they check the airport’s Twitter handle, but the real problem is with some airlines. They are still taking booking of late evening and night-time flights and not providing information to flyers booking tickets for a future travel. The airport authorities need to address this problem and take it up on priority with the airlines,” said Kirti Kumar, slated to fly to Delhi next week. Kirti’s brother, Ramesh, who would accompany him to Delhi, said, “Providing a list of flights just an evening before makes very little difference for us as the damage would already be done by then.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/airport-authorities-start-uploading-schedule-of-flights-on-social-media/articleshow/79049236.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Leopard cat cubs spotted in Coonoor||Udhagamandalam: The forest department has intensified monitoring at Yedapalli village near Coonoor after the staff spotted two cubs of a leopard cat.The department had installed a camera trap in the area two days ago after the villagers claimed to have sighted a leopard and three cubs. “The animals that have strayed into Yedapalli village are not leopards, but leopard cats,” assistant conservator of forests Saravanakumar said. “As the cubs are roaming there, the mother should also be in the area. The camera trap will be checked on Thursday. We have intensified security in the area. People have been asked not to venture out during night hours,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leopard-cat-cubs-spotted-in-coonoor/articleshow/79049254.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt working on SOP for reopening of schools||Bhubaneswar: Schools in Odisha are set to reopen in November, though in a phased manner, with students of higher classes allowed to come first. School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Das on Wednesday said the government will soon come out with a draft of the standard operating procedure (SOP). “The work on preparing the SOP is in progress. It is being developed keeping in mind all possible safety concerns. The schools will be reopened in a graded manner. Students of the senior classes from IX to XII will be allowed to come first. We will see how things are going after which junior classes will be allowed,” Das said. He added that if parents do not feel safe sending their children to schools, online classes will continue. The minister further said, “Once the draft SOP is released in the next two days, the government will seek suggestions from all stakeholders, including the parents and the school management. The final decision will be taken by the chief minister.” The government is discussing the matter with district collectors and district education officers, who will play a major role in the enforcement of the SOP. Officials said issues like sanitisation of classrooms, thermal screening, hand wash provisions, use of mask and sanitiser, separate seating arrangements and reducing the class strength are being discussed. Parents, however, are worried about the increase in infection during winter if schools reopen. “If by any chance, one child gets infected, the whole class may have to be suspended for a few days. Any virus outbreak will pose a risk to the life of other students and teachers. I will not feel safe sending my children to schools before the vaccine for Covid-19 is available,” Smaranika Sahu, whose children study in a city school, said. Odisha Abhibhabak Mahasangha, a state-level parents’ association, has called for a strict SOP and rescheduling of the academic session. “Since the chief minister had said the Covid situation may aggravate in winter, the decision of reopening schools contradicts his earlier declaration. The new academic calendar should be declared with 180 working days from November or December onwards,” chairman of the association, Basudev Bhatt, said. The government had pruned the syllabus for Classes I to XII by 30% to rationalise education for the 2020-21 academic session as schools in the state remained shut for the last eight months since mid-March owing to the lockdown to prevent pandemic. The special relief commissioner had announced the reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII from November 16 during Unlock 6.0 on Saturday, but revised the order after a couple of hours saying that the final SOP will be prepared by the school and mass education department on November 16. However, the state government has announced that all academic institutes across the state will remain shut till November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-working-on-sop-for-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/79047829.cms||Minati Singha
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Bus operators struggle due to low patronage||Coimbatore: Even two months after the state government relaxed lockdown norms and allowed resumption of bus services, they get less than 50% of passengers, bus operators said.While town buses resumed operations from September 1, interdistrict buses were operated from September 7.On Wednesday, the Coimbatore division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) operated 1,682 out of the 2,600 buses in Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Erode and Tirupur districts, including 616 town buses and 1,066 mofussil buses. Only 345 town buses and 184 mofussil buses were operated in Coimbatore district, a TNSTC official said. “There was a good number of passengers during the peak hours. When the passenger count starts to decrease, some of the buses would be sent to the depots. The buses are operated based on the requirement and we have been increasing the number gradually.”There was a slight increase in the passenger count since Sunday due to Diwali, said M Velankanni Raj, general secretary of the Coimbatore unit of CITU. “Even then, it is nowhere near the pre-lockdown era. Most of the mofussil buses are half-empty. There might be a slight increase in the count a couple of days ahead of Diwali,” he said.Meanwhile, the Coimbatore division submitted a letter to the state government, seeking approval to operate some buses during the festival season.“Special buses would be useful only for those who travel a longer distance and could not afford private vehicles. Most of the people are accustomed to using private vehicles for short travels. It is really difficult to bring them back,” said V Duraikannan, president of the Coimbatore district bus owners’ association. “Passenger count in town buses is just 20 to 35% of previous year’s count and it is 35 to 40% in case of mofussil buses.”Even the Southern Railway is finding it difficult to attract passengers, an official said. “We have been operating 25 trains from and via Coimbatore. The percentage of passengers in Coimbatore is less than 50% of the pre-lockdown era. Only for certain trains scheduled ahead of Diwali, seats were filled and booking was closed.” Meanwhile, the Southern Railway has announced five one-way trains – one from Coimbatore and four via Coimbatore, on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bus-operators-struggle-due-to-low-patronage/articleshow/79049320.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 5, 2020||Pune||Half of 15 cos in pact with Maha to invest in Pune region||Pune: Eight of the 15 firms, which signed MoUs worth Rs 34,850 crore with the state government on Monday, have shown interest in investing in the Pune region, a move which may generate 15,000 jobs in the near future.The Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) were signed under the “Magnetic Maharashtra” initiative. Of the 15 companies, eight are from the Pune region, while one is from Ahmednagar, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) officials said. The firms Mitsubishi Electric Pvt Ltd, Malpani Warehousing and Industrial Park, Evermint, Pareba Logistics Park, Ishwara Logistics Park, Net Magic IT services Pvt Ltd, Nxtra and Oriental aromatics. They will invest Rs 15,890 crore and create 17,775 jobs.The Pune and Mumbai regions continue to be the key areas for investment, despite the pandemic, P Anbalagan, MIDC CEO, said. “A total of 600 acres of land has been sanctined for the eight firms in the Chakan-Talegaon belt in the Pune region. Of the eight firms, six are logistics, while the other two are from the electronic sector,” he said.“Land will be allotted to the companies that have already put in 20% of the investment for procuring the land and this would be completed this month itself,” the CEO said, adding that there was another set of investments expected for the Pune region, Aurangabad and Nagpur in the coming year.Since March, the companies have committed about Rs 50,000 crore to the state and another Rs 60,000 crore was expected in the next 5-6 months, with focus on the Pune region, the CEO said.No go-ahead for Chinese investment plans yetThe state government continues to put Chinese investment proposals worth Rs 5,020 crore on hold as it awaits a central policy on the issue. In June, the state had signed agreements with three Chinese companies in the auto, electric mobility and engineering segments. However, sources said that there was no decision on these agreements yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/half-of-15-cos-in-pact-with-maha-to-invest-in-pune-region/articleshow/79049322.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 5, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Yogi Youth Brigade chief recites Hanuman Chalisa at shrine, held||AGRA: Police on Wednesday arrested the UP president of Yogi Youth Brigade for allegedly reciting Hanuman Chalisa at a mausoleum on Agra’s Shamshabad Road and two others for allegedly painting four other mazars saffron the previous day. Ajay Tomar was arrested after his video of reciting Hanuman Chalisa at a mazar in Shamshabad’s Nawada village went viral on social media. He was booked under section 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) along with sections 505 (1)(b) (intent to cause or likely to cause fear or alarm among the public), 505 (2) (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report, with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite offence against any class) of IPC on a complaint filed by Hitesh Chand Azad, a policeman. Tomar has been remanded to 14 days’ judicial custody after being produced in a court, said Shamshabad police station in-charge Rakesh Kumar. The other two accused — Shubham Pandit and Balkrishna aged between 20-25 years – were booked under sections 295 (defiling a place of worship with an intent to insult religion of any class) and 298 (with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person) of IPC. Agra SP (city) Botre Rohan Pramod told TOI that police have removed the colour put by the accused on shrines "with intent to disrupt religious harmony in the city". He said that three FIRs have been registered at three police stations —Tajganj, Rakabganj and Lohamandi – in Agra. Raghvendra Singh, UP state president of Hindu Yuva Vahini, a youth organisation founded by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, clarified that this ‘Yogi Youth Brigade’ has no connection with their organisation. “We don’t support such activities as every religion has its own religious place for recital of holy books and offering prayers,” he said, questioning why no one had raised objections when namaz was being offered on roads every Friday. Hindu Yuva Vahini’s Agra city in-charge Anant Upadhyaya said, “Such activities are being done to defame the UP chief minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-chief-of-yogi-youth-brigade-arrested-for-reciting-hanuman-chalisa-at-mausoleum/articleshow/79046820.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cong concedes defeat in Balasore, pins hope on future||Bhubaneswar: Day after the bypolls in the two assembly constituencies, which witnessed around 70% polling, the Congress conceded defeat in Balasore even as both the BJD and BJP claimed the results will go in their favour. Senior Congress leader Taraprasad Bahinipati, who was the party’s observer in the constituency, said though the party will not win in Balasore, it will get substantial vote. “The Congress’ position in Balasore assembly segment is not very good. Our party has not won the seat since 1985. During the bypoll, there was a general consensus that our candidate (Mamata Kundu) was best among all and has worked very hard. We may not win this time but Congress will surely win the seat in the next assembly poll,” Bahinipati hoped. Alleging that the BJD and the BJP spent huge sums of money in Balasore, Bahinipati said Congress’ spending was very less compared to them. On the party’s prospects in Tirtol, Bahinipati said there will be good fight in the constituency. BJD vice-president Debi Prasad Mishra, who was one of the coordinator of the party in Balasore, said the pattern of voting and mood of voters indicate the BJD will win both the seats. “Our victory margin in Balasore will be more than our defeat margin in the 2019 assembly election. We will win by a handsome margin in Tirtol as well, according to our internal assessment,” Mishra said. Refuting allegations of using black money or government machinery in the bypoll, Mishra said the party’s spending was in accordance with the permissible limit set by the Election Commission of India. BJP general secretary Prithiviraj Harichandan said the party will win both the seats as there was a strong undercurrent among the voters against the BJD government. “Lack of confidence of voters against the government was reflected in the bypolls. We are confident of our victory in both the seats,” said Prithiviraj. Meanwhile, chief electoral officer S K Lohani revised the final voting percentage in both the constituencies. While 70.69% votes were polled in Balasore, Tirtol saw 69.66% votes polled. Around 3,193 voters exercised their franchise through postal ballot in Tirtol while 1,613 did the same in Balasore. Lohani said several Covid positive people were allowed to vote in the last hour with safety precautions in place. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cong-concedes-defeat-in-balasore-pins-hope-on-future/articleshow/79047860.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Startup offers help to city’s senior citizens||Bhubaneswar: A US-based entrepreneur has launched a website that promises to provide one-stop solution to senior citizens in the city. Named SenCiCare, the initiative is meant for those who are above 60 years, and offers a range of services including doorstep delivery of groceries, vegetables and medicines. The senior citizens can enrol themselves by visiting the concerned website or also by making a call to the registered number. “A number of senior citizens are living alone while their children are working outside. They need regular assistance and our startup is meant to help them,” said Plaban Mohapatra, the man behind the initiative. Plaban, who lives in California, has developed the website with four young city-based entrepreneurs. He said the idea came to his mind as his parents themselves are living alone in the city. “The pandemic also created a lot of problems for senior citizens in availing basic yet important services. We will tie up with the service providers and we will work as an aggregator,” Plaban said. The developers are planning to add more services in phases. Presently, apart from doorstep delivery of certain services, the startup is offering a few other facilities such as booking a taxi or an ambulance and helping the elderly join social media or virtual meetings. “We will add more services in the future such as availing lawyer’s assistance, hiring cooks or maids, providing more healthcare products, arranging yoga trainers and more. The services will be exclusively for senior citizens,” one the developers said. Religious tours or plans to organise other trips are also in the offing. “We will arrange groups and based on their requirements, will plan the trips for them,” said Plaban. It must be noted here that before SenCiCare, Plaban and others had also developed a website for online booking at Swargadwar in Puri. More than 300 people had availed the service through the platform, one of the developers said. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/startup-offers-help-to-citys-senior-citizens/articleshow/79047845.cms||Sandip Mishra
November 5, 2020||Agra||Agra North MLA tests Covid-19 positive, district tally 7,444||AGRA: Senior BJP leader and Agra North MLA was tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. The 59-year-old was admitted at a private hospital on MG Road. The MLA urged people who had recently contacted him to get themselves tested for Covid-19. At least 53 new Covid-19 positive cases also surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 7,444. These included two staffers of the SN Medical College. Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said that a 63-year-old man died during treatment at the SN Medical College in Agra. The Shahganj locality resident was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, pneumonia, hypertension and other medical conditions. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 147 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Moreover, 32 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 7,444 cases reported in the district, 6,889 [92.5%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases is the district has also increased from 388 on Tuesday, to 408 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-north-mla-tests-covid-positive-district-tally-7444/articleshow/79046813.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Panel soon to study Christian minorities||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The cabinet decided to constitute a commission to study the various backwardness faced by Christian minorities in Kerala. The commission will be headed by the retired chief justice of Patna high court J B Koshy and will have retired IAS officer Christi Fernandez and retired DGP Jacob Punnoose as members. The commission will look into the backwardness faced by the community in education and economic sectors. The cabinet also decided to withdraw the decision taken on the salary challenge from September to six more months. The salary challenge was earlier planned to tide over the crisis faced by the government due to the pandemic situation. For Konni medical college hospital, 286 new posts have been created. This will include 26 posts for doctors and 260 posts in the non-teaching category. The posts were created to pave way for the commencement of a new MBBS batch at the college from the next academic year. With post creation, the hospital can begin inpatient treatment. The cabinet also decided to implement pay revision for ayurveda medical college teachers both in the government and aided sector. The tender for 10 road over bridges, which will be constructed using KIIFB funds, has been approved. The over bridges will be constructed at Chirayinkeezhu, Maliyekkal, Eravipuram, Guruvayur, Chirangara, Akathethara, Vadanamkurissi, Tanur, Theyyala, Chelari, Chettipady and Koduvally. The cabinet decided to request the governor to bring an amendment in Kerala Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act. The amendment is being brought to extend the time for the medical institutions for getting registered under the Act. The time extension will be given for one more year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/panel-soon-to-study-christian-minorities/articleshow/79047862.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Jaipur||Cabinet panel for Barmer refinery project||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday constituted a cabinet sub-committee under him to review the progress of the Barmer refinery so that the ambitious project could be completed on time. The other members of the committee are PHED and energy minister Dr BD Kalla, UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal, industry minister Parsadilal Meena, mines and petroleum minister Pramod Jain Bhaya, revenue minister Harish Chaudhary, Indira Gandhi irrigation project minister Udailal Anjana, skills development minister Ashok Chandana and Pachparda MLA Madan Prajawat. The officials in the committee include chief secretary, advisor to the chief minister Dr Govid Sharma, principal secretaries of home, finance, revenue, energy, PHED, PWD, UDH, industry, mines and petroleum, IGNP, skill development and employment, MD RIICO, director petroleum, divisional commissioner Jodhpur and collector and SP of Barmer. This group of ministers will regularly monitor the progress of the work. This will lead to better coordination between various departments of the government as well as quick resolution of interdepartmental issues. Coordination with Hindustan Petroleum officials will also be established. Gehlot had given instructions to complete the work of the refinery on the lines of Jaipur Metro project with commitment and on time in a high-level review meeting held on Tuesday regarding the progress of the refinery.Speed up DMIC project work at the grassroots level-Chief MinisterJaipur: Chief minister Gehlot reviewed the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) project at the chief minister’s residence on Wednesday. He said a large part of the dedicated freight corridor to be built under the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor project would pass through Rajasthan. In the first phase of DMIC, the work of proposed Khushkheda-Bhiwadi-Neemrana and Jodhpur-Pali-Marwar investment areas in the state should be speeded up by setting deadlines.Gehlot said after studying the states where DMIC project has done better, the experiences of land acquisition, compensation payment, environmental clearance should be expedited by incorporating their experiences. Gehlot also directed to strengthen the town planning department and engineering branch to speed up the work of Bhiwadi Integrated Township under Khushkheda-Bhiwadi-Neemrana Industrial Nod.At the meeting, principal secretary (industries) Nareshpal Gangwar informed that a notification has been issued to declare the Jodhpur-Pali-Marwar Investment Region as a special investment region. RIICO will act as the regional development authority to develop this investment area. Similarly, for the first phase of Khushkheda-Bhiwadi-Neemrana Investment Area, an award of 532 hectares has been passed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cabinet-panel-for-barmer-refinery-project/articleshow/79049273.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Pune||31-year-old held for bike thefts||Pune: A 31-year-old delivery partner of a courier firm was arrested on Tuesday for stealing motorcycles to overcome the financial constraints he faced because of the Covid-induced lockdown. The delivery partner, Ravindra Indulkar from Shravandhara Society in Kothrud, had stolen four motorcycles in the recent past. Acting on a tip-off to constables Rajendra Landge and Nilesh Shirke of the Alankar police, Indulkar was taken into custody from Gananjay Society in Kothrud. Four motorcycles worth Rs1.2 lakh were recovered from him. Three of the vehicles were stolen from Kothrud and the other from Chatushrungi. Sub-inspector Dhiraj Gupta of the Alankar police said Indulkar was in financial trouble because of the lockdown. “Someone told Indulkar that he could borrow money by mortgaging a two-wheeler. Indulkar then started stealing motorcycles,” he said. Gupta said of the four motorcycles, Indulkar had given only one of them to his acquaintance and got Rs15,000. “The man had abandoned the other bikes after he failed to dispose them of,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/31-year-old-held-for-bike-thefts/articleshow/79049277.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||32 repeat offenders, 16 ganja peddlers land in police net||Coimbatore: Special teams of the city police conducted search operations and nabbed 32 history-sheeters involved in heinous offences like murder and 16 ganja peddlers on Tuesday.“Based on the directions of city police commissioner Sumit Sharan, a special team headed by assistant commissioners that had 15 inspectors were formed. Each inspector headed a team comprising cops from their station and armed force constables,” said an officer. “The purpose of the operation was to maintain law and order and to make anti-social elements understand that they are being closely watched.”The teams targeted those involved in murder and attack cases, ganja peddlers and gamblers. “The ganja peddlers were booked under Section 20B of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 and remanded in judicial custody. While some of the history-sheeters were remanded in judicial custody, others were let go after they signed peace bonds and promised not to commit any more crimes”, the officer said.The bond is usually signed for one year and if the accused breaks the agreement by involving in criminal acts, he would be lodged in prison till the end of the bond period. “The search operation continued on Wednesday also,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/32-repeat-offenders-16-ganja-peddlers-land-in-police-net/articleshow/79049286.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||‘Cabral’s statements are baseless and misleading’||MARGAO: Goyant Kollso Naka (GKN) has condemned what it called “baseless and misleading” statements by environment minister Nilesh Cabral on Tuesday defending the three contentious Centre-funded infrastructure projects and asserting that Goa wouldn’t be made a coal hub.  “The government is not just making baseless and false statements to mislead people, but also contradicts itself, while revealing its servitude to the coal lobby,” the press note states. Pointing out that Cabral has not contested any of the documents produced by GKN in evidence of the plans to make Goa a coal hub, GKN said, “in fact, he admits the authenticity of the Sagarmala documents which show that 137 MTPA of coal is planned to be transported through MPT, our rivers, our villages and our forests.” “These documents also reveal that the double tracking of the SWR is only for increase in coal transportation. The government is contradicting itself by saying on one hand that they will not allow the coal transportation through Goa to increase, while also insisting on continuing with the illegal construction of the second track, which is purely for coal transportation.” Pointing out to Cabral’s statement that the double tracking through Mollem National Park will take about 4-5 years due to the difficult terrain, GKN said, “If so, there is no logic in rushing with the double tracking works at Davorlim and bringing thousands of people on the tracks and jeopardising public health and safety, for which only the government is responsible.” The Railways are scheduled to undertake track doubling work by closing level crossing at Davorlim on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabrals-statements-are-baseless-and-misleading/articleshow/79050770.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra govt likely to scrap Hyperloop project soon||PUNE: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government could shelve the Hyperloop project soon, said a source in the state urban development department. “There is no progress of this project. It is likely to be scrapped eventually,” said a senior officer in the know of developments. “In the present Covid times, there is a need to maintain social distance everywhere. It applies to even Metro. Against this backdrop, projects like Hyperloop are unlikely to gain any momentum,” said another senior official. The Mumbai-Pune Hyperloop project was proposed by the BJP-led previous state government. Conceptualised by the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis-led regime, the Hyperloop project was aimed at reducing the travel time between Pune and Mumbai from around three hours to 25 minutes. The state urban development minister, Eknath Shinde, had told the Legislative Council in March that the Hyperloop project was still on the cards. But deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had expressed his doubt over it in Pune in the initial days of the Covid-19 outbreak. Pointing out that this futuristic mode of transport was not implemented anywhere in the world yet, he had said its trial runs should be conducted in some other country before it was tried in the state. A source said the future of the Hyperloop project appeared to be bleak, just like many other schemes initiated by the earlier Fadnavis-led government. The present regime scrapped the erstwhile Fadnavis government’s Jalyukta Shivar scheme. It launched a probe into the project after Comptroller and Auditor General rapped the previous government on the mismatch between its goals and its outcome. It also scrapped the Metro 3 car shed project at Aarey Colony in Mumbai and shifted it to Kanjurmarg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-govt-likely-to-scrap-hyperloop-project-soon/articleshow/79049301.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 5, 2020||Rajkot||Wife, paramour held for alleged murder of husband||Rajkot: A woman and her paramour were arrested on Wednesday for the alleged murder of her husband in Budharmora village of Anjar taluka in Kutch district two and a half months ago.Police said the accused, Sumi Meda (32) and her paramour Vijay Sangadia (33), had allegedly made Jausing Meda (34) consumed mutton curry laced with poison and had thrown his body into a well on the outskirts of Budharmora village after his death on August 14. After this, Sumi lodged a missing person complaint on August 17, claiming that Jausing had left home for Ahmedabad telling her that he was going there to buy medicines. Then Sumi along with her four daughters left for her parents’ house in Dahod. “On Monday night, Jausing’s body was found from the well, after which we registered the case on the complaint of his brother Dinesh Meda. In his complaint, Dinesh expressed suspicion against Sangadia and Sumi for being the culprits. When we interrogated Sangadia and Sumi, they broke down and confessed to their crime,” said J H Gadhvi, sub-inspector with Dudhai police station. The accused told the police that after poisoning Jausing to death, they wrapped his body into a blanket before throwing it into the well. “We sent the body for forensic postmortem to Jamnagar GG Hospital. As the body of the deceased had been completely decomposed, we had to take its sample and conduct its DNA test with the samples of Dinesh to match with. When the samples matched, it was confirmed that the deceased was Jausing,” said Gadhvi. Sangadia and Sumi were formally arrested after they were made to undergo the mandatory Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/wife-paramour-held-for-alleged-murder-of-husband/articleshow/79047857.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Activists urge government to ban online gambling||Coimbatore: After two people who faced huge loss in online gambling in the city committed suicide, several outfits urged the state government to take immediate steps to ban the games. Over 25 members of Social Justice Party staged a protest in front of the south taluk office demanding ban on Rummy Circle, MPL and Dream 11. “The government should take steps to prevent celebrities from acting in the advertisements of such games. If they continue to promote such games, then legal action should be taken against them and they should pay a part of the compensation to the victims,” president of the party Pannerselvam said.Explaining the necessity to form a separate Act to punish those who develop and promote online gambling apps, he said such people are now booked under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian penal code.“We know only a few people who ended their lives after facing huge loss. But the number of people who are affected because of the game would be high. We don’t understand why the state government is silent even after knowing a large number of people are affected. Immediate steps should be taken to ban the apps,” said V Eswaran, youth wing secretary of MDMK. “The games are addictive and have negative impact on people’s livelihood. There are several people who need assistance to come out of the addiction,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/activists-urge-government-to-ban-online-gambling/articleshow/79049311.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Punjab under economic blockade’||CHANDIGARH: Former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was last seen at the special session of Punjab assembly on farm bills, too joined the protest by MLAs from the state at Jantar Mantar and termed the Centre’s decision to suspend freight rail service amid farmers’ protest as ‘economic blockade’. Addressing MLAs, Sidhu said he was willing to debate the flipside of Centre’s farm laws and would quit politics if he lost the argument. He slammed the Centre for not releasing Punjab’s Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation. “The Centre’s intent is indicated in its policy that seems to be tailor-made for two corporate houses. It would be wrong to say that the farm laws are in the interest of farmers. Online trading has always been there. Why do you need new laws for free market? It is a way to usurp the legal rights of Punjab farmers” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-under-economic-blockade/articleshow/79050768.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Cases surge past 44,000-mark, recovery rate improves to 96%||Coimbatore: The Covid-19 tally zoomed past the 44,000-mark in the district on Wednesday, when it recorded 220 new cases, even as the number of active cases further dipped to 1,040 with 240 patients getting discharged from treatment centres.Of the 44,209 Covid-19 cases that the district has recorded so far, 42,601 patients have recovered. The recovery rate now stands at 96.3%.The toll, meanwhile, shot up by four to 568. All the four were aged above 60 years. Among them was a 65-year-old diabetic and hypertensive man, who was admitted to a private hospital on October 18 with breathing difficulty. He died of Covid-induced pneumonia and severe respiratory distress on Tuesday.Other deceased include a 67-year-old diabetic woman who died after five days of hospitalization, a 72-year-old woman who died of bronchopneumonia in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) within a day of admission, and 65-year-old woman who was admitted to CMCH on October 31 and died on Tuesday.The 240 sero samples that were collected from the region on October 20 are yet to be processed, as the chemiluminescence immunoassay (CLIA) analyzer is yet to become operational in the district. A health department official says, “This is because the antibody reagent kits are yet to arrive from Chennai. The civil work and error rectification were completed on Sunday. We have been waiting for the kits since Monday.”Allotted more than a month ago, the equipment had arrived in the district more than a week ago. It had taken the health department a month to complete all the civil work to install the machine. Because of the delay, 3,500 samples were sent to Salem and Chennai for processing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cases-surge-past-44000-mark-recovery-rate-improves-to-96/articleshow/79049344.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Data shows Covid wave on the wane||Coimbatore: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases and deaths has considerably reduced in the district, thanks to the increase in immunity against the virus among the public and stricter containment measures.Data shows that the number of cases in the past fortnight is hardly 45% of what was recorded a month ago. The Covid-19 fatalities too have reduced to less than 50%. While the next fortnight, including Diwali, might again turn the scales, officials are confident that the surge, if occurs at all, will not be as intense as the one in September.During the period between October 21 and November 4, the district has seen only 3,519 Covid-19 cases, down by 45% from 7,735 cases between September 21 and October 7.The number of deaths too has come down by nearly 50% to 41 from 80 during the period. Officials say the doubling time has crossed 60 days, compared to the 45-odd days in October.The dip in cases is attributed to the increase in people with antibodies, which has improved from 7.2% to 21.94%, and scrapping of home isolation in October first week.Dr K Kolandaswamy, former director of public health, says, “Increase in people with antibodies does not mean only less people could get infected, but it also reduces the number of people who could infect others, breaking the chain of transmission.”A public health officer says putting an end to home isolation had also helped prevent the spread of infection within a house, members of which might have in turn infected more people.The credit also goes to city corporation officials, who have been mandatorily testing family members of positive cases, despite the surge, and closely monitoring the patients in home quarantine. Dr Raja, city health officer, says, “Even when we saw 400 cases a day in dense localities, we visited the houses of every positive case and ensured the family members got tested, so that they could be isolated immediately and given medical help. This also helped bring down the mortality rate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/data-shows-covid-wave-on-the-wane/articleshow/79049341.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Intercity express pelted with stones||Coimbatore: Miscreants pelted stones at the Chennai-Coimbatore intercity express train while it was passing through the city on Tuesday night. windshield of a coach was damaged in the incident. No passenger was injured, railway police sources said. When the train was passing through the intermediate track of the Peelamedu - Vadakovai station around 9:30pm, passengers of air-conditioned coach C1 heard the sound of stones hitting the windshield. Alerted by the passengers, railway police rushed to the spot and started investigation. Preliminary inquiries revealed that two people, who stood near the railway track, had thrown stones at the train.Police have asked public to inform them about the movement of people near the tracks to prevent such incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/intercity-express-pelted-with-stones/articleshow/79049328.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm bodies to block roads in Punjab, Haryana today||CHANDIGARH: In response to a call given by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), an umbrella organisation of over 200 farm bodies across the country, various farm unions of Punjab and Haryana will hold a four-hour ‘chakka jam’ (road blockade) from noon to 4pm on both state and national highways across the two states. The 31 farm organisations of Punjab on Wednesday issued an appeal to the people of the state to avoid travelling by road on Thursday, if not necessary. At a meeting held during the day, the state’s farm bodies decided to use all their might to make the blockade a success to make the voice of farmers against the central farm laws heard in Delhi. Announcing its plan for the chakka jam, farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) said it would disrupt traffic at 35 places in 14 districts of the state on its own. In Haryana, farmer leaders said they would block the highways in Karnal, Sirsa, Hisar, Rohtak and Jind districts to press for their demand for the withdrawal of anti-farmer laws enacted by the central government. In a video message, BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni urged the farmers to block main highways instead of link roads. Meanwhile, the Haryana Police and the intelligence agencies have activated their teams to ascertain the likely size of turnout of farmers and their leaders, who have announced to be present during the agitation programme. On their part, various district administrations in the two states have decided to provide alternate routes to the people travelling by road, so that they do not face much inconvenience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-bodies-to-block-roads-in-pb-hry-today/articleshow/79050771.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Kidney patients told to opt for home dialysis with remote watch||MADURAI: Kidney patients, who require dialysis, should opt for peritoneal dialysis (PD) with remote patient monitoring (RPM) as there is a risk of contracting Covid-19 from fellow dialysis patients in hospitals, said Dr Sampath Kumar, head, department of nephrology, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre in Madurai. In a statement, Kumar said that PD is a form of standard dialysis therapy, which uses the peritoneum in a patients’ abdomen as the membrane through which fluid and dissolved substances are exchanged with the blood. It is a very convenient, home-based procedure that can be done by the patient following basic training and hygiene guidelines. PD with RPM enables doctors to be connected with the patients throughout the day and gives the doctors on-demand access to accurate and timely treatment data recorded during PD. The system notifies the doctors of special issues during the dialysis process, which helps them to adjust the dialysis plan accordingly. The added advantage is reduced treatment and need to travel to hospital. People with chronic kidney diseases (CKD) can successfully use RPM without jeopardizing their safety due to Covid-19, said Kumar. Enabling PD through platforms like RPM in such challenging times would be highly feasible for patients to improve knowledge regarding self-care, feel the presence of the healthcare professionals remotely while on dialysis at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kidney-patients-told-to-opt-for-home-dialysis-with-remote-watch/articleshow/79051484.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court seeks JBIMS reply to plea on ‘discrepancies’ in admissions||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday directed Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies (JBIMS) to clarify its stand on a petition alleging discrepancies in admission process to Master in Human Resource Development (MHRD) course. A bench of Justices K K Tated and Girish Kulkarni heard a petition by 12 candidates who were among 610 who gave the online aptitude test on July 27. The petition said the exam was marred by issues including non-confirmation of submission of answers, different students logging it at different times for the same questions, providing for leakage of questions, same student getting different marks and use of unfair means. Nearly 192 students complained the same day about technical glitches but they were not resolved and JBIMS declared shortlisted candidates. The petitioners’ advocates, Harpreet Hora and Amritpal Singh Khalsa, argued that the shortlist, initially of 200 candidates, was increased to 232. The judges noted that an interim order of August 11 stated that all steps/actions taken will be subject to court orders. They asked if the candidates were heard. “It is not one or two, but 192 complaints for an institute of your repute,’’ said Justice Kulkarni. JBMIS’ advocate said the institute had justified every action. “It is basically the candidate’s lack of knowledge on how to use the software,” he added. JBMIS director said software for the online test did not allow candidates to perform routine functions like surfing, making and receiving calls, WhatsApp and minimisation of screen. After three warnings, the test is automatically closed and submitted without allowing the student to go ahead with it. The brochure mentioned 200 eligible candidates, there were 232 candidates from all categories, and “this respondent thought it fit to allow all 232 students”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-seeks-jbims-reply-to-plea-on-discrepancies-in-admissions/articleshow/79048674.cms||Rosy Sequeira
November 5, 2020||Pune||Five in net on charge of robbing 2 garment shops||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Tuesday arrested five men on the charges of threatening and robbing two garment shop owners of clothes totally worth Rs25,000 at the Dehu Road market on November 1. The five men — Hrishikesh Adagale (20), Vijay Pillay (22), Albert Joseph (20), Atish Shinde (19) and Rahul Tak (20) — had robbed the shops on the pretext of purchasing clothes. On November 1, the men entered a garment shop owned by Trilok Harvandani and started looking for denim trousers and shirts. While the salesman was showing them the options, they threatened and robbed him of garments worth Rs10,000. The men then went to another store in the market, threatened the owner, Amit Kamble, and fled with garments worth Rs15,000. The panic-stricken traders have called for a “market bandh” on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-in-net-on-charge-of-robbing-2-garment-shops/articleshow/79049329.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Rajkot||Two detained in car with Rs 1.7Cr cash near Rajkot||Rajkot: Two persons were detained when Rs 1.73 crore cash was found from their car during vehicle checking on Rajkot-Ahmedabad Highway near Rajkot on Tuesday night. “We detained Jaideep Badarakia and Nilesh Untvadia who were coming to Rajkot from Wankaner. Their car was made to stop at the checkpost of Kherva village of Wankaner taluka. During the checking, we found Rs 1.73 crore cash kept in a bag on the rear seat of the car,” said M C Vala, inspector with Kuvadava Road police station.During their interrogation, the accused duo said that they had withdrawn the money from a bank and that the money was meant to be disbursed among farmers. “As they had no documentary proof to substantiate their claim, we seized the cash and informed the income tax department,” added Vala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-detained-in-car-with-rs-1-7cr-cash-near-rajkot/articleshow/79047881.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Chandigarh||AAP: Cong ‘theatrics’||Chandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday staged a protest against the Punjab’s Congress government, accusing chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh of indulging in ‘theatrics’ to mislead the farmers. AAP legislators led by party’s state president Bhagwant Mann and leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema staged the protest at the MLA Hostel. “Punjab is fighting laws passed by the Centre. Whether the farmers’ produce is procured by central government or state is immaterial, what matters is crops are procured as per MSP,” Mann said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-cong-theatrics/articleshow/79050772.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Two roads to be named after cops who lost their lives in line of duty||AGRA: In a bid to honour policemen who laid down their lives in line of duty, the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday issued notifications to name two roads in Agra after a CRPF Jawan and a UP Police constable. CRPF Jawan Kaushal Kumar Rawat died in Pulwama attack in February 2019 and UP Police constable Babloo Kumar was killed in ambush by Vikas Dubey gang in Kanpur in July 2020. Both of them were residents of Agra district. Following orders of the state government, the public works department (PWD) had sent a proposal to name roads leading to their house after them. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The 3.90km road connecting Kehrai village will be known as martyr Kaushal Kumar Rawat road. The 15km Fatehabad–Rihawali village will be known as martyr Babloo Kumar road. PWD will conduct maintenance works at both the stretches. Soon, boards mentioning new names of the roads will be placed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-roads-to-be-named-after-cops-who-lost-their-lives-in-line-of-duty/articleshow/79046829.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||City doc listed among world’s top scientists||Coimbatore: Noted orthopaedic surgeon S Rajasekaran has added another feather to his cap by finding a place in the list of world’s top scientists that was compiled by the Stanford University, USA.Rajasekaran, chairman, department of orthopaedic and spine surgery, Ganga Hospital in the city, has been listed among the top 2% of the world’s scientists in the database of one lakh scientists, whose work has had maximum impact in their respective fields, working in 21 different fields. “Only two surgeons in the field of orthopaedic science have been mentioned. I am happy that I am top on the list from our country and within the top 1% of the world’s scientists, who have contributed maximally in the field of orthopaedic surgery,” Rajasekaran said.The database of top global scientists was prepared by three scientists - John P A Ioannidis from the department of medicine, Stanford University, Kevin W Boyack of SciTech Strategies Inc, New Mexico, and Jeroen Baas, from Research Intelligence, Elsevier, Amsterdam. The report on the database was published in the journal Plos Biology.The scientists had used the data from Scopus, a database of peer reviewed scientific journals, and adopted six citation metrics to prepare the list. Scientists were classified into 22 scientific fields and 176 subfields.Rajasekaran’s research in the field of orthopaedic surgery mainly focussed on spinal infections, spinal deformity and low back pain. At least 227 international research papers by Rajasekaran were considered for the analysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-doc-listed-among-worlds-top-scientists/articleshow/79049334.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK starts working on poll manifesto, gathers inputs from western region||Coimbatore: The DMK leaders have been gathering inputs from representatives of various sectors in the western Tamil Nadu to prepare the party’s manifesto for the 2021 election.The manifesto committee, comprising senior leaders T R Baalu, Tiruchi N Siva, T K S Elangovan, Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan and Anthiyur Selvaraj, met the public in Tirupur on Wednesday.Representatives of various industrial and residents’ welfare associations said Tirupur needed government arts and engineering colleges, an ESI Hospital, better roads and flyovers, a unit to convert waste into manure, a 10km-long flyover across the Noyyal from Vanjipalayam to Kasipalayam and housing unit for garment unit workers.The industrial community urged that industrial electricity tariff should be applied for garment units and that subsidised power should be supplied for common effluent treatment plants. They also demanded waiver of Rs200 crore interest free loan granted for dyeing units for creating zero liquid discharge infrastructure.A day ago, T R Baalu and his manifesto team had held a similar meeting in Coimbatore, where they were urged to create a Coconut Welfare Board in Pollachi, restore Kousika river, establish industrial estates and reduce GST for pump sets from 18 to 5%, besides providing subsidised power for small industrial units.Representatives from the Nilgiris had sought the DMK to work for establishment of a research centre for potato and tea in that district and ensure better price for tea. The principal opposition party has been trying out all means to shore up its support base in the run up to the assembly polls, especially in the western region, which is considered as the AIADMK bastion. The DMK wants to accommodate all the demands and requirements of the people in western TN in its election promises. While the objective of the meetings with people from various walks of life is to gather inputs on the requirements, the DMK also considers this an opportunity to reach out to representatives of different sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-starts-working-on-poll-manifesto-gathers-inputs-from-western-region/articleshow/79049349.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ganjam pulls up socks to prevent second wave||Berhampur: The Ganjam district administration on Wednesday started the 10-day door-to-door health screening of people to identify Covid-19 patients. It is being done to prevent a possible second wave of Covid infections in the district. After screening the family, the health team is putting up stickers in each house as a proof of completion of the process. This is the 8th round of mega health screening being carried out in the district after the first Covid-19 case surfaced in the district on May 2. The survey will make people aware of preventing the disease and the importance of getting tested, said collector (Ganjam) Vijay Amruta Kulange. Forty teams with 120 personnel are undertaking the survey in areas under Berhampur Municipal Corporation. It might be extended by one of two days if all households are not covered, said commissioner of the corporation Siddheswar Baliram Bondare. He said health teams will also identify people with asthma and comorbidities. “We will provide utmost care to patients with kidney diseases, hypertension and asthma,” said Kulange. According to sources, frequent door-to-door survey to identify suspected cases and providing treatment to them was one of the causes for the decline in positive cases in the district that was badly affected in July and August when migrants returned home. Currently, the Covid-19 tally of the district stands at 21,293 with the detection of 33 new cases on Wednesday. So far, 230 people have died of the disease. There are 176 active cases while 20,879 have been cured till Wednesday noon. The district has a recovery rate of 98%, sources added. The district administration has decided to strictly enforce Covid-19 regulations, including “Pancha Sutra” or the five-point strategy, for the shopkeepers ahead of Diwali. Official teams will visit the market areas for the safety audits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ganjam-pulls-up-socks-to-prevent-second-wave/articleshow/79047879.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Pune||Trees pruned to mend visibility of sky signs||Pune: Residents from several areas in Pimpri Chinchwad as well as members of the NGO Angolichigoli have raised an alarm over the illegal chopping of branches and canopies of several trees all over the area. The residents claimed that trees in front of sky signs and hoardings were often pruned illegally to ensure visibility. According to tree lover Tanay Patekar, several trees that have been trimmed recently were also cut in a similar fashion early last year. “Last year, we had raised complaints about canopies of several trees being chopped off in Pimple Saudagar, Wakad, Hinjewadi, and other areas of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. The trees grew again over two monsoons. We recently noticed that several of those trees have been chopped again so that the billboards located behind them are visible. Despite several e-mails to authorities, no firm action has been taken,” he stated. Madhav Patil, a member of NGO Angolichigoli, said, “Tree lovers have often raised this issue to no avail. On some occasions, the PCMC personnel ask us for details about the persons chopping the trees to take action. Isn’t it their job to find out who is responsible and take action? We have already approached the civic administration. We are also going to meet the police authorities to seek action against those involved in the illegal chopping.” Prakash Gaikwad from PCMC’s tree authority said, “We have come across 40 trees that were chopped off recently and we conducted panchnama on Tuesday followed by filing of cases against the owners of the hoardings. There are eight locations where we could not identify the owner of the hoarding and we have sought details from the sky sign department so that we can send them notices.” Another official from the civic body said that despite seeking suspension of license of advertising agencies that are engaged in such illegal chopping of trees, no action is taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trees-pruned-to-mend-visibility-of-sky-signs/articleshow/79049362.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt bus rams bike fallen on road, catches fire; none hurt||Krishnagiri: Passengers of a government bus had a narrow escape after the vehicle caught fire after ramming a bike, which had fell on the road after the rider lost control over it, near Burgur here in the early hours of Wednesday. The bike rider had earlier succumbed to his injuries on the spot.According to the Burgur police, V Parivallal, 30, of Vaniyambadi in Tirupathur district, who was heading to Bengaluru with his friend A Vignesh, 27, of Ambur, had lost control over his bike when they neared Poomalai Nagar near Burgur on Chennai-Bengaluru national highway and fallen down.“Meanwhile, the government bus that was attached to Villupuram division, reached there and its driver M Ravichandran, 46, rammed the bike without noticing it. The bus dragged the bike for some distance and the two-wheeler’s petrol tank caught fire, which immediately spread to the bus. Fire soon engulfed the bus. The passengers, however, managed to get down from the bus,” a police officer said.When alerted, fire and rescue services rushed to the spot and put out the fire after an hour’s struggle.The Burgur police sent Vignesh, who was battling for his life, to the government hospital in Krishnagiri town. His friend’s dead body was also sent to the same hospital for postmortem.Police have registered a case and initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-bus-rams-bike-fallen-on-road-catches-fire-none-hurt/articleshow/79049371.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala University of Health Sciences cancels exam over leak of question paper||THRISSUR: Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) cancelled the third year BSc Nursing examination conducted on Wednesday after it was found that the question paper was leaked. According to KUHS vice-chancellor Dr Mohanan Kunnummal, it was the first time that KUHS faced a question paper leak incident and cancelled the examination. KUHS will fix a date for conducting the cancelled examination. The incident was reported to police cyber wing for detailed probe, he said. The examination started at 9:30am, and a copy of the question paper was seen circulating in a WhatsApp group around 10:30am on Wednesday. Students are supposed to enter the hall at 9am and the question papers, reaching each centre online, will only be printed after that. Students can leave the hall only after 12.30pm even if they complete answering questions. “So there is no chance of the question paper going out of the examination hall under normal circumstances,” said Dr V Unnikrishnan, acting controller of examination of KUHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kuhs-cancels-exam-over-leak-of-question-paper/articleshow/79047896.cms||T Ramavarman
November 5, 2020||Rajkot||Farmhand held for raping 12-year-old girl||RAJKOT: A farmhand was detained on Wednesday on allegations of raping a 12-year-old girl in Lusala village of Vanthali taluka in Junagadh district on November 1. This is the second incident of rape on a minor girl in Vanthali. Police said accused Narsing Naika (29), allegedly coaxed the survivor to come with him to a godown on the outskirts of Lusala village, where he allegedly assaulted her sexually. The girl, who stayed in the godown throughout the night, returned to her home the next day morning, while the accused fled after committing the crime, said cops. “Naika, who is married, has three children. The girl, whose mother expired years ago, confided her sordid tale to her father who lodged the complaint against Naika,” said B K Chawda, sub-inspector with Vanthali police station. The accused was arrested from the farm where he was working. “Naika will be formally arrested once he undergoes the mandatory Covid-19 test,” said Chawda. On Thursday, 19-year-old Akshay Solanki was arrested for raping a 10-year-old girl after luring her to his house in Santhalpur Dhal locality on Lions Nagar Road of Vanthali. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmhand-held-for-raping-12-year-old-girl/articleshow/79047890.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Cop arrested in Madurai for sexually abusing 8-yr-old girl||MADURAI: A police constable was arrested in Madurai district on Tuesday on charges of sexually harassing an eight-year-old girl. Sathish Kumar, attached to the Silaiman police station, is from Angadimangalam village. Police said that he touched the girl, hailing from the same village, inappropriately on Tuesday. As the girl raised an alarm, her relatives rushed to her rescue. On seeing the people, Kumar ran away. Based on a complaint, the Silaiman police registered a case. Karuppayurani police inspector (in-charge of Silaiman station) Madasamy said the constable was booked under sections 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act for touching the private parts of the child. In another incident, a 23-year-old man was arrested in Madurai for marrying and raping a minor girl. The accused has been identified as S Dhanapandi of Anaikulam near Sholavandan. Social welfare department officials received an alert that a marriage was conducted for a 15-year-old girl from Tirupur district. M Krishnaveni, an extension officer of the social welfare department from Vadipatti, conducted an inquiry. It was found that the marriage was held on October 23. As the girl has not turned 18, she was shifted to a home. She was taken to hospital for a medical checkup when it came to light that the girl was raped by the accused. Based on a complaint filed by Krishnaveni, the Sholavandan police registered a case under sections of the Child Marriage Act and Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cop-arrested-in-madurai-for-sexually-abusing-8-yr-old-girl/articleshow/79051491.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||Protesters booked for midnight agitation||MARGAO: The Maina Curtorim police on Wednesday booked an offence against all the people (mostly unidentified) gathered at Chandor for a midnight protest against double tracking of the South Western Railway (SWR) route on Sunday. They have been booked for forming unlawful assembly and rioting under sections 143 and 147 of the Indian Penal Code. The police have named Goyant Kollso Naka (GKN) and its co-convenor Abhijit Prabhudesai, Goencho Ekvott and others in the FIR. Prabhudesai, speaking to reporters, said that holding protests to safeguard public interests was a constitutional right and that the police action of booking offences against them wouldn’t deter them from continuing with their agitation. Large number of protestors had converged in front of the Chandor church late Sunday night, who later marched to the railway tracks in a bid to thwart any attempt by the Railways to begin double tracking work by closing the level crossing. A section of the protestors had also laid siege to the police outpost, located metres away from the level crossing, for several hours — where deputy collector Jyoti Kumari was present — demanding that she address the protestors. Squatting on railway tracks, the protestors kept a night-long candle light vigil, and dispersed only at 5am on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/protesters-booked-for-midnight-agitation/articleshow/79050774.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets Rs244cr from Centre to fight pollution for 5 years||Mumbai: The Rs 396.5 crore allotted to Maharashtra by the Centre to fight air pollution will be spent over the next five years to strengthen pollution control infrastructure and better air quality monitoring mechanism. Maharashtra has six cities (Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Nashik, Pune) in the list to receive funds to improve air quality under National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), which aims to reduce by 20-30% PM 2.5 (respirable, pollution particles) concentrations in over 100 cities compared to 2017 levels. The allotment to Maharashtra is the largest share from Rs 2,200 crore to all states. Mumbai received Rs 244 crore, followed by Pune (Rs 67 crore), Nagpur (Rs 33 crore), Nashik (Rs 20.5 crore), Aurangabad and Vasai-Virar (Rs 16 crore each). While Aurangabad, Mumbai, Nashik, Nagpur and Pune are among 18 non-attainment cities from the state, Vasai-Virar were included for funds as a city with a population of over one million. Maharashtra Pollution Control Board said the funds will used to spruce up framework and policy infrastructure, conduct source-wise cause analysis of air pollution, implement the action plan for non-attainment cities and annually quantify air quality improvement. “This is 50% of Rs 793 crore sanctioned for the state. Extensive work will be carried to understand the source of pollutions in the cities and monitor how well the measures are working. We will also strengthen the monitoring network by increasing manual monitors by 126 and continuous air quality monitoring stations by 87,” said MPCB joint director V M Motghare. The state has 79 manual monitors and 23 CAQMS now. MPCB will also work on control of vehicular emissions, road dust, biomass burning, control of industrial pollution and move to LPG. “While quantifying improvement for all cities, a percentage reduction would be needed to be achieved. Urban local bodies will be given funds based on performance,” said Motghare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gets-rs244cr-from-centre-to-fight-pollution-for-5-years/articleshow/79048680.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
November 5, 2020||Hubballi||DPI starts preparing for transfer of teachers||DHARWAD: Amid prevailing uncertainty over the resumption of normal operations in schools, authorities in the north-west zone of the department of public instruction (DPI) are preparing in the earnest for the impending transfer of government schoolteachers. The officials are keen on ensuring that the process is transparent and is completed within a month. The northwest zone covers Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Uttara Kannada, Sirsi, Belagavi, Chikkodi, Bagalkot and Vijayaputa educational districts. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Wednesday interacted with senior officials, in addition to the joint directors and deputy directors of public instruction in the zone via video conference to discuss the modalities of the transfer process. The Karnataka State Civil Services (regulation of transfer of teachers) Rules, 2007 had first been amended in 2017, but fierce opposition to the amended guidelines compelled the government to amend the rules again in 2020. Highlighting the key changes made to the rules this year, additional commissioner for DPI (northwest zone) Major Siddalingayya Hiremath told TOI, “The three zones – A, B and C – have been redefined, while we have also clarified rules pertaining to teachers exempted from transfer.” Teachers who had served in a specific zone for three years will be eligible to seek a transfer once the department issued a notification, said Hiremath. The amended rules cap the percentage of teachers: Not more than 7% of the teachers will be transferred within the same educational district, while the upper limit on transfer within the same zone is 4%. Only 2% of the teachers within an educational district will be transferred to another within the same division, and only as many will be transferred outside the division. Hiremath added that the department was also working on redeployment of sanctioned posts within educational districts, following the completion of which process, vacancies would be notified within a week. He added the department would, in due time, notify the list of teachers to be transferred, invite applications online from those seeking transfer and subsequently publish a list of those exempted from compulsory transfer. “The amended rules do not allow for teachers with fewer than five years of service to apply for mutual transfer,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dpi-starts-preparing-for-transfer-of-teachers/articleshow/79046906.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
November 5, 2020||Mysuru||Odisha woman held for cheating pawn broker||MYSURU: A woman from Odisha was arrested on the charges of cheating a pawn broker by obtaining a loan of Rs 1 lakh after mortgaging fake gold bangles in August. Her paramour from Chhattisgarh too is now cooling his heels in jail. Police are verifying their antecedents to check their involvement in other similar crimes. Sangeetha Das (40) of Bhubaneswar, Odisha, and her lover Mosin Khan of Chhattisgarh, were arrested near Srirangapanta, Mysuru city police stated adding that they have seized about Rs 35,000 from the duo. KR police station inspector Srinivas said Sangeetha and Mosin visited a pawnbroker shop at Tyagaraja Road in Agrahara with fake bangles asking for a mortgage loan in late August. She pleaded for a Rs 1 lakh loan from the owner Bhagavathi Jain, a senior citizen, claiming her son is hospitalised and she is in bad need of money. The unsuspecting pawn broker handed over Rs 1 lakh, but a day later, he grew suspicious and took the bangles to a computerized centre to verify its purity only to discover he had been cheated, police said. Sangeetha Das, an MBA graduate, had given the pawnbroker a fake Aadhaar card that had details of a student from Pandavapura. She had affixed her photo over the card and taken a colour xerox of it. The only clue police had were this photo and the phone number, said cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/odisha-woman-held-for-cheating-pawn-broker/articleshow/79047450.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Amaravati||APSCHE nixes permissions of 12 colleges in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has withdrawn permissions of 12 private colleges under the jusrisdiction of Andhra University (AU) for either having less than 25% of required admissions or for not obtaining affiliation during the last three years. Several undergraduate programmes across various colleges in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram also saw their permissions revoked by APSCHE. The council had served show-cause notices to 42 affiliated colleges under AU before cancelling permissions for non-compliance to the conditions. The colleges had been asked to give an explaination within a stipulated time. While managements of several colleges appeared with their supporting documents before the committee set up by the APSCHE, the 12 colleges had abstained from the process. The APSCHE, in its notices to some of the colleges, mentioned that the competent authority had accorded provisional permission to them to provide access to higher education to all sections of society and improve the gross enrolment ration after identifying the need in the locality. However, the colleges had less than 25% admissions under the sanctioned intake in the last years and denied access to quality higher education, as per the notices. AU vice-chancellor Professor PVGD Prasad Reddy said the decision will not impact existing students in these colleges. “Any withdrawal will not affect earlier admissions. Several MBA and MCA colleges withdrew their permissions voluntarily over the years,” he said. This year, the APSCHE has also deferred processing of proposals for sanction of new or additional undergraduate and post-graduate programmes due to the pandemic. This includes change of medium, conversions and withdrawal of courses. It is viewed that the processing of applications, inspections and rectification of deficiencies may not be possible before the commencement of the new academic year due to a lack of time, a possible spread of Covid-19, and other priority works which have to be attended to. The proposals are likely to be considered for the ensuing academic year, AY2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/12-colleges-under-au-see-permissions-nixed/articleshow/79056933.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||HC orders status quo on distribution of temple land parcels||Vijayawada: The AP high court on Wednesday questioned the state government over the distribution of temple land parcels for house sites to the poor. The court, after hearing a public interest litigation, said “anything can happen in your state”, referring to the government pleader. Temple lands have become easy targets for the government to acquire, it observed. One Kottakota Balakrishna, president of Sri Durga Bhavani Seva Sangham from Gumpam village under Pusapatirega mandal in Vizianagaram district, moved the PIL in the high court, seeking directions to stall all further proceedings by the district administration to distribute house sites in an extent of 0.51 acres of land belonging to the temple. He contended that taking temple land for distribution of house sites under Navaratnalu-Pedalandiriki Illu scheme is illegal and arbitrary. Arguing on behalf of the petitioner, advocate T Nageswara Rao told the court that the revenue records clearly show that the lands belong to the temple and the government cannot distribute house sites on the said land parcel. The government pleader said that the land in question is actually government land but under the occupation of the temple. He sought time to file a detailed counter affidavit. The bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi observed that the revenue records suggest that the land belongs to the temple. The bench questioned as to how the government could distribute temple lands like that. Directing to maintain status quo on the land in question, the court asked the government to file a detailed counter affidavit within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-orders-status-quo-on-distribution-of-temple-land-parcels/articleshow/79047665.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Gun used for killing leopard recovered||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A week after a leopard was shot dead in the Gudalur forest division, forest department officials on Wednesday seized a rifle from a tea plantation. “We found a rifle packed in a gunny bag, which was hidden in a tea bush close to the bungalow of the manager of Parry Agro estate,” district forest officer Sumesh Soman said. The five -year-old male leopard was found dead in Parry Agro Tea field in Athimanagar on October 27. While several injuries were found on its head, chest and stomach, the officials noticed a fresh wound on the left hind thigh of the animal. During postmortem, a bullet was removed from the wound and a case under the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 was registered. The rifle was handed over to the local magistrate. The DFO informed the estate authorities about the development. “An investigation is on. We are looking for the estate manager,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gun-used-for-killing-leopard-recovered/articleshow/79049394.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||Coal protests: Congress to hold rally at Lohia Maidan on Saturday||PANAJI: Congress will organise a public meeting on November 7 at 4pm to exert pressure on the state government and convince chief minister Pramod Sawant that the three major infrastructure projects coming up in the protected forests in Mollem should be cancelled. Organised under a neutral banner, the Congress said it seeks to unite NGOs and environmental activists who have criticised the attempts to enhance coal transportation through Goa. Former chief minister Digambar Kamat and Pratapsingh Rane spoke out against the government’s reluctance to heed people’s protests, and said that attempts to enhance coal transportation despite opposition from locals smacked of arrogance. “The greenery of Goa under no circumstances should be demolished as it has been protected and given to us by our forefathers,” said Rane, who rarely addresses press conferences. The party said that it has always respected the sentiments of the people and cancelled its own decisions after citizens raised objections. “We demand that when people oppose something, the BJP government must be ready to hear what the people say. On November 7, at Lohia Maidan we have called for a public meeting and at this meeting, we invite all the NGOs, activists to attend this meeting,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. The party said it wanted the meeting to be a neutral event and would not organise the meeting under the Congress banner. Chodankar also accused Sawant of trying to give the ongoing protests a communal twist by blaming just one community. “If we destroy the greenery, tourism will be destroyed. Already we have lost mining. If we are going to build highways, double tracking and other mega projects in the national parks and wildlife sanctuaries then nothing will be left. We should not allow these blatant way of cutting forests,” said Rane. The Congress has supported the ongoing agitation in the state against the Tamnar Power Transmission line, South Western Railway’s double tracking project and the widening of the national highway. The Congress party accused the state of bowing down to the wishes of the Centre in order to please the “crony capitalist friends” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Responding to power minister Nilesh Cabral’s statement that the state will take written assurance from the Centre that coal movement through Goa would not increase, Chodankar said that the BJP has made similar assurances in the past. “We have seen a lot of letters in the past and even former chief minister Manohar Parrikar wrote a lot of letters like for Mhadei. A lot of letters were written on mining too. Nothing happened. The BJP is known for such lies,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coal-protests-cong-to-hold-rally-at-lohia-maidan-on-saturday/articleshow/79050780.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||HC to resume capital plea hearings tomorrow||Vijayawada: The high court on Wednesday posted the hearing on a batch of petitions filed challenging the trifurcation of the capital to Friday. Senior counsel Shyam Diwan concluded his arguments by placing reliance of various judgements of the Supreme Court. He argued that the decision of the state government is arbitrary, unconstitutional and in violation of fundamental rights of farmers who gave away their lands for the development of capital at Amaravati. Diwan, representing Rajadhani Rythu Parirakshana Samiti, argued for three days in a row citing numerous judgments of the apex court in support of his arguments. As the arguments on the petition concluded, the high court posted hearing on other petitions to Friday and asked Diwan to submit his oral arguments in written form also. Meanwhile, CPI-M has filed an affidavit before the high court opposing the trifurcation of the capital. P Madhu, state secretary of the party, stated in the affidavit that the government’s decision to decentralise the capital is arbitrary, unconstitutional and contrary to the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act. Madhu said the Union government, through the AP Reorganisation Act, decided on Hyderabad as the common capital for AP and Telangana for a period of 10 years. The Centre also appointed Sivaramakrishnan committee to decide a suitable location for the capital of the residuary state of Andhra Pradesh post bifurcation. Consequently, Amaravati was chosen as capital and the same was notified by the state and the Centre. He said the Union government cannot escape from its responsibility of fulfilling its promises made in the Reorganisation Act, including special category status promised to AP in Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-to-resume-capital-plea-hearings-tomorrow/articleshow/79047679.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 5, 2020||Vadodara||Bank’s ATMs tampered 165 times since Sept 10, over Rs 16L withdrawn||Vadodara: Canara Bank has fallen prey to manipulating fraudsters who have fidgeted with its automated teller machines (ATM) a record 165 times since September 10 and withdrawn Rs 15.7 lakh so far. An offence of theft and another under Information Technology Act was registered at Manjalpur police station by the manager of the bank’s branch near Vadsar bridge who approached police in connection with the series of burglar attacks. The ATM centres of Canara Bank near Vadsar bridge and Makarpura have been targeted, said police adding that the accused would visit the centre to withdraw money using a card at first and when the machine dispenses cash, they either try to open the box lock of the ATM or switch off the machine and turn it on immediately. The cash is removed but the machine cancels the transaction, said cops. “The machine is programmed in a way that if someone tries to fidget with it, it cancels the transaction even if it is at cash dispensation stage,” said a police official. Due to this modus operandi, while the cash is withdrawn, the money is not debited from the account as the transaction is cancelled. “The accused will continue to have the money in his account even if he has taken the cash from the machine,” the cop added. The branch manager learnt about it when the bank’s head office in Bengaluru reported about suspicious transactions. When the footage of CCTV camera was checked, it was found that some persons try to either open the box lock or switch off the machine when the cash is being dispensed. At Makarpura branch 68 such transactions were also detected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/banks-atms-tampered-165-times-since-sept-10-over-rs-16l-withdrawn/articleshow/79048762.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Rajkot||Shankar Chaudhary elected Banas Dairy chairman||Palanpur: Former minister and cooperative sector leader, Shankar Chaudhary, was unanimously elected the chairman of Banas Dairy, Asia’s largest dairy having a turnover of nearly Rs 12,000 crore. Bhavabhai Rabari was elected he vice-chairman in the recently held elections. Chaudhary earlier proved his stronghold by leading his panel of members to win all the 16 seats of the Banas Dairy dairy board unopposed last month. The dairy is the lifeline of cattle breeders of Banaskantha and Patan. Talking to TOI, Chaudhary said his priorities include reduction in milk production cost, increasing productivity and improve milk quality. “The Rs 400 crore Sanadar dairy project which is under construction will be completed in one-and-a-half years . When fully functional, the second project will produce milk, mava, icecream, paneer and other milk products,” he said. The new plant will also create job opportunity and boost employment in the rural border district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/shankar-chaudhary-elected-banas-dairy-chairman/articleshow/79047924.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Methaqualone worth Rs 12 lakh found in footwear||BENGALURU: In the second case of Methaqualone seizure at the cargo wing of Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in less than two months, Bangalore customs have found Rs 12 lakh worth of the banned sedative concealed inside a pair of slippers imported from the West African Republic of Benin. An Equatorial Guinea national, who imported the footwear with the drug hidden in it, was arrested on Tuesday night. Sources with the Cargo Intelligence Unit (CIU) of Bangalore customs said the parcel containing a variety of slippers, reached KIA on a cargo plane on October 28. Following scanning at the terminal, customs sleuths noticed a powdery substance inside the base of one of the pairs. “We cut open the slippers to find a white powdered substance. A lab examination determined it was Methaqualone, which is used as a recreational drug,” said an investigating officer. Further probe revealed the imported parcel was booked in the name of one Luke Ampara. The investigators reached out to the suspect on the pretext of delivering the parcel shipped from Benin. “...When the African national came to a location in Horamavu Agara, we picked him up after ascertaining that he had illegally imported the drugs through an aide in the West African country,” the officer added. Customs officials identified the suspect as Amarla Oliver Benson Uba,38, an Equatorial Guinea passport holder and resident of Bengaluru for a while now. He had used a fake identity to smuggle in the substance through air cargo for possible sale and distribution in Bengaluru. He was booked for narcotics smuggling and sent to Central Jail, Parappana Agrahara, on Wednesday, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/methaqualone-worth-rs-12-lakh-found-in-footwear/articleshow/79048472.cms||Petlee Peter
November 5, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Students to attempt self-sustainable model of agriculture||HUBBALLI: Students of the Karnataka State Rural Development Panchayat Raj University (KSRDPU) in Gadag are experimenting organic and self-sustainable model of agriculture at their new campus. The experiment with least or zero investment is being conducted at the six acre plot of the university in an attempt to attract farmers of the district to natural farming. In the first phase, 10 branches of the university have been allocated 20 guntas of the land each in the six acres of land. “The department students under the guidance of their heads will do the organic and self-sustainable model of agriculture, and the initiative has been named as ‘ Demonstrable, sustainable, scalable initiative’ (DESSI),” said varsity vice-chancellor Vishnukanth Chatpalli. “Agricultural activities play a significant role in the development of rural areas, but due to various factors farming has lost sustainability, be it excessive use of pesticides or climate change. Earlier, farmers could fulfil his 90% of the requirement through farming, but that’s not the case now. Under the project, the allotted piece of land will be an experimental ground for them to learn about all aspects of farming,” he said. “Development of rural areas is possible only when the farmer turns towards natural and sustainable model of farming. To make farmers self-reliant, a comprehensive farming practice should be adopted. Our students will do the experiment and show the results. Based on the outcomes, the idea will explained to the farmers in Gadag,” said Chatpalli. The VC added that all the department heads, students and staff will harvest crops grown using indigenous seeds, including medicinal plants, vegetables, millets, and spices. “The objective behind this initiative is to attract farmers towards desi farming,” added the professor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/students-to-attempt-self-sustainable-model-of-agriculture/articleshow/79046588.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Model leaves colleague on road, flees with Rs 3 lakh, mobiles||BENGALURU: A 30-year-old model sped away with cash worth Rs 3 lakh and two mobile phones belonging to a colleague from Mumbai after asking the latter to get down from her car to get a blanket from the trunk. This happened near Satellite Bus Station on Mysuru Road, Byatarayanapura in the wee hours of Monday. Navi Mumbai resident and model Rupa Rizaul Sheik has lodged a complaint against her friend Suphiya aka Maya. Rupa told police she had earned Rs 3 lakh from modelling assignments after arriving in Bengaluru 15 days ago. She was staying in a hotel in central business district. “My friend Chandini introduced Suphiya to me recently. Suphiya promised me a modelling assignment for Rs 70,000, apart from other benefits. She called me around 10am on Sunday and asked me to vacate the hotel room, telling me I could stay with her in her rental house in Suddaguntepalya. She sent a cab and I vacated the room,” Rupa stated in her complaint. Later, Rupa requested Suphiya to take her to an ATM kiosk to deposit cash. “She told me to rest for a while. I asked her again around 8pm and she suggested we have dinner first. Suphiya took me out around 12am to deposit the money. She drove for at least two hours and finally stopped the vehicle in front of Satellite Bus Station near Byatarayanapura. With a clear intention of cheating me, Suphiya asked me to take out a blanket from her car trunk. I left my bag containing cash and two mobiles inside the car and got down. Suphiya sped away as soon as I stepped out,” Rupa stated in the complaint. Byatarayanapura police have taken up a case of cheating against Suphiya. They found she had vacated her house in Suddaguntepalya. “We have asked her landlord to furnish details about Suphiya. We are making efforts to trace her,” an investigating officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/model-leaves-colleague-on-road-flees-with-rs-3l-mobiles/articleshow/79048447.cms||Santosh kumar.B
November 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Ugandan woman walks free as NCB fails to prove her guilt||BENGALURU: A special court for NDPS cases has acquitted a 31-year-old Ugandan woman in a case pertaining to smuggling of drugs from Abu Dhabi to Bengaluru. Moureen Nisha Namara, 31, is from Kampala, Uganda. Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) sleuths had arrested her on May 2, 2018 from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) for allegedly carrying 1,790 grams of cocaine hidden in soap and shampoo containers. However, the prosecution failed to prove her guilt due to absence of corroborating evidence. The raiding party couldn’t reveal who all were part of the raid and who brought the seized bag to the air intelligence office. There were contradictory statements about attendance of the raiding party. The prosecution claimed NCB sleuths received information about a woman from Uganda arriving at KIA via a 3.15am flight on May 1, 2018. The information was shared with the superintendent and permission was obtained to conduct a raid. The communication was done through emails. But, the prosecution didn’t place these email communications as evidence before the court. Considering these loopholes, the court gave the accused the benefit of doubt and acquitted her. NCB claimed it detained Namara around 3.30am when she deboarded. The sleuths said they searched Namara’s baggage and found 900 grams cocaine in soap, 490 grams in shampoo and 400 grams in a pouch. She was arrested the next day following preliminary investigation. Namara was in jail from the day of her arrest till the judgment was pronounced on Monday. “In the absence of corroborating evidence, the testimony of prosecution witnesses can’t be reliable to prove the guilt of the accused. Many contradictions and discrepancies have been found. No link in the chain was found in the circumstantial evidence. A serious doubt arises in the mind of the court on whether the accused has committed the offence...The prosecution has utterly failed to prove guilt beyond reasonable doubt,” noted GM Sheenappa, special judge, NDPS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ugandan-woman-walks-free-as-ncb-fails-to-prove-her-guilt/articleshow/79048486.cms||Santosh kumar.B
November 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||APSCHE nixes permissions of 12 colleges in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has withdrawn permissions of 12 private colleges under the jusrisdiction of Andhra University (AU) for either having less than 25% of required admissions or for not obtaining affiliation during the last three years. Several undergraduate programmes across various colleges in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram also saw their permissions revoked by APSCHE. The council had served show-cause notices to 42 affiliated colleges under AU before cancelling permissions for non-compliance to the conditions. The colleges had been asked to give an explaination within a stipulated time. While managements of several colleges appeared with their supporting documents before the committee set up by the APSCHE, the 12 colleges had abstained from the process. The APSCHE, in its notices to some of the colleges, mentioned that the competent authority had accorded provisional permission to them to provide access to higher education to all sections of society and improve the gross enrolment ration after identifying the need in the locality. However, the colleges had less than 25% admissions under the sanctioned intake in the last years and denied access to quality higher education, as per the notices. AU vice-chancellor Professor PVGD Prasad Reddy said the decision will not impact existing students in these colleges. “Any withdrawal will not affect earlier admissions. Several MBA and MCA colleges withdrew their permissions voluntarily over the years,” he said. This year, the APSCHE has also deferred processing of proposals for sanction of new or additional undergraduate and post-graduate programmes due to the pandemic. This includes change of medium, conversions and withdrawal of courses. It is viewed that the processing of applications, inspections and rectification of deficiencies may not be possible before the commencement of the new academic year due to a lack of time, a possible spread of Covid-19, and other priority works which have to be attended to. The proposals are likely to be considered for the ensuing academic year, AY2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/12-colleges-under-au-see-permissions-nixed/articleshow/79047619.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||APSCHE nixes permissions of 12 colleges in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has withdrawn permissions of 12 private colleges under the jusrisdiction of Andhra University (AU) for either having less than 25% of required admissions or for not obtaining affiliation during the last three years. Several undergraduate programmes across various colleges in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram also saw their permissions revoked by APSCHE. The council had served show-cause notices to 42 affiliated colleges under AU before cancelling permissions for non-compliance to the conditions. The colleges had been asked to give an explaination within a stipulated time. While managements of several colleges appeared with their supporting documents before the committee set up by the APSCHE, the 12 colleges had abstained from the process. The APSCHE, in its notices to some of the colleges, mentioned that the competent authority had accorded provisional permission to them to provide access to higher education to all sections of society and improve the gross enrolment ration after identifying the need in the locality. However, the colleges had less than 25% admissions under the sanctioned intake in the last years and denied access to quality higher education, as per the notices. AU vice-chancellor Professor PVGD Prasad Reddy said the decision will not impact existing students in these colleges. “Any withdrawal will not affect earlier admissions. Several MBA and MCA colleges withdrew their permissions voluntarily over the years,” he said. This year, the APSCHE has also deferred processing of proposals for sanction of new or additional undergraduate and post-graduate programmes due to the pandemic. This includes change of medium, conversions and withdrawal of courses. It is viewed that the processing of applications, inspections and rectification of deficiencies may not be possible before the commencement of the new academic year due to a lack of time, a possible spread of Covid-19, and other priority works which have to be attended to. The proposals are likely to be considered for the ensuing academic year, AY2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/12-colleges-under-au-see-permissions-nixed/articleshow/79056937.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Case diary says actresses used, sold drugs: HC||BENGALURU: Actress Ragini Dwivedi allegedly consumed cocaine on her birthday with her friend Ravi Shankar and offered to sell it to a witness at Rs 5,000 per gram and her colleague Sanjjanaa Galrani is said to have accepted Rs 3 lakh from another witness in return for drugs, the high court said. It was citing from the case diary maintained by investigating police, while rejecting the bail petitions of the two women and other accused in the case on Wednesday. “The case diary produced by the prosecution discloses many facets, not only of consumption but also the purpose of arranging the parties with a view to facilitating the supply and sale of drug. Regular contact with peddlers by some of the accused is diagrammatically depicted... the investigating officer has also seized certain quantities of drugs and electronic gadgets from the accused during investigation,” Justice Srinivas Harish Kumar noted in his order. According to the judge, substance abuse is a bothersome brutality dangerously affecting the young. “The ill effect of this substance not just costs the physical and psychological abilities of an individual but spreads a dark shadow on the future of the society. The courts should not remain oblivious to this malady even while deciding application for bail," the judge further observed. While rejecting the anticipatory bail petiitons of three other suspects, he said an applicant must make a case that his arrest is unreasonable, is intended to fix him in a false case and the allegations against him are unfounded. "If anticipatory bail is sought in the background of accusation of committing offences having adverse implication on the society, discretion must be exercised with great circumspection to strike balance between personal liberty of a person and the interest of society,” the judge noted. Rhea case not applicable Regarding petitioners citing the judgment in Rhea Chakraborty Vs. The Union of India case, the judge said they have only quoted the paragraph that is convenient to them. “There is no denying that bail was granted to the accused in that case, but it was based on factual circumstances. What the Bombay High Court has held is quite contrary to the point urged by learned counsel,” the judge added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/case-diary-says-actresses-used-sold-drugs-hc/articleshow/79048657.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala moves to clip CBI’s wings||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala has jumped on the bandwagon of non-BJP-ruled states that have withdrawn the ‘general consent’ for the CBI to function in their respective jurisdictions. Maharashtra, which issued a similar order last month, was the last state to do so. The state cabinet took the decision on Wednesday. Hereafter, CBI can only investigate cases in Kerala after consulting and getting due consent of the state government. The state’s decision however cannot prevent the agency from taking up court-sanctioned cases. A formal order in this regard will be issued on Thursday, sources said. It has been decided to withdraw the notification based on the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act of 1946 which gave the central agency power to conduct investigations in the state. The CBI had powers to suo motu take up cases in the state. The state government will issue an executive order withdrawing the general consent. However, this will also not affect ongoing investigations. The immediate provocation was the CBI probe into the Life Mission project, a flagship programme of the CPM-led government. The investigation was initiated based on a complaint filed by Congress MLA Anil Akkara, who represents Wadakkancherry constituency. The agency had summoned the chief executive officer of Life Mission and other officials based on the complaint. This had irked the state government. The probe was launched after names of key accused in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling scandal popped up in connection with the project in Wadakkancherry. There were reports of the project getting foreign funding and that the main links in the smuggling racket had landed a commission on the project. However, the high court had issued an interim stay on CBI’s probe into the scandal. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had himself come down heavily on the CBI, alleging it of crossing boundaries by interfering with policy decisions of the state government. The CPM is of the view that the Centre is using central agencies for its political ends. The party politburo had earlier urged state governments to withdraw the general consent given to the CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-moves-to-clip-cbis-wings/articleshow/79048092.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: 278 perinatal deaths between Jan & Aug this year||VISAKHAPATNAM: Perinatal deaths — deaths of babies immediately or within a week after birth — is at a staggering high as per the death registry at the King George Hospital (KGH), the largest tertiary hospital of north coastal AP. This year, between January and August, saw 278 deaths due to conditions originating in the perinatal period and accounts for 10% of all deaths due to various reasons. Last year, 67 such deaths were recorded accounting for 6% of total deaths. On an average, 35 deaths of newborns have been reported every month this year, mainly due to various congenital and maternal health issues. March had the highest number of deaths with 47, followed by June (45 deaths) and February (40 deaths). This year, as per hospital records, such deaths account for the third-most prominent cause of mortality after deaths due to cardiovascular and respiratory ailments. Explaining the causes of perinatal deaths, AMC-KGH department of community medicine professor, Dr Y Padmasri said, “Pre-term or premature births and low birth weight are the chief causes of neonatal deaths. It is often aggravated by maternal ill health and malnutrition. Congenital birth defect is another factor.” Apart from these causes, as per gynaecologists, respiratory distress during delivery, infections and pregnancy-related complications are among the other causes of perinatal deaths. The death registry is maintained by AMC-KGH as part of National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR) project. The data has been collected through electronic mortality software (e-Mor) for this two-year project, which will conclude this month. Dr Padmasri added that the information on perinatal and institutional deaths is not conclusive. “It is an ongoing project, the reports are based on death certificates. We have been sensitising medical staff to accurately record the underlying causes of death. This year, the Covid-19 pandemic has also hampered the classification. So, there might be some variations in the number of deaths,” the doctor said. As per the e-Mortality Software (NCDIR e-Mor) data between January and August this year, 2,732 deaths have taken place in KGH of which 657 deaths were due to cardiovascular diseases which accounts for 24% of the deaths. Diseases of the respiratory system, which led to 373 deaths account for 13.6% of total deaths while 278 deaths (10%) have been attributed to certain conditions in the foetus or origination in the perinatal period among newborns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/278-perinatal-deaths-between-jan-aug-this-yr/articleshow/79047515.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||State govt plans to make AP beggar-free state||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government is planning to make Andhra Pradesh a beggar-free state. If the plan proves to be successful, it could address the issue of begging rackets in which many gangs kidnap children and force them into begging. AP ranks third in the country in having the most number of beggars, after West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. This was revealed in the Lok Sabha by the social justice minister two years ago. As of now, the number of beggars in the state is estimated to be around 1.5 lakh. As per police records, nearly 30,000 children disappear in India every year. Most of them are kidnapped and forced to work as beggars for organised criminal gangs or groups. A proposal was recently sent to the government to address the issue by providing shelter and proper employment to beggars by providing them skill development training. As per the proposal, the authorities would identify the beggars and divide them into categories by age and gender. Children would be shifted to government-run hostels while the physically disabled and aged people would be sent to shelter homes. “The proposal is at discussion stage. There are so many corporates and companies in AP who spend crores of rupees through their corporate social responsibility programmes. This programme can be taken up with their help. Contributions from the public would also be sought,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-plans-to-make-ap-beggar-free-state/articleshow/79047646.cms||Siva G
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Farmer who shot elephant dead arrested||KRISHNAGIR: A 40-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for killing a female elephant. A forest official identified the accused as M Muthumallesh, of Sennamalam village near Jawalagiri in Krishnagiri district. He is a farmer. After spotting the carcass of the 10-year-old elephant in a trench in the Jawalagiri forest range on Tuesday morning, forest ranger M Nagarajan had registered a case and initiated an inquiry. Meanwhile, veterinary doctors recovered three bullets from the carcass during the postmortem. “During inquiry, Muthumallesh confessed that he had shot the elephant to death when the animal attempted to raid his farmland,” the ranger said. Based on his confessional statement, Nagarajan arrested Muthumallesh. “We have seized a country made gun from him,” he said. Muthumallesh was subsequently produced before the judicial magistrate of Hosur sub-court and lodged in the Salem Central Prison under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmer-who-shot-elephant-dead-arrested/articleshow/79049381.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||25 cases take tally to 6,800 in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The daily spike in Covid-19 cases saw a dip in the Nilgiris on Wednesday, when just 25 people were declared positive for the virus. The tally now stands at 6,800, of which 282 are active cases. With 53 patients getting discharged from treatment centres on the day, the number of recovered patients has touched 6,479 in the hill retreat at a recovery rate of 95.2%. According to a health official, most of the new cases were reported from the rural areas in the district. Of the 282 active cases, eight are undergoing treatment at the government hospitals in Coimbatore, 55 are in home quarantine and the rest are admitted to the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, and Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/25-cases-take-tally-to-6800-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79049386.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Salem||Upgraded liquid oxygen plant inaugurated in Salem government hospital||SALEM: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday inaugurated a 35,000-litre capacity liquid oxygen plant at the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital in the city through video-conferencing from Chennai. The plant was set up at the cost of Rs 1.14 crore. After the inauguration ceremony, the CM said pre-Covid-19, all the 34 government college and hospitals and district head quarters’ hospitals in the state had 355kl-capacity of liquid oxygen. After Covid-19, the state government had set up additional liquid oxygen plants in 30 hospitals across the state with the capacity of 413kl. “The state government has been working to increase the total liquid oxygen capacity to 834kl,” he said, adding that, the state government has spent nearly Rs 11 crore for this. A separate medical employees selection board was set up in 2012 to fill vacancies in government hospitals. “Through this board, the state government had recruited 16,120 doctors and specialists, 50,121 (including 24,849 nurses) medical and non-medical employees till date,” he added. The CM also handed over appointment orders to 95 doctors who were selected through the board after inaugurating the liquid oxygen plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/upgraded-liquid-oxygen-plant-inaugurated-in-salem-gh/articleshow/79049413.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Madurai sewage plant to be ready next month: Sellur K Raju||MADURAI: The sewage treatment plant (STP), being constructed by the Madurai Corporation to treat sewage water flowing in the Panthalkudi channel before it enters the Vaigai river, would be completed next month, said minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju on Wednesday. Raju, who inspected the construction work in the presence of corporation commissioner S Visakan and city engineer S Arasu, told reporters that the underground sewage systems in some areas had exceeded their capacity due to the increase in number of households. As a result, sewage water from five wards was entering the Panthalkudi channel, which drains into the river. It was estimated that the channel carried around one lakh litres of sewage water every day. The minister further said that the STP being constructed will have two MLD (million litres a day) capacity. BPCL has sponsored Rs 2.5 crore for the construction, whereas the Madurai Corporation has allotted Rs 65 lakh for maintenance. Six containers are being constructed. Sewage water let into container one will be treated to get clean water through container number six. The water will be used for plants in parks and the remaining let into the river. Construction of collection tanks has been completed, whereas works of collection wells are about to be completed. The entry of Lord Kallalagar into the Vaigai river, an important part of the Chithirai festival, would take place in the clean Vaigai river next year, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-sewage-plant-to-be-ready-next-month-min/articleshow/79051528.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Marathon shifts focus to Ganga cleanliness||PRAYAGRAJ: To make the common man aware towards keeping the river Ganga clean, a ‘Ganga Marathon’ was organised in the city on Wednesday under the aegis of the forest department and Uttar Pradesh sports department. The event was inaugurated by chief conservator of forests, UP, N Ravindra. On this occasion, DFO Prayagraj YP Shukla said that the marathon is organised by the forest department and the aim of this marathon is to revive the condition of the river Ganga and spread awareness among the masses and to instigate the feeling of respect for the river. The event, which was observed under the statewide events to mark ‘Ganga Day’, was aimed to ensure that common man comes forward in ensuring that the Ganga flows uninterrupted and clean. The programmes were organised by the state’s Clean Ganga Mission, Namami Gange and rural water supply department (UP). The marathon was flagged off at 7.00 am from the Amitabh Bachchan Support Complex (Muir Hall). After passing through Dhobighat intersection, Heera Halwai intersection, Sai temple, Indira Gandhi crossing it returned to the originating venue. The first place in men’s category was won by Dhiraj Yadav while second position was bagged by Abhishek and the third place was bagged by Shivam Yadav. Enthusiastic participants including Mahesh Kumar, Rajendra Bind and Santosh Yadav were awarded consolation prizes in he men’s category. Similarly, in the women’s category, Neetu Kumari came first, Anju Yadav second and Shivani got the third position. Special secretary, forest, Bhramdev Tripathi, was the chief guest at the prize distribution ceremony. Apart from the Ganga Marathon, Prayagraj Municipal Corporation and other organisations held cleanliness campaign at Phaphamau Ghat. Along with this, ‘nukkad natak’ was also held near Sangam to make people aware towards keeping the river clean. Nehru Youth Centre too organised a painting and debate competition to mark the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/marathon-shifts-focusto-ganga-cleanliness/articleshow/79049440.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||BJP promoting ‘porn mafia’: Congress||PANAJI: The state’s failure to investigate and take action after a vulgar video was shared on a WhatsApp group from deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar’s phone has emboldened models to post their own nude photos on social media, said Congress. State Congress president Girish Chodankar was reacting to a social media post showing a well-known male fitness model running naked on a beach in Goa. The photograph comes just days after a video of a female model stripping at a dam in Canacona began to circulate on social media. “After the obscene video on a dam by female model emerges, now a male model brazenly posts his naked photo running on the beach in Goa. This strips off the BJP government in Goa headed by chief minister Pramod Sawant completely who is promoting porn mafia,” Chodankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-promoting-porn-mafia-cong/articleshow/79050785.cms||---
November 5, 2020||India||Editors Guild, NBA condemn arrest||The Editors Guild released a statement about Arnab Goswami’s arrest on Wednesday. It stated, “The Editors Guild of India is shocked to learn about the arrest of Arnab Goswami… Goswami was arrested from his Mumbai residence on reportedly an abetment to suicide case. We condemn the sudden arrest and find it extremely distressing. The Guild calls upon the CM of Maharashtra to ensure that Goswami is treated fairly and state power is not used against critical reporting by the media.” The News Broadcasters Association also condemned the manner in which Goswami was arrested and said even though it does not agree with Goswami’s “type of journalism”, it denounces “retaliatory action”, if any, by authorities. Media is not above the law but due process must be followed,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/editors-guild-nba-condemn-arrest/articleshow/79052072.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Rajkot||Four arrested with ganja worth Rs 2 lakh||Rajkot: Four persons were arrested with 17.5 kg ganja (marijuana) worth Rs 1.75 lakh in Bhagwatipara locality of Rajkot on Tuesday night. Police said the accused, Naseer Sirman (40), Arjun Kamalia (19), Dilawar Piparvadia (32) and Paresh Sagathia (23), were arrested on the basis of a tip-off about them gathering at the spot to divide the share of the contraband. “During their interrogation, Sirman said that he had brought the contraband from Surat in his truck and had asked the co-accused to come to his house in Bhagwatipara to purchase the drugs from him. The other accused had come in an autorickshaw. Apart from ganja, we also seized the truck belonging to Sirman and the autorickshaw used by the accused,” said M B Osura, inspector with Rajkot B division police station. “The accused will be formally arrested once they undergo the test for Covid-19,” added Osura. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-arrested-with-ganja-worth-rs-2-lakh/articleshow/79047941.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||BJP panel to CM: Party image at stake, go slow on infra projects in Goa||PANAJI: Groundswell of public pressure against the three Centre-funded infrastructure projects and the proposed IIT-Goa campus at Melauli has prompted the BJP core committee to advise chief minister Pramod Sawant against speeding up the projects, lest its image takes a beating ahead of the 2022 elections, hardly 16 months away. The BJP core committee, which met on Wednesday, told Sawant “to go slow” on these projects—double-tracking of railway line to Vasco, highway widening and setting up of 400KV substation—which cuts across the biodiversity hotspot of Mollem. It also asked Sawant not to push through the IIT campus at Melauli. “As a party, we have conveyed our sentiments to the chief minister, and he will take a right decision at the right time,” said state party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade. Members of the committee said the opposition was trying to “defame” the chief minister’s image over these issues. Sawant, meanwhile, explained to the committee the reasons for executing the projects. The BJP core committee’s advice to the CM is a sequel to the meeting held by BJP MLAs from Salcete and Mormugao talukas with Sawant on Monday over double-tracking and coal handling issues. The Mollem projects have sparked widespread protests, as locals believe they’re being undertaken to make Goa a coal hub. The state has recently tried to placate protesters, stating that there won’t be any increase of coal transportation even after the double-tracking is completed. Thousands of protesters from across the state had converged at Chandor late on Sunday night to participate in a midnight protest against the double-tracking work being done by South Western Railway (SWR). The South Goa collector had given permission to SWR to close the level crossing from midnight to 5am on November 2 to facilitate the work. But in a strategic move, Railways had made no attempt to start the scheduled work. Meanwhile in Melauli, villagers continue to oppose the setting up of IIT-Goa. Sawant said on Tuesday that the government would go ahead with the project, and that the agitators “would get convinced”. He also said that those using the land for farming could do it at a different location. “We will provide them alternative land for cultivation,” he said, adding that “hardly any” land at the site was being cultivated. Amidst conflicting views emanating from BJP over the IIT issue, science and technology minister Michael Lobo had met Sawant on Monday and demanded that the IIT-Goa campus be shifted out of Melauli owing to the locals’ opposition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-panel-to-cm-party-image-at-stake-go-slow-on-infra-projects/articleshow/79050784.cms||Murari Shetye
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Sweet makers fret over dip in demand this festival season||MADURAI: Even though the festival season has arrived, it has not been very sweet one for the sweet makers who usually see bulk of their business during this time. Despite the lockdown having effectively come to an end, the Covid crisis has taken a toll on their business. During the festival season the sweet makers, receive bulk orders from commercial establishments so that they can distribute sweets to their employees. But with many of the offices remaining shut this time around and employees working from home, the orders have dipped. The situation has been especially tough for those involved in making traditional sweets which are in demand during Diwali. Ramar, a well-known sweet maker in Karimedu in Madurai, has been in the business for the past 25 years. ``I make good money during the festival, but this year the orders are less and I am employing lesser number of people to make the sweets,’’ he said. Kanmani R, a customer from Arapalayam, says that traditional sweets are more healthy and people buy them in large numbers for certain occasions like the first Diwali of the newly married couple. Rajathi of Thaikkal street in Madurai, is among the handful of sweet makers who make large quantities of murukku and adhirasams on a daily basis. During the festival season their demand goes up and bookings are made in advance. ``We have not seen many takers this year, while in the previous years we would be working round the clock in the last two weeks before the festival,’’ she said. The price of the sweets has increased manifold due to higher costs of the ingredients and production. The sweets are now priced based on their size. A small adhirasam costs Rs 5 while the bigger ones cost Rs 10 to 15. A laddoo costs Rs 12, and prices for murukku start with Rs 5 and then increase based on size. S Rajendran, a cook who specialises in sweets, says that even last year he had over 50 orders, for murukku and adhirasam. ``But, this year even my regular customers have not made bookings, and the prices are up by 25 %,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sweet-makers-fret-over-dip-in-demand-this-festival-season/articleshow/79051545.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Indigenous Badagar Alliance writes to Edappadi K Palaniswami||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Indigenous Badagar Alliance (IBA) has written to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami requesting him to reconsider and recommend inclusion of Badaga community under the scheduled tribes. Recently, the Badaga community has been included in the ‘Database of World’s Indigenous Peoples’ by the United Nations Mountain Partnership. UNESCO has already declared the Badaga language as one of oldest Dravidian languages and endangered. The letter said, “Despite the recommendations of the past chief ministers of the state, the long-standing demand of the Badaga community for inclusion in the ST list has not been successful; mainly because the basic representations were made by community social workers who may not have been experts in the subject.” The letter to the CM said, “The entire Badaga community will be beholden to your government, if your government would reconsider our demand and resubmit the case to the centre for consideration of inclusion in the ST list.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/indigenous-badagar-alliance-writes-to-cm/articleshow/79049486.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC poll: SEC may take a decision on number of polling booths on Nov 7||Hyderabad: Contrary to expectations, the number of polling booths may not exceed 10,000 for the ensuing Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. This is because the State Election Commission (SEC) has decided to rationalise, ensure about 1,000 voters per polling booth as against 800 electorate per polling station decided earlier, keeping in view the Covid-19 situation. This move is aimed at de-congesting polling booths to allow voters to follow physical distance norms while standing in a queue to cast their vote. Over 74 lakh voters were there on the voter list in the 2016 elections and this number is likely to go up further in the forthcoming polls to the civic body. Enrolment of the electorate is in progress and the final photo electoral rolls of each of the 150 wards would be published on November 13. A crucial pre-poll meeting with GHMC officers is scheduled to be held on November 7 and SEC is likely to finalise the number of polling booths to be set up to conduct the civic elections. The meeting would also discuss the number of government employees needed to be drafted for election duty and those to be kept in reserve. As per preliminary estimates, about 80,000 officials are required to be drafted for election duty. Employees from state and central government departments located in the districts of Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Malkajgiri-Medchal and surrounding districts of Medak, Mahbubnagar and Nalgonda would be drawn for election duties. This is the second election to GHMC after formation of Telangana and would be held on ballot paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-poll-sec-may-take-a-decision-on-number-of-polling-booths-on-nov-7/articleshow/79049494.cms||Roushan Ali
November 5, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Catholic Forum general secretary held for cheating||KOTTAYAM: The West police here arrested Binu Chacko, general secretary, Indian Catholic Forum, in a cheating case on Wednesday. Chacko, 45, hailing from Thiruvalla, was taken into custody on Tuesday evening from Kochi. The accused has appeared on many television channel discussions representing the forum. On Wednesday, police received three more fresh complaints against him. Chacko was taken into custody on a complaint by Noushad, Thiruvathukkal native, from whom the accused is alleged to have taken around Rs 20 lakhs after promising a MBBS seat for the complainant’s daughter. He was remanded in judicial custody. According to police, several complaints have been registered against Chacko in various police stations in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/catholic-forum-gen-secy-held-for-cheating/articleshow/79047946.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Farm groups now allow plying of freight trains till November 20||CHANDIGARH: A majority of farm organisations spearheading protests against the Centre’s three new agri-marketing bills have decided to allow freight trains to ply in Punjab till November 20. They had initially on October 21 allowed the goods trains to ply till November 5. However, the goods train only could only ply for two days till a farm organisation blocked the rail tracks going towards two private thermal power plants. To complicate matters, farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan flatly declined to vacate railway tracks on the internal tracks towards two independent power plants. The organisation said it will vacate the tracks if the Punjab government cancels the power purchase agreements (PPA) signed by previous SAD-BJP government with private thermal plants and takes them in its possession. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said their core committee would hold a meeting on Thursday to decide the fate of their ‘rail roko’ agitation, which has been going on in Jandiala. “The freight trains have been allowed to ply till November 20 but the passenger trains will not be allowed to ply and farmers will keep on sitting at railway stations. The toll plazas will not be allowed to charge money and the protests at residences and offices of BJP leaders will continue. The petrol pumps being run by dealers may be allowed to run from Thursday for which decisions will be taken by local leaders. The pumps owned by companies will not be allowed to run. The next meeting will be held on November 18,” leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Kulwant Singh and Jagmohan Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-groups-now-allow-plying-of-freight-trains-till-nov-20/articleshow/79050783.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Rajkot||RMC destroys 24 kg inedible food items||Rajkot: Having launched its drive against inedible foot items, the food department of the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) checked 35 shops selling food products and destroyed 24 kg of inedible food items on Wednesday. However, the drive met with a protest from the Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The RMC carried out checking at the shops on Nana Mava Road, Udhyognagar, Mavadi Road, Navalnagar, Krishnanagar Main Road, Swaminarayan Chowk, Guruprasad Chowk, GEB, Panchavati Road, Virani Chowk and Mangala Road. Meanwhile, the Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry termed the drive as a harassment to the business community ahead of the festive season. “We ask the RMC to desist from such a drive as it is sheer harassment to the traders’ community ahead of Diwali. Post-Covid Diwali is the only season for doing brisk business and earning profits for businessmen. At such a time, the RMC should not train its guns on the business community,” said a release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-destroys-24-kg-inedible-food-items/articleshow/79047979.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||Goa NIT to engage local ITI grads in campus construction work||PANAJI: As work on the new campus for the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, has begun, director Gopal Mugeraya said the institute will engage, on a stipend, 15 students from the state, who have recently completed their engineering programme from an ITI. Mugeraya said this will give the diploma holders an opportunity to upgrade their skills and help them find better employment opportunities. “We have asked the directorate of technical education to give us details of 15 students who have completed their ITI programme in civil engineering. We will engage them for a stipend of Rs 3,000 a month at the cost of NIT Goa in the construction work of the new campus. It will give these youngsters an opportunity to work with world class professionals in the field of civil engineering,” said Mugeraya. The institute had committed to employing locals in the work of developing the new NIT campus. The director said that engaging the 15 civil engineering diploma holders is only a beginning and more locals will be involved in different kinds of work shortly, including in carpentry, masonry, etc. “Often, students opt for the diploma programme in engineering because they cannot afford the engineering degree programme. We will engage the 15 boys for 10 months and issue them a certificate at the end of this period. This will help them improve their profile, learn the latest construction technology, get hands-on training,” said Mugeraya. He said once the young men are prepared for better employment opportunities, it will help uplift the living conditions of the 15 families as well. NIT Goa became operational in 2010 and has since been functioning from a temporary campus within the Goa Engineering College premises at Farmagudi, Ponda. The new campus is being developed at Cuncolim for the NIT. The construction of the new campus is expected to be carried out using latest technologies to ensure that the first phase is ready within 21 months, so that NIT Goa can shift to its own campus at the earliest. In August, the institute marked the beginning of the construction work by planting thousands of saplings of indigenous tree species, mostly mancurad, to help propagation of local plant varieties. The new campus is planned as a green campus with more than double the number of trees as students and faculty on campus. Also, a solar plant is expected to be set up to generate green energy to compensate for the campus’ power consumption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nit-to-engage-local-iti-grads-in-campus-construction-work/articleshow/79050787.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Amritsar||‘Trains will ply only if tracks are clear’||AMRITSAR: Northern Railway clarified on Wednesday that it will not be able to restore normal operations of both goods and passengers trains in Punjab unless all the rail tracks and platforms are clear. Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur Division, Rajesh Aggarwal said on Wednesday with exception of two days, goods as well as passenger trains have been suspended since October 1. For two days, the agitating farmers had vacated rail tracks and shifted to platforms but in places like Manawala, Jandiala and Nabha they didn’t even vacate the rail tracks, he said. He said the railways needed clear rail tracks as well as platforms for plying of the trains. On October 22 and 23, Northern Railway’s Ferozepur and Ambala divisions had begun 175 goods trains but it was difficult to ply trains in an atmosphere of uncertainty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/trains-will-ply-only-if-tracks-are-clear/articleshow/79050786.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Man ends life in front of excise station in Warangal||Warangal: Tension prevailed in the Narsampet town after a man ended his life by taking poison in front of the prohibition and excise station in the wee hours of Wednesday. According to the son of the deceased, Rajaiah (50) decided to take the extreme step due to harassment by the excise staff. “He called to tell us that he had consumed pesticide due to harassment by the excise staff. By the time I reached the station, he was lying unconscious. I rushed him to a hospital but the doctors declared him brought dead,” said Udugula Rajamallu, Rajaiah’s son. The kin also said that they found a letter on his person where Rajaiah, who was from Suripally village, held the excise CI responsible for his death. After coming to know of the incident, relatives and villagers of the deceased from Suripally and Nekkonda reached Narsampet and staged protest outside the excise station, demanding stringent action. Narsampet ACP Phanidar, inspectors Satish and Karunsagar Reddy and other staff made efforts to control the situation. However, protesters did not withdraw, after which, police agreed to register a case against excise personnel based on their complaint. The dead body was then sent for post-mortem examination. However, district prohibition and excise officer P Srinivas Rao said that neither the CI nor the SI had called Rajaiah to the station in connection with the case in the recent days. “SI Rajeshwari raided his ‘beltshop’ at Suripally village during the lockdown, seized liquor from there and booked a case. The case is presently pending. Such cases are disposed of during the ‘Lok Adalath’,” he said. It is said that the excise personnel seized Rs 70,000 worth IML from his beltshop during the raid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-ends-life-in-front-of-excise-stn-in-warangal/articleshow/79049543.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Defence cites discrepencies||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The defence counsel in the Sister Abhaya murder case alleged manipulation of evidences and manufacturing of witnesses by the CBI investigating officer Nandakumar Nair to arrest the two accused Fr Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy who are facing trial in the case at CBI special court here. During his cross-examination of CBI SP Nair who had recorded the arrest of both the accused in 2008, defence counsel B Raman Pillai alleged that there were discrepancies in the two remand reports filed by the investigator before the court after the arrest. “While the first had said an axe was used as the weapon, the second one modified it as hand axe,” Pillai said. The CBI SP maintained that he had found details through scientific investigations and from witnesses and denied all allegations levelled by the counsel as ‘absolutely incorrect’. The defence counsel then said witnesses were tutored to tell a tale. During Tuesday and Wednesday, Nandakumar Nair was cross-examined for nearly seven hours by the defence counsel. Cross-examination will continue on Thursday too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/defence-cites-discrepencies/articleshow/79047992.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Nashik||MP: Rail project awaiting CMO nod||Nashik: The detailed project report (DPR) of the ambitious Nashik-Pune semi-highspeed double line railway project is in the final stages of approval by the state government, said Nashik city Shiv Sena MP Hemant Godse. The project, pegged at Rs 16,039 crore, is being implemented by the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (MRIDC), a joint venture between the Maharashtra government and the Indian Railways. While the project DPR has been approved by both the Railways and the Union government, the nod from the state government is still awaited. “I took feedback from officials of the chief minister’s office (CMO). They told me that departments like finance, transport, revenue etc. have given their approvals to the DPR. The file is with the CMO and after CM Uddhav Thackeray examines and approves it, the file would be placed before the state cabinet for the final nod,” Godse added. According to the Nashik MP, he has requested the CMO officials to try to ensure that the DPR gets the state cabinet nod before Diwali, as it would be ‘Diwali gift’ for the people of the region. MRIDC will begin the groundwork related to this greenfield project after the state government’s nod to the DPR. So far, the agency has invited expression of interest from civil contractors for the empanelment for construction of tunnels and other ancillary activities. Once the project is completed, the travel time between Nashik and Pune (a distance of about 235.15km) would be reduced to around 2 hours. At present rail connectivity between these two important cities is extremely poor. The travel time by buses is more than five hours. “The project would give a huge economic boost to both Pune and Nashik. I would continue to pursue the DPR approval matter with the CMO,” said Godse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mp-rail-project-awaiting-cmo-nod/articleshow/79046884.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Dua appointed new chief of ED Punjab||LUDHIANA: In an unexpected development, Amit Dua, IRS-2007, has been appointed as the joint director of Jalandhar-based zonal office of the enforcement directorate (ED). Dua replaces IRS Ashok Gautam, who was heading the office since March 2019 and has now been transferred to ED headquarters in New Delhi. Dua, who has roots in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur and a qualified chartered accountant, was posted in New Delhi as joint director (headquarter investigation unit) of ED. Earlier, he also served in the investigation wing of income tax department as deputy director (Jalandhar and Ludhiana) and had busted several high profile cases during this stint. The Jalandhar ED office has jurisdiction over entire Punjab. Almost a fortnight ago, this office had issued summons to Raninder Singh, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s son in connection with a case related to Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dua-appointed-new-chief-of-ed-punjab/articleshow/79050791.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||Centre raps Goa for stalling recovery of dues from defaulters||PANAJI: The Union ministry of finance wrote to the state government expressing “serious concern” that efforts to recover dues from loan defaulters have been thwarted as the government is stalling the process. The ministry wrote to chief secretary Parimal Rai and asked him to ensure that the district collectors in Goa support the efforts to recover dues from defaulters by clearing pending files within 60 days. According to the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (Sarfaesi) Act, 2002, district magistrates have to grant approvals within 60 days when banks and financial institutions seek assistance to take physical possession of mortgaged properties. “It is a matter of serious concern that despite the time limit prescribed in the Act, applications from banks and financial institutions often remain pending with district magistrates for more than 60 days,” said the finance ministry’s additional secretary, Dakshita Das, in the letter to Rai. According to the ministry’s department of financial services, there are 32 recovery cases pending in Goa to the tune of Rs 57.5 crore. The department of financial services has sent a district-wise list of pending applications to the state government. The data involves default cases with public sector banks that are pending for more than 60 days as on September 30 in Goa. “It is requested that all district magistrates in your state may kindly be asked to support the efforts of banks or financial institutions to recover dues from defaulters and clear all the pending applications under section 14 of the Sarfaesi Act well within the prescribed period of 60 days,” said Das. Das has also mailed a copy of the letter to the State Level Banker’s Committee and banks so that they can to pursue the matter with the district collectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-raps-goa-for-stalling-recovery-of-dues-from-defaulters/articleshow/79050790.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala govt to HC: Guidelines as per National Human Rights Commission circular||KOCHI: The state government has informed the high court that it has framed a nine-point guideline for medical examination of accused persons on the basis of a circular issued by National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The submission by state attorney KV Sohan was in response to a contempt of court petition by doctor Prathibha K through advocate R Gopan. In the contempt plea against chief secretary Vishwas Mehta, she had alleged non-implementation of the high court’s directive of May 28, 2019 to decide on framing guidelines for conducting the mandatory medical examination of accused. The doctor moved the court seeking guidelines after sub inspector Sreejith Koderi threatened her for examining the accused produced by him for any marks of injury. NHRC’s circular of July 2010, issued regarding medical examination of prisoners on admission to jails, was intended to curb the death of prisoners due to spread of contagious diseases like tuberculosis. The guidelines state that the mandatory medical examination should be conducted without delay and that police should request for such examination as per the proforma prescribed by NHRC. The remanded person should be taken before the medical officer as far as possible to take blood and sputum samples. If such facilities are not available, he should be referred to another hospital. Prison officers should not insist for a complete report, as test results take time, and prisoners should be admitted with mandatory medical report under Section 54 CrPC and NHRC health checkup report with basic details, the guidelines said. Those suspected of HIV or hepatitis should be referred to testing centre after admission to prison. Prison authority should try to keep a remanded person separate until complete test results are available, it is directed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-to-hc-guidelines-as-per-nhrc-circular/articleshow/79048015.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Rajkot||Two detained in car with Rs 1.7Cr cash near Rajkot||Rajkot: Two persons were detained when Rs 1.73 crore cash was found from their car during vehicle checking on Rajkot-Ahmedabad Highway near Rajkot on Tuesday night. “We detained Jaideep Badarakia and Nilesh Untvadia who were coming to Rajkot from Wankaner. Their car was made to stop at the checkpost of Kherva village of Wankaner taluka. During the checking, we found Rs 1.73 crore cash kept in a bag on the rear seat of the car,” said M C Vala, inspector with Kuvadava Road police station.During their interrogation, the accused duo said that they had withdrawn the money from a bank and that the money was meant to be disbursed among farmers. “As they had no documentary proof to substantiate their claim, we seized the cash and informed the income tax department,” added Vala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-detained-in-car-with-rs-1-7cr-cash-near-rajkot/articleshow/79047996.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Congress bills on agricultural laws sent for legal opinion||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana assembly session will resume on Thursday amid uncertainty over the Congress-moved private-member bills against the central agri-marketing laws, as the speaker goes for legal opinion. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and his secretariat are yet to take call on the Congress motion, while Abhay Singh Chautala of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) also moved a private bill on Wednesday evening, seeking guaranteed MSP and punitive measures in case the procurement agencies fail to pay this minimum support price for the crop. Private-member bills are moved by non-ministers. Referring to the Congress-moved private bill, speaker Gian Chand Gupta said: “The initial proposal was against the ordinances that have become an Act now. We have sent their amended proposal to the legal department for opinion on whether or not the state can amend the laws that both houses of Parliament have approved. Rest, we are hopeful of a good and calm legislative business during the session. We have many bills to discuss.” The other issues that may trigger arguments include law and order, atrocities against Dalits, unemployment, and the civil servants’ resentment against the deployment of police officers in their cadre. Leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said: “The government has failed on all fronts. What do they have to show in the name of one year’s achievements? Nothing.” Referring to the arrangements, Gupta said everyone—“the CM, ministers, MLAs, officials, and staff”— will follow the pandemic protocols and carry their Covid-negative certificates. We have told the legislators to get tested at home, while we have also organised a special camp on the assembly premises.” The Congress MLAs with an aggressive plan include Tosham’s Kiran Choudhary, Dabwali’s Amit Singh, Jagbir Malik, and Pardeep Chaudhary. Geeta Bhukkal also had a question but she is in hospital with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-bills-on-agri-laws-sent-for-legal-opinion/articleshow/79050788.cms||Manvir Saini
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Court adjourns petition seeking stay on DBA polls tomorrow||LUDHIANA: Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday adjourned the hearing of petition seeking stay on the District Bar Association (DBA) elections scheduled for November 6. The next date of hearing of the civil writ petition in the high court is on Thursday. During the hearing, the advocate representing bar council submitted that he intends to file reply/short affidavit. The court later adjourned the case. In his writ petition, Harjot Singh Harikay, candidate for president post in DBA elections, had contended that the authority of Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana and others to interfere in the process of elections of the DBA, Ludhiana. He had pleaded that during the pendency of the present petition, the notification whereby the respondents were attempting to hold the elections of various DBAs as well as the High Court Bar Association online was challenged by others as well and the same was set aside by the division bench of the high court. In the petition filed through advocate Vishal Sharma, the petitioner had contended that the document which was issued by the returning officer of Ludhiana clearly mentions that the document is prepared under the direction of respondent and it is also in violation of the judgment of division bench of the high court dated March 25, 2015 wherein court clearly prohibited Bar Council to regulate the elections of DBA. “The Bar Council without consulting its stakeholders unilaterally is in hurry to conduct elections of Bar Association,” read the petition. He had pleaded that the court in yet another petition concerning the High Court Bar Association, directed that since the period of the executive body has expired and due to the prevailing situation the new executive body is not elected, an adhoc committee can be formed according to the rules of the association. Authorities are preparing for polls Meanwhile, the election authorities are making preparations for conducting elections scheduled for Friday. The election officials have already made efforts to reduce rush of the voters at polling booths by displaying complete lists of voters (booth wise) outside the library recently. On Wednesday, Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana appointed five observers to supervise elections of the Bar Association, Ludhiana. The order by chairman of the Bar Council said they were appointed for conducting proper, fair, transparent and smooth elections of the Bar Association, Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/court-adjourns-petition-seeking-stay-on-dba-polls-tomorrow/articleshow/79050794.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Nashik||Thefts & burglaries continue to rise in Nashik||NASHIK: With the festive season around the corner, the number of thefts and house burglaries is increasing in the city. A 38-year-old woman was robbed of her gold chain worth Rs 30,000 near the Life Care Hospital on Monday. The victim and her two relatives were walking towards Shivaji Chowk at 10 pm when two people on a bike came close to them and the person riding pillion snatched the gold chain and escaped. In an incident of house burglary, unidentified suspects broke into a house in the Gopalnagar area of Panchavati on an intervening night between Monday and Tuesday, and decamped with cash and articles worth Rs 11,500. In the second incident of house burglary, unidentified suspects stole Rs 7,000 and important documents. The complainant lodged a complaint on Monday. In an offence registered with the Nashik Road police, cash and jewellery worth Rs 1.51 lakh was stolen from a house in Gorewadi area sometime between Sunday and Tuesday. Apart from the house break-ins, three bikes were reported stolen from different areas. A bike worth Rs 60,000 was stolen from the parking lot of Classic apartment in Gangapur at around 12 pm on October 31. Another bike worth Rs 50,000 was stolen from the parking of a residential building in Indiranagar on an intervening night between Sunday and Monday. A bike worth Rs 10,000 was stolen from a parking space of a building in Cidco area between June and October when the owner was not there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/thefts-burglaries-continue-to-rise-in-city/articleshow/79046890.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Poll aspirants hit the road, meet residents||Hyderabad: Though the GHMC poll dates have not yet been announced, election mood is visible with ticket aspirants already meeting residents in their respective wards and undertaking door-to-door campaigns. With every political party getting surveys conducted to identify potential candidates, the aspirants are leaving no stone unturned to win the confidence of the leadership to get the ticket. “That is why they have started visiting the households and promising to take care of residents’ issues if they are elected,” a poll analyst said. AK Kumar, who is involved in social media campaigns for the parties, said some candidates are doing surveys themselves on the wards and likely voting pattern. “This is to test the waters much before others could enter the race,” he said. The recent heavy rains, floods and the havoc wreaked by them also came in handy for the aspirants to visit the houses in affected areas and assure the residents of succour once they are elected. The aspirants are also making lists of those who can be their potential voters and asking them to enrol immediately. They are making a beeline to the wards which have slums. “Last week, at least three aspirants from two parties visited our house saying they will help us and we should cooperate with them,” SV Ramesh, a resident of Malakpet, said. The announcement of ward-wise reservation has also led to frenzied activity. There was huge rush for tickets last time with all the parties receiving a minimum of 2,000 ticket hopefuls for 150 wards. While 50% seats are reserved for women, GHMC is making arrangements to publish the voter lists after taking into consideration of voters list till January 1 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poll-aspirants-hit-the-road-meet-residents/articleshow/79049608.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Candidates of Ludhiana cricket association poll keep nominations secret||LUDHIANA: In a bizzare development in the elections of Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA), on the day of filing nominations, the contestants avoided making their nomination public. Several candidates refused to file nominations at ADC Amarjit Singh Bains’ office as TOI lensman was outside the office. (Bains is the the election officer for LDCA elections). The district administration did not upload the list of nominations on its website till 7.40pm on Wednesday despite the 3pm deadline. Repeated attempts by TOI to contact officials concerned regarding LDCA elections turned futile, as they failed to provide any information on nominations till the filing of this news. Meanwhile, according to the information provided by sources in the cricketing fraternity of Ludhiana, about 19 nomination forms were received on Wednesday and for majority of the posts only single nomination has been received, which means the candidates for these posts will be elected unopposed. Sources also said nominations of several government officials have been received for several top most posts of LDCA and almost all of them will be elected unopposed. They said no one from the existing managing committee of LDCA has filed nominations for the elections. In another development ahead of the November 8 elections of LDCA , some objections made by general secretary of association Vinod Chitkara were not entertained by observer as these were sent late. In his order on these objections, observer of elections, justice Permod Kohli, former chief justice of Sikkim high court passed an order on Tuesday which says, “After the disposal of objections, representations filed by objectors after hearing them, I received emails from Vinod Chitkara on November 2, late hours. The first email was at 9.55pm regarding expulsion of Rakesh Saini, the second was at 11.20pm regarding removal of R T Jain (press cutting) and the third one at 11.28pm regarding expulsion of Suresh Katyal. Another email has been received at 1.02pm on November 3 regarding payment to be made by LDCA for election expenses and fee of observer. As regards the first mails are concerned the objections having been disposed after hearing the objectors, no order can be passed on the basis of these mails having been received late at night after disposal of objections. In respect to the email received today, it is made clear that payment has to be deposited before the election officer in accoradance with the directions of the hon’ble high court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/candidates-of-ludh-cricket-assn-poll-keep-nominations-secret/articleshow/79050813.cms||Mohit Behl
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||27 dengue cases reported from Ludhiana on Wednesday||LUDHIANA: Civil surgeon of Ludhiana Rajesh Kumar Bagga said 27 dengue positive patients were reported on Wednesday. With this, the total number of dengue positive cases in Ludhiana has increased to 1,208. He added that the total number of suspected patients in Ludhiana has risen to 1,725. “The total number of suspected dengue patients in the outer district is 407, out of which 324 are dengue positive. The total number of suspected dengue patients in other states is 51 out of which 43 are dengue positive. A total of 2,183 suspected dengue patients have been reported out of which 1,575 dengue positive cases have been reported,” health department officials said. “Team of health department checked larvae in Harcharan Nagar, Chandralok Colony, Bank Colony, Pavitra Nagar, Baldev Nagar, Janakpuri, Hira Nagar, Chet Singh Nagar, Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Salem Tabri, Mandeep Nagar, Shanti Nagar, Makkar Colony, Gyaspura, Daba Lohara, Gill Road, Nirmal Nagar, Chuharpur Road, Sant Vihar, Madhopuri and Shivaji Nagar. Of these areas, larvae were found in Harcharan Nagar, Chandralok Colony, Bank Colony and Pavitra Nagar, which were destroyed by larvicide on the spot,” they said. Health department said the teams distributed health education pamphlets and posters on dengue, Chikungunya, malaria fever and their prevention. It added that teams visited 1,123 houses on Wednesday out of which larvae were found in seven houses. Health department officials said teams checked 1,785 containers on Wednesday out of which seven containers were found to be positive. They added that till date teams visited 1,03,459 houses out of which larvae were found in 957 houses. “To date 1,61,543 containers have been checked out of which 1,028 containers have been found positive,” civil surgeon said. He added that to date, a list of 514 positive containers have been sent to the municipal corporation for challaning. Civil surgeon appealed to the people not to allow stagnant water in the coolers, containers, fridges tray, pots and tyres on the roof. He advised the people to wear clothes that cover the body completely and use mosquito repellent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/27-dengue-cases-reported-from-ludh-on-wednesday/articleshow/79050815.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kochi||Power of attorney at consulate does not need witnesses: Kerala HC||KOCHI: A power of attorney executed before Indian consul or vice-consul by an Indian citizen living abroad for sale of property does not need witnesses, the high court has held. Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan V’s decision came on a petition by Bhavana Rajesh Pillai through advocate B Pramod. She had questioned Alappuzha sub-collector’s refusal to accept a power of attorney executed by her father Rajesh before the assistant consular officer at the Indian embassy in Muscat on the basis of his passport. Advocate Pramod argued that there is no requirement under law that a power of attorney should be attested by witnesses. There is a presumption of genuineness under Section 85 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 if the power of attorney is executed before an Indian consul in a foreign country. Ruling in favour of the petitioner and ordering the sub-collector to accept the power of attorney, the court said in the judgment, “The Power of Attorney Act does not mandate that power of attorney should be attested by witnesses. Unlike Section 63 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 dealing with unprivileged Wills, Section 59 of the Transfer of Property Act which deals with mortgage and Section 123 of the Transfer of Property Act which deals with gift, a power of attorney does not require attestation.” “Under Section 33 of the Registration Act, 1908, if the principal at the time of executing the power of attorney does not reside in India, a power of attorney executed before and authenticated by a Notary Public, or any Court, Judge, Magistrate, Indian Consul or Vice Consul or representative of the Central Government are recognizable as persons to present document for registration. That has been done in the instant case. The consular officer has authenticated the power of attorney and he has attested the same with the help of the Indian Passport of Sri Rajesh,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/poa-at-consulate-does-not-need-witnesses-hc/articleshow/79048066.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Home isolation plan works, says its ‘largest’ analysis yet||PUNE: A study of 514 patients in Pune — 447 adults and 67 children — has shown that well-structured home-isolation care can be a feasible long-term solution for managing a large number of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid patients. Researchers said there were no deaths among the 514 study participants, and only 24 of them (5%) went on to require hospitalisation — for reasons such as persistent fever, low oxygen saturation and anxiety. But all of them made successful recoveries. Their findings are part of the paper, ‘Feasibility of home-isolation programme for adults and children with Covid-19’, which was published in the International Journal of Advances in Medicine this month. According to the researchers, the paper is the largest analysis of recovery, hospitalisation and deaths among home-isolated patients in India. About 80% of Covid patients have been either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. “Home isolation is effective for Covid-19 patients in resource-strapped settings. Our study provides strong evidence for adapting it for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients with judicious use of resources without compromising on care,” Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director of Bharati hospital said. The 514 individuals were part of Bharati’s home isolation programme between July 4 and August 3. They were all monitored daily via telecommunication systems. “The model can also be easily applied in small towns with limited internet connectivity,” Oswal added. Epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee, who was not part of the study, said such feasibility studies are the need of the hour. “Strong evidence of the usefulness of the home-isolation strategy can help policymaking,” Banerjee said. Importantly, the research also included management of Covid in children. The illness has been mostly mild with flu-like symptoms in children, but doctors have reported panic among parents. “None of the children enrolled in our study required hospitalisation. Our findings will benefit both parents and paediatricians,” Oswal said. He said the research, overall, provides insight into the management of a mass infection event that can apply massive strain on healthcare resources. “Home isolation can substantially reduce healthcare expenses for the masses while utilising expertise of physicians in treating patients with moderate to severe disease,” Oswal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/home-isolation-plan-works-says-its-largest-analysis-yet/articleshow/79049557.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Taluka-level campaign to root out Covid-19||PUNE: Close on the heels of the ‘Majhe Kutumb Majhi Jababdari’ initiative, the administration has launched a new campaign ‘Punyacha Nirdhaar, Corona Haddapaar’ (Pune’s resolve, eliminate corona) aimed at ensuring total containment of the spread of the virus in 13 talukas. Pune zilla parishad CEO Ayush Prasad told TOI, “As part of the Nirdhaar campaign, taluka-level committees, led by tehsildar, block development officers and tehsil health officers, have been formed for holding regular review meetings in their respective areas, creating awareness and encouraging social activists.” Dr Subhash Salunkhe, government-appointed technical advisor for Covid-19, said, “The campaign is necessary considering public misconception that the virus does not exist any more.” Prashant Shirke, block development officer, Haveli tehsil, said, “We have prepared gram panchayat-wise plan. The participation of elected representatives will help us in logistic and other related activities of the campaign.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/taluka-level-campaign-to-root-out-ncov/articleshow/79049571.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 5, 2020||Nashik||Measures to be taken for safer Saraf Bazaar: CP||Nashik: The Nashik city police want the encroachments near the Saraf Bazaar area to be cleared so that there is no crowding in the narrow lanes of the locality.The police would be writing to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to clear the encroachments. The branch officials have been directed to take steps to streamline the vehicular traffic in the Saraf Bazaar area. The move comes on the backdrop of a recent incident in which a jeweller’s bag containing Rs 20 lakh cash was snatched by an unidentified man. The jeweller was riding his bike from the Saraf Bazaar and the cash bag was hung by a hook on the rear side of the bike. In view of the incident, commissioner of police Deepak Pandey met jewellers to get acquainted with the infrastructural problems faced by them. Former president of the Nashik jewellers association, Rajendra Dindorkar, said they pointed out the presence of encroachments and illegal autorickshaw stand to the police. Pandey assured the jewellers that he would immediately communicate with the officials concerned of the NMC to remove the encroachments and instruct the traffic branch to streamline the vehicular traffic in the area. Pandey said that there have been many cases of chain snatching in the city and if all the jewellers decide not purchase stolen gold jewellery, it would control the menace of chain robberies on a large scale. The top cop also appealed to the jewellers to deploy a security guard outside their shops and set up CCTV cameras covering the interior and exterior area of their store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/measures-to-be-taken-for-safer-saraf-bazaar-cp/articleshow/79046898.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 5, 2020||Nashik||No plans to shut rural CCCs: Nashik ZP||Nashik: The health department of Nashik Zilla Parishad has no plans to shut down the Covid care centres (CCCs) in the rural parts of the district immediately, even though the number of cases is dropping steadily.Senior officials said they would monitor the situation till the end of November before taking any decision on closing down the CCCs.There are 20 CCCs in the rural areas of the district, of which only one has been closed. Meanwhile, the number of Covid cases in the rural areas has been reducing steadily over the past month. Kapil Aher, the district health officer of Nashik ZP said, “There are no immediate plans to close down any of the CCCs. Though the number of cases is dropping, we want to observe the situation at least till November end, before making a decision.”“As there are few patients at some of the CCCs, we have shifted some of the medical staffers to their original places of duty like the primary health centres or sub-centres,” he saidThe contractual medical staff is also being shifted to the dedicated covid health centres (DCHCs) at present. “If there is another wave of Covid-19, we want to be ready with the infrastructure and workforce. The staff, that has been shifted, can be recalled to the CCCs,” said Aher. Senior officials said as of Tuesday, 26 fresh Covid-19 patients were found in the rural parts. Mainly in September, more than 500 new patients were identified daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-plans-to-shut-rural-cccs-nashik-zp/articleshow/79046909.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: AFMC’s new device ‘Raksha Kawach’ contains & filters infectious aerosols||PUNE: The Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) has developed an isolation device named ‘Raksha Kawach’ to protect health care workers from infectious aerosols but it can also be used for Covid-19 patients in a ward, ICU or at home. ‘Raksha Kawach’ is a compact, quickly-deployable, portable, user-friendly and cost-effective aerosol containment system with 2 modules — a retractable canopy unit to create a physical barrier around the patient and a fan-filter unit to scavenge and filter contaminated air. Lt. Colonel Shamik Paul, a neuro anaesthesiologist and an assistant professor with the AFMC’s department of anaesthesia, and Dr Ajay Suryavanshi, an IIT Bombay alumnus and biomedical engineer, have developed the device. An AFMC release stated on Wednesday, “The device is not Covid-19 specific and is also intended to minimize the contagion load in the hospital atmosphere housing patients with other airborne diseases. It is beneficial for diverse user-cases e.g. single-bed and multi-bed ICUs, Covid/TB hospitals/wards, triage centres, quarantine facilities as well as home isolation.” “The canopy is made up of a disposable transparent collapsible plastic enclosure and a reusable retractable plastic frame with all-detachable components. The fan-filter unit selectively clears off aerosols released from the patient by applying negative pressure over the patient’s exhale cloud by means of suction blower, further filtering through high efficiency particulate air filter and disinfecting by ultra violet radiation to vent off decontaminated air,” the release added. A National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL)-accredited testing facility has validated the safety and effectiveness of the device. The AFMC has also filed a provisional patent and design registration for this technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/afmcs-new-device-raksha-kawach-contains-filters-infectious-aerosols/articleshow/79049619.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC seeks info on convict on run operating social media||PRAYAGRAJ: Taking a serious note of the disclosure that an absconding life convict is operating social media, the Allahabad high court has directed the principal secretary, department of home affairs, Uttar Pradesh to file an affidavit stating complete details relating to the efforts made by the state to ensure arrest of the convicted absconder. Hearing a PIL filed by one Abhishek Som, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma directed to list the PIL on by the next date of hearing, i.e., November 23. In the PIL, the petitioner alleged that one Badan Singh Baddo, said to be convicted for life term imprisonment, absconded from custody on March 28, 2019, but no efforts have been made to arrest him. The petitioner also placed before the court certain documents to substantiate the fact that the convict is regularly operating his social media pages including a Facebook account. It was also stated that the absconder is having political connections and only because of that no action is being taken against him. However, the state counsel stated that a Special Task Force (STF) has already been constituted to arrest the absconding convict Baddo. The court passed this order on November 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-info-on-convict-on-run-operating-social-media/articleshow/79049563.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ survey finds 46,000 with comorbidities||PUNE: The second round of the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ survey, which covered parts of Pune rural, has found 46,000 citizens with comorbidities. And from the 2,706 citizens who were asked to take Covid tests, only 15% (411) went on to test positive for the virus. Data also shows that round two — conducted from October 14 to October 24 — picked up fewer numbers of people with infection and close symptoms than the first survey, which was held between September 16 and October 12.  Surveyors who went door-to-door attributed the drops to an overall reduction in new cases. However, officials said the number of people with comorbidities could rise if obesity too is included in the list of criteria. Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer of the Pune zilla parishad said all stakeholders — from Asha workers to elected representatives — played a role during the survey. “Our focus is now on returning migrants during Diwali and Chhath. We will be monitoring their health,” he said. The ZP CEO added that the administration is also monitoring potential ‘super-spreaders’ — members of the community who come in contact with a large number of people every day. The list includes restaurant staff, vegetable sellers and shopkeepers. “The next few days are key as we are worried about the possibility of infection spikes. Of course, our medical teams are prepared,” Prasad said. The first round of the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign — similar to the ‘Chase the Virus’ initiative in Mumbai — surveyed 46 lakh residents across Pune rural. It found 79,856 people with comorbidities and 3,141 positive cases among 17,219 people who were asked to take Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/my-family-survey-finds-46000-with-comorbidities/articleshow/79049606.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad SIC bench does well in 2nd appeals’ disposal||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the State Information Commission (SIC) has been second in disposal of second appeals under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005, among eight other benches in Maharashtra during the Covid-19 outbreak. The Aurangabad bench has disposed a total of 1,418 applications during the pandemic. With slightly better disposal of 1,573 cases, Amravati bench of the SIC is top in the state. The SIC, whose benches have been told to observe a virtual functioning due to Covid-19, now has pendency of 51,013 cases across the state, including 5,936 applications with the Aurangabad bench till the end of September. On the other hand, barring Nashik bench (1,002 disposals), all other benches of the SIC have cleared less than 1,000 cases during the pandemic even since these quasi-judicial forum have resumed virtual functioning. Among remaining benches, Mumbai headquarters of the SIC has cleared 622 second appeals, followed by Konkan bench (376), Nagpur (345), Pune (255) and Grater Mumbai (48). RTI activist Jugal Rathi said the huge difference in number of clearing of second appeals by different benches implies that the virtual functioning is not being undertaken by all benches in an effective manner. “The RTI Act aims to empower the citizens and its implementation should not be hindered at any cost. If the courts can observe virtual functioning, the SIC and its benches should also follow suit in the interest of common man,” he said. Rathi also said no specific time limit for disposal of second appeal under the RTI Act was the reason behind SIC benches not taking up online hearings in proactive manner. As per procedure followed in the appeals and complaints under RTI Act, the information commission receives second appeals against the orders of appellate authorities (AAs) under Section 19 of the Act. While disposing of the second appeal, the applicant, the Public Information Officer or Assistant Public Information Officer and Appellate Officer (where required) are called for hearing and their statements is considered by the information commissioner while deciding the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-sic-bench-does-well-in-2nd-appeals-disposal/articleshow/79050816.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||50% quota for women: Leaders in Hyderabad eye tickets for spouses, daughters||HYDERABAD: With 50% of wards in GHMC reserved for women, many leaders from various political parties are set to line up their wives and daughters into the poll arena instead of giving tickets to outsiders. Towards this end, leaders have started impressing the party leadership to give tickets to womenfolk in their families. Some of the sitting corporators have also joined the race. Not just the ruling TRS, Congress and BJP are also flooded with requests to give tickets to spouses or daughters only. Wives of some of the legislators are already serving as corporators. For example, Amberpet MLA Kaleru Venkatesh’s spouse Kaleru Padma represents Golnaka ward, while TRS Uppal MLA B Subhash Reddy’s wife Swapna Reddy is also a corporator. Senior Congress leader and former minister M Mukesh Goud, who passed away last year, was keen to get his daughter contest from Goshamahal ward in the last elections, but could not succeed. This time, she may get a look-in, sources said. Also, there is huge speculation that lone BJP MLA T Raja Singh’s spouse may contest this time as a corporator from Goshamahal. Similarly, mayor Bonthu Rammohan’s wife is all set to contest from Charlapalli. The fight is not just confined to getting corporator tickets. Jockeying for the mayor seat, which is reserved for women this time, has also begun. “The race is becoming increasingly inclusive with more reservations for women,” said a BJP leader. Interestingly, leaders from various employees’ unions are also eyeing the election. A woman leader of the employees’ joint action committee wants to enter the fray from Kukatpally and approached the TRS leadership. However, she was told not to have any expectations, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-quota-for-women-leaders-eye-tickets-for-spouses-daughters/articleshow/79049648.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 5, 2020||Pune||Tally exceeds discharges in PMR, 30 more dead||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added marginally higher cases (772) than recoveries (729) on Wednesday, taking its tally and discharge count to 3,25,984 and 3,06,674, respectively. The Covid-related fatalities increased to 30 in PMR on Wednesday, pushing up its toll to 7,984. For the last five days, the toll stayed below 30 in PMR. Among the new cases, the PMC areas added 348, followed by the Pune rural (181), the PCMC limits (162), the cantonments (82) and the council areas (19). As for recoveries, the PMC limits recorded highest 316 discharges, followed by the rural areas (161), among others. As on Wednesday, as many as 5,074 patients were undergoing treatment at various hospitals in PMR, while 6,415 were in home isolation. As per PMC data, the corporation areas has 1,420 patients, who were taking on oxygen beds. PMC’s daily report stated that 494 patients were in critical condition in its limits, including 290 on ventilator. Out of the 30 deaths on Wednesday, the PMC recorded 18, while the PCMC limits four, among others. Apart from Covid-19, other health issues like sugar problem, heart diseases, high blood pressure, also created health complications for deceased patients. The death reports of these patients highlighted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tally-exceeds-discharges-in-pmr-30-more-dead/articleshow/79049638.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Surat||BMW driver hits four people, 3 vehicles on Dumas road, flees on foot||Surat: Dumas police booked an unidentified BMW driver for allegedly hitting three vehicles and injuring at least four persons on Dumas road on Tuesday. The accused escaped from the spot leaving behind the luxury car on Dumas road. In the accident Prem Thapa, 22, a cook at a Chinese food joint, suffered serious injuries while his friend Padam Thapa, 25, a security guard suffered minor injuries. Police booked the driver based on Padam’s complaint. Padam alleged that after knocking their motorcycle at Magdalla port crossroads, the car hit two auto rickshaws. Prem and Padam, both residents of Althan, were going to Magdalla port on a motorcycle when the car coming from Dumas knocked their motorcycle down. Prem, who was driving the motorcycle, fell unconscious while Padam regained consciousness after some time. They were shifted to NCH for treatment and after recovery Padam lodged the complaint with the police. Police, who are trying to identify the accused from CCTV footage, are yet to make any arrests in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bmw-driver-hits-four-people-3-vehicles-on-dumas-road-flees-on-foot/articleshow/79048087.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Ready to conduct local body polls, SEC tells AP high court||VIJAYAWADA: The State Election Commission (SEC) has filed an affidavit before the AP high court, stating that it is ready to conduct local body elections by taking all necessary precautionary measures in view of Covid-19. State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar filed the affidavit, stating that it is imperative for the state government to extend full cooperation in maintaining law and order as unprecedented violent incidents were reported in the early phase of election process which was postponed midway in March due to the pandemic. Responding to the notices issued by the HC over the postponement of elections, Ramesh Kumar said the decision was taken to check the spread of the virus as per WHO and Union government guidelines. The decision was also upheld by the Supreme Court, he added. “Now, as the situation is improving in the state with daily infection numbers coming down, the SEC plans to conduct the elections by taking all safety precautions. As the Election Commission of India is holding assembly elections in Bihar and local body elections have been announced in Telangana and Rajasthan, the SEC is studying all the best practices being implemented in the country to ensure the safety of public while conducting the elections,” he said in the affidavit. Ramesh Kumar further stated that the state government is contradicting itself, as it has already allowed the reopening of schools, businesses and other activities, but is not ready to hold local body elections which is contrary to its earlier stand. He said a consultative meeting was held inviting all registered political parties. Out of 19 parties, 14 expressed unanimously opined that the elections should be held. Strangely, the ruling YSRC boycotted the meeting raising apprehensions over the consultative meeting, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ready-to-conduct-local-body-polls-sec-tells-ap-high-court/articleshow/79049666.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Factory owner booked for death of worker||LUDHIANA: The Koomkalan police have booked the owner of a knitwear factory after the death of a worker on duty on Tuesday. The victim was working on the water treatment plant of the factory when the pillar fell on him. The kin of the deceased have alleged that the factory owner did not repair the water treatment plant, which caused the mishap. The accused has been identified as Ashwani Gupta of Jhammat village, who is owner of Ashwani Knitwear in Rayiyan village. Amit Kumar, 20, of Rayiyan died in the mishap inside the factory. In his complaint, Subodh Singh of Rayiyan village, cousin of the deceased stated that Amit Kumar was working on the water treatment plant in the factory when the water treatment plant with a capacity of 50,000 litre collapsed. Subodh alleged that the factory owner had not repaired the water treatment plant on time due to which the structure was feeble. Investigating officer, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jasvir Singh, said an FIR under sections 304-A (Causing death by negligence) of IPC has been lodged against the factory owner Ashwani Gupta. The accused is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/factory-owner-booked-for-death-of-worker/articleshow/79050817.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Nashik||Onion prices drop for 2nd day in a row at Lasalgaon||Nashik: The average wholesale onion price at the country’s largest wholesale onion market at Lasalgaon agriculture produce market committee (APMC) continued to drop on the second consecutive day on Wednesday.The average wholesale onion price dropped by Rs 600 per quintal to Rs 3,400 per quintal on Wednesday, against Rs 4,000 per quintal Tuesday. The average wholesale onion prices have dropped by 52% in the last 15 days from Rs 7,100 per quintal on October 20 to Rs 3,400 per quintal on Wednesday.APMC officials said the arrival of onions has increased but the order flow to the traders is slow due to the stock limit. Around 6,200 quintals of onions were auctioned at Lasalgaon on Wednesday. The fresh kharif onions are expected to arrive in large quantities after the Diwali festival.“The union government’s policy of banning onion export, imposing stock limit and importing onions has impacted the onion traders, who have slowed the purchases,” said Nandkumar Daga, president, Lasalgaon onion traders’ association.Meanwhile, Maharashtra state onion-growers associations has expressed disappointment over the Centre’s decision to import onions through National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed).“The Nafed is expected to import onions at the rate of Rs 5,000 per quintal. We want Nafed to procure onions from farmers at this rate instead of importing onions,” said Bharat Dighole, state president of the association.The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 1,100 and Rs 4,711 per quintal, respectively, on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-prices-drop-for-2nd-day-in-a-row-at-lasalgaon/articleshow/79046919.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 5, 2020||Amaravati||Ready to conduct local body polls, SEC tells AP high court||VIJAYAWADA: The State Election Commission (SEC) has filed an affidavit before the AP high court, stating that it is ready to conduct local body elections by taking all necessary precautionary measures in view of Covid-19. State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar filed the affidavit, stating that it is imperative for the state government to extend full cooperation in maintaining law and order as unprecedented violent incidents were reported in the early phase of election process which was postponed midway in March due to the pandemic. Responding to the notices issued by the HC over the postponement of elections, Ramesh Kumar said the decision was taken to check the spread of the virus as per WHO and Union government guidelines. The decision was also upheld by the Supreme Court, he added. “Now, as the situation is improving in the state with daily infection numbers coming down, the SEC plans to conduct the elections by taking all safety precautions. As the Election Commission of India is holding assembly elections in Bihar and local body elections have been announced in Telangana and Rajasthan, the SEC is studying all the best practices being implemented in the country to ensure the safety of public while conducting the elections,” he said in the affidavit. Ramesh Kumar further stated that the state government is contradicting itself, as it has already allowed the reopening of schools, businesses and other activities, but is not ready to hold local body elections which is contrary to its earlier stand. He said a consultative meeting was held inviting all registered political parties. Out of 19 parties, 14 expressed unanimously opined that the elections should be held. Strangely, the ruling YSRC boycotted the meeting raising apprehensions over the consultative meeting, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ready-to-conduct-local-body-polls-sec-tells-ap-high-court/articleshow/79053455.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Ready to conduct local body polls, SEC tells AP high court||VIJAYAWADA: The State Election Commission (SEC) has filed an affidavit before the AP high court, stating that it is ready to conduct local body elections by taking all necessary precautionary measures in view of Covid-19. State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar filed the affidavit, stating that it is imperative for the state government to extend full cooperation in maintaining law and order as unprecedented violent incidents were reported in the early phase of election process which was postponed midway in March due to the pandemic. Responding to the notices issued by the HC over the postponement of elections, Ramesh Kumar said the decision was taken to check the spread of the virus as per WHO and Union government guidelines. The decision was also upheld by the Supreme Court, he added. “Now, as the situation is improving in the state with daily infection numbers coming down, the SEC plans to conduct the elections by taking all safety precautions. As the Election Commission of India is holding assembly elections in Bihar and local body elections have been announced in Telangana and Rajasthan, the SEC is studying all the best practices being implemented in the country to ensure the safety of public while conducting the elections,” he said in the affidavit. Ramesh Kumar further stated that the state government is contradicting itself, as it has already allowed the reopening of schools, businesses and other activities, but is not ready to hold local body elections which is contrary to its earlier stand. He said a consultative meeting was held inviting all registered political parties. Out of 19 parties, 14 expressed unanimously opined that the elections should be held. Strangely, the ruling YSRC boycotted the meeting raising apprehensions over the consultative meeting, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ready-to-conduct-local-body-polls-sec-tells-ap-high-court/articleshow/79053456.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 5, 2020||Pune||PCMC jumbo & Autocluster units to stay on as focal hubs||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Annasaheb Magar stadium jumbo unit and the Autocluster medical facility in Pimpri Chinchwad will remain the primary contact points for Covid-19 treatment, said Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar, earlier this week. He added that since the positivity rate in the civic limits had dropped to less than 10%, they were focusing on non-Covid treatment. “With 1,000-bed shared capacity between the jumbo unit and the Autocluster facility, we have ample beds available at present,” he said. He added that the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, which has been a dedicated Covid-19 hospital since April, has been allowed to operate at 50% capacity for non-Covid treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-jumbo-autocluster-units-to-stay-on-as-focal-hubs/articleshow/79049646.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Two men from Telangana held for killing businessman from Hyderabad in US||HYDERABAD: Three people, including two men originally from Telangana, have been arrested in the US for allegedly killing businessman Arif Mohiuddin in Georgia on November 1. Arif, who ran his own grocery store in Georgia, was from Hyderabad and had been living in the US for the past decade. He was stabbed and killed outside his home and police suspect that differences in business dealings may be the motive behind the murder. The two Indian suspects are Pinnaka Gopichand and Suryavamsham Shekhar Rao while the third is a woman who has been identified as Laura Joy English. They were arrested after they were seen in CCTV footage near Arif’s house. The investigators have, however, have not given the exact reason for Arif’s murder. All three have been charged with murder and aggravated assault. According to Arif’s family, Gopichand and Rao had worked with Arif at another grocery store before he branched out on his own. Arif was stabbed at least three times just outside his home immediately after he had returned from his store. He had reportedly stepped out of his house briefly to receive a call, met the three alleged assailants there and argued with them, after which he was stabbed, his family in Hyderabad said. He had run into his house, bleeding from his chest, side and arm. Hours after the incident, police arrested the three persons. Sources said that the Indian consulate at Atlanta is in touch with Arif’s family. His wife and father-in-law have sought help to travel to the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-men-from-t-held-for-killing-bizman-from-hyd-in-us/articleshow/79051584.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ready to conduct local body polls, SEC tells AP high court||VIJAYAWADA: The State Election Commission (SEC) has filed an affidavit before the AP high court, stating that it is ready to conduct local body elections by taking all necessary precautionary measures in view of Covid-19. State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar filed the affidavit, stating that it is imperative for the state government to extend full cooperation in maintaining law and order as unprecedented violent incidents were reported in the early phase of election process which was postponed midway in March due to the pandemic. Responding to the notices issued by the HC over the postponement of elections, Ramesh Kumar said the decision was taken to check the spread of the virus as per WHO and Union government guidelines. The decision was also upheld by the Supreme Court, he added. “Now, as the situation is improving in the state with daily infection numbers coming down, the SEC plans to conduct the elections by taking all safety precautions. As the Election Commission of India is holding assembly elections in Bihar and local body elections have been announced in Telangana and Rajasthan, the SEC is studying all the best practices being implemented in the country to ensure the safety of public while conducting the elections,” he said in the affidavit. Ramesh Kumar further stated that the state government is contradicting itself, as it has already allowed the reopening of schools, businesses and other activities, but is not ready to hold local body elections which is contrary to its earlier stand. He said a consultative meeting was held inviting all registered political parties. Out of 19 parties, 14 expressed unanimously opined that the elections should be held. Strangely, the ruling YSRC boycotted the meeting raising apprehensions over the consultative meeting, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ready-to-conduct-local-body-polls-sec-tells-ap-high-court/articleshow/79053454.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 5, 2020||Nashik||NMC defers allotment of spaces for vegetable vendors||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has deferred the allotment of spaces for vegetable vendors at the vegetable market near Akashwani tower, towards Gangapur Road, after some residents moved the Bombay high court against the vegetable market.The allotment of spaces to the vendors was to be made on October 4 (Wednesday) through a draw of lots. But as the matter is subjudice, the NMC administration has deferred the allotment until the high court issues an order.NMC has built a vegetable market near the Akashwani tower. But the people, who come to the vegetable market, park their vehicles along the roads which causes traffic jams.Some residents had opposed the vegetable market in the area and had asked the civic administration to shift the market somewhere else. But the NMC had announced the allotment of the spaces at the vegetable market for the vegetable vendors through a draw of lots.As some resident moved court, the NMC issued the statement about the deferment of the allotment of spaces until the court order is issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-defers-allotment-of-spaces-for-vegetable-vendors/articleshow/79046925.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Pune||Wait for at least a week for Pune multiplexes to reopen||MUMBAI/PUNE: In yet another unlocking of sectors, the state government has allowed the reopening of cinema halls, multiplexes, drama theatres, yoga institutes, sports facilities such as badminton and squash courts as well as indoor shooting ranges and swimming pools, which will be available only for training of sportspersons, from Thursday. Cine buffs in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, however, may have to wait for at least one more week for a movie day out as the 31 multiplexes will not open their doors to patrons on Thursday. Besides, all single screen theatre owners in Pune have decided not to start operations till a Covid-19 vaccine is available and the government provides them with subsidies. A top official from the Multiplex Association of India said the government’s order was a signal to start and multiplexes in Pune would now start preparing to reopen. “Most of the multiplex chains have discontinued their housekeeping contractors. We don’t even know what content to screen. Some multiplexes will gradually start by operating one or two screens, maybe on one of the Fridays during the month.” The owners of the four multiplexes in Nashik too said they would require around 5-6 days to reopen mainly because the premises had to be sanitised and cleaned and also because no good movie was presently available for screening. Cinema halls will reopen at 50% capacity and prohibit eatables inside while sticking to Covid-19 protocols such as thermal checks, making masks mandatory at all times, and sanitisation. There will be one-seat distance between two people and the temperature inside auditoriums will be maintained between 24ºC and 30ºC. Theatre operators will have to stagger show timings among different screens to ensure enough time for sanitisation of seats and the rest of the area, said an official. The detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) will be issued by the cultural affairs department. The Centre had allowed reopening of cinema halls from October 15, but the state did not take a decision till now. Sources from multiplexes such as E-Square, Inox and City Pride said it would take another 7-10 days to open, “as the biggest problem is operational readiness to start, no new movie content, expired contracts with housekeeping staffers and opening of the establishments at a limited 50% customer capacity”. Neerav Panchamia, chief operating executive, E-Square Leisure Private Limited, told TOI that the E Square Multiplex in Pune might not open before 7-10 days. “Apart from logistics, another big problem is no new content to screen. People would not be too excited about viewing old movies at a regular ticket price. At 50% seating capacity, our overheads will still be on. Also, no multiplexes are likely to open before the standard operating procedures (SOPs) from the government come. In short, multiplexes cannot open till they do the entire exercise of staff mobilization and testing, clean-up and sanitization of premises,” he said. A source from INOX Leisure Limited in Pune said, “It may take a week or so for us to start in Pune for reasons such as operational readiness, sanitization, technical preparations and manpower.” Deepak Kudale, president of the Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India, said, “All single screen theatre owners in Pune have decided to start operations only after a Covid-19 vaccine becomes available and the government gives us subsidies. We have taken this decision based on many factors: expenditure on sanitization and following SOPs, single screen theatres are already facing losses, limited audience is expected due to social distancing and no or limited number of new (movie) releases.” “We can now take action to set the wheels in motion,” Prakash Chaphalkar, secretary of the Multiplex Association of India, said. “Theatre owners have not yet called their employees back, while some have even disconnected electricity supply. Housekeeping staff and contractors will now be recalled. SOPs will be set in place. So business will not resume immediately.” “Also, do remember that the new notification prohibits eatables inside theatres,” Chaphalkar said. “As a result of Covid-19 restrictions, I feel reopening will be very basic. Fewer screens will be populated. For instance, morning shows may be few and far between. Even at prime time, we will have to finalise which content to show. I don’t see any new movies releasing at Diwali. It is a laborious task and we are staring at a loss-making proposition for the next one month at least. We will have to entice viewers with schemes and sops and perhaps lower admission rates.” Nearly 10 days after the state allowed gymnasiums to open, the government allowed yoga institutes to open as well. Group cardio exercises like zumba and dance classes were not allowed. “With yoga it is possible to keep distance between two people, but with cardio exercises like zumba and dance it is not possible,” an official said. Swimming pools have been allowed only for training of state-, national- and international-level sportspersons. All indoor facilities for sports such as badminton, tennis, squash and indoor shooting ranges will be allowed with physical distancing and sanitation measures. “Maharashtra has slowly and steadily unlocked most of the activities,” an official said. “The only sectors that are left to open up are places of worship and educational institutes and a decision on those will be taken post-Diwali.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wait-for-at-least-a-week-for-city-multiplexes-to-reopen/articleshow/79049664.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 5, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Cut firecracker use; pollution, cold temperatures & Covid deadly mix, say experts||PUNE: The state’s expert committee on pandemic control has strongly urged the Maharashtra government to reduce firecracker activity during Diwali to avoid a potentially deadly mix of high air pollution levels, low temperatures and Covid-19, which affects the respiratory tract. The experts warned that the combination of colder weather and high pollution could leave people with breathing problems particularly vulnerable to serious symptoms. On Tuesday, data from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s System of Air Quality Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) showed air quality in Pune and Mumbai had already registered a significant plunge, a full 10 days before Diwali. Pune’s air quality on Wednesday had slid to “moderate” while Mumbai’s was “poor”. Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state on Covid control, said, “We have recommended a reduction in firecracker use during Diwali this year as part of our 10-point programme on avoiding a possible second wave. Cold temperatures, pollution caused by firecrackers and Covid could be a deadly combination.” Salunke said pollution affects the respiratory tract. “Generally too, pollution and steep drops in temperature make individuals prone to viral infections. Also, allergies and asthma-like conditions are exacerbated by both cooler weather and pollution. Any factor that adds to pollution levels, such as firecrackers and garbage burning, needs to be immediately tackled because a pandemic is on,” he said. Recently, after a plea, the National Green Tribunal had issued notices to the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) and four state governments asking if there should be a firecracker ban from November 7 to 30 in the interest of public health and environment. The plea had sought action against pollution caused by fire crackers in the National Capital Region, during a time when air quality worsens along with risks posed by Covid-19. Health experts too have sounded caution. Om Shrivastav, an infectious diseases specialist and a member of the state's Covid-19 task force, said, “Particulate pollutants of specific sizes (3-5 microns) are the kind that infiltrate airways and stay there, especially in those with compromised immune systems and diseases of the lung.” He added that a combination of factors, such as pollutant particle size in an environment that is cold and smoky, could be particularly problematic for a group of individuals. “Viruses like H1N1 seem to thrive in this type of environment. This is the first winter with Covid-19, so we’ll soon know how this virus behaves in the coming days. Nevertheless, it is strongly advised that people be more careful in the type of cold and polluted air we usually see during Diwali,” he said. A study by Harvard University September had shown that even a tiny increase of only one microgram per cubic metre in PM 2.5 is associated with an 8% increase in Covid-19 death rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reduce-diwali-firecracker-use-to-avoid-deadly-pollution-cold-covid-combo-experts/articleshow/79049656.cms||Neha Madaan
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Epidemiologist Dr Zodpey probably only doctor from Vidarbha in prestigious list||Nagpur: Dr Sanjay Zodpey, an epidemiologist and physician from city, features in the prestigious ‘World Rankings of Top 2% Scientists’. He is probably the only doctor and among three from Vidarbha and 1,500 from India to get place in the list. Dr Zodpey, vice-president of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) in New Delhi, has been ranked No. 403 worldwide in the field of Tropical Medicine. He is among 13 in this field from India. “A team of scientists led by Dr John PA Ioannidis from Stanford University (California) conducted this analysis of worldwide-ranking of scientists in all science fields. The updated science-wide author database is published in the journal Public Library of Science (PLoS) Biology, in October," Dr Zodpey told TOI. Dr Zodpey, also member on one of the committees of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), added there was no single large-scale database that systematically ranked all the most cited scientists across the world in a chosen field of their research to a sufficient ranking depth and breadth. For example, Google scholar allows scientists to create their profiles and share them in public domain, but not all researchers have created a profile. Scopus is a database that ranks journals and gives a citation index and Dr. Ioannidis database has referred largely to this resource. It is based on numbers of research papers published, number of times scientist is cited and the h-index which is one of the measures of the scientist’s standing in the scientific community. These top 2% scientists are from all scientific fields, right from applied physics to energy and from artificial intelligence to medicine. They have been classified into 22 fields and 176 sub fields. These are claimed to be world’s first comprehensive rankings of scientists on individual basis. Dr Zodpey’s unwavering commitment to advance science for the benefit of the society has been well recognized and appreciated. “I believe knowledge generation through research gives you the thrills of discovery, but knowledge translation, which is more impactful, gives you the satisfaction of purpose being fullfiled,” he said. Dr Zodpey, also director of Indian Institute of Public Health, New Delhi, has filed 249 papers on Tropical Medicine in 26 years from 1994 to 2020. These were majorly considered for the analysis and rankings. When Covid-19 pandemic started in city in March, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe learnt that Dr Zodpey was residing in city during the lockdown period. They requested him to help in improving a mechanism to deal with the epidemic. Dr Zodpey, a former vice-dean from GMCH, Nagpur, and his colleagues submitted two reports on May 10. TOI had reported on both the reports on May 25. Nagpur Municipal Corporation, Zilla Parishad and district administration had initiated various measures suggested by Dr Zodpey to prevent spread of Covid-19 and control deaths. Dr Zodpey has been attending review meetings and giving suggestions whenever invited by divisional commissioner and NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/epidemiologist-dr-zodpey-probably-only-doctor-from-vidarbha-in-prestigious-list/articleshow/79064305.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Mask enforcement hit as BBMP marshals, police fail to join forces||Bengaluru: About 6,000 people continue to flout mask and social distancing norms every day in Bengaluru but poor co-ordination between police and BBMP marshals is hindering enforcement, officials said. Naveen Raj Singh, chairperson, Covid Task Force, on Wednesday presided over a meeting of BBMP officials, including marshals, and police officials to fix it. According to data accessed by TOI, over 4,300 people were penalised for not wearing masks and over 400 people for not maintaining social distance on November 3. Police had fined over 2,800 persons for not wearing masks. North East division police led with 574 violations, followed by South at 536. Marshals penalised 491 people and 421 in East zone. “We have close to 6,000 offenders on a daily basis. BBMP marshals and police are working together to control the virus spread,” Raj Singh said. Senior BBMP officials on condition of anonymity admitted to several glitches in enforcement. Initially, only BBMP marshals were authorised to penalise mask violators but with increase in cases and violations, chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar ordered police also to penalise violators. The first signs of trouble was mode of challaning. While police officers manually issued bills to violators, BBMP marshals were provided with point of sales machines. “When marshals penalised violators, the fine paid would immediately go into the commissioner’s account, but fine collection by police was a problem,” a BBMP officer. Two staff, each from 109 law and order police stations across the city, have been deployed for Covid-19 enforcement. On an average, police fine between 3,500 and 4,500 persons daily, a senior police official said. To ensure transparency, the chief secretary purchased more point of sales machines and handed them over to police. Each machine costs Rs 15,000 and currently there are 110 machines across the city. “BBMP marshals and police department have been penalising independently and we want to change this,” BBMP official said. Col Rajbir Singh, in charge of marshals, said people turn unruly when marshals enforce the law but fall in line when police do it. “We requested police officials to join hands with us but police haven’t confirmed their support yet. People are afraid of police but not marshals. We want police officials to accompany marshals. Police officials are willing to extend support in public spaces like markets and malls,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mask-enforcement-hit-as-bbmp-marshals-police-fail-to-join-forces/articleshow/79048122.cms||Nithya Mandyam
November 5, 2020||Vadodara||Cops in uniform to patrol city||Vadodara: To instil confidence among people during the upcoming festive season, policemen in the city will not shed their official attire. The police department has asked the cops posted in the detection of crime branch (DCB), special operations group (SOG) and prevention of crime branch (PCB) to patrol their areas wearing uniform. Usually, cops posted in crime branch, SOG and PCB are exempted from wearing uniform on several occasions. “But when cops move in public places in uniform, their presence is felt in the city. People need to feel safe during the festive season,” a police official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-in-uniform-to-patrol-city/articleshow/79048224.cms||---
November 5, 2020||World||Complicated electoral system sows seeds of chaos, discord||WASHINGTON: A disastrous election process and an electoral system that would embarrass a fledgling democracy in Africa or Latin America has sowed seeds of chaos, confusion, and bitter wrangling in the world’s premier nation. With every state having its own rules and process of voting and counting of ballots, leads see-sawed in several battleground states giving no clear picture of the winner even as President Trump claimed he had won before all votes were tabulated. The surge in mail-in voting caused by the pandemic compounded an already flawed system that is known for voter suppression, particularly of minorities. Here is how it played out in key states that will determine the final outcome  In Michigan, Trump established an early lead before Biden came back in the final stages when votes from Wayne country, which includes the metropolitan Detroit area with a large black population, helped him eke out a small lead of 10,000 votes.  Similarly in Wisconsin, Biden surged back into a small lead 20,000-vote lad when ballots from the metropolitan Milwaukee region was counted.  Democrats expect a similar turnout in Georgia and Pennsylvania when votes from the metropolitan Atlanta region and metropolitan Philadelphia region are counted. All four cities have large black populations that tend to favour the Biden-Harris ticket, thus introducing an explosive racial element into the election, with Democrats alleging Trump is trying to disenfranchise and suppress black voters. Trump won Wisconsin by only around 10,000 votes and Michigan by only around 24,000 votes in 2016. Now that the tables were being turned, the US President appeared to not accept the reversal. As his lead evaporated in the battleground states in the morning hours of Wednesday when counting continued despite his calls to freeze it, Trump tweeted “Last night I was leading, often solidly, in many key states, in almost all instances Democrat run & controlled. Then, one by one, they started to magically disappear as surprise ballot dumps were counted. VERY STRANGE, and the “pollsters” got it completely & historically wrong!” “How come every time they count Mail-In ballot dumps they are so devastating in their percentage and power of destruction?” he tweeted a short time later. Some leading Republicans too slammed Trump for trying to torpedo the counting, pointing out that he still stood a chance of winning if all votes were counted. “I was very distressed by what I heard the president say. Using the word “fraud” (to describe) people counting votes is wrong,” said Rick Santorun, a former lawmaker and Trump associate on a TV discussion. “I disagree with what he did tonight,” said Chris Christie, a former Republican governor of New Jersey. The election process allows up to a week to count ballots from overseas military personnel, which are expected to trend towards Trump. It will be Florida 2000 on steroids if there are no decisive margins and final projections in the elections. The final projections could take days, even weeks, if both sides go legal and get the courts involved. In the 2000 Presidential elections, it all boiled down to Florida for one side to hit 270 electoral votes, and it took the courts weeks to untangle the dispute before the Supreme Court called it in favour of George Bush against Al Gore in a controversial decision from a conservative majority court. The final margin of victory: 527 votes after nearly six million votes were cast. Bush polled 2,912,790 to Gore’s 2,912,253, and many Democrats still believe they were cheated out of the Presidency because many votes were disqualified. As with Trump, Bush too lost the nationwide popular vote. Any or all of the half dozen battleground states of 2020 have the potential to be the Florida of 2020. The US Supreme Court is currently tilted 6-3 conservative majority. Watch US election 2020: Chaos erupts at Detroit ballot processing center||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/complicated-electoral-system-sows-seeds-of-chaos-discord/articleshow/79052104.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
November 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP HC orders status quo on distribution of temple land parcels||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Wednesday questioned the Andhra Pradesh government over the distribution of temple land parcels for house sites to the poor. The court, after hearing a PIL, said “anything can happen in your state”, referring to the government pleader. Temple lands have become easy targets for the government to acquire, it observed. One Kottakota Balakrishna, president of Sri Durga Bhavani Seva Sangham from Gumpam village under Pusapatirega mandal in Vizianagaram district, moved the PIL, seeking directions to stall all further proceedings by to distribute house sites in an extent of 0.51 acres of land belonging to the temple. He contended that taking temple land for distribution of house sites is illegal and arbitrary. The bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi observed that the revenue records suggest that the land belongs to the temple. The bench questioned as to how the government could distribute temple lands. Directing to maintain status quo, the court asked the government to file a detailed counter affidavit within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-hc-orders-status-quo-on-distribution-of-temple-land/articleshow/79056871.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 5, 2020||Amaravati||AP HC orders status quo on distribution of temple land parcels||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Wednesday questioned the Andhra Pradesh government over the distribution of temple land parcels for house sites to the poor. The court, after hearing a PIL, said “anything can happen in your state”, referring to the government pleader. Temple lands have become easy targets for the government to acquire, it observed. One Kottakota Balakrishna, president of Sri Durga Bhavani Seva Sangham from Gumpam village under Pusapatirega mandal in Vizianagaram district, moved the PIL, seeking directions to stall all further proceedings by to distribute house sites in an extent of 0.51 acres of land belonging to the temple. He contended that taking temple land for distribution of house sites is illegal and arbitrary. The bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi observed that the revenue records suggest that the land belongs to the temple. The bench questioned as to how the government could distribute temple lands. Directing to maintain status quo, the court asked the government to file a detailed counter affidavit within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-hc-orders-status-quo-on-distribution-of-temple-land/articleshow/79056872.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||City’s Gland Pharma eyes India’s biggest sector IPO at Rs 6,500 cr||Hyderabad/Mumbai: At a time when all eyes are on the world’s pharma and biotech capital of Hyderabad, where work on multiple Covid-19 vaccine candidates is underway and one of the largest dedicated pharma parks — Pharma City — is being set up, city-based Gland Pharma is coming up with India’s largest ever pharma sector IPO to raise around Rs 6,500 crore. The IPO by Gland Pharma, which was set up in 1978 by PVN Raju and is now majority owned by China’s Fosun Pharma group, is also one of the first Chinese majority owned companies eyeing a listing on Indian bourses, especially at a time when a strong anti-China sentiment has been prevailing in the country. The IPO will see the existing shareholders of Gland Pharma sell shares worth about 80% of the total offer size, while the company will mobilise Rs 1,250 crore for its own use. On Wednesday, the company said the price band for the IPO has been fixed at Rs 1,490-1,500 per share and the offer will open on November 9 and close on November 11. So far, the Rs 1,741-crore IPO by Eris Lifesciences, which closed in 2017, was the biggest pharma IPO. Gland Pharma plans to use the proceeds of the IPO for funding its incremental working capital and capital expenditure requirements and for general corporate purposes. In October 2017, Fosun Pharma was keen on acquiring a little over 86% in the Hyderabad-based company for around $1.1 billion, which at that time would have become the single largest Chinese investment in India. However, after the government flagged concerns over the proprietary technology developed by the Indian company falling into Chinese hands, the deal was scaled down to 74%. This deal was announced a few months after Indian and Chinese armies were involved in a border dispute at Doklam near Bhutan. Gland Pharma had filed its IPO document in July this year, a couple of months after the Galwan Valley clash in the Ladakh region. Interestingly, the Raju family of Satyam Computers group had 60 lakh shares of Gland Pharma which are now being transferred to an escrow account. At the upper band of the price band, the shares are worth Rs 900 crore. The company has approached markets regulator Sebi to exempt these shares from being under compulsory post-offer lock-in under current IPO rules. Kotak Mahindra Capital Company, Citigroup, Haitong Securities and Nomura are managing the offer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citys-gland-pharma-eyes-indias-biggest-sector-ipo-at-rs-6500-cr/articleshow/79051646.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vijayawada||AP HC orders status quo on distribution of temple land parcels||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Wednesday questioned the Andhra Pradesh government over the distribution of temple land parcels for house sites to the poor. The court, after hearing a PIL, said “anything can happen in your state”, referring to the government pleader. Temple lands have become easy targets for the government to acquire, it observed. One Kottakota Balakrishna, president of Sri Durga Bhavani Seva Sangham from Gumpam village under Pusapatirega mandal in Vizianagaram district, moved the PIL, seeking directions to stall all further proceedings by to distribute house sites in an extent of 0.51 acres of land belonging to the temple. He contended that taking temple land for distribution of house sites is illegal and arbitrary. The bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi observed that the revenue records suggest that the land belongs to the temple. The bench questioned as to how the government could distribute temple lands. Directing to maintain status quo, the court asked the government to file a detailed counter affidavit within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-hc-orders-status-quo-on-distribution-of-temple-land/articleshow/79056873.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Cops book 3 for snatching Rs 13,000 mobile||LUDHIANA: Three miscreants have robbed a man of Rs 13,000 and his mobile, after opening two fires at him near Atam hosiery in Daresi area. However, the man escaped unhurt. The incident occurred on October 26. Initially, the victim did not lodge a complaint out of fear. But later he identified one of the accused and then gave a written complaint to the police. The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of Parveen Kumar, 48, of Nanak Nagar who owns a grocery store in Karabara area. On his complaint, the Daresi police have booked Lovedeep Singh of Bhamiya, Deepak Kumar and Gagandeep of Shimlapuri. In his complaint, Parveen said on the night of October 26, he was returning home on his bike. At around 10pm, when he was crossing by the Atam hosiery, the motorcycle-borne three accused intercepted him. One of the accused had a gun in his hands. He threatened to kill him and asked to hand over the mobile and cash. When the victim tried to resist, the accused opened fire in the air. The accused then snatched Rs 13,000 and his mobile and escaped. Investigating officer assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Shavinder Singh at Daresi police station said the incident had captured a CCTV installed near the spot. Parveen took the CCTV footage. Some neighbours of Parveen identified one of the accused, Lovedeep Singh, as earlier he was living in their locality and a few months ago had shifted to another locality. After identifying him, the victim lodged a complaint with police on Tuesday. A case has been registered by police under sections 392 (punishment for robbery), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (Act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC and Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-book-3-for-snatching-rs-13k-mobile/articleshow/79050831.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Pune||Duo in net for firing at eatery owner in Pune||PUNE: The crime branch of the Pune rural police on Wednesday arrested two of the three men who had fired at a 40-year-old eatery owner near Velhe, about 60km from the city, on November 1. The police team, led by senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat, arrested Sandip Dhumal (20) and Rupesh Palkhe (20), both from Jambhulwadi Road, Ambegaon. The eatery owner, Vilas Nathu Borge, had sustained bullet injuries in his chest. He is undergoing treatment in a hospital. Around 8.30am on November 1, the suspects came to the eatery and spotted Borge wearing a gold chain. They returned to snatch it. Borge managed to grab the suspect’s hand, when the other man fired at him. “We received a tip-off that the suspects would be coming near Kusgaon. We laid a trap and arrested Dhumal and Palkhe,” Ghanwat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-in-net-for-firing-at-eatery-owner/articleshow/79049676.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||AP HC orders status quo on distribution of temple land parcels||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Wednesday questioned the Andhra Pradesh government over the distribution of temple land parcels for house sites to the poor. The court, after hearing a PIL, said “anything can happen in your state”, referring to the government pleader. Temple lands have become easy targets for the government to acquire, it observed. One Kottakota Balakrishna, president of Sri Durga Bhavani Seva Sangham from Gumpam village under Pusapatirega mandal in Vizianagaram district, moved the PIL, seeking directions to stall all further proceedings by to distribute house sites in an extent of 0.51 acres of land belonging to the temple. He contended that taking temple land for distribution of house sites is illegal and arbitrary. The bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi observed that the revenue records suggest that the land belongs to the temple. The bench questioned as to how the government could distribute temple lands. Directing to maintain status quo, the court asked the government to file a detailed counter affidavit within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-hc-orders-status-quo-on-distribution-of-temple-land/articleshow/79049714.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM to reaffirm faith in Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even as opposition steps up criticism and seeks the resignation of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, it is learnt that CPM central leadership will not change the position taken at the central committee meeting last weekend. CPM central leadership had ruled out a change of guard in Kerala unit and LDF government while deciding to expose the aggression shown by central investigating agencies against the government in Kerala. Though more charges were levelled against Bineesh Kodiyeri –the younger son of Balakrishnan –amid damaging media reports about his alleged link with drug mafia and benami investors, CPM is of the view that there is no need to change its stand. With additional private secretary to the chief minister CM Raveendran also being summoned for ED interrogation, the pressure on CMO has intensified. Unlike M Sivasankar, Raveendran is a CPM nominee and is a close confidant of senior CPM leaders. If at all a link arises between Raveendran and the alleged corruption deals, it will further weaken the position of CPM and CM. However, the leadership has taken a stand that all such issues will be considered in detail only if agencies present credible evidence. The notification for local body polls, which can be expected within a week, is a major deterrent that stops the party from attempting a change of guard at this juncture, said sources. The CPM state secretariat will meet here on Friday will be followed by a meeting of CPM state committee on Saturday. The agenda of both meetings is reporting of the central committee decisions taken last week. The central committee has approved alliance with Congress in West Bengal, Assam and Tamil Nadu which will go to polls along with Kerala in April-May next year. The upcoming poll season will present an interesting scenario with CPM fighting Congress tooth and nail in Kerala while supporting the party in other three states. CPM wants to explain this scenario logically to voters and for that a detailed reporting of the decision in the state committee is necessary. The plan of the leadership is to present the recent political developments in state committee along with the suggestion of central committee to defend the incumbent leadership. That would prevent adverse discussions in the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-to-reaffirm-faith-in-kodiyeri-and-pinarayi/articleshow/79048146.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Mysuru||Environmentalist attacked by tusker on his estate||MADIKERI: Environmentalist Colonel (retd.) CP Muthanna was on Wednesday morning by a wild elephant at his estate in Athuru, near Gonikoppal. Muthanna, who sustained injuries on his right leg in the attack, was shifted to a hospital in Mysuru where he is undergoing treatment. Muthanna was allegedly attacked by a tusker that had entered his estate. The tusker, which is said to be roaming around in Athuru, Kolathodu and Bygodu villages, has often been spotted entering estates and invading agricultural fields. Meanwhile, president of the Kodagu District Farmers’ Association Kadyamada Manu Somaiah and other members of the outfit called on the injured Muthanna at the hospital. Ththimathi range forest officer (RFO) Ashok Hunagunda and Ponnampet RFO Rajappa, on being informed about the incident, said that the forest department would bear the expenses of Muthanna’s treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/environmentalist-attacked-by-tusker-on-his-estate/articleshow/79047608.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Nashik||GST figures hint at economic recovery in Nashik division||Nashik: Revenue collection from the five districts under the Nashik divisional office of central GST department for the months of September and October of the current financial year has increased by 20% when compared to revenue collection in the corresponding period last year.Central GST officials said economic activities have started increasing in the division’s five districts. The divisional office has collected about Rs 500 crore in September and October of the current financial year — 23% more than last year’s GST collection of nearly Rs 407 crore during this time.The Nashik divisional office of central GST has jurisdiction over five districts – Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar. The jurisdiction of the Nashik divisional office of state GST department is also the same. There are over 1.25 lakh businesses registered with the GST office in Nashik division. Of them, 65,000 businesses are registered with the state GST, while 60,000 are with central GST.The divisional office of central GST has collected Rs 1,273 crore in the first seven months of the current financial year, against revenue of Rs 1,736 crore during the corresponding period last financial year. But it must be noted that there was a lockdown during the first four months of the current financial year. “Manufacturing companies have completed the orders pending since March onwards in September and October as logistics and labour resources were restored,” said Santosh Mandlecha, state president of Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture.As per the data of central GST, the collection has been improving since July. The first quarter (April-June) was sluggish due to the lockdown. Nashik divisional office of central GST collected Rs 383.8 crore in the first quarter, but the revenue increased in second quarter (July-September), when it collected Rs 637.8 crore.Officials said the rural economy has been the driving force. The purchasing power of farmers has increased due to bumper production of farm produce. Officials feel November collections would be robust too. Central GST officials expect to collect Rs 300 crore tax in November due to Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gst-figures-hint-at-economic-recovery-in-nashik-division/articleshow/79046945.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Four municipalities to get woman heads for consecutive term||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Four municipalities in the state and a few panchayats will have chairperson/president posts reserved for women for the consecutive term bucking the practice of women reserved seats in one term becoming general in the following period. As per the notification on reserved seats for heads of local bodies issued by state election commission, Palakkad, Thrikkakara, Thripunithara and Manjeri have got chairperson seats reserved for women in 2020. All these municipalities had woman heads in 2015 as well. Manjeri had woman head from SC community in 2005 and the municipality has had three women heads during four terms of municipal councils. In Thrikkakara, the chairperson post was reserved for SC woman in 2015, and in 2020 it has again been reserved for women. Another municipality Kalamassery, which had woman head in 2015, now has got chairperson post reserved for SC woman. It was expected that Kalamassery may go to SC general in 2020. Pallickal panchayat in Pathanamthtta is one among the gram panchayats which has repeated reservation of president post for woman. While it is learnt that repetition of reserved posts of heads of local bodies may have occurred in some cases in gram panchayats in the past, the instance of four municipalities getting woman heads for consecutive term is unprecedented. Officials with state election commission said such repetition occurs due to existing legal procedure of reserving seats. The norms say if the municipality where chairperson post has to be reserved for woman and SC/ST becomes the same, priority has to be given for SC/ST community while reserving head position, and head position for women may be reserved in municipality with the next highest population of women. SEC is learnt to have received queries from local bodies after repetition was noted in case of reservation of head positions for women. Former officials with state election commission said usually when 44 chairperson posts are reserved for women out of 87 civic bodies, one municipality is bound to get a woman head for the consecutive term. However the manner in which four municipalities got to have woman heads for the second term in a row is unusual. The state government had notified that in municipal councils, 39 heads will be from general category and 44 chairperson positions will be reserved for women. There will be reserved chairperson posts for SC in 6 municipal councils of which 3 municipal councils will have head position reserved for SC and remaining will be headed by SC (women). The head of one municipal council will be from ST community. As for municipal corporations, there won’t be SC/ST reserved posts for heads of councils. Six head positions will be shared equally between women and general category. The reservation is done based on calculating percentage of SC/ST population in all municipalities across the state and respective percentage in individual municipality. The municipalities where reservation had been done for chairperson posts since 1995 are exempted from being considered for reservation this year. The municipalities with the next highest percentage of SC population in the list are considered for six reserved posts for SC. As for city corporations, mayor post has been reserved for women in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kozhikode. SC woman chairperson posts have been finalised in Nedumangadu, Kalamaserry and Kodungallor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/four-civic-bodies-and-a-few-panchayats-to-get-woman-heads-for-consecutive-term/articleshow/79048214.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 5, 2020||Pune||PMC zonal offices set to issue certificates||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will resume issuing birth and death certificates in a decentralised manner from next week. The work was stopped due to the lockdown and manpower crunch. The PMC will make the birth and death certificates available at five zonal offices. The civic administration has decided to rope in data entry operators for providing this service. “Many of the staff members working in ward offices were directed to Covid-19 duty. This hampered issue of certificates in a decentralised manner, and services were stopped at the ward office level. The certificates could be obtained only from the main building of PMC headquarters in Shivajinagar,” said a senior officer of PMC. As per the PMC officials, currently all the data is collected from hospitals at one office in Kasba peth. The data used to be given to respective ward offices, which used to issue the certificates. Now the data from hospitals can be collected at five zonal offices. The time required for information sharing will be reduced. “The process of decentralisation has started, and PMC will soon complete it. Work of providing the required infrastructure in two zonal offices has already been completed. The work in remaining three offices will be finished as early as possible,” said Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC’s health department, told TOI. The mayor’s office in June had announced decentralisation of certificate distribution system. The change will help in speeding up issuance of certificates. The PMC has decided to appoint one person per ward office to monitor data collection. He/she will help in collection of data from hospitals on deceased persons and births in the jurisdiction of their ward offices. On an average, It takes around 24 days to issue death certificates to family members of deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-zonal-offices-set-to-issue-certificates/articleshow/79049690.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Senior officer at Beed prison dies a day after Covid discharge||Aurangabad: Beed prison’s in-charge superintended Sanjay Kamble, who was discharged from a private super-speciality hospital on Monday after being treated for Covid-19, passed away on Tuesday. According to sources, Kamble was discharged from the hospital without being tested for Covid-19 — as per the new norms of the state government. He reportedly started feeling unwell on Tuesday following which, he was rushed to the same hospital. Later in the day, the officer breathed his last while undergoing treatment. Senior officers are of the view that the young officer, who was known for his reformative measures during his 15-year service in the prison department, died of a heart attack. ADG prisons Sunil Ramanand said, “He had recovered from Covid-19 and died of heart attack. During Covid-19 treatment it was found that he had developed blood clots.” Kamble had served as one of the security officers at the high security cell where terrorist Ajmal Kasab was kept during his trial in the Mumbai-based Arthur Road prison. “When 65 jail inmates had tested positive for Covid-19, Kamble had played a key role in ensuring the best available treatment for them and personally took care of their medications and diet,” a jail official said. “His health started deteriorating last month, after he was found suffering from typhoid. He was immediately admitted to a hospital where he tested positive for Covid-19. Later, his wife and children also tested positive for the contagion and underwent treatment at the same hospital,” he added. DIG prisons Yogesh Desai said, “After Beed prison’s superintendent got infected, Kamble was given charge. However, he got typhoid and had to avail leave. While he was under treatment, he too tested positive for Covid-19.” The district administration performed the last rites while ensuring that all Covid-19 related precautions were followed. The body was brought to the crematorium wrapped in body bag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/senior-officer-at-beed-prison-dies-a-day-after-covid-discharge/articleshow/79050850.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 5, 2020||Vadodara||App to link all VMC councillors||Vadodara: With the new normal changing ways organisations and people are functioning, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) too has started making its own smart changes. After holding online meetings of various committees and general board of the civic body is now set to connect its elected representatives on one single platform — ‘Municipal Secretary App’ — a smart phone application. VMC was forced to take the meetings online to ensure that social distancing was maintained and elected representatives were not forced to come to office. Also, it had limited the access of its office to ensure only a select few came there. Officials realised that while the meetings were being held online, there was no common platform too share their agenda or various circulars of meetings and other things with elected representatives. These were still being sent to them using VMC personnel or through speed post. The new application will now be used to share such material. “For the time being we will continue to provide the hard copy of the agendas and circulars. Once the councillors get comfortable with the system, we can consider sending these on the application only,” said an official. VMC’s municipal secretary Chintan Desai said that in the long run the idea of providing details of the accounts of the development works quota of councillors was being considered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/app-to-link-all-vmc-councillors/articleshow/79046996.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Pune||Two held on charge of abusing cops||Pune: The Sangvi police on Tuesday arrested two men for abusing two policemen when they had stopped the duo for not wearing masks. The incident occurred at Shivar chowk at Pimple Saudagar on Tuesday night. The two men, Abhishek Tenkal (18) and Harish Kamble (18), were produced before the court on Wednesday. They have been remanded to judicial custody, said sub-inspector Vivek Kumatkar of Sangvi police station. Kumatkar said on Tuesday around 7.30pm, a police team was taking action against people, who weren’t wearing masks. He added that when the cops told them to pay the fine, Tenkal and Kamble abused them. “One of them even pushed a police constable,” Kumatkar said. The men have been charged under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act and Covid-19 rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-held-on-charge-of-abusing-cops/articleshow/79049710.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Need not wait till CBI trial is completed: ED to special court||Hyderabad: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday informed the special CBI-cum-ED court that the offence of money laundering charged by it under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against Jagathi Publications and its founder YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and others is a standalone one and not dependent on CBI’s case. Hence, the ED contended, a separate trial in the case was necessary and it need not coincide with the ongoing proceedings in the case filed by the CBI. ED’s special public prosecutor TV Subba Rao filed a counter in the case to this effect. It can be recalled that Jagathi has been insisting that there should be a joint trial in the cases filed by ED and CBI or ED should wait till the CBI case is tried and decided. According to Jagathi, the CBI deals with crime and ED deals with alleged proceeds of crime. “If we are able to disprove the theories of crime levelled against us, then the question of proceeds of crime would not be there,” the counsel for Jagathi said and this has been their consistent stand on the issue. However, ED in its Wednesday’s counter said that they need not wait till the CBI case trial is completed. “This is a standalone offence and can be tried separately,” the ED said in its counter citing section 44(1) of PMLA and the latest amended versions of the law. Principal special judge BR Madhusudhan Rao posted the case to November 6 for hearing the argument of ED in this matter. Later, the CBI court resumed the hearing in the discharge pleas of Jagan, his auditor Vijay Sai Reddy and Jagathi publications case filed by CBI. Senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy argued the case and said the CBI had failed to establish as to which of the actions of accused constituted an offence. “The CBI chargesheet in the Jagathi investments case was completely based on misconceptions and are against the norms of company law,” he said. All the documents filed by the CBI against the accused failed to depict any crime in them, he said. The arguments would continue on Thursday also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/need-not-wait-till-cbi-trial-is-completed-ed-to-spl-court/articleshow/79049777.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||AP sees least one-day deaths in four months||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,477 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,33,208, while the toll increased to 6,744 with 10 more deaths. Authorities said this was the lowest single-day fatality count in almost four months after July 17, when 13 deaths were registered. From recording about 90 deaths a day in August, the daily casualty count has dropped to the 10-20 range in the last two weeks. As many as 2,701 patients were discharged from various treating facilities. There are currently 21,438 active cases besides 8,05,026 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 96%. The state conducted 75,465 Covid-19 tests, out of which 2,477 new cases emerged, which translates into a case positivity rate of about 3%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-sees-least-one-day-deaths-in-four-mnths/articleshow/79049827.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||At 33%, Telangana’s unemployment rate higher than national average||Hyderabad: Exactly three years ago (Oct 30, 2017), chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had reiterated that his government was committed to filling up 1.12 lakh vacant posts in various government departments to fulfil the dreams of job aspirants. This was in response to questions raised by the opposition legislators in the legislative assembly with an assurance that nobody needs to doubt the government’s commitment. Three years later, Telangana stands among the states where unemployment continues to be very high, especially among graduates, those who have completed secondary education and women. The periodic labour force survey (PLFS), which was released recently by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation, says the unemployment rate among these sections of people in Telangana is high. While the national unemployment rate is 21.6%, Telangana’s unemployment rate is worrisome at 33.9%. Economists studying the unemployment trend say that workforce participation rate (WPR) in the state portrays a disturbing picture. “It has been crashing all the way in Telangana, more so among women. There are social and cultural reasons for this falling trend,” Revathi Ellanki, director, Centre for Economic and Social Studies (CESS), says. Aparna Penumarthi, assistant professor with CESS, who is preparing a paper on unemployment in Telangana, chips in, “We have calculated the male and female unemployment rate (both in urban and rural areas) in the age group of 15-29. Based on PLFS, unemployment rate among women rose to 31.5% in 2018-19 when compared to 25.7% in 2017-18.” Is there any particular reason for the growing joblessness numbers among women? Aparna attributes it to some women seeking safer jobs and some preferring to be unemployed. “In-depth reasons for the growing unemployment rate can be gauged by doing a primary survey among women,” she says. Social activists say family issues are forcing women to drop out of jobs. “The dropout trend begins at the school stage itself for girls. Then, it extends to higher education which percolates to employment as well,” V Sandhya of Progressive Organisation of Women explains. In a typical scenario, men want to excel in their careers with a single-point agenda. “Women have to be good at managing the family also,” Sandhya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-33-ts-unemployment-rate-higher-than-natl-avg/articleshow/79049794.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 5, 2020||Nashik||Covid doubling rate in Nashik city rises to 56 days||Nashik: The Covid-19 case doubling rate has further improved in Nashik city — from 44 days to 56 days — over the past fortnight.The doubling rate was 21 days in August-end before it had increased to 44 days by October 20.So far, the city has had 62,595 Covid-19 patients. As many as 59,487 have recovered, 870 patients have succumbed. While the recovery rate in the city has crossed 94%, the death rate too has currently reduced to 1.4%. At the moment, the city has 2,238 active patients.The city had 30,787 patients till September 7, but it took around 56 days to double the number. There had been a spike in the number of cases in September and 50% of the total 51,800 patients till September-end were reported in that month alone. At that time, the city had recorded 867 daily new cases on average. But the number of Covid-19 case dropped significantly in October.NMC officials said they had increased tracing and testing of suspected Covid-19 patients in the city for early detection and to provide timely treatment, which aided in better recovery figures. NMC officials added that with the drop in the number of new cases, they are expecting the doubling rate to further improve up to 60 days over the next few days.District adds 309 casesThe district has reported 309 new Covid-19 cases, including 173 in Nashik city, in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 94,621. One of the four people, who succumbed to the infection on Wednesday, was from Nashik city. The death toll now stands at 1,683 in the district. As many as 416 patients were discharged from across the district on Wednesday. The district has 3,306 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-doubling-rate-in-nashik-city-rises-to-56-days/articleshow/79046971.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 5, 2020||Pune||Man loses Rs 1L borrowed for wife’s treatment||Pune: Four pickpockets on Tuesday morning stole Rs1 lakh from a 57-year-old PMPML bus passenger, Baban Pawar of Nigdi, which he had borrowed for the treatment of his ailing wife. An officer from the Nigdi police said Pawar’s wife was undergoing treatment at a hospital near Talegaon Dabhade. On Tuesday morning, he was going to his office at Khadki after meeting his wife. “He had kept the Rs1 lakh he had taken as loan from his office in the pocket of his trousers,” the officer said. Pawar boarded the PMPML bus at Nigdi around 8.30am. He noticed the four men standing near him. The officer said, “The four de-boarded at Akurdi. When Pawar checked his pocket, he found the cash was missing.” The officer said the police had registered an offence of theft after Pawar lodged an FIR. “We are checking footage of CCTV cameras to ascertain the identity of the suspects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-loses-rs-1l-borrowed-for-wifes-treatment/articleshow/79049742.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Pune||Woman falls to death in Pune; builder & 7 others booked||PUNE: The Warje police on Tuesday registered an offence of negligence causing the death of a woman worker at a construction site at Dangate estate in Shivane against the builder, contractor, supervisor and five others. The 35-year-old woman worker, Daulavi Khalaldar of Karvenagar, died after falling into a duct area from the third floor of the building site on November 1. An officer from the Warje Malwadi police said the woman was shifting bricks from the parking area on the ground floor to a third floor work location. TimesViewThe authorities should closely monitor the construction sites and take strict action against those not adhering to the safety norms. People responsible for the death of workers at sites due to negligence should face exemplary punishment. The developers’ body can play a big role in saving the lives of many construction workers by encouraging builders to follow the safety guidelines.“Her feet slipped when she was on the third floor around 3pm and she fell into the duct. She was taken to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared her dead following a medical examination,” the officer said. “Our probe revealed that apt safety gears were not provided to the woman. Moreover, the duct was not covered properly,” the officer said, adding, “We have booked the builder, contractor and six others for causing the woman’s death by negligence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-falls-to-death-builder-7-others-booked/articleshow/79049730.cms||---
November 5, 2020||---||Bihar polls 2020: My fight is with BJP, says Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Addressing rallies in Seemanchal region on Wednesday, Mahagatbandhan CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said his fight with BJP and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JD (U) was nowhere in the race. “After the first phase and second phase, it is clear that we are winning. Nitish Ji is nowhere in the race. This fight is between me and BJP. Mahagathbandhan is winning and whatever little is left, you will clean that up,” Tejashwi said at Jokihat in Araria district. He reiterated his poll promise of 10 lakh government jobs and said none of the alliance partners of Mahagatbandhan- RJD, Congress and the Left parties had ever knelt before BJP. Tejashwi altogether addressed 16 rallies on Wednesday in assembly constituencies falling in the Seemanchal and Kosi region, which are going to polls in the third phase on November 7. Attacking Nitish in all his rallies, Tejashwi said, “What has the CM done in 15 years? Has poverty been eliminated? Has employment been given? Has there been a reduction in corruption? Has health and education become better?” Tejashwi asked the crowd. He added, “Give me one chance, and I assure I will work for all castes and religions.” Continuing his attack on the saffron party, Tejashwi said his father Lalu Prasad was suffering in jail because he had dared to arrest BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani and boldly questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s actions. He reminded the audience about former late parliamentarian and RJD leader Mohammad Taslimuddin, who had a strong grip over the region. “Taslimuddin sahib was known as the Gandhi of Seemanchal and all of you know the kind of relationship he shared with my father. Now his son is carrying forward his work,” Tejashwi said seeking votes for his son Sarfaraz. He also promised the formation of Seemanchal Vikas Ayog and Kosi Vikas Ayog for the development of those regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/my-fight-is-with-bjp-says-tejashwi/articleshow/79048242.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 19k cr from Centre for Bhagiratha pending: Minister||Hyderabad: Minister for panchayat raj and rural water supply Errabelli Dayakar Rao on Wednesday said the Centre has not sanctioned Rs 19,000 crore as recommended by the Niti Aayog for Mission Bhagiratha, which was launched in 2016. Adressing a press conference, he said several states have sent their technical teams to study Mission Bhagiratha and are replicating the scheme. He recalled how Union minister for jal shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday said Telangana is the only state in the country which had succeeded in supplying potable water to every household. He said the state government is spending Rs 45,000 crore on the project, while the Centre is spending Rs 3.60 lakh crore on Jal Jeevan Shakti programme across the nation, which would be completed by 2024. He also said the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission just pumps borewater unlike potable water supplied to 98.4% of the households in the state under Mission Bhagiratha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-19k-cr-from-centre-for-bhagiratha-pending-min/articleshow/79049824.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Erode||Erode: Girl dies in wall collapse||ERODE: A six-year-old girl died after the compound wall of a house fell on her near Punjaipuliampatti on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as P Monisha, 6, of Errankattupalayam near Punjaipuliampatti. She was playing with her friends outside her house when the compound wall of her adjacent house suddenly fell on her. “The girl sustained injuries,” an officer from Punjaipuliampatti police said. He said her parents and neighbours rescued her from the debris and took her to the government hospital in Sathyamangalam for treatment. “But she died on the way to hospital,” the official added. Police have registered a case and further inquiry is on. The girl was studying in Class 2 in a government school. Her father Periasamy is working as a sanitary worker with the Punjaipuliampatti municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/girl-dies-in-wall-collapse/articleshow/79049822.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls 2020: My fight is with BJP, says Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Addressing rallies in Seemanchal region on Wednesday, Mahagatbandhan CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said his fight with BJP and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JD (U) was nowhere in the race. “After the first phase and second phase, it is clear that we are winning. Nitish Ji is nowhere in the race. This fight is between me and BJP. Mahagathbandhan is winning and whatever little is left, you will clean that up,” Tejashwi said at Jokihat in Araria district. He reiterated his poll promise of 10 lakh government jobs and said none of the alliance partners of Mahagatbandhan- RJD, Congress and the Left parties had ever knelt before BJP. Tejashwi altogether addressed 16 rallies on Wednesday in assembly constituencies falling in the Seemanchal and Kosi region, which are going to polls in the third phase on November 7. Attacking Nitish in all his rallies, Tejashwi said, “What has the CM done in 15 years? Has poverty been eliminated? Has employment been given? Has there been a reduction in corruption? Has health and education become better?” Tejashwi asked the crowd. He added, “Give me one chance, and I assure I will work for all castes and religions.” Continuing his attack on the saffron party, Tejashwi said his father Lalu Prasad was suffering in jail because he had dared to arrest BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani and boldly questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s actions. He reminded the audience about former late parliamentarian and RJD leader Mohammad Taslimuddin, who had a strong grip over the region. “Taslimuddin sahib was known as the Gandhi of Seemanchal and all of you know the kind of relationship he shared with my father. Now his son is carrying forward his work,” Tejashwi said seeking votes for his son Sarfaraz. He also promised the formation of Seemanchal Vikas Ayog and Kosi Vikas Ayog for the development of those regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/my-fight-is-with-bjp-says-tejashwi/articleshow/79053356.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 5, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Maoist A Velmurugan was killed in fake encounter, claims family||KOZHIKODE: Relatives of Maoist A Velmurugan claimed that he was killed in a fake encounter by the Thunderbolt squad at Padinjarathara in Wayanad on Tuesday. Addressing the media after identifying his body at Kozhikode medical college on Wednesday, A Murugan said there were numerous bullet injuries on different parts of his brother’s body. “These wounds raise our suspension that he was shot from close range. We filed a complaint with the Madurai bench of Madras High Court and the case will come up for consideration on Thursday,” he said. Murugan said initially only his brother’s face was shown and later only he go to know the extent of his bullet wounds. Velmurugan’s mother Kannammal also came from Theni in Tamil Nadu to see her son’s body. Secretary of Janakeeya Manushyavakasa Prasthanam CP Rasheed said he will move the district court in Wayanad seeking a comprehensive inquiry in the killing of nine persons by the elite commando squad over the past four years. Congress leaders, led by T Siddique, came to the mortuary to see the body. They sat down on the road when police refused their demand and they were forcibly moved from the spot. The autopsy began at 4.30pm and later the body was handed over to relatives. Wayanad police chief G Poonguzhali said it was not a case of unilateral firing at Padinjarathara and that the case has been handed over to crime branch. Deputy SP P Benny from Kozhikode unit will be the investigating officer. Poonguzhali said there were five or six Maoists in the group and they were on the move when the encounter happened. Maoist attacked the 18-member Thunderbolt team, but nobody was injured. Only one weapon was recovered from the encounter spot. The bloodstains at the spot were collected by a forensic team, she said. Poonguzhali said seven UAPA cases were filed against Velmurugan in Wayanad and he was wanted in the attack on a police station in Koraput in Odisha in 2007. A reward was also announced to secure his arrest, she said. She also clarified that people, including the media, were not allowed to go to the spot as there was the possibility of Maoists regrouping and attacking again. All India Youth Federation (AIYF), the youth organisation of the CPI, has demanded a comprehensive probe into the killing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/velmurugan-was-killed-in-fake-encounter-family/articleshow/79048237.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata to get 150 more beds at AMRI Dhakuria’s Annexe I to fight Covid||KOLKATA: AMRI Hospitals has received a provisional approval from the state government to use one of the annexe buildings at its Dhakuria facility, which had been ravaged by a devastating fire in December, 2011 and had since remained shut, as a Covid unit with 150 beds. The move follows an appeal from the hospital for permission to use the building to extend its Covid unit at Dhakuria that has remained full for several weeks, leading to large-scale patient refusal. Letters to seek the necessary clearance to resume operations at the building would soon be sent to the fire department, civic authorities and the power ministry, said AMRI. The hospital has 270 Covid beds across its three units at Salt Lake, Dhakuria and Mukundapur. “We welcome the approval from the government as it is a positive move. It will let us augment our Covid unit at Dhakuria. It would not have been possible without this facility. The building has been lying idle and now, we will be able to use it at a time when every additional bed counts. Our management has accepted the approval,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. A senior health official said, “AMRI has been given permission to use its Annexe I building, provided it gets the necessary clearances from the fire department and KMC and sticks to all the safety norms. The building can only be used for Covid treatment.”  AMRI Dhakuria has three buildings, the old building, Annexe I and Annexe II. While annexe II is now a dedicated Covid unit, the old building, too, is being used to treat Covid patients. The Annexe I building will have both a Covid ward with 150 beds and an ICU is likely to be added later. Steps would immediately be initiated to set up the infrastructure at the eight-storey building, said AMRI sources. Beds and equipment will be moved to the facility soon. “While we may not have an ICU at the building immediately, it will have a dialysis unit,” said Barua. The operations at Annexe I will begin with three floors, each likely to house 50 patients. But the floors that had OTs and kitchen will not be used. AMRI was the first private hospital in Kolkata to dedicate an entire building—the annexe building at the Salt Lake unit—to Covid treatment in April. A fortnight before the Pujas, the state government had urged the private hospitals to augment Covid units, which led to an addition of around 250 beds across hospitals. “We have stretched our resources to the limit and run out of space for more beds. But this infrastructure and space were lying unused, which, we felt, could be utilized during the pandemic,” said Barua. AMRI is forced to refuse several patients every day. Though Annexe I will not start off with an ICU, the facility could be added later. “We plan to move some general ward patients from the other two Dhakuria buildings to free up space for an ICU extension. If the demand for ICU beds persists, we may set up one at Annexe I,” said Barua. It could take time to complete the process of securing clearances, he added. “We don’t yet have an idea when we would be ready to flag off the building. The authorities concerned will have to survey the facility and check the conditions. As far as AMRI is concerned, we are ready with the basic facilities and will do whatever needs to be done to get the building in shape as soon as possible,” said Barua.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-to-get-150-more-beds-at-south-kol-hosp-to-fight-covid/articleshow/79049839.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 5, 2020||Nashik||80% Covid beds vacant in city hosps||Nashik: Over 80% of the total beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in civic and private hospitals in the city are vacant due to the drop in the number of cases and rise in the number of patients recovering. The recovery rate has reached 94%. Around 3,628 of the total 4,570 beds are vacant in the city. Of the 2,238 active patients, 942 patients are undergoing treatment. NMC officials said although the number of new cases has dropped significantly in the past month, they will not immediately free the Covid beds in the private hospitals. “The state government has projected a second wave of Covid-19 in November and December. Hence, we don’t want to take any risk but we will take a call in the second half of the current month,” said NMC officials. As the festive season is around the corner, the rush of people in markets is increasing. Citizens should maintain the Covid safety protocols, said the NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/80-covid-beds-vacant-in-city-hosps/articleshow/79046990.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Skill set required for industries not available, say experts||Hyderabad: With Telangana emerging as a major hub of higher education after united Andhra Pradesh’s bifurcation six years ago, it has also led to a very high number of educated people. The result: Increased numbers in joblessness and mismatch in employability. It is in this backdrop the PLFS (2018-19) statistics assume significance, say officials and experts. Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) chairman T Muralidharan hits the nail on the head when he says that skill set required for industries is not available with the educated youth. “Hyderabad may have become the hub of higher education. But, it has its own disadvantages too. Skill-based education is very important which was given a short shrift,” he says. FTCCI is soon coming out with a set of recommendations to bridge this industry-youth gap, he says. Concurring with the opinions of FTCCI chief, Telangana Industrial Health Clinic Limited (TIHCL) advisor Yerram Raju Behara said the unemployment rate is high because there are not many takers for jobs in industries, which offer low wages. However, Telangana State Planning Board vice chairman B Vinod Kumar says he is not unduly bothered about the situation. “It is all about right entrepreneurship and youngsters making the most of it. That is why we are urging educational institutions to come up with industry-friendly courses and skill set programmes for benefit of the youth,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/skill-set-required-for-industries-not-available-say-experts/articleshow/79049811.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana unveils township policy to decongest Hyderabad||Hyderabad: To decongest the city and promote planned development, the state government has decided to encourage integrated development of townships, abutting the Outer Ring Road (ORR) in Hyderabad Metropolitan Region (HMR), with private and public initiatives. After cabinet approval, the municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department released ‘Telangana Comprehensive Integrated Township Policy Rules 2020’ on Tuesday. The city’s development is concentrated only in certain pockets — mostly eastern and western parts — resulting in congestion and overburdened infrastructure. The policy promotes the idea of ‘walk to work’ in the forms of townships. “The proposed township project has to be an integrated and mixed purpose with residential, commercial, educational (at least up to class 10), healthcare facilities, roads, internal public transport like electric vehicles, amenity spaces, greenery in the layout and public utilities,” Arvind Kumar, principal secretary, municipal administration department said in his orders. Even in the new Municipalities Act, the government made provisions to develop self-contained townships. According to urban planners, the present density of population of the core city is around 11,000 people per square km, and it will reach 20,000 per sq km in the next few years, following Gurugram. This they say will lead to haphazard growth of the city. Township policy and satellite townships have on the cards for the past one decade. In the 2013 master plan, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) had proposed to encourage satellite townships abutting the ORR. A township was proposed by Tellapur Techno-city project in 2007. The developers purchased 400 acres of land from the HMDA. But due to problems, it was reduced to 100 acres. Even that project got stuck due to various reasons. The new policy aims to address all such issues. “The new townships can be developed not only abutting ORR, but also other municipal corporations like Warangal, Karimnagar, Nizamabad and Ramagundam corporations,” a MA&UD official said. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao asked the water board to plan a water supply network along ORR. “Integrated townships should be planned in four directions of the city to meet the requirements of 10 lakh population each in the next few years. While Medchal-Shamirpet township on Northern part of the city, Shadnagar on Southern part, Pocharam on Eastern part, Sangareddy on West,” GV Rao, president of Telangana Developers Association said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-unveils-township-policy-to-decongest-city/articleshow/79049878.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Three smugglers held with 40kg ganja||Mahabubabad: Three Ganja smugglers, including a woman, were arrested during vehicle checking at Upparapally cross road in Kesamudram mandal on Wednesday. The accused were identified as Siba Sankar Sahu, Madhakami Doola alias Venkat and Sarkaar Swapna of Odisha. Kesamudram police seized 40 kgs of dry-ganja worth Rs four lakhs from them. They had purchased the ganja in Odisha. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-smugglers-held-with-40kg-ganja/articleshow/79049844.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kolkata||UG undertakings to free up seats, say principals||Kolkata: Undergraduate candidates’ declaration that they were taking admission to a certain college and surrendering the other seats they had secured would finally solve the vacancy puzzle, felt principals. The education department has asked all state-run universities to take such undertakings from students during admission and the affiliated colleges have put up the order on portals. The strategy of taking an undertaking was framed this year to stop applicants from blocking multiple seats. “ We have mobiles and email IDs of admitted students who have paid admission fees. They will be sent an alert. We are requesting students, who would want to withdraw their candidature, to alert us by mail. Besides, those who are willing to stay back will need to send all testimonials and documents with an undertaking that the papers are authenticated by themselves and in case of any misappropriation, they will be held responsible. Names of those who do not respond will be struck off,” said Surendranath College principal Indranil Kar. Various colleges are adopting different modes to seek clarification on accepting the admission. “Students can can either choose to get admitted here or refuse the admission. They will have to put a tick mark against their choice and submit the form online. Those opting out of admission despite having paid fees will not be sent a registration link. We will give them seven days,” said Tapan Poddar, principal of Vivekananda College. At Lady Brabourne College, principal Siuli Sarkar said she had a talk with the admissions committee. “Candidates who have taken admissions are likely to be given a week’s time within which they will have to give an undertaking that they have chosen our college. If not, they will mention their selected institution and opt out,” she said. A university official said they were seeking clarification whether the order was restricted to affiliating colleges only or not. “We may ask students to give a similar declaration, but only after receiving an instruction from the higher education department,” the official said. All universities will have to submit a report to the department by November 17. “We will also tell students their registration will be struck off if the original documents are found to be erroneous during physical verification,” said a CU college principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ug-undertakings-to-free-up-seats-say-principals/articleshow/79049853.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur civic body okays advance pay as Diwali gift||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), for the upcoming Diwali festival, has decided to pay a salary advance of Rs 20,000 for the class I and II officials while Rs 8,000 has been sanctioned for the class III and IV staff. The advance will be recovered in staggered manner from the salaries of the employees in next few months. Sanjay Bhosale, property tax superintendent and president of KMC Workers’ Union, said, “The administration has approved our deamand for salary advance for the temporary staff. The advance payment will also be made to the ground workers from drainage, water supply and sanitation departments. We had also demanded Rs 20,000 each for 153 staff who are working on temporary basis for a long time and deserve a one-time payment for meeting the expenses during the festival.” Civic chief Kadambari Balkawade has asked the union representatives to ensure co-operation in tax collection to improve the financial health of the civic body. She has also appointed teams to recover water tax dues for which notices have been issued to 11,000 connection holders. “The KMC can run smoothly only if the financial status is strong and is able to pay the salaries of all its staff regularly,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-civic-body-okays-advance-pay-as-diwali-gift/articleshow/79050887.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Private schools in five Karnataka districts decide to reopen only in January||MYSURU: CBSE, ICSE and State Board Private School Management Association (CISPMA) in five southern districts of Karnataka, on Wednesday, decided to reopen schools only in January if the government promises managements will not be held responsible if students contract Covid-19. The decision was taken at a meeting of representatives of private schools in Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Kodagu met in Mysuru. Sudhakar S Shetty, president, CISPMA, told TOI primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar also spoke during the meeting and promised to attend to grievances of private schools. “He requested us to cooperate with the government in fighting against the Covid virus,” Shetty said. Shetty said the challenges involved in reopening schools were discussed at length. “Safety of students and staff is important,” Shetty said. “We decided to reopen schools in January, provided the government promises no action will be taken against teachers or management in case a student contracts the virus. Representatives unanimously agreed not to commence regular classes before January.” The association appealed to the government to waive tax for the fiscal, besides urging it to remove educational institutions from the property tax bracket. “Schools are going through financial difficulties as about 80% of students haven’t paid fees,” Shetty said. The association also urged the government to waive interest on loans taken by institutions till April 2021. Representatives of 240 schools are members of the association and in all, 3 lakh students study in CBSE, ICSE and state board private schools in these five districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/private-schools-in-five-ktaka-districts-decide-to-reopen-only-in-jan/articleshow/79048272.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 5, 2020||Kochi||US polls: Kuttanad’s America waits with fingers crossed||ALAPPUZHA: The heat and partisan fervour generated by the US presidential election, which is still hanging in the balance, is being felt far and wide – not least of all in Kuttanad’s America. Among the 30 families of this village, which is part of Champakkulam grama panchayat, opinion on the two main candidates is clearly divided. Fifteen-year-old Meenakshi Bijukumar is a Donald Trump fan, and she is certain that the Republican Party candidate will return to the White House. George Mathew Panjimaram, ward member and president of the grama panchayat, is not so keen on Trump. He is backing Democrat Joe Biden. “It is a close fight. But I am sure that Biden will prevail. He has a very different approach and his victory will be beneficial for India. Trump cannot take criticism and is full of spite towards his political opponents,” he says. Sibi and Sunnichan are both 60 and leaning towards Trump. “We are disappointed that the result has been delayed. We like the policies and attitude of Trump,” say the two friends. The village owes its name to a toddy shop that was set up there over 54 years back. “America was so popular with tipplers that outsiders started identifying its location by the same name. To the south-east of our village is New York City, which also has an eponymous toddy shop, ‘’ says George Mathew. “Indians don’t require a visa to visit this America.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/us-polls-kuttanads-america-waits-with-fingers-crossed/articleshow/79048263.cms||Sajimon P S
November 5, 2020||Nashik||44-year-old woman killed in accident||Nashik: A 44-year-old woman died in a road accident in the Panchavati area on Tuesday night. The woman, identified as Kalpana Mahale, a resident of Old Cidco, was riding pillion on a bike with her husband, Suresh Mahale. Her nephew, Vaibhav Giridhan Mahale, 12, was also with them. At 8 pm, while they were travelling on the highway towards Nashik, a speeding truck knocked them down near the K K Wagh College. Kalpana suffered serious head injuries. She was declared dead on arrival at a private hospital. Sub-inspector Y S Mali of the Panchavati police station said her husband, Suresh, and nephew, Vaibhav, were also grievously injured and are in critical condition. The police have arrested the truck driver, identified as Chandrakumar Dhudhnath Ram, 25, of Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh for causing death by negligence. Currently, the work of the flyover near K K Wagh and Jatra Hotel is underway on the Mumbai-Agra highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/44-year-old-woman-killed-in-accident/articleshow/79047000.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Land given in tune with govt rules, film director tells HC||Hyderabad: Tollywood film director N Shankar on Wednesday told the Telangana high court that the five acres of land given to him in Mokila village of Rangareddy district for the development of a film studio was in tune with government rules. The high court later posted the PIL case to November 18. After the petitioner questioned the rationale behind the allotment of land to Shankar, the director in his counter filed against the PIL stated, “The land allotment for a nominal price is not new as the government had given these kind of incentives from 1975 to 2001 for the establishment of studios irrespective of the land value. “The prices were fixed based on the government stamp duty registration fee at that time and 5% of that value was fixed as the nominal price for many studios. For example, Annapurna Studios was allotted 22 acres and per acre of land was allotted for a price of around Rs 5,000 as per the stamp duty even though the commercial price of the land was more than Rs 1 lakh.” Shankar said even for studios like Padmalaya, Rama Naidu, K Raghavender Rao and Anand Cine Services, the land was allotted for around Rs 8,500 only even though the value of the land was more than Rs 2 lakh, which is around 5% of the stamp duty registration value at that time. In the counter, Shankar said, “Land allotted to me is more than 2 km to 3 km away from the main road with kacha road and 50% of the stamp duty value at the rate of Rs 5 lakh when the stamp duty registration value of the land is Rs 10,00,000. The allotment was done only for the development of the studio and not for personal utilisation.” He said the land was allotted under the strict rules and regulations of the government that the allottee is prohibited to sell, transfer or mortgage the land and can only develop a film and TV studio. The allottee is prohibited to do any real estate and construction activities related to the buying and selling of apartments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-given-in-tune-with-govt-rules-film-director-tells-hc/articleshow/79049843.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Fake sheikh among 8 held in pilgrimage racket in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The Task Force police on Wednesday arrested eight persons for running a fake travel agency and duping devotees on the pretext of sending them for Haj and Umrah free of cost. Police seized Rs 1.75 lakh from the possession of the accused. Police arrested Mustafa Mohammed, Khaja Fahad Ali, MK Aqueel, MK Muneer, MD Numan, Tanveer, Sameer Khan and Mohammed Safdher Khan. According to the police, the main accused, Mustafa Mohammed from Kerala, posed as a sheikh from Dubai and a member of a charity group. “Mustafa had opened an office in Hussainialam where he put up advertisements offering to send devotees on Haj and Umrah pilgrimages free of cost. He then told those interested to register at his office by paying Rs 500,” police said. After collecting the money, Mustafa demanded Rs Rs 2,500 for Covid-19 test. “Mustafa introduced the co-accused Fahad Ali as a doctor conducting the test and the other accused as office staff,” Task Force inspector Raghavendra said. However, when a few victims realised that Mustafa was a native of Kerala, they lodged a police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-sheikh-among-8-held-in-pilgrimage-racket-in-city/articleshow/79049833.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: During lockdown, this composer set 130 bhaavageetes to tune||BENGALURU: Upasana Mohan, a senior music composer of light music, utilised the lockdown period to popularise Kannada bhavageetes penned by several poets. Sitting in Bengaluru, he tried to burst the myths around Covid-19 and instil confidence among music lovers. His uploads on YouTube, Facebook, WhatsApp and other platforms have enthralled thousands of Kannada music lovers across the world. Mohan, who has composed music for 445 songs in the last two decades, is now ready with 50 more songs. “During the lockdown, I composed music for 130 poems authored by 15 poets. Though I had a YouTube channel earlier, it became more active thanks to the pandemic. As our offline classes were shut, I started composing music. I also sought permission from my 1,300 WhatsApp contacts to share my songs as and when they were composed. We added some lines to all songs and connected them to the pandemic and tried to sensitise people on how to cope with the situation and be active,” he said. Now his YouTube channel - Upasana Mohan - has 1.7k subscribers. “Bhavageete (light music) is a unique literary cum music form in Kannada and is not available in any other language of India. Though the number of subscribers may look small, it is not small for a Bhavageete channel. Such songs have got minimum of 250 views and many have got 4,000 views. These HD quality lyrical videos also have text, so that one can sing along on the lines of Karaoke music,” he said. Veteran poet Subraya Chokkadi said, “Mohan is the only composer to bring 500 Kannada poems in the form of a CD and now on modern platforms. He has dedicated two decades and striving to save and grow Kannada Bhavageete. Because of his efforts many Kannada poems have reached commoners, particularly youngsters in the state and across the world.” Veteran lyricist and writer Jayant Kaikini said, “Mohan one among composers who are spreading Bhavageete, a great gift of Kannada language and literature. He is doing it like a ‘vrata’ by selecting different types of poems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/during-lockdown-this-composer-set-130-bhaavageetes-to-tune/articleshow/79046542.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 5, 2020||Kochi||Thrissur man elected to US city council||THRISSUR: “I was lucky, more than anything else: having had the opportunity to come to the US almost 50 years back from a remote village in Thrissur and to be able to achieve all this. It is unbelievable.’’ P G Narayanan, 66, could not hide his gratitude and elation on being elected to the city council of Eden Prairie, the 12th largest city in the US state of Minnesota. Speaking to TOI by phone from his home in a city that is consistently ranked among the ‘best places to live’ in the US, Narayanan said he made the journey from Kolangattukara, Thrissur to America in 1972 after completing his SSLC. “My sister, Savithri, was doing her research in the US and she helped me get a student visa. I went on to complete my graduation and postgraduation in the US and joined the corporate world.’’ “I came here at the age of 18 and at 35 I became vice president of a billion-dollar company. I want my story to motivate youngsters in India and Kerala. I had the blessing of many people, including my late parents, sisters, as well as Indian and American friends. I dedicate my victory to all of them,’’ he said. In fact, this is Narayanan’s second stint on the council. He was first elected in 2018 when a seat fell vacant following the death of a member. Narayanan’s sister, Kairali , who lives in their ancestral Porakkudinjanth Mana with her family, said she has been flooded with congratulatory messages. Even though elections to city councils are not along political lines, Narayanan’s candidature had the endorsement of the Democratic Party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thrissur-man-elected-to-us-city-council/articleshow/79048288.cms||T Ramavarman
November 5, 2020||Agra||Most kids at govt shelter home in Agra look malnourished||AGRA: UP state commission for protection of child rights (SCPCR) member Dr Sakshi Baijal on Wednesday conducted an inspection at the state government owned children’s home, where three infants had died within 48 hours last month. The SCPCR member found infants at the centre “weak and malnourished”. According to Dr Baijal, the centre did not have proper arrangement for sewage disposal and a septic tank. Besides, poor sanitation and hygiene, lack of required medicines and proper care was found at the centre. The SCPCR member has sought a report from the chief medical officer (CMO) over the reason behind the death of three infants within three days. Talking to TOI, Dr Baijal said, “Various irregularities and lack of proper care for children surfaced during the inspection at the centre. Majority of the children lodged at the centre were found weak and malnourished. I will be writing to the state government for action against the superintendent of the centre. The district probation officer has been directed to ensure proper care for the children. A detailed report has been sought from the chief medical officer regarding the death of three infants.” After inspection at the centre, the SCPCR member chaired a meeting with additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Pradeep Kumar and district probation officer at the circuit house. In the meeting, Baijal ordered the termination of the service of a contractual woman caretaker of the centre for dereliction of duty. He directed the ACMO to appoint a permanent staff nurse at the centre. The other directions included holding of camp having a child specialist for thorough checkup of all the 44 children lodged at the centre, getting a diet chart prepared for children by a dietician as per their requirements, preparation of a cleanliness protocol to be followed at the centre etc. Over a month ago, the additional district sessions judge had conducted an inspection at the centre, which had 13 children all below five years, and sent a letter to the district probation officer (DPO) citing lack of proper care or nutrition for them. In the letter dated September 19 issued to DPO, a copy of which is available with TOI, additional district sessions judge Sarvjeet Kumar Singh had written, “By looking at children, it does not seem that they are getting an adequate amount of milk/nutritious powder. (The) children look extremely weak.” The judge, who is also the head of the committee for inspection of shelter homes in the district, had directed the DPO to “act as per the rules so that any adverse situation does not develop at the centre”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/most-kids-at-government-shelter-home-in-agra-look-malnourished-says-child-rights-panel/articleshow/79047019.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Defer final voter list, demands Cong||Hyderabad: Congress on Wednesday demanded the publication of the final list of ward-wise photo electoral rolls for GHMC elections should be stopped until the last flood affected family gets financial assistance and compensation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/defer-final-voter-list-demands-cong/articleshow/79049869.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Speeding car rams into two-wheelers, one dead||Hyderabad: Two motorists who parked their bike to a side on the National Highway at Choutuppal to wear sweaters were hit by a speeding car on Tuesday. One person died while the other had a narrow escape . Choutuppal police said that SK Shahrukh, 22, died on the spot. He was the son of a former MLA from Andhra Pradesh. Shahrukh and his friend were riding a bike from Guntur to Hyderabad. En route around 9.30 pm, they stopped their bike to wear sweaters. They parked their bike to a sideon the road but a car coming from the rearside hit Shahrukh, who died on the spot. Shahrukh was pursuing graduation. Police are in the process of identifying the driver of the car. Investigation is being done based on the registration number of the accused’s vehicle.  A case has been registered under section 304 a (negligence causing death) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/speeding-car-rams-into-two-wheelers-one-dead/articleshow/79049848.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Fashion designer steals grandmom’s jewellery, held||Hyderabad: A 21-year-old fashion designer and her 24-year-old friend have been arrested for allegedly stealing 18 tola gold jewellery belonging to the former’s grandmother. Neredmet police arrested P Ajay, 24, a disk jockey from Keshav Nagar in Neredmet, and G Patricia Charis, 21, a fashion designer from Dammaiguda. According to Neredmet police, Ajay was addicted to liquor and ganja. Due to lack of income during the lockdown, he initially sold Patricia’s gold chain to meet his expenses. Subsequently, Ajay convinced Patricia to steal gold ornaments from her grandmother’s house. As per the plan, Patricia went to her grandmother Amelia’s house at Neredmet on October 31 on the pretext of visiting her. After Amelia was asleep, Patricia stole her 18-tola gold jewellery and handed over the same to Ajay during the night. Patricia left her grandmother’s place on November 1. On November 2, Amelia realised about theft of gold ornaments and her son lodged a complaint with Neredmet police raising suspicion over Patricia. “Based on her confession, we arrested Ajay and recovered the stolen gold worth Rs 7.2 lakh from his possession,” Neredmet inspector A Narasimha Chary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fashion-designer-steals-grandmoms-jewellery-held/articleshow/79049857.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hubballi||Trend of declining Covid cases brings cheer to North Karnataka||HUBBALLI: From an alarming situation where the number of active Covid-19 cases were increasing across all districts in North Karnataka, the recent sharp decline in cases has brought some relief. This is the first time in the last one month that cases are declining considerably in each district in the region. If the trend continues for some more days, the region could see a flattening of the Covid-19 graph, say experts. Most districts, which used to report 80 to 450 new cases a day, are now reporting 20 to 60 cases. The district administrations ramping up testing, creating awareness on wearing masks, maintaining social distance, banning mass gatherings, imposing fine for not wearing masks and other measures have helped control the surge of Covid-19 cases. All districts have increased daily testing from 200 - 250 to 1,200 - 2,200. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil told TOI, “We increased the number of beds to treat patients in collaboration with private hospitals and conducted 2,500 tests per day. We have created awareness among people to maintain social distance, wear masks and avoid gatherings. Contract tracing has helped a lot to control cases.” Ballari DC SS Nakul said, “We are conducting 2,500 to 2800 tests a day, have intensified awareness programmes at the grass root level and are subjecting each suspected person to test immediately while also providing timely treatment.” Gadag DHO Dr Satish Basarigidad said, “we are now collecting more than 1,000 samples daily and educating people to visit a hospital if they have any Covid symptoms. As on November 4, Gadag has reported 1% positivity rate and 98% recovery rate.” Remain cautious, say experts Many officials and experts, however, have warned that people should not be relaxed and complacent over the declining number of cases as winter has already set in and Deepavali is approaching. If people fail to wear masks and maintaining social distance, it could prove costly as cases may rise again. People should be very cautious and take all precautions at least for the next six months to achieve zero cases, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/trend-of-declining-covid-cases-brings-cheer-to-nk/articleshow/79045488.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
November 5, 2020||Mysuru||Tourists travel 50km to pick up trash they discarded||MADIKERI: In a recent incident, residents of Kadagadalu in Madikeri decided not to accept callous behaviour from visitors and held tourists who had left their village a littered mess accountable. Consequently, two tourists who had discarded trash by the side of the road were made to retrace their journey, travelling back 50km from Periyapatna to Kadagadalu, and collect the waste themselves. Kadagadalu resident Madetira Thimmaiah, also secretary of Green City Forum, on finding a takeaway bag of a fastfood chain dumped on the roadside, decided to contact those who had discarded the trash there – the names and contact information he found from the bill he found inside the bag. The order had been delivered to Akshatha KK and Chirag, and their numbers had been mentioned on the bill. Thimmaiah proceeded to make a video to inform the public of what had transpired. The video subsequently went viral, with Thimmaiah appealing to the public to call the tourists who had discarded the trash, and ask them to return to collect the same. Madikeri town circle inspector Anoop Madappa also called the two tourists and asked them to carry the discarded bags. Akshatha and Chirag, who were in Periyapatna when they started receiving calls, rushed back to Kadagadalu village and collected the waste they had earlier discarded on the side of the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tourists-travel-50km-to-pick-up-trash-they-discarded/articleshow/79047810.cms||G RAJENDRA
November 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: With no new films in sight, theatres stare at bleak festive season||BENGALURU: The entertainment sector — film viewing to be precise — in the state is struggling to keep pace with other sectors in terms of leveraging economic recovery during the festive season, although theatres reopened a fortnight ago. The sector has been hit by a double whammy: Low footfalls in theatres on the one hand due to the fear of contracting Covid, and reluctance of film producers to release new movies on the other. One reason for the latter is the continuing disagreement between producers and digital screening agencies over screening fees. Film producers are demanding virtual print fee (VPF) paid to digital screening agencies UFO Moviez and QUBE Cinema be waived for two years. However, companies are offering only 50% waiver for the first two months. This has cast a shadow on new releases, especially regional movies including Kannada films in Karnataka. “While digital service companies earn huge revenues from in-theatre advertisements, waiving off VPF should be easy. If they don’t agree to this, then no producer will come forward to release new films,” said K Ramakrishna, president, Kannada film Producers Association. However, Surendra HG, general manager (Karnataka), UFO Moviez, said digital screening companies cannot afford to forgo the entire fee. “What we have offered is reasonable. Producers have not come back to us following talks last month,” Surendra said. Producers are also wary since theatres can only operate at 50% capacity and even then, people are not coming to watch movies on account of the Covid scare. Surendra said he came across instances of three to five people coming to ticket counters at multiplexes and leaving after realising only old movies were running. Gajendra Singh Rathore, senior centre director, Phoenix Mall, said footfall has reached 40 % of pre-Covid levels over the past few weeks. “But multiplex screens are not functioning yet. This has really spooked producers,” Rathore said. Kannada film producer Umapathi, who produced the Darshan-starrer ‘Robert’ with a staggering budget of Rs 60 crore, wants to wait till a Covid vaccine arrives. “With such a huge investment at stake, we cannot take chances,” said Umapathi. “With reports on the pandemic from Europe not encouraging, we want to wait for a couple of months more when a vaccine may be available and the entire market scenario is expected to change.” As far as single-screen theatres are concerned, about 70 of 256 theatres are screening old content but the scenario of ticket collection remains abysmal. However, offering a ray of hope, PVR Cinema multiplexes which had not reopened its multiplexes till date, has decided to resume screening films from Friday. “We want to go with the festive fervour and have decided to start shows from Friday in all 145 screens across Karnataka. We will manage with old content to start with. Some new Hindi movies are expected to be released next month, but there is no clarity as yet on the release of regional films such as Kannada movies,” said Pramod Arora, chief growth and strategies officer, PVR Cinemas. Some multiplexes like INOX and Cinepolis are up and running, but they too are making good with old movies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-no-new-films-in-sight-theatres-stare-at-bleak-festive-season/articleshow/79048321.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Resident associations in Cantonment seek flood relief from govt||Secunderabad: Flood victims of 25 residential colonies in Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) have urged the state government to provide flood relief amount to them on par with those in GHMC limits. Two and four wheelers, wooden furniture, electronic gadgets, computers (desktops), laptops, other gadgets, kitchenware, beds & bedsheets were completely damaged in the flood waters. Residential welfare associations (RWAs) representatives met Hyderabad collector Swetha Mohanty and put their case across. The collector, who responded positively to their plea, assured to assess the damaged properties by deploying special teams. The Hyderabad district administration may begin the enumeration work in Secunderabad Cantonment in a day or two. Few colonies in SCB wards II & III were inundated but in ward no-VI around 25 colonies were badly affected. Some of these areas are still having problems with mud and heaps of garbage. “Our demand is that the state government also extends the flood relief policy to victims of SCB residential colonies,” Banala Srinivas Reddy, secretary, Cantonment citizens’ civic amenities development society, told TOI. “Hyderabad district administration has to add these 25 colonies to their list while enumerating damages of properties,” Srinivas Reddy said. In certain residential colonies, the ground floors built in three decades ago with low height, inundated and damaged four and two wheelers, household goods and valuable assets, he said. Progressive Colony, Royal Enclave, Park View Colony, SAIL Colony, ICRISAT Colony Phase I & II, Vanitha Colony, Padmanabha Colony, Maharaja Colony, Temple Rock Enclave are among the 25 colonies, which were severely affected,” he said. Former SCB vice president J Rama Krishna, who led the RWAs representatives, said, “The state should allot flood relief amount to 15,000 affected families in all SCB eight wards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/resident-assns-in-cantonment-seek-flood-relief-from-govt/articleshow/79049890.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Subject selector programme||Hyderabad: Career guidance and alumni management platform, Univariety, on Wednesday launched the “Subject Selector” programme, which is the world’s first scientific and personalized solution for 10th-grade students preparing to enter grade 11. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/subject-selector-programme/articleshow/79049940.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Bineesh Kodiyeri withdraws plea in Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPM Kerala state committee secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, withdrew his writ petition, filed before the Karnataka high court, on Wednesday. Arraigned as an accused in a money laundering case and currently in ED custody, Bineesh had sought the court’s intervention claiming that ED was not allowing him to meet his lawyers. However, the court was informed that permission was granted and the special court had already passed an order. Considering this, Justice Suraj Govindaraj disposed of the petition as withdrawn. On Monday, a senior advocate representing Bineesh had tendered an apology on behalf of his colleague. The advocate had approached the residence of the chief justice and a senior judge, even before the filing of the petition, which was withdrawn on Wednesday. The senior advocate termed the said conduct of the instructing advocate as ‘overzealous’ to protect the interest of his client and the same may be excused. Justice Suraj Govindaraj pointed out that the standard operating procedure (SOP) has been web-hosted and communicated to the advocates from time to time. “It is required for all the advocates to either submit their filing by way of e-mail to the officers concerned as notified in the SOP or to use the e-mail portal which is set up by this court. It is only then that the officers of this court, more particularly the Registrar Judicial, would be in a position to consider and take necessary action in relation thereto,” the judge noted in his order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bineesh-withdraws-plea-in-ktaka-hc/articleshow/79048331.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Deposit Rs 3 lakh as widow’s pension halted: HC to Centre||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court has issued directives to the central government to deposit Rs 3 lakh for failing to address the family pension issue of an 84-year old widow of a freedom fighter. The court has scheduled the next hearing on the matter for November 25. The division bench of the HC comprising Justices SV Gangapurwala and RG Avachat stated: “The petitioner is aged 84 years. The freedom fighters’ pension scheme is a benevolent scheme for the welfare of the freedom fighter and his/her spouse. If, for such technical reasons the spouse of the freedom fighter is required to approach the court of law, then the very purpose of the scheme is rendered redundant and superfluous. We fail to understand the approach of the authorities. The authorities are required to be more responsible in such matters. Instead of assisting the petitioner, technical objections are raised.” Freedom fighter Arjun Solunke passed away at the age of 84 in 2014. Based on the pension payment order (PPO) filled by Solunke in 1980, his wife, Draupadabai, was appointed nominee and she received the freedom fighters’ family pension till November 2015, following which it was suddenly put on hold. Draupadabai, through lawyer Sandip Andhale, had filed a petition in the HC in July this year and sought relief. Andhale brought it to the notice of the high court that Draupadabai submitted a certificate showing that she was alive and the same was verified by the bank concerned, Aurangabad district administration and state government. However, ministry of home affairs under secretary Sarita Capoor, in October 2019, issued directives to Maharashtra’s general administration department asking it to check if the widow applicant was freedom fighter’s legally married wife and also if she has remarried after the death freedom fighter. The bench observed: ‘On October 26, we had passed an order expressing our anguish on the stand taken by the respondents. The central and state government are blaming each other. Instead of finding a solution to resolve the issues, technicalities are pointed out.” The court said that the petitioner is the widow of the freedom fighter who was receiving pension till his death. Since 2016, the petitioner is running from pillar to post, but did not get the pension. The husband of the petitioner was recognized as freedom fighter by the authorities. “We had expected the respondents and the authorities to be sensitive to the issue on hand and take steps to get the compliance of the documentations,” the bench added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/deposit-rs-3-lakh-as-widows-pension-halted-hc-to-centre/articleshow/79047020.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB takes up repair works of open nala at SAIL Colony||Secunderabad: Work on the damaged portion of the open nala at SAIL Colony, which was one of the worst affected residential colonies in ward No.VI of Secunderabad Cantonment, is in full swing. Flood water from the Hasmathpet nala had gushed into the colony and it was submerged under almost four feet high water. Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials had noticed the damage and decided to cover up the open nala so that sewage and flood water from the Hasmathpet lake does not enter the colony. “Sandbags had been put up at the Hasmathpet nala as a temporary measure. Now, a culvert over the nala will be built to prevent inundation from floods in the future,” a SCB engineer told TOI. SCB will spend Rs 20 lakh for the completion of proposed culvert on the nala, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-takes-up-repair-works-of-open-nala-at-sail-colony/articleshow/79049917.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||High court to hear RTE pleas from Nov 20||Hyderabad: Telangana HC on Wednesday posted to November 20 the petitions that were filed seeking implementation of Right to Education Act and also the pleas filed by the private schools that are opposing its implementation. GO No. 44 issued by the composite AP state was adapted to Telangana state and in tune with the mandate of this GO, the state government had completed the task of identifying the disadvantaged social groups to enable their children to have free education in the private schools at state’s cost. The state and Centre would bear the cost of education under RTE Act. Court said it would club and hear all the RTE cases from November 20. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-court-to-hear-rte-pleas-from-nov-20/articleshow/79049941.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Kochi||Kerala to become first state to provide royalty for paddy field owners||Thrissur: State government’s prestigious programme for giving royalty for owners of paddy fields will be launched on Thursday. According to agriculture department officials, it is for the first time in the country that paddy field owners are being given royalty. Agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar said the state government has fixed Rs 2,000 per hectare as royalty for paddy fields which are under cultivation. This amount will be enhanced further when the financial position of the state government improves. He said a total amount of Rs 24.69 crore will be distributed on the launch day. The state government has earmarked Rs 40 crore for the scheme for this year According to the Minister the scheme for providing royalty for farmers is being launched to recognise the contributions being made by the paddy fields in the conservation of ecosystems. Only those owners who ensure cultivation in their paddy fields for three years continuously will be eligible for the royalty. The Minister clarified that farmers who cultivate other items like beans, vegetables and sesame seeds will also be eligible for royalty. When contacted, noted agriculture scientist Dr P Indira Devi, said the scheme to provide royalty to paddy field owners is an acknowledgement of the ecosystem services that are being rendered by those fields. Apart from rice and straw, which are the provisioning services or products we directly consume, the paddy fields also contribute through other indirect aspects like ground water recharge, climate regulation, biodiversity conservation, carbon sequestration and even as recreational avenues. The owners of paddy fields or farmers are eligible for remuneration for the indirect services they contribute, and royalty is a form of that remuneration. Even though there are studies globally for calculating the quantum of remuneration to be paid for the indirect contribution of paddy fields, it will be tough to arrive at such figures in the Indian and Kerala contexts, and in that sense this is a welcome beginning, Dr Indira Devi, who is the former director research of Kerala Agriculture University, said. However, there are critics who say that the royalty amount announced is too inadequate. ``Even though it is a welcome sign that the scheme is getting materialised at last, the royalty amount announced is too little. The government must at least provide Rs 1000 per hectare as royalty,’’ said K K Kochumuhammed, who is the Kole Karshaka Sangam President.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-to-become-first-state-to-provide-royalty-for-paddy-field-owners/articleshow/79048340.cms||T Ramavarman
November 5, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Man 'kills self' on Karva Chauth after tiff with wife||MEERUT: A 41-year-old man allegedly killed himself on Karva Chauth after frequent quarrels with his wife in Meerut’s Nai Basti area on Wednesday. It all happened hours after his wife had taken ‘sargi’ - food eaten before Karva Chauth fast. It was only later that she noticed that her husband was "hanging from the fan". SHO of Transport Nagar Vijay Gupta said, “Vinod Kumar, 41, was found dead at his residence in Nai Basti area on Wednesday morning. He died by hanging himself from the fan and it was found by his wife .” Police claimed that he had made attempts to commit suicide in the past, too. “The man's wife said that they had arguments almost every month and this could be the reason for the extreme step,” Gupta said. The relatives have now called for a probe. “We are probing the matter. A case will be registered if we find something,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-kills-self-on-karvachauth-after-tiff-with-wife/articleshow/79047058.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Phone friend dupes man of Rs 30L on govt job promise||Aurangabad: A man has been allegedly duped of Rs 30 lakh by a man, whom he befriended through a WhatsApp group. The suspect promised to secure a job in the Aurangabad Zilla Parishad for the complainant. Yogesh Hale, a resident of Shivshankar Colony, has filed a complaint with Jawahar Nagar police station. Hale told the police that he came in contact with suspect after they were added to a WhatsApp group meant for academic discussions. The group was created by a common friend. After their interactions increased, Hale met the suspect, who claimed to have “contacts” in the ZP administration as well as the government and bureaucracy. The suspect was aware that Hale was keen on bagging a government job. In 2019, the Aurangabad ZP issued an advertisement of recruitments for some posts. The suspect allegedly told Hale that he could help him bag a government job in the ZP. Hale filled the recruitment form and applied for the job. Inspector Santosh Patil said, “The suspect demanded a sum of Rs 50 lakh to secure the job for Hale. As advance payment, the suspect took Rs 30 lakh, of which, Rs 15 lakh was transferred to a bank account.” However, later, the recruitment process was called off. Hale waited for a few months for the recruitment process to resume. When it did not, he asked the suspect to repay him. Initially, the suspect assured of returning the amount, but soon started avoiding him. Realising that he had been duped, Hale lodged a complaint and an offence of cheating and criminal breach of trust was registered against the suspect on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/phone-friend-dupes-man-of-rs-30l-on-govt-job-promise/articleshow/79050928.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru west zone had most people exposed to virus: Serosurvey||BENGALURU: The exposure to SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, was highest in the west zone in Bengaluru, according to findings of the serosurvey released by health minister K Sudhakar and a team of officials on Wednesday. While the serosurvey put Covid-19 prevalence in Bengaluru Urban district at 29.8 % overall, in west zone it was almost half the population at 45.6%. The prevalence rate includes both those who tested positive for antibodies and those found to have active infections. As part of the serosurvey, each of the eight BBMP zones in Bengaluru Urban was considered one unit. A total 3,617 people were surveyed in the exercise conducted during the first half of September. Of them, 22% tested positive for antibodies, indicating a past infection. Besides this, 9.2 % were found positive in RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests, which means they had an active infection. The highest antibody prevalence of 35% was seen in west zone, followed by south (35.1%) and east (25.5%). It was the least in Mahadevapura zone where only 7% tested positive for antibodies. “This means that the core areas of Bengaluru had already seen a surge,” said V Ravi, technical advisory committee member, and professor, head, department of neurovirology, Nimhans. The Bengaluru model, which focused on widespread testing and ensuring proper treatment facilities for those infected, has now emerged as the model for the rest of the state. “In Bengaluru, west, south and east zones have already surpassed the 35 % prevalence mark,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and principal investigator of the serosurvey. “RR Nagar and Yelahanka are yet to witness a surge and that is where testing has to be ramped up,” said Dr Babu, who is also a member of the state’s Covid-19 technical advisory. However, Dr Babu insisted herd immunity has not yet been attained. “The big lesson from the study is that we should ramp up testing in all districts just as it was done in Bengaluru’s west, south, east zones,” Dr Babu said. “There is no doubt that these zones are models for the entire state. These are the zones that tested well, but also have the highest number of hospitals. Now we need extraordinary planning on how to emulate this model in other districts.” Minister Sudhakar said another similar study will be conducted in February-March 2021. “The study has helped us immensely in understanding the spread of the virus across the state,” he said. The serosurvey was conducted in association with the Indian Institute of Science, Indian Statistical Institute, Public health Foundation of India and Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute. The study recommended establishing district-level, facility-based sentinel sero-surveillance to systematically monitor the trend of infection in the long-term. This could lead to informed decision-making at the district level to mount a public health response to Covid-19 in Karnataka, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-west-zone-had-most-people-exposed-to-virus-serosurvey/articleshow/79047880.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 22 years on, litterateur Yatindra to regale campus||LUCKNOW: It was in 1998 when a young man from Ayodhya, Yatindra Mishra, dropped studies in microbiology and took up a post-graduate course in Hindi literature at Lucknow University, a campus where great poets like Kavi Pradeep, Raghuveer Sahai, Ali Sardar Jafri and many others had studied. Sitting in historical arts quadrangle, he dreamt of being a little star in the galaxy of poets and writers. Finally, his dreams came true. Now a renowned poet, writer, music and cinema scholar, Mishra will return to the campus to present one of the most scintillating musical show ‘Awadh Ki Roshan Chowki’ with folk singer Malini Awasthi during the centenary celebration of the university to be organised from November 19 to 25. Mishra will be the narrator of this show that will highlight the musical tradition of ‘Awadh’. “Lucknow Vishwavidyalaya ki mitti’ is ‘Awadh ki mitti’ which has given birth to great poets like Raghuveer Sahai, Kavi Pradeep and many others. I did my graduation in science and was pursuing MSc in microbiology but I gave up science to pursue my passion for poetry. LU was a poet’s dreamland so I was here,” said Mishra. “I was mesmerized by the beauty of the campus, especially the ‘Canning College’ popularly called the arts quadrangle, but an even bigger attraction that fascinated writers and poet to the campus for years was that LU was ‘truly Awadh’ as it had neighbours like the Marris College (now Bhatkhande Music Institute), Munshi Naval Kishore Press, Amir-ud-Daula Public Library and banks of Gomti. Even the faculty of Hindi department had extraordinary teachers likes Prof SP Dixit,” he said. Mishra was a gold medalist in his course. While he was a student, his books ‘Yada-Kada’ (1997) and Ayodhya Tatha Anya Kavitayen (1999), both collections of Hindi poetry, were published. A Swarna Kamal awardee, Mishra has won various national and international level awards. Among his finest works is ‘Lata- Sur Gatha’ in which he has traced Lata Mangeshkar’s music and life journey. Besides analytical articles, it also features the Melody Queen’s detailed interview on various aspects of her life, career, and music.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/22-years-on-litterateur-yatindra-to-regale-campus/articleshow/79050939.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Enforcement directorate summons Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary for questioning||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOCHI: Enforcement directorate (ED) – probing the money laundering aspect in the gold smuggling case – served a notice to the additional private secretary of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, CM Raveendran, asking him to appear before it for questioning at its Kochi office on Friday. Raveendran was summoned in connection with the probe into the several IT-related projects undertaken by the government. It is learnt that the notice was issued on the basis of the statements by bureaucrat M Sivasankar. In addition to the gold smuggling probe, ED is also probing four major projects of the government namely Kerala Fibre Optic Network, e-mobility project, downtown project connected with Technopark’s Phase-III and Smart City project in Kochi. ED had earlier sought details of these major IT projects from the IT secretary as it suspected that kickbacks were received by government officials in connection with their implementation. Meanwhile, sources added that ED had also received a statement from Swapna Suresh in August that Raveendran used to call her once in a while for the purpose of visa stamping, attestation of certificates. Raveendran, a close confidante of the CM, has been serving in the personal staff whenever LDF came to power for the past several years. When CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan was the home minister in the previous LDF government led by VS Achuthanandan, Raveendran was a part of the minister’s staff. It is learnt that he had then closely worked with M Sivasankar who was then the tourism director. Subsequently, Raveendran was also a staff member when VS Achuthanandan became the opposition leader from 2011 to 2016. When Pinarayi Vijayan became the chief minister in 2016, Raveendran was inducted into his team though he lacked the educational qualification for personal staff mandated by CPM state committee. Though it is the first time Raveendran’s name was mentioned in connection with the probe, UDF and BJP were hinting that one of the staff members of the chief minister had a role in irregularities. Raid in Hyderabad Meanwhile, on Wednesday, ED conducted a raid at the office of a private construction firm in Hyderabad based on the information received from the custodial interrogation of M Sivasankar, the fifth accused in the case. Sources said the company was awarded a construction contract for works in seven districts in Kerala under Life Mission. ED suspects that details of other Life Mission projects were also shared by Sivasankar with Swapna, the second accused. Sources said that ED was looking into the possibility of kickbacks and commissions similar to the Wadakkancherry project, happening in other projects as well. Sources said that ED’s Kerala unit conducted the raid at Hyderabad with the assistance of the local unit till evening Meanwhile, ED will seek custody extension of Sivasankar when he would be produced before the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act cases on Thursday, when his ED custody period ends. Meanwhile, the judicial custody period of Sandeep Nair and Sarith PS was extended till November 13.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ed-summons-cms-addl-pvt-secy-for-questioning/articleshow/79048349.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak poll: 90% voting in 10 stations; 82.61% total turnout||HYDERABAD: In 10 polling stations, more than 90% voting was recorded in the Dubbak by-elections held on Tuesday. Returning officer B Chennaiah in a report to the chief electoral officer on Wednesday submitted details of polling in all the 315 polling stations. As against the total 1.98 lakh registered voters, 1.64 lakh voters cast their votes (82.61%). In all, 82,563 women and 81,623 men exercised their franchise. In a majority of the 315 polling stations, the polling percentage was above 80. The 10 polling stations where the polling was above 90% were mandal parishad primary school (MPPS) Mallaipally, mandal parishad upper primary school (MPUPS) Pallepahad, MPUPS Godugupally, MPPS Kanapur, UPS Machanpally, MPPS Appaipally, MPS Narsingi and MPS Bheemraopally. Siddipet police commissioner Joel Davis said a three-tier security had been arranged with CRPF, paramilitary forces and civil police at the strong room with 100 personnel round-the-lock. The counting of votes will be taken up on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-poll-90-voting-in-10-stations-82-61-total-turnout/articleshow/79049955.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||‘No permanent solution to landslides on Indrakeeladri’||Vijayawada: An expert panel of engineers has clarified that there is no permanent solution to prevent the occurrence of landslides on Indrakeeladri hill. The panel, which inspected the geophysical conditions of the hill, has also made a number of suggestions to minimise damage. The expert panel comprised of M R Madhav, professor at IIT Kanpur, geologist Trimurthi Raju, retired engineer-in-chief Kondala Rao, Indian Institute of Science (IISc) professor G L Siva Kumar Babu. Stagnation of water on the hilltop during the monsoons was identified as the main reason for landslides and the panel suggested digging channels for the water to flow downhill. The team also inspected the fencing, laid in 2008, to prevent boulders from rolling down. The team suggested iron fencing at places where pilgrim congregation is high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-permanent-solution-to-landslides-on-indrakeeladri/articleshow/79049982.cms||Venu Lanka
November 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid scare: Trains run with many vacant berths||Aurangabad: Special trains and festival special trains from Marathwada have been reporting vacant berths as most people are still wary of train travel given the Covid scare. To allay fears, the railway authorities have now assured the passengers that all Covid-related precautionary measures are in place. Among three daily special trains running from Nanded division, Parbhani-Hyderabad-Parbhani has been reporting around 25% vacant train berths, official data show. Barring the Patna-Purna festival special trains, all other 15 such trains announced by the South Central Railway for the benefit of Marathwada passengers have been running with vacant berths. Among key trains, the Dharmabad-Manmad-Dharmabad special has been registering 70% vacant berths, whereas the Hyderabad-Aurangabad (45%) and Aurangabad-Hyderabad (30%) trains have been also reporting low occupancy. Akola-Kacheguda-Akola festival special is having 80% vacant berths and Panvel-Nanded (65%) and Nanded-Panvel (45%) have been also been having a poor run. Rajesh Shinde, the public relations officer of SCR’s Nanded division, said even some popular trains, which are currently running as special trains, have been reporting low occupancy. Shinde added that patients testing positive for viral diseases are not allowed to travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-scare-trains-run-with-many-vacant-berths/articleshow/79050954.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Chennai||Engineers of bad roads that kill people can be booked, but in Tamil Nadu they go scot-free||CHENNAI: Every year, at least 100 people get killed and 700 are injured in accidents on potholed roads across Tamil Nadu. Of this, nearly one-third is in Chennai. Though road engineers from the concerned local body or highways department and the contractor, who laid or repaired the stretch, could be held accountable, hardly police book them for contributory negligence. Two years ago, for the first time, the Chennai suburban police filed a case against two top officials from Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation and five others from a contracting firm for poor maintenance of a flyover in Red Hills which resulted in a road accident killing three at the spot. The state road safety cell promised that such actions will continue to reduce road accidents in Chennai. However, official records suggest that since 2018 though there have been inquiries with civic bodies, there were hardly any convictions. Apart from sections 304, 336, 288 of the Indian Penal Code, the new Motor Vehicle Amendment Act of 2019 provides an option to enforcement agencies to penalise state agencies or contractors in such instances under Section 198. They can be jailed for three years or penalised up to Rs 1 lakh. But no case has been registered in Tamil Nadu under the section. Kerala, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh have performed better in relative terms. Last year, an assistant engineer from Kerala Water Authority was arrested in connection with an accident on a bad road in Kozhikode. In 2014, two engineers from Bangalore Development Authority were arrested for the death of two people in an accident on flyover on Outer Ring Road. The same year, an NHAI was booked in connection with an accident reported on a bridge in Betul, Madhya Pradesh. S Yuvaraj, a trucker from Chennai who had complained against engineers for bad roads in Maduravoyal, said police are hesitant to act. “Once corporation or highway is held accountable, then compensation burden on vehicle owners will reduce. At present, police invariably fix 100% onus on the larger vehicle involved in the accident,” he said. A senior official from Chennai traffic police said in most cases it is the driver’s fault and in very rare cases road conditions could be attributed as a reason. Also, conviction becomes tougher if they were to involve engineers or contractors as they have to confirm that the bad road caused the accident and then prove it in court. Advocate G Udhaysankar, who is a part of insurance panels, said there is limited awareness in Tamil Nadu, even among advocates. Even if the police FIR doesn’t mention bad roads, the petitioner’s counsel in lower courts can make the municipal corporation or state government party to the case. “Though it is for the court to decide whether they are at fault or not, by adding their names these state agencies are bound to respond,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/engineers-of-bad-roads-that-kill-peoplecan-be-booked-but-in-tn-they-go-scot-free/articleshow/79048354.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 5, 2020||Mumbai||Chanda illegally gave loans to Videocon: ED chargesheet||Mumbai: Enforcement Directorate (ED) submitted a chargesheet against former CEO of ICICI Bank Chanda Kochhar, her husband Deepak and Videocon promoter, Venugopal Dhoot before a special court here on Tuesday. Special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court is yet to take cognizance of the chargesheet. ED submitted the chargesheet in the case within the stipulated 60-day period after arresting Deepak on September 7. He is in judicial custody. An ED official from Delhi submitted the chargesheet before court. He filed an intimation of submission of the prosecution complaint against Deepak and 10 others. The court was told the chargesheet is pending scrutiny as it has five trunks of original documents. It was alleged that Chanda, who took over as ICICI managing director and CEO in May 2009, illegally sanctioned loans to Videocon group of companies. ICICI Bank loans of Rs 1,875 crore to Videocon became non-performing assets (NPA) in 2017, causing losses to the bank. It was alleged that in lieu of loans, Videocon transferred Rs 64 crore to Kochhar’s Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd. ED said they had established the money trail. Officials stated that in one instance, ICICI Bank disbursed a Rs 300 crore loan to a Videocon company and within 48 hours, Rs 64 crore was transferred to Nupower Renewables through layers of transactions. ED also alleged that CCI Chambers Apartment, where the Kochhars live, was sold to them by Videocon at a nominal price. The apartment was purchased in 1996 for Rs 5.2 crore in the name of Credential Finance Ltd, in which Videocon had a substantial share along with Chanda and Deepak. The company defaulted on a Rs 4.7 crore loan of SBI Home Finance, for which the apartment was placed as security. In 2009, Videocon paid SBI dues and transferred ownership of the apartment to its group company, Quality Appliances Pvt Ltd. In 2016, all shares of Quality Appliances were acquired by Deepak’s trust, Quality Advisors, for Rs 11 lakh, and he became owner of the apartment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chanda-illegally-gave-loans-to-videocon-ed-chargesheet/articleshow/79048691.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||New IT park in Kompally; KT Rama Rao tells investors to look east and north||HYDERABAD: Reinforcing the Telangana government’s efforts to de-congest Hyderabad, IT and Industries minister KT Rama Rao, on Wednesday, urged investors to look towards the the east and north of the city too. While lauding the success of the western corridor — the city’s IT hub — KTR said that there was a need to disperse this growth to ensure that only one part of Hyderabad is not burdened. “In fact, we have approved five IT Parks in the Uppal-Nagole-L B Nagar area (east) and I am soon going to lay the foundation for an IT Park in Kompally, which is in the northern part of Hyderabad. This is going to allow the city to grow in dispersion,” KTR reiterated while speaking at a real estate event. He highlighted the state’s GRID (Growth in Dispersion) Policy launched earlier this year and appealed to investors to “familiarise themselves” with it and “work closely with the government” to make best use of the benefits. The GRID policy aims at incentivising firms setting shop away from the Madhapur-Gachibowli belt. Echoing the minister’s views, city developers agreed that the two alternate corridors have great potential. “Unlike the western corridor, the availability of basic amenities such as water supply, is in abundance in the east. There is sufficient availability of space, the infrastructure is good (thanks to the Outer Ring Road) and the region is also home to a large pool of local talent that now travels all the way to the western part for employment,” said Tapas Patel, CEO of Om Sree Builders and Developers, a leading name in the eastern part of the city. According to rough estimates, roughly 20% of the workforce in Hyderabad’s IT sector lives in the far east or north of the city. “The growth of any market is driven by government policies. That’s how the western corridor prospered. Now, with policies aimed at giving other corridors an impetus, they are bound to do well too. It is going to take time, but isn’t impossible,” said Ashwin Rao, director of Manbhum Constructions while pushing for such dispersed growth. “Bengaluru too has multiple growth corridors. It’s a sign of healthy development,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-it-park-in-kompally-ktr-tells-investors-to-look-east-north/articleshow/79050023.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
November 5, 2020||Hubballi||100 school children trained in swimming at VV Sagar||CHITRADURGA: The department of youth affairs and sports, in association with the education department and General Thimmaiah National Adventure Academy (Bengaluru), recently trained children in swimming so they are equipped with the life skill which comes in handy during floods or other emergencies. Around 100 children, studying in Class V to X at select schools of Hosadurga taluk in Chitradurga district, got the training in the backwaters of Vani Vilas Sagar (VV Sagar) in Chitradurga district from September 28 to October 29. The programme was chalked out following the recent death of two schoolchildren, who were washed away in Dodda Halla near Gulihatti village. During the launch of the camp, local MLA Gulihatti D Shekhar said that over 20 schoolchildren in the region had met a watery grave during floods over the last three years. Some more kids, who did not know how to swim, have also lost their lives after drowning in farm ponds, lakes, tanks, and the like. Shabbir. F, manager of Water Sports Centre at VV Sagar, said students were lucky to learn swimming at the biggest water sports training centre of the state. The students were not charged fee under the residential programme. They were made to swim for 1.5 hours during morning and evening hours. They were also trained in kayaking, rafting and boat riding. Cultural events were lined up, he said, adding the general public were not allowed to the centre during the camp. District youth services and sports officer Diwakar said that the students were selected based on the survey conducted by BEO Jayappa. “The training will boost the courage of students, who have also been covered under life insurance,” Diwakar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/100-schoolchildren-trained-in-swimming-at-vv-sagar/articleshow/79046732.cms||SA Gangaraju
November 5, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: No legal support, victims get pittance in damages||CHENNAI: Without much legal support from police, road accident victims and their families have a tough time in proving that bad roads played a role in the incident. While a few wait for years and appeal in higher courts for compensation, others opt for out-of-court settlements negotiated by police and advocates. “Ranjitha, a 19-year-old woman, who was travelling in an MTC bus near Porur, fell down when the driver pressed hard on the brakes all of a sudden ahead of a speed breaker. There was no signboard cautioning the driver,” said advocate V S Suresh. “Though the local engineer was also at fault, we couldn’t prove this at court. The girl had injuries on her face but did not have enough money for surgeries. She committed suicide. If a thorough investigation had been done and state agencies were booked, the tribunal would have directed a few lakhs as compensation,” he said. Employees of vehicle insurance firms said police find settlements through companies easier than through state agencies. Vehicle owners too don’t go into much detail as long as they don’t have to pay much. Official records suggest that MTC has a bad reputation of settling accident dues to victims and sometimes courts had to seize buses. Kamal Soi, member of National Road Safety Council, said police and lower courts should consider the fact if a two-wheeler/car collided against each one while avoiding a pothole and hold the engineer or contractor responsible on suo moto basis as high courts have done in the past. Not only bad roads, even other factors like narrow clearance on highways (less than 30 metres) and lack of dividers/sign boards all contribute to accidents leading to live loss or sometimes vehicle damage. Public should starting filing complaints against them forcing police to act upon it, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-legal-support-victims-get-pittance-in-damages/articleshow/79048364.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bareilly||Police recover & return 105 stolen phones to owners in Bareilly||BAREILLY: As many as 105 people who had lost their mobile phones in the last two months to theft and snatching got a pleasant surprise when police handed them back their prized possessions on Wednesday. The mobile phones worth Rs 20lakh were recovered by the surveillance wing of the cyber cell team. Most of them had purchased a new phone and the return of the old gadgets was like a Diwali gist for them. One of them, Unnati Tiwari, said, “I had purchased an expensive phone on EMI from my first salary and I lost it within a month. Since there was no insurance I have to pay installments for it. But today I received a call from the police that my phone has been recovered. It is still as new as it was earlier and I am very happy.” SSP Bareilly Rohit Singh Sajwan has announced a cash reward of Rs 25,000 for the surveillance team. Sajwan told TOI, “All the 105 phones recovered by our surveillance team are smartphones and many of them recovered from other states like Bihar, Uttarakhand and Delhi. The cost of the recovered phones is nearly 20 lakh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-recover-return-105-stolen-phones-to-owners-in-bareilly/articleshow/79047133.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Boy, 5, gets ‘breach of peace’ notice after cops show him as adult||RAMPUR: Still struggling with nursery rhymes, a five-year-old boy in UP’s Rampur district was named in a property dispute and served with a notice for allegedly trying to “breach peace”. It happened after police “mischievously” showed the child as a 25-year-old adult and booked him along with his father and another relative. The boy and his father appeared before district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh on Wednesday, who has now ordered a probe into what he termed as a “mischievous act”. “The child and his father came to our office. I have ordered an inquiry into the matter. We are trying to find out who committed this mischievous act. Rampur’s superintendent of police Shaghun Gautam has also initiated an inquiry into the matter. We will take action once the reports come,” the DM said. The notice was issued by the city magistrate on the basis of information given by local police. When contacted for the version, station house officer (SHO) of Sadar Kotwali, Ravendra Pratap Singh, said, “We have looked into the records. The father himself told police that his son was 23 years old and the report was forwarded to the city magistrate.” But the father denied telling police that his son was an adult. “My nephews fraudulently sold our ancestor’s property to some influential persons. I informed police officers about it and wanted to file a case. But, instead of taking action against the offenders, police booked me and my five-year-old son under the charges of breach of peace,” the father said. The notice was issued by the court of city magistrate against the man, his minor son and a relative. The family was also told to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000. The notice under CrPC section 107 (security for keeping the peace) and 116 (inquiry as to truth of information) was served to the family and the trio were told to appear before the court. After a probe order, local police came in fire-fighting mode. “We have initiated the process to withdraw the notice,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-boy-5-named-in-property-dispute-gets-breach-of-peace-notice-after-cops-show-him-as-adult/articleshow/79047136.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 5, 2020||Bareilly||Mob lynches man accused of sodomising and killing child in Uttar Pradesh||BAREILLY: A man, 26, accused of sodomising, killing and then hanging a four-year-old boy’s body from a tree in July this year was allegedly traced and lynched with batons and bricks by the child’s relatives in Bareilly district on Wednesday evening. The accused was on the run for the last over three months and local police had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on any information leading to his arrest. Posters carrying photos of the accused, Prempal, were also put up at several places by police. But the relatives of the slain child caught up with the accused even before local police could. According to police, Prempal was hiding in Aonla, Bareilly district. He was caught and brutally attacked with batons and bricks by a group of men, allegedly the relatives of the boy. Two of them were later arrested. Prempal was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Bareilly, Rohit Singh Sajwan, told TOI, “Prempal, who was wanted in the sexual assault and murder of a 4-year-old boy, was beaten to death by a few people in Aonla area on Wednesday. He was on the run since July and we had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest. We have arrested two persons in the lynching case and both of them are the relatives of the boy. An FIR has been registered against two identified and several unidentified people for murder.” The four-year-old boy went missing on July 13 soon after he stepped out to play. He was last seen playing with Prempal, who had come to his home along with a few relatives of the family a day earlier. Initially the family thought that Prempal had abducted the child for ransom. But, a few hours later, they found the child’s body hanging from a tree outside the village. Post-mortem examination confirmed sexual assault and Prempal went missing. Police had registered an FIR under IPC sections 302 (murder), sections 377 (unnatural offences), 364 (kidnapping), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and under section 4/5 of Pocso Act against him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mob-in-up-lynches-man-accused-of-sodomising-killing-child/articleshow/79047131.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Meerut||Journalist trying to 'uncover gambling' brutally assaulted in UP’s Saharanpur||MEERUT: A journalist trying to uncover alleged gambling and other illegal activities going on at a snooker club in UP’s Saharanpur city was allegedly assaulted by a group of at least six men. The Tuesday night’s attack was caught on a CCTV camera. It was the second such attack on a journalist in the city in a month. On September 16, another TV journalist was waylaid and attacked by a group. The latest incident took place in the city's Sant Nagar area when Kapil Dhiman, 31, a reporter working for a local news channel, was standing outside the club. “It-- the attack-- took place when I went to the snooker club, being run from the basement of a building in the Sant Nagar area. I had information that the club was a hub for gambling, and liquor was also being served there illegally. The moment I reached there, a group of six men started beating me. They even snatched my ring and the wrist watch,” Dhiman said. The journalist also claimed that local police didn’t register a case on his complaint. “Later, when I approached the police station, I was not provided with any help,” he said. In the CCTV footage, which turned online on Wednesday, Dhiman could be seen being attacked and thrown on a motorcycle by a group. Later, when a delegation of local journalists met the senior superintendent of police (SSP), a probe was ordered. Circle officer (CO) Arpit Vijayvargiya was asked to look into the matter. Additional SP Arpit Vijayvargiya, the CO of the region, said, “We have asked for a detailed complaint on the basis of which an FIR will be filed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/journalist-trying-to-uncover-gambling-brutally-assaulted-in-ups-saharanpur/articleshow/79047121.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 5, 2020||Bhopal||As active cases dip, stress reduces on public health infra||Bhopal: With active cases of Covid-19 under check, hospitals in the state capital are by and large less occupied compared to the same time last month. The city’s largest Covid-19 critical care facility, Hamidia hospital, had two-third beds utilised, said hospital superintendent, Dr AK Chaurasia. Similar instances have been reported from other main critical care centres. One reason for the reduction in stress on public health infrastructure is the option for home isolation and increase in number of hospitals treating Covid-19 cases. On Tuesday, roughly 30% of people who were diagnosed with Covid-19 did not have any co-morbidities. There are an estimated 4,000 beds available for Covid-19 treatment in the state capital. Public health facilities in the state capital for Covid-19 treatment has improved in the past seven months. There are over 3,000 isolation beds without oxygen. Besides, there are 1,300 plus isolation beds with oxygen and about 660 ICU beds. Daily increase in cases was at 2.4% in the first week of August. The number declined to about 0.8% in mid-August. However, the number at end of the month has once again increased to about 1.7% daily increase in case rate. Two months on, the number of daily cases is now as low as that in June and July. In November, the number of active cases have declined to about 1,500. It was about 2,500 some six weeks ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/as-active-cases-dip-stress-reduces-on-public-health-infra/articleshow/79048368.cms||Jamal Ayub
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Boy playing in cradle gets strangled to death||Trichy: An 11-year-old boy got strangled to death in the cradle while playing at his house in Sobanapuram near Uppiliyapuram on Tuesday night. G Santhosh, a Class VI student at a government higher secondary school, was found dead in the cradle at his house around 8.30 pm, according to Uppiliyapuram police which is investigating the case based on a complaint from his mother Deepa. Preliminary inquiry brought to light that the boy used to play in the cradle tied from the ceiling using a sari. It was meant for the baby of his uncle whose family is also residing in the house. On Tuesday, his mother and others went out for some work while his elder brother was in the portion of the house where his uncle stayed. As Santhosh did not turn up for playing, one of his friends came and checked with his elder brother. Both of them looked for him inside the house when they found him lying unconscious in the cradle with his neck entangled in it. One being informed, his family members came rushing and took him to a hospital in the area but he was declared brought dead. The police took over the body and brought it to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital for post-mortem on Wednesday. Initially, the police suspected some foul play or even suicide, but later concluded it to be an accident. They registered a case under section 174 (3) (iv)(v) of IPC. This was the second tragedy that struck the family in a few years. They had been living at Athur in Salem when Santhosh’s father Ganesan passed away four years ago after which Deepa shifted to Sobanapuram with her sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/boy-playing-in-cradle-gets-strangled-to-death/articleshow/79050005.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Chennai||Two held for vandalising Buddha idol in Pallavaram||CHENNAI: The Pallavaram police have arrested two people for vandalising a Buddha idol at a temple in Zamin Pallavaram. According to locals, the Palalvamalai Arulnila Budhar Aalayam was established a decade ago at the base of a hillock at Periyamalai in Zamin Pallavaram. A two-and-a-half feet stone idol of Buddha was installed at the temple and on special days ceremonies are observed. On Sunday night, unidentified people vandalised the idol by pelting it with stones. Temple administrators who saw the damage on Monday morning informed the local police after which they launched a hunt for the suspects. After preliminary investigation, police detained two residents of Vembuliamman Koil Street -- Raju and his accomplice Vinoth Kumar. A few locals had seen the two climbing up the hillock on Sunday night, police sources said. According to a police officer, the two of them had damaged the idol when they were drunk. “The accused said they had no ill intention. They got drunk and began throwing stones at the idol. The damage are being fixed,” the officer said. The Pallavaram police booked Raju and Vinoth Kumar under sections of the IPC, including 295 (destroying, damaging or defiling a place of worship or sacred object with intent to insult the religion of any class of persons), 442 (criminal trespassing). They were produced before a magistrate that sent them to judicial custody. Police sources said Raju was previously arrested under the Pocso Act and is out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-held-for-vandalising-buddha-idol/articleshow/79048454.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Data centres, warehouses see increased demand in Hyderabad: Knight Frank report||HYDERABAD: Even as the conventional real estate asset classes battle Covid-19 blues, data centres and warehouses are two new asset classes that are seeing a sudden spurt in demand in the city in the midst of pandemic, said a Knight Frank report on Wednesday. The report titled, Work from Hyderabad, said the boost in e-commerce business has created a need for more warehouses and logistics centres across the country and Hyderabad, being the distribution hub in Telangana, is also seeing increased traction in the warehousing segment. On data centres growth, report said, “The segment that has gathered momentum this year is data centres. The government has been effectively promoting its seismologically safe geography and high quality, cost effective infrastructure to attract data centre investments in the state. State has already garnered investments of Rs 25,000 crore for upcoming mega projects in the IT data centres segment, highest across industries.” Meanwhile, the report also said that office rentals for the city have remained stable despite low business volumes in 2020. Hyderabad is one of the few cities that recorded positive rental growth of 2% Y-o-Y in Q3 2020, it added. In 2019, the city had recorded its highest ever transaction volume of 13 million sft in the office market which was also the second highest transaction activity that year across the country. Report said that going ahead, trajectory of Covid-19 infection rate and domestic and global growth momentum will play a critical role in determining outlook for commercial real estate and residential real estate in Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/data-centres-warehouses-see-increased-demand-in-city-knight-frank-report/articleshow/79050045.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Order seeking maintenance cost for temple jumbo stayed||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday granted interim stay on the order passed by the forest department seeking maintenance cost for the elephant belonging to the Subramaniyaswamy temple at Thiruparankundram in Madurai district, which is kept at an elephant rescue and rehabilitation centre at MR Palayam in Trichy district.Justice Abdul Quddhose was hearing a petition filed by the deputy commissioner/ executive officer of the temple, M Ramasamy.The petitioner stated that the seven-year-old elephant was donated to the temple by a person named Pandirajan in 2014. The elephant was named Deivanai. He stated that the elephant trampled the cavady (a person engaged to assist the mahout) S Kalidasan on May 24 when it was taken on routine walk.The government veterinary doctors who examined the elephant stated that the attack was a result of anxiety due to early menstruation. Considering the safety of the elephant and public safety, they had advised to shift the elephant to the rehabilitation centre in Trichy. Subsequently, it was shifted in June.Ramasamy said that the forest officials in an order on September 5, sought Rs 3,04,032 from the temple authorities for maintaining Deivanai as per Rule 14 of the Tamil Nadu Captive Elephants (Management and Maintenance) Rules 2011. Since the elephant was shifted based on doctors’ advice, the petitioner stated that maintenance cost should not be demanded, and hence challenged the order. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/order-seeking-maintenance-cost-for-temple-jumbo-stayed/articleshow/79050999.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Bhopal||Apparel market hopes to ride the winter wave||Bhopal: With the onset of winter, the apparel market is expecting a revival now during Diwali season, much in the same way as the automobile market. “Winter is the season when garments sell the most. People not only buy the clothes for festivals, but also shop for woollens during this season. There had been a lull in the sale of ready-made garments ever since the lockdown began, but we are expecting a revival with shopping for winters and festivals picking up”, said the owner of an apparel showroom in Bittan Market. Peeyush Sharma, an entrepreneur, said, “I buy winter clothes for everyone in the family, each winter. Since Diwali was late in 2019, we bought clothes for winter before Diwali shopping, but this year we shall club it together.' Sharma felt that fall in sales of various things, following Coronavirus outbreak was not so much due to financial crisis gripping people, but as a psychic reaction to the situation. “People were staying indoors, avoiding going to market. There were curbs on timings as well. The mood was melancholic, therefore expecting markets to be buoyant in such a situation was not realistic but the mood is now changing. The pandemic, too, appears to be largely under control and I can tell you, people will celebrate Diwali this year with greater fervour than the previous years,” he said. Steps taken by the government including payment of advance or arrears is also likely to help the sizeable population of government servants in Bhopal to make purchases for winter and of course the Festival of Lights ahead. “Rs 10,000 advance announced by the government for class 3 and class 4 employees and payment of 25 per cent arrears of the seventh pay commission has definitely added up to buying capacity of government employees; it's likely to boost the apparel market the most as clothes are commonly bought in this season both for the winter and the festivals,” said B K Sharma, an officer in the Mantralaya. President of Rajdhani Vastra Vyapari Sangh, Shyambabu Agrawal, said “The market lull is gone with people purchasing clothes for winter, festivals and also marriages. We expect this season to be as fruitful as 2019.” Ashok Mata, president of Wholesale Hosiery Vyavasai Sangh, said, “There is movement in the market for the last one week. Warm clothes and other apparels are showing good sales but it was largely limited to the wholesale sector till now, but now after the salaries have been disbursed, retail markets will pick up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/apparel-market-hopes-to-ride-the-winter-wave/articleshow/79048409.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Govt, private hosps collecting data on frontline staff to be given Covid vaccine||Trichy/Chennai: Tamil Nadu has started the process of enumerating frontline healthcare workers, who are on the top of the priority list of groups that will receive Covid-19 vaccine shots when they are launched. Two of the three vaccines, which are under various stages of human clinical trials in the country, are being tested in centres in the state. Dr T S Selvavinayagam, director of public health, said healthcare workers of all categories from both private and government hospitals will be part of the enumeration process. The categories may include doctors, nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists, drivers and sanitary workers. “It is an ongoing process and our deputy directors are involved in the collection of data. We will know the exact numbers in a month’s time,” he said. Tamil Nadu has a total of 4,632 government and 36,154 private clinical establishments which include hospitals, clinics and laboratories. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had last month announced that the vaccine will be provided to all people of the state free of cost once it is ready. Many districts are almost ready with the data.  In Trichy, district collector S Sivarasu asked hospitals to prepare the list of frontline workers who faced the Covid-19 battle since the outbreak. Frontline workers would add up to 5,000 in the district. “The data is being collected first. The priority list will be followed as per the government advice,” he told TOI. The data will be sent to the office of the deputy director of health services (DDHS) in Trichy. DDHS Dr A Subramani said all staff of the 84 primary health centres (PHCs) and 300 health sub centres (HSCs) in the district will be on the list. Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH), which has been treating Covid-19 patients from neighbouring districts too, has started collecting data. “Postgraduate and undergraduate students attending the clinical procedures will also be taken into consideration. Our number would be around 2,000,” Dean M Vanitha told TOI. The Indian medicine and homeopathy department which deputed doctors and hospital workers in covid care centres (CCC) and the Covid-19 ward for distribution of Kabasura Kudineer has also been asked to prepare the data.  Trichy chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has communicated to the 200 plus private hospitals in the district to submit the data according to their willingness, president of IMA, Trichy Dr R Gunasekaran said. Madurai corporation city health officer Dr P Kumaragurubaran said there was no need to conduct a drive to enumerate frontline workers as the numbers in the attendance were enough. “They will be definitely vaccinated,” he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-private-hosps-collecting-data-on-frontline-staff-to-be-given-covid-vaccine/articleshow/79050038.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 5, 2020||Madurai||Evasive order from competent authority is negligence: Madras HC||MADURAI: Madras high court has observed that any competent authority, while passing an order, is expected to furnish reasons for arriving at such a conclusion and the practice of passing evasive or ‘non-speaking’ orders should be viewed seriously. The court was hearing a plea moved by a matriculation school challenging the non-speaking order passed by the authorities. Justice S M Subramaniam said a large number of such orders are passed by many competent authorities “without assigning any reason and they are in the habit of shirking their responsibilities.” The court directed the state government to issue consolidated instructions to all authorities to ensure statutory appeals and disputed issues between parties in the education department are decided by passing speaking orders. According to the court, any non-speaking order passed by the authority is to be construed as an evasion of performance of duties and responsibilities. It termed such action of the authorities as “certainly a lapse, negligence or dereliction” . Passing evasive orders would cause unnecessary issues leading to filing of avoidable writ petitions thereby wasting valuable judicial time. Such matters are mostly liable to be remanded back, which was unnecessary, and would cause hardship to the litigants.  The judge suo-motu impleaded the secretaries of the school education and higher education departments as respondents in the present case and directed them to issue consolidated instructions to the authorities to pass speaking orders. The instructions shall contain that in the event of lapse, negligence or dereliction in this regard, disciplinary actions would be initiated against the authorities responsible for passing evasive and non-speaking orders. The judge quashed the order and remanded the matter back to the authorities to pass a speaking order on merits within 12 weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/evasive-order-from-competent-authority-is-negligence-hc/articleshow/79050994.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 5, 2020||Vadodara||Man abuses wife after leaving job||Vadodara: Job layoffs were common across industries during and after lockdown, but a man in Chhota Udepur managed to hold on to his job in an engineering firm despite all odds. However, the man, who worked as a supervisor, resigned from his work as he felt that he was burdened. Sitting idle at home, the man started abusing and beating his 32-year-old wife due to which she left the house with their son and started living in a temple. The woman was rescued a couple of days back by 181 Abhayam helpline and was reunited with her husband after he was counselled. According to the helpline officials, the man was upset while sitting at home and did not allow his wife to take up a job. She is a graduate of arts and has also completed Bachelor of Education. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-abuses-wife-after-leaving-job/articleshow/79047180.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Leopardess crushed to death near Warora||Chandrapur: A full-grown leopardess was crushed by unidentified vehicle on Nagpur-Chandrapur highway near Majra village in Warora tehsil late on Tuesday night. The leopardess was being seen with its cubs in the shrubby forest around Videocon factory and Anandwan on the outskirts of Warora town for the last few months. Late on Tuesday night, villagers found the leopardess lying in a pool of blood on the highway and the matter was immediately reported to forest department. The officials reached to the spot and found that the beast had died. Officials removed the carcass and autopsy later confirmed it was accidental death. Forester have launched operation to track and rescue the cubs. Officials claim the leopardess might have been trying to cross the highway when unidentified vehicle ran over it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopardess-crushed-to-death-near-warora/articleshow/79048480.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||No permission to cracker shops at 18 main market places||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and police department have refused to grant permission to firecracker shops/kiosks at 18 main market places in the city to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and fire incidents. The number of shops has come down to 582 this year from 752 in 2019 probably due to the impact of the pandemic. NMC chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake told TOI, “Police department has identified 18 market places and released the list. Accordingly, fire and emergency services department has not given NOC for firecracker shops/kiosks at these locations,” he said. The market places where the prohibition has been imposed are Sitabuldi main road, Mahal Chowk to Gandhigate Chowk, Mahal Chowk to Bhonsale Wada, Mahal Chowk to Badkas Chowk, Kalyaneshwar Mandir area, Golibar Chowk to Timki, Teen Nal Chowk to Shaheed Chowk, Tanga Stand to Teen Nal Chowk, Hansapuri to Naalsahab Chowk, Maskasath Chowk to Nehru Putla, Marwadi Chowk, areas around Mayo Hospital, Daga Hospital, GMCH, Indora Chowk to Kamal Talkies Chowk, Gokulpeth bazaar and Residency Road at Sadar. Uchake added, “Firecracker shops/kiosks will also not be permitted in areas and roads which witness congestion or crowd.” The number of shops getting permission was 777 in 2018, 865 in 2017, 982 in 2016, 951 in 2015 and 889 in 2014. In the NOCs, the NMC’s fire and emergency services department has also placed various conditions considering Covid-19 guidelines of the central and state governments. All employees in the shops will have to wear masks compulsorily and ensure all customers are wearing it. There should be no rush at any shop at any given time. The shops/kiosks should not have any objections from people residing in the respective areas. Almost all the market places are crowded, especially during evening hours. Many shopkeepers are not following standard operating procedures issued by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Also, some people can be seen without masks and spitting in public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-permission-to-cracker-shops-at-18-main-market-places/articleshow/79048470.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 5, 2020||Delhi||Salary dues: HC directs govt to release funds to 4 DU colleges||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the AAP government to release funds to four Delhi University colleges, fully funded by it, to enable them to release pending salaries of staffers. “You cannot deprive teachers of their rights and salaries. Do you realise a major festival is round the corner and you are depriving people of their salaries,” a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad remarked. The bench also directed the four colleges — Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhagini Nivedita College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies — to immediately release pending salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff, after receiving funds from Delhi government. It was hearing a plea by a group of teachers seeking direction to the colleges affiliated to DU and fully funded by Delhi government, to release their salaries pending for the last four months. On their part the four colleges told the court that Delhi government subsidised them to an extent of 100% and it releases the fund on quarterly basis in four tranches. Advocate Ashok Agarwal, representing the teachers, said the four colleges have not paid salaries to their staff for the months of June, July and August. But the government submitted there were some irregularities in accounts of the colleges and a special audit was being done at three colleges while an audit has been concluded in two of them, it will end in the third one on Thursday. The high court then took note of Agarwal’s submission that salaries have been released till July and directed that irrespective of the special audit by Delhi government and its rights and contentions, the government must release the finances for two quarters of financial year commencing 2020, after adjusting the amount already released in favour of the four colleges on or before November 9, 2020. It added that, “Immediately on fund being released to colleges, salaries of petitioners and all other teaching and non-teaching staff be released forthwith” while listing the matter for further hearing on November 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/salary-dues-hc-directs-govt-to-release-funds-to-4-du-colleges/articleshow/79048483.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Trichy||NHAI notifies land acquisition for Trichy-Thanjavur national highway service road||TRICHY: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has published the notification to acquire the land required for establishing the long-pending service road on the Trichy-Thanjavur national highway (NH). The NHAI will acquire about 1.5 lakh sqm of land for the purpose. As per the 3D notification, NHAI requires land in Thiruverumbur and Trichy east taluks to establish the service road for 14.5km. Officials said that they will begin the process to identify the land owners and estimate the compensation to take over the land. Once the compensation is given, civil work for the service road will commence within 60 days. As the land plan schedule (LPS) was revised based on a Madras high court directive, the NHAI will construct the service roads in three different widths - 45m, 50m and 60m. “Covid-19 and lockdown had delayed the progress of work since we had to physically survey the land. There will be no further hurdles to establish the roads,” a senior revenue official told TOI. While residents hailed the notification, they sought allocation of adequate funds to compensate the land owners, so that the fund crunch does not delay the project. “We have already waited a long time. The service road work should not be delayed any further,” S Panjabagesan, a resident of Thiruverumbur said. In October 2019, the Madras high court had directed the state government and NHAI to establish the service road within six months, but the notification has come only now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nhai-notifies-land-acquisition-for-trichy-thanjavur-nh-service-road/articleshow/79050048.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 5, 2020||Madurai||High court seeks govt response on agricultural zone in Kodaikanal||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Wednesday sought a response from the state government in a plea which sought to quash a portion of the GO, which classified an area where a man owned a property, as an agricultural zone as per the final approved master plan of Kodaikanal. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi sought the response explaining the reasons as to why the area was classified into an agriculture zone. The petitioner G Chokkappan, a resident of Vadipatti in Madurai district, stated that he owns a property at Convent Road at Kodaikanal in Dindigul district. As per the master plan, which was in existence in 1993, the area in which his property was situated was classified as mixed residential zone. Subsequently, a draft master plan was notified and the area was classified as multi-use zone. He stated that a GO was passed and gazette notification was issued in 2019 and as per the final approved modified master plan, the area where his property was situated was classified as agricultural zone. Stating that such classification was illegal and arbitrary to the Master Plan (Preparation, Publication and Sanction) Rules, the petitioner challenged the portion of the GO with regard to the area where his property is situated. The case was adjourned to November 30 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-court-seeks-govt-response-on-agri-zone-in-kodaikanal/articleshow/79051004.cms||---
November 5, 2020||India||Computation of maintenance to estranged wife to include child care: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday said if an estranged wife gave up her job to take care of children and the elderly in the family, then this will have to be taken into consideration by the family court while quantifying monthly interim maintenance payable to her by the husband. The court also found that pleas for grant of interim maintenance were pending in courts for years even though the law stipulated a 60-day window, from the date of issuance of notice by the court to a husband on the estranged wife's application, for grant of maintenance. It considered overlapping laws regarding grant of maintenance and laid down guidelines for all trial courts and high courts. This is the first time that the highest court has considered the sacrifices made by career women in taking care of children and ruled that this would be an added component for enhancing the grant of interim compensation to her, so that she could lead a life almost akin to what she was used to when all was well in the matrimonial home. Normally, the courts take into account the husband's income and assets while quantifying interim maintenance to an estranged wife. Times ViewWithout proper execution, any law becomes just a piece of paper. The Supreme Court’s directions are pertinent in this matter. Time-bound interim maintenance is a lifeline for many. Those disregarding the law and treating the matter casually should be made to mend their ways.A bench of Justices Indu Malhotra and R S Reddy said, "In a marriage of long duration, where parties have endured the relationship for several years, it would be a relevant factor to be taken into consideration. On termination of the relationship, if the wife is educated and professionally qualified, but had to give up her employment opportunities to look after the needs of the family, being the primary caregiver to minor children and elder members of the family, this factor would be required to be given due importance. "This is of particular relevance in contemporary society, given the highly competitive industry standards, the separated wife would be required to undergo fresh training to acquire marketable skills and retrain herself to secure a job in the paid workforce to rehabilitate herself. With advancement of age, it would be difficult for a dependent wife to get an easy entry into the workforce after a break of several years." The SC said the family court must also take into consideration the educational expenses of children staying with the estranged wife in computing maintenance as "education expenses of the children must be normally borne by the father". If the wife was working and earning sufficiently, education expenses of the children, including fees for coaching classes and extracurricular activities, may be shared proportionately between the parties, it said. Writing the 56-page judgment, Justice Malhotra said, "Serious disability or ill health of a spouse, child/children from the marriage/dependant relative who require constant care and recurrent expenditure, would also be a relevant consideration while quantifying maintenance." Finding that neither the Hindu Marriage Act nor the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act specified the date from which interim maintenance was to be granted, leading to exercise of discretion by family courts, the SC said interim maintenance had to be granted from the day the estranged woman filed an application in court. The SC also said non-payment of maintenance could lead to arrest and detention of the delinquent husband and may even lead to confiscation of his assets and their auction to make good the dues to the estranged wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/computation-of-maintenance-to-estranged-wife-to-include-child-care-sc/articleshow/79052166.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cop’s legs crushed as BMW rams bike||NEW DELHI: A constable posted at Sarita Vihar police station sustained fractures in both his legs after the motorcycle he was patrolling on was hit by a BMW car driver intentionally. The injured policeman and his colleague had objected to a group of men celebrating a birthday party on the roadside near a market in Sarita Vihar. Around midnight on Tuesday, constables Jitender and Ankur were patrolling the area. When they reached the H-Pocket Market, they saw the BMW bearing a Haryana registration number parked near an ATM. A cake was placed on the hood and a dozen men were creating disturbance by cheering loudly. DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said, “The constables asked the men to leave, but they threatened the cops saying they were locals and no one could stop them. It seems the accused were also drinking. The constables then informed an emergency response vehicle. The BMW driver then started his vehicle and tried to hit constable Ankur, who jumped away to save his life. The driver then rammed the car into Jitender, crushed his legs and started speeding away.” A chase ensued during which the car hit a juice shop near Umer Masjid, Khadar Mod. Sarfaraz Ahmad (24), an attendant of the juice shop who was sleeping there, got injured in the eye after falling off the counter after the car hit it. The occupants of the car then left it and ran away. When police inspected the car, they found beer bottles in it. The airbags had also deployed owing to the crash. “The vehicle is registered in the name of Amit Bhadana, a resident of Faridabad. He had lent it to his cousin Kuldeep Bidhuri, a resident of Madanpur Khadar. A mobile phone belonging to Bidhuri was recovered from the car. It was reportedly his birthday, which he was celebrating with his friends,” said Meena. Bidhuri (28) was later arrested during a raid by police. He is married and has two children. He graduated from Delhi University and is currently pursuing a law course. He runs a gym in the JJ colony, Madanpur Khadar. A case of attempt to murder, causing hurt, rash and negligent driving and obstructing a public servant from discharge of duties and under sections of Motor Vehicles Act has been registered against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-legs-crushed-as-bmw-rams-bike/articleshow/79048492.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||OnePlus opens world’s largest experience centre in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A year after opening its largest global R&D centre in the city, OnePlus on Wednesday unveiled its largest global experience store — OnePlus Nizam Palace — spread across 16,000 sq ft in the city. Located at Himayatnagar in Hyderabad, the experience store features aspects such as interactive desks for product catalogues and customer service centre. Commenting on the development, Vikas Agarwal, general manager, OnePlus India, said, “The new OnePlus Nizam Palace sets a new benchmark in the retail segment, redefining how consumers experience the premium OnePlus offerings. And it brings us even closer to our community members.” To strengthen its offline retail presence further in the country, the tech player is also planning to invest Rs 100 crore towards expanding its reach. OnePlus is currently present in over 5,000 offline stores, including partnered stores across India. “In line with its ongoing offline expansion in the country, OnePlus will invest Rs 100 crore towards deeper market penetration across omni-channel retail business. This also includes extending the brand’s premium offline experience beyond metro cities and expanding to the interior regions through new retail partnerships,” the company said. Besides, the brand also aims to cover 100 cities through its service centre network in the next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/oneplus-opens-worlds-largest-experience-centre-in-hyd/articleshow/79050050.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Thakkar’s tweets were ‘continuing offences’ even after HC relief: CP||Nagpur: City police chief Amitesh Kumar on Wednesday said Sameet Thakkar’s tweets were ‘continuing offences’, especially disrespecting women, ridiculing judiciary and having potential of creating law and order problems, even after the high court had extended him relief.Thakkar was arrested last week for tweets against state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya. Kumar, at a media meet hosted by Nagpur Union of Working Journalist, also presented his vision of policing that combines regulatory strategies and enforcement measures. He also vowed joint action with NMC to clear city roads of beggars, vagabonds at signals and encroachers on footpaths. Kumar said Zonal DCPs would ‘adopt’ crucial and sensitive cases at the trial stage and work closely with pairavi adhikaris (police personnel in each court who co-ordinate trials) for improving conviction rate as a part of micro-level plans while lifting the standard of policing and investigation. The top cop said action against persons arrested while executing Non-bailable warrants (NBWs) would not be same as earlier. “Now, we would put one in the lock-up and produce him or her before the court within 24 hours. Police shall try to ensure the person was sent to jail instead of walking away on bail,” he said. In a first, Kumar said several ‘traffic flying squads’ would be deployed in the city for surprise checks that were mentioned in the affidavit before the high court. One of the flying squads would be also be engaged to tow away the abandoned vehicles from the roads that were an eye-sore in public places. “We have got some body cameras (for the personnel) are are in the process to get more,” he said. Listing murder and body offences as his target areas, Kumar said he would deploy all possible measures to ensure such crimes are reduced in the city including restricting nuisances in public places. The top cop also said all the illegal activities were under watch and ‘big players’ in them were on his radar. “We may contemplate invoking MPDA against land grabbers, slum lords and racketeers,” said the CP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thakkars-tweets-were-continuing-offences-even-after-hc-relief-cp/articleshow/79047207.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Youth arrested for raping toddler in Kolhapur village||KOLHAPUR: Tension prevailed in a small village in Kolhapur district after the word spread on Wednesday about the rape of a two-and half-year-old girl. The police have arrested a youth from the same village and increased bandobast to prevent any untoward incident. Police said that the incident took place when the girl was playing outside her house. The suspect called the girl to his house under the pretext of playing and allegedly committed the crime. The girl’s parents grew suspicious when the girl returned home. They tried to ask the girl about what had happened and then approached the police. The youth was immediately arrested. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/youth-arrested-for-raping-toddler-in-kolhapur-village/articleshow/79051017.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Trichy||Makkal Needhi Maiam cadres put up posters urging Kamal to contest from Trichy||TRICHY: Cadres of Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) have put up wall posters across the city urging their party founder Kamal Haasan to contest the ensuing state assembly election from Trichy. The cadres made came up with their demand through the posters that carried a cryptic message. The posters, although intended to convey birthday wishes for Kamal who turns a year older on November 7, have stirred the curiosity of locals with the slogan ‘From Trichy East to rule Fort St George’. The posters went viral on Trichy-based social media groups by claiming that Trichy East assembly constituency is going to be a star constituency. MNM cadres said that since Trichy city is small and secular constituency as far as the caste-based political equations are concerned they wanted their leader to contest from the city. While the former AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa became chief minister after being elected from Srirangam assembly segment here, MNM cadres wanted their leader to contest from Trichy East assembly segment in the race for the chief minister’s post. “Trichy is the geographical centre of the state. A significant number of the electors here are literate and do not pledge their affiliation to any particular candidate based on their caste. Such merits will favour our leader if he considers contesting from Trichy East,” SR Kishore Kumar, a representative of MNM advocate wing said. The posters put up in various parts of the city including Cantonment, Palakkarai and Srirangam have created a buzz in the political circles too. As Trichy East constituency comprises the urban areas, MNM cadres said that their leader already has a significant reach among the voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mnm-cadres-put-up-posters-urging-kamal-to-contest-from-trichy-city/articleshow/79050060.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kamla Chavda is new LoP in AMC||Ahmedabad: The Congress leadership has finally appointed Kamla Chavda, the Behrampura councillor, as the leader of opposition in AMC replacing Dinesh Sharma, who had recently resigned citing personal reasons. Chavda has just 40-odd days left before the term of the present body expires. A senior councillor from the Congress said that the fight was not in the corporation, but it was between the MLAs elected from the city. Both the groups, one from the Walled City and another from the eastern part of the city were trying to establish their supremacy in the forthcoming elections, and hence wanted their candidates to get the ticket. The councillor said that the leader-of-opposition in the corporation is a member of the committee for shortlisting of candidates, and hence to push their candidates through, both the groups were fighting a battle. One group wanted Diinesh Sharma while the other group wanted Sharma to be replaced as he was from the rival group. The councillor said that Chavda was a compromise candidate and the Congress was worried of its footing in the Behrampura area after demise of their senior leader Badruddin Shaikh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kamla-chavda-is-new-lop-in-amc/articleshow/79050052.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Delhi||Court grants bail to activist Khalid Saifi in northeast Delhi riot case||NEW DELHI: Activist Khalid Saifi, accused in a case related to northeast Delhi violence in February, was on Wednesday granted bail by a Delhi court. The court stated that chargesheeting him on the basis of an insignificant material was total “non-application of mind” by police that went to the extent of “vindictiveness”. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav highlighted in the order that the charge of conspiracy alleged against Saifi was solely based on the statement of a witness. The witness had alleged that he had dropped co-accused Tahir Hussain outside a building at Shaheen Bagh where he saw Umar Khalid enter into the same building. The court noted, “I fail to understand from the aforesaid statement how a lofty claim of conspiracy can be inferred.” Senior advocate Rebecca John, along with advocates Bhavook Chahuhan and Harsh Bora, had sought bail for Saifi on the ground that he was not physically present at the scene of crime on the relevant date. She further argued that he had been booked merely on the basis of his own disclosure statement and the disclosure statement of Tahir Hussain. The court noted that Saifi had neither been identified by an independent public witness or by any police witness showing his presence at the scene of crime. “Even the CDR location of the applicant has not been found at the scene of crime,” it observed. The court further said that the prosecutor’s argument that Saifi had been in regular touch with co-accused Tahir Hussain and Umar Khalid over mobile phone was “hardly of any consequences”. The court also didn’t find substance in the argument that as bail applications of four co-accused had been dismissed by the court, even Saifi was not entitled for bail. In court’s opinion, Saifi had nowhere been captured in any CCTV footage/viral video. “Prima facie, the applicant appears to have been roped in the matter merely on the basis of his own disclosure statement and disclosure statement of co-accused Tahir Hussain,” it observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-grants-bail-to-activist-khalid-saifi-in-ne-delhi-riot-case/articleshow/79048535.cms||Aamir Khan
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||2 arrested with tiger nails, canines||Chandrapur: Foresters of Sindewahi range arrested two persons from Ratnapur village in connection with killing of a tiger. Two canines and 10 nails of the feline were recovered late on Tuesday night.Later, the carcass was exhumed from a spot where the accused had buried it but its head and paws are missing. Sources claimed that beast appears to be a sub-adult tiger, however, its sex can be confirmed only after forensic analysis.DCF, Bramhapuri, Dependra Malhotra said that acting on a tip-off a team led by RFO Arun Gond raided the house of one Waman Lokhande in Ratnapur. His son Roshan Lokhande was detained. He told that his accomplice Sanjay Parchake from the same village has just fled with two canines and 10 nails of a tiger. Parchake was nabbed and brought to Lokhande’s house. Following interrogation, the duo showed the place in Parchake’s farm where the nails and canines were hidden.Reliable sources said the tiger was electrocuted by an electrified fence at Lokhande’s farm back in April. Lokhande and Parchake moved the dead tiger to nearby Uma river. They beheaded the tiger and chopped its paws before burying the parts separately in the river bed. Sources said they later exhumed the head and paws. They also confessed to have removed the nails with a plan to sell them, and threw the remains of the head and paws in the river, the sources said. The accused on Wednesday were produced before the JMFC court which remanded them into three days of forest custody. Officials did not rule out involvement of more accused in the case. Foresters are expecting to recover remaining tiger parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-arrested-with-tiger-nails-canines/articleshow/79048531.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Second wave on mind, officials tell district medical health officers to keep an eye on Covid-19 super-spreaders||HYDERABAD: Anticipating a second wave, the state health authorities have directed district medical health officers (DMHOs) to look out for possible super-spreaders of the virus. Though 11 districts have seen a sharp increase of Covid-19 cases over the last seven days, testing continues to be quite low. The problem of low testing, especially during the weekends, has previously resulted in notices being served to the DMHOs. Despite efforts to increase testing, the low turnout of patients at primary health centres, where the majority of the tests are conducted, remains a concern. As a result, officials have now been asked to go visit crowded areas with mobile testing vans and conduct tests to identify the vulnerable. “We have directed DMHOs in districts with low testing to start sending mobile units. These mobile units have been introduced in all districts to ramp up testing. We have to send these units to markets, rythu bazaars etc, to identify possible super-spreaders like shopkeepers,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director, public health, Telangana State. The probable super-spreaders, once identified, will be traced and tested early on and would be kept in isolation. “By identifying the super-spreaders early on, we can safeguard others,” said Rao, adding that lack of awareness is resulting in low testing “While many districts in the state might not have seen the peak, despite a surge in positive cases, it is even more crucial to ramp up testing in these areas as the second wave is expected soon. Moreover, the people in rural areas are less inclined to get themselves tested due to low awareness levels. Aggressive testing strategy by the government is the need of the hour,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2nd-wave-on-mind-officials-tell-dmhos-to-keep-an-eye-on-covid-super-spreaders/articleshow/79050094.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 5, 2020||Trichy||Poor illumination keeps residents off Trichy-Karur road||TRICHY: The road users’ welfare organization has urged the district administration to install adequate lights on Trichy-Karur highway which is being widened. Owing to the road widening work on Karur road between Kudamurutti bridge and Jeeyapuram for a length of 11 km by the state highways department, the light poles were relocated. Although the poles are now positioned at the new boundary of the road, locals claim that the lights are yet to be facilitated. As the delay has left the stretch in pitch dark during night hours, commuters claim that they feel unsafe to access the stretch. Jeeyapuram residents said that minor accidents were reported mostly the two-wheelers slipping off the track due to the poor illumination. “Since the road work is going to continue for a year or more, we need adequate illumination to access the stretch till then. The poor illumination is unsafe for the villagers accessing the road during night hours,” president of road users’ welfare organisation P Aiyarappan said. Around 6-7 village panchayats situated on the road were said to be responsible for installing the new lights. With the panchayats including Allur, Mutharasanallur and Kambarasampettai not in a situation to financially bear the cost of new lights, the organization sought special fund to be sanctioned for illuminating the stretch. Thus far as the lights on Karur road were available only on one end, the residents sought the district administration to install lights in a zig-zag manner to ensure the safety of the road users. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/poor-illumination-keeps-residents-off-trichy-karur-road/articleshow/79050081.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Barring 4 cities, courtrooms to open from November 23||AHMEDABAD: Lower courts are set to begin functioning after eight long months. The Gujarat high court on Wednesday decided that all lower courts across the state will start physically functioning after the Diwali vacation except the courts in four major cities. The HC has also prescribed standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by all, after courtrooms reopen on November 23. Besides Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot, the courtrooms will not open in those courts which fall under micro-containment zones. The subordinate courts have been closed and functioning partially through virtual mode since the Covid lockdown in March. The HC has decided that lower courts should function full fledged with full strength of judges and court staff. In four major cities, the lower courts will continue to function the way they have been for last three months, through video conference only. The HC has ordered that the lower courts should function according to regular practice and procedure in consonance with social distancing guidelines issued by the government. For this purpose, the filing protocol will continue as it has been since the lockdown. The HC has ordered appointment of a Covid officer in each court to ensure SOPs are followed. The HC has made it clear that if the courts receive request for hearing through virtual mode, it is at the judges’ discretion to hold such hearing through video conference. The HC has ordered that the lower courts will start functioning with installation of plexi-glass screens in all courtrooms dividing the judge’s dais from the place of advocates and litigants. Besides, the HC has ordered rearrangement of chairs and benches in courtrooms to maintain social distancing. Lawyers for only two cases will be allowed in a courtroom concurrently to avoid crowding. The judges will take up only 25 matters in a day. Those matters pending for arguments, involving undertrial prisoners and in which only 2-3 witnesses are pending for examination will be taken up for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/barring-4-cities-courtrooms-to-open-from-nov-23/articleshow/79055906.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Barring 4 cities, courtrooms to open from November 23||AHMEDABAD: Lower courts are set to begin functioning after eight long months. The Gujarat high court on Wednesday decided that all lower courts across the state will start physically functioning after the Diwali vacation except the courts in four major cities. The HC has also prescribed standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by all, after courtrooms reopen on November 23. Besides Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot, the courtrooms will not open in those courts which fall under micro-containment zones. The subordinate courts have been closed and functioning partially through virtual mode since the Covid lockdown in March. The HC has decided that lower courts should function full fledged with full strength of judges and court staff. In four major cities, the lower courts will continue to function the way they have been for last three months, through video conference only. The HC has ordered that the lower courts should function according to regular practice and procedure in consonance with social distancing guidelines issued by the government. For this purpose, the filing protocol will continue as it has been since the lockdown. The HC has ordered appointment of a Covid officer in each court to ensure SOPs are followed. The HC has made it clear that if the courts receive request for hearing through virtual mode, it is at the judges’ discretion to hold such hearing through video conference. The HC has ordered that the lower courts will start functioning with installation of plexi-glass screens in all courtrooms dividing the judge’s dais from the place of advocates and litigants. Besides, the HC has ordered rearrangement of chairs and benches in courtrooms to maintain social distancing. Lawyers for only two cases will be allowed in a courtroom concurrently to avoid crowding. The judges will take up only 25 matters in a day. Those matters pending for arguments, involving undertrial prisoners and in which only 2-3 witnesses are pending for examination will be taken up for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/barring-4-cities-courtrooms-to-open-from-nov-23/articleshow/79055903.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Trichy||1,777 students to receive degrees at NIT-Trichy e-convocation||TRICHY: A total of 1,777 students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy will be awarded degrees in the 16th convocation, the first ever e-convocation to be held on Saturday. Azim Premji, founder chairman, Wipro, will be the chief guest. Bhaskar Bhat, chairperson, board of governors of the institute, will conduct the convocation, where the director Mini Shaji Thomas will present the report and award the certificates. Mini Shaji Thomas said the 1,777 students include 803 from across eight B Tech programmes and 489 M Tech students. This year a total of 173 students will receive PhD degrees. All the students will receive their degrees in absentia except for awardees and medallists who will collect them from the director in NIT Trichy. The institute has become more vibrant and younger with the addition of 68 new faculty members recently, which include 21 women, she said. The women faculty ratio stands at 26% and top faculty performers have been recognized for their overall performance. This includes contributions in publications and projects, consultancy and administrative work. The best performer awards have been given to 27 faculty members under five different cadres. For the first time, research scholars have also been evaluated for budding researcher award, one per department. Regarding the placement statistics, 92% of undergraduates and 87% of postgraduates are placed in reputed companies, said the director. A total of 220 companies have participated in the placement process, despite the slowdown. In the pursuit towards a multiversity, and in line with new education policy 2020, three new postgraduate programs, MA English (Language and Literature), M Tech (Geotechnical Engineering), M Tech (Industrial Automation) have been introduced this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1777-students-to-receive-degrees-at-nit-t-e-convocation/articleshow/79050096.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Barring 4 cities, courtrooms to open from November 23||AHMEDABAD: Lower courts are set to begin functioning after eight long months. The Gujarat high court on Wednesday decided that all lower courts across the state will start physically functioning after the Diwali vacation except the courts in four major cities. The HC has also prescribed standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by all, after courtrooms reopen on November 23. Besides Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot, the courtrooms will not open in those courts which fall under micro-containment zones. The subordinate courts have been closed and functioning partially through virtual mode since the Covid lockdown in March. The HC has decided that lower courts should function full fledged with full strength of judges and court staff. In four major cities, the lower courts will continue to function the way they have been for last three months, through video conference only. The HC has ordered that the lower courts should function according to regular practice and procedure in consonance with social distancing guidelines issued by the government. For this purpose, the filing protocol will continue as it has been since the lockdown. The HC has ordered appointment of a Covid officer in each court to ensure SOPs are followed. The HC has made it clear that if the courts receive request for hearing through virtual mode, it is at the judges’ discretion to hold such hearing through video conference. The HC has ordered that the lower courts will start functioning with installation of plexi-glass screens in all courtrooms dividing the judge’s dais from the place of advocates and litigants. Besides, the HC has ordered rearrangement of chairs and benches in courtrooms to maintain social distancing. Lawyers for only two cases will be allowed in a courtroom concurrently to avoid crowding. The judges will take up only 25 matters in a day. Those matters pending for arguments, involving undertrial prisoners and in which only 2-3 witnesses are pending for examination will be taken up for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/barring-4-cities-courtrooms-to-open-from-nov-23/articleshow/79050082.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Barring 4 cities, courtrooms to open from November 23||AHMEDABAD: Lower courts are set to begin functioning after eight long months. The Gujarat high court on Wednesday decided that all lower courts across the state will start physically functioning after the Diwali vacation except the courts in four major cities. The HC has also prescribed standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by all, after courtrooms reopen on November 23. Besides Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot, the courtrooms will not open in those courts which fall under micro-containment zones. The subordinate courts have been closed and functioning partially through virtual mode since the Covid lockdown in March. The HC has decided that lower courts should function full fledged with full strength of judges and court staff. In four major cities, the lower courts will continue to function the way they have been for last three months, through video conference only. The HC has ordered that the lower courts should function according to regular practice and procedure in consonance with social distancing guidelines issued by the government. For this purpose, the filing protocol will continue as it has been since the lockdown. The HC has ordered appointment of a Covid officer in each court to ensure SOPs are followed. The HC has made it clear that if the courts receive request for hearing through virtual mode, it is at the judges’ discretion to hold such hearing through video conference. The HC has ordered that the lower courts will start functioning with installation of plexi-glass screens in all courtrooms dividing the judge’s dais from the place of advocates and litigants. Besides, the HC has ordered rearrangement of chairs and benches in courtrooms to maintain social distancing. Lawyers for only two cases will be allowed in a courtroom concurrently to avoid crowding. The judges will take up only 25 matters in a day. Those matters pending for arguments, involving undertrial prisoners and in which only 2-3 witnesses are pending for examination will be taken up for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/barring-4-cities-courtrooms-to-open-from-nov-23/articleshow/79055905.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi on alert after threats by pro-Khalistani group||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is on escalated alert level amid inputs suggesting attempts by terrorist groups to carry out a strike in the capital. On Wednesday, the security apparatus at Indira Gandhi International airport was beefed up following threats by banned outfit Sikhs For Justice (SFJ). The airport also received communications regarding attempts to target two Air India flights to London. The call to disrupt air services was made by pro-Khalistani group led by US-based operative Gurpatwant Singh Pannun. Pannun is wanted under a Red Notice by Interpol for his anti -India activities. His threats are taken seriously given the influence the group has among its online followers. Rajeev Ranjan, DCP, IGI airport, said, “We have got inputs that Sikhs for Justice has threatened that two Air India flights scheduled for London won’t be allowed to operate. Security has been tightened.” Amid heightened alert, Delhi Police brass has asked all districts to have the local police personnel brush up their firing skills given they would be first responders to any terror incident. Generally, local cops in Delhi seldom get to use their guns with encounters being the domain area of Special Cell and Crime Branch. In the past, firing practice has not been followed religiously. However, police commissioner SN Shrivastava has been vocal about the core policing activities to be a top priority since taking over in March this year. After the police chief’s instructions, southeast district was the first to hold a session on Wednesday where the cops were made to practise their weapons, including the MP 5 sub-machine guns. DCP (southeast) RP Meena said, “We are keeping the force ready for any anti-terror operations.” All districts have been asked to hold these sessions at regular intervals. Sources said that the next step under this drive to secure the capital would involve training local police personnel in “urban interventions” where they would be exposed to tactics of handling hostage situations and high-rise intrusions. Meanwhile, Delhi Police’s Special Cell is coordinating with intelligence agencies and stepping up vigil in the wake of the terrorist attacks in France and Austria. Districts having places of worship have been asked to step up vigil. Police’s social media cell is monitoring various platforms to thwart any attempts to disturb communal harmony, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-on-alert-after-threats-by-pro-khalistani-group/articleshow/79048572.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Covid admissions down but spike in ‘bad’ cases in hosps||Nagpur: Though the overall Covid admissions in the district are at 1,451 as compared to 2,230 on October 23, government and private dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs) have observed that the number of ‘bad’ patients has begun rising in the last couple of days. ‘Bad’ patient is someone reporting with severe upper respiratory infection and having comorbidities. On Wednesday itself, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) saw 50 such cases, some of who landed directly in the ICU.Doctors said these patients have been careless. Despite testing positive they didn’t get regular check-ups done leading to sudden deterioration in health at home.City Covid patients are preferring GMCH while those coming from outside have been admitted to private DCHs.GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said the flow had increased in last two days. “These are mild, moderate, severe and 2% critical cases getting admitted now,” he said. On October 25, GMCH had 205 Covid patients while it shot up to 258 on Tuesday.There is no such increase at IGGMCH where patients seeking admission are symptomatic but not critical. “Admitted patients have fever and cough. We admit them for investigations and advise home isolation as per norms,” said IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pandey.Dr Hema Dhoble, head medical administration, Suretech Hospital, said the bad patients are coming mostly from outskirts and other districts. “A 50-year-old woman having history of just two-day fever but in a critical condition came from Warud. We have seven patients all on bypath, non-invasive ventilation (NIV) and high nasal flow cannula therapy,” she said.Kingsway Hospitals consulting pulmonologist Dr Vikram Rathi too said many among the 43 patients they have are from outside Nagpur. “Patients from Gondia, Bhandara, Chandrapur first prefer their local doctor and hospital. When they don’t get response, they shift to Nagpur as the city has better tertiary care facilities. But this increases infection,” he said. Dr Rathi added that 40% of their patients were in ICU. Dr Dhoble said the reported patients are having CT score of 22, D-dimer (clotting count) in 1000s, and high C-reactive protein (CRP). A normal CT score is 1-5, D-dimer less than 0.5 and lesser the CRP lower the infection.“The infection gets worse in the second week. We give all options apprehending patients and relatives may doubt them if admission is recommended. Ideally, every third day check up is must which is not happening it seems,” doctors said.BoxHospital ------------------------ Nov 4-------- Nov 3------Nov 2----------Nov 1------ Oct31GMCH ------------------------ 258-------- 243------242---------------242-------- 242IGGMCH ---------------------- 58-------- 55------58-------------47---------- 47Total admissions* ------------ 1451--------1,759-----1605---------1426------ 1428(*Patients admitted and in process at 104 DCHs, CCCs in the district)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-admissions-down-but-spike-in-bad-cases-in-hosps/articleshow/79047241.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Kidnapper abandons 8-yr-old boy after footage went viral||Nagpur: An eight-year-old boy from Ghughus in Chandrapur was abducted from his town on Tuesday and released at Sonegaon in the city in the early hours of Wednesday shortly after the kidnapper’s CCTV footage went viral on social media. The boy managed to reach near Sonegaon police station in the darkness after asking directions from passers-by.Police said the boy was playing at a ground when the abductor, wearing helmet, approached him stating that the former’s parents had met with an accident. The abductor asked the boy to accompany him to reach his parents. The boy readily agreed and the abductor whisked him away. The boy’s father earns substantial rent from malls and complexes which he had built after selling farmlands. No calls were made from ransom, but police feel that someone who knew about the boy’s family’s financial status must be behind the abduction. Senior inspector of Ghughus, Rahul Gangurde, said that police had swung into action the moment the family lodged a complaint. “We managed to procure some CCTV footages in which the abductor and the boy had been captured distinctly. The footage was circulated in different groups,” said Gangurde. “We strongly feel the abductor got an inkling about the CCTV footage having gone viral on social media in the districts. It must have left him unnerved and decided to abandon the boy,” said the inspector. It’s learnt, the boy gave a cell phone number to Sonegaon police’s sub-inspector Tulsiram Dhakulkar who informed his family following which he was taken back to Ghughus. The Ghughus police were yet to zero in on the accused till filing of this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kidnapper-abandons-8-yr-old-boy-after-footage-went-viral/articleshow/79047231.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 5, 2020||Trichy||Bharathidasan University eases norms to guide M Phil students||TRICHY: Bharathidasan University (BDU) has allowed its affiliated colleges to enrol M Phil students for the year 2020-21 under those faculty members holding PhD degrees, who had previously obtained their M Phil guideship from the university. While teachers with just M Phil degrees were given M Phil guideship, the same was scrapped after BDU introduced new PhD guidelines in 2018. As per guidelines, a faculty member needs to submit two research papers in approved journals to get PhD guideship. However, they need not apply separately for M Phil guideship. Many faculty members could not guide M Phil students after the 2018 guidelines, as they did not renew their guideship despite holding a PhD degree. In a circular dated October 28, vice-chancellor of BDU, P Manisankar allowed faculty members with PhD degree to guide M Phil for 2020-21 even if they have not renewed their M Phil guideship. This will help BDU affiliated colleges to enrol more number of M Phil students this year as there has been more demand for degree programmes following the recommendation in New Education Policy to scrap it from next year. A principal of an arts and science college in Thanjavur said colleges will be able to enrol M Phil students as there has been good demand for the programmes. Since M Phil is a one-year degree, it can be easily obtained by a government school teacher for incentive, said the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-eases-norms-to-guide-m-phil-students/articleshow/79050117.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Test on arrival, Q-centres sought for winter session visitors||Nagpur: Even as state public works department (PWD) has taken back possession of MLA Hostel, where local administration ran a quarantine, testing and lately Covid Care Centre (CCC), for the upcoming winter session of the state legislature, calls for Covid test on arrival and visitor isolation centres have been made. The administration, however, has ruled out compulsory testing on arrival, while asymptomatic Covid positive visitors would be isolated at their lodging place itself.State assembly secretariat will hold a meeting with administration to finalize Covid plan beside other arrangements on Friday.TOI was the first to report about PWD’s demand regarding possession of MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan and 160 other tenements, which traditionally have been hosting guests arriving from rest of the state during the legislature session in the city. The session is likely to start from December 7.Meanwhile, Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) has asked the administration to hand it back its six hostels being used as CCC.Health officials said more testing centres should be set up at Ravi Bhavan, Vanamati, MLA Hostel and Vidhan Bhavan for visitors. They feel it is likely that hundreds of VIPs, policemen, officials and other visitors coming to the city may test positive and a separate isolation facility for them is required.Right now, Pachpaoli police quarters in the only CCC remaining in the city, while several private hotels are offering paid quarantine facility.Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said 10 or more testing kiosks, depending on the need, would be set up at different spots like MLA Hostel, Vidhan Bhavan, Hyderabad House etc during the winter session. “Rapid antigen test as well as RT-PCR tests would be done for those who wish to get tested. It won’t be compulsory,” he said.Regarding quarantine centres, Kumar said, “As per prevailing policy, asymptomatic patients are advised home isolation. So, those visitors testing Covid positive would be asked to isolate themselves wherever they are putting up.” On possible second Covid wave coinciding with the legislature session, the divisional commissioner said, “We are prepared for any kind of eventuality. If cases go up, we have infrastructure and manpower to manage them. Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) will soon have additional 400 beds.”Kumar didn’t rule out the administration vacating VNIT CCC soon. “I won’t comment on one particular centre. Non-Covid and educational activities would soon start with easing of restrictions. We don’t want that an institution is held back in the name of CCC. In case we need, it can be requisitioned again.”Deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said, “Covid prevention measures would soon be finalized. The public health department would set up dispensaries at morcha point, Vidhan Bhavan, MLA Hostel etc apart from mobile teams as has been done always during the session.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/test-on-arrival-q-centres-sought-for-winter-session-visitors/articleshow/79047250.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 5, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Arrear results help confirm postgraduate seats||TRICHY: Waitlisted candidates for admission to postgraduate programmes in arts and science colleges have been getting their seats confirmed after Bharathidasan University published arrear results of its affiliated colleges recently. Students who had applied for PG courses with arrears in undergraduation were put on waiting list after no decision was taken by the government on arrear papers. Amid uncertainty, Bharathidasan University decided to pass students with arrear papers by awarding grace marks after getting approval from the state government. About 14,000 UG and PG students in the university and its affiliated colleges could access their results through the university website on November 1. Since students could download their mark statements, they have started approaching colleges to get their seats confirmed. Principal of National College Trichy (NCT) R Sundararaman told TOI that his college had provisionally admitted students with arrears for PG programmes. “We had taken an undertaking from them that they will be offered seats only if they clear their arrears. We have limited number of seats for PG programmes unlike the undergraduate programmes. But we didn’t want to let go some of the bright students who eventually had one or two arrears,” he said. Like NCT, many of the autonomous arts and science colleges are yet to release arrear results without any directions from the state government and BDU to which they are affiliated. Now that the university has released the results, autonomous colleges too have started preparing to release arrear results, said Sundararaman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/arrear-results-help-confirm-pg-seats/articleshow/79050136.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC quashes two cases against fisheries minister||AHMEDABAD: In a relief for the fisheries minister Parshottam Solanki, the Gujarat high court on Wednesday quashed two cases against him registered in in different police stations, for bribery in Jasdan and for influencing election process in Bhavnagar city.  While quashing bribery charges against Solanki, Justice Gita Gopi observed, “Citizens view corruption in political life more serious and onerous as compared to private life. Such charges of corruption have serious impact on voting behaviour during election times. Candidates running for election, under a cloud of scandal, are more vulnerable since citizens do not clearly separate public from private roles.” In the case of alleged bribery, on April 22, 2014, a flying squad of the election commission found Rs 2.75 lakh cash with Solanki when he landed at Jasdan as BJP’s star campaigner ahead of assembly bypolls. Since he could not explain why he was carrying the amount more than the permissible limit, a complaint was filed with Jasdan police. After police’s inquiry report, a magisterial court in December 2015 ordered to register an NC complaint against the then minister under Section 171E of the IPC for bribery as the money was construed for the purpose of enticing the voters. Solanki had approached the HC through advocate Rajesh Gidiya in 2016 and argued that the money belonged to his son Divyesh who too was accompanying him. Moreover, the cash was being carried by his security personnel and it was for his son’s business purpose. He supplied bank transaction details in support of his argument. The money was not distributed among voters and hence the magistrate erred in ordering the complaint against him, he submitted. The state government opposed Solanki’s quashing petition and asserted that the lower court’s order for registration of complaint against the BJP leader was justified. After hearing the case, Justice Gita Gopi accepted Solanki’s arguments and observed that in such cases “the court has to balance the interest of the petitioner – one as a common litigant and the other as a representative of the people”. The court further said, “Political environment plays an important part in shaping popular understanding of what is corrupt.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-quashes-two-cases-against-fisheries-minister/articleshow/79050123.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Video of Hyderabad cop running for 2 km to help ambulance goes viral||HYDERABAD: A video of a traffic constable running for almost 2 km to clear path for an ambulance has gone viral with netizens heaping praises. On Monday evening between 6 pm and 7 pm, when the traffic was its peak, constable G Babji noticed that an ambulance was struggling to move through the packed road. He swung into action and did all that he could to make way for the ambulance. Speaking to TOI, Babji said that he found the ambulance stuck in traffic between GPO Junction, Abdis and Andhra Bank, Koti. “It was around 7 pm when the ambulance reached GPO junction. Noticing that it got stuck in traffic, I realised that I had to do something. As time was precious, I ran towards Andhra Bank and pleaded with the motorists to make some space for the ambulance,” Babji said. Seeing the constable’s sincerity, motorists started to clap in appreciation. “Many motorists patted me and said ‘good job’. It gave me immense satisfaction,” the delighted cop said. A person, who was in the ambulance shot the video and uploaded it.  Noticing that the ambulance got stuck in traffic, I realised that I had to do something. As time was precious I ran towards Andhra Bank and pleaded with motorists to make some space for the ambulance Watch Viral video: Hyderabad cop runs for 2 km to help ambulance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/video-of-cop-running-for-2-km-to-help-ambulance-goes-viral/articleshow/79050160.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Police move HC against giving hard copies to accused||NEW DELHI: Faced with the prospect of supplying physical copies of documents running into several thousand pages to the accused in cases of violence in northeast Delhi in February, Delhi Police on Wednesday approached the high court. It urged the court to set aside a trial court order asking it to supply a physical copy of the chargesheet along with other documents to the people accused under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act case related to the northeast Delhi violence. The Special Cell of Delhi Police has chargesheeted 15 accused under the UAPA for the riots. Justice Suresh Kait agreed to examine the plea later this week. “The trial court has directed the state to supply a physical copy of the chargesheet along with other documents to the accused people. While doing so, it was pleased to put the ‘onus to supply’ completely on the investigating agency, ignoring the legal provisions in this regard,” the police argued, underlining that the report itself runs into 2,700 pages while total documents and statements of witnesses is about 18,000 pages. “There are 23 volumes, including the police report, which were filed before the trial court...trial court has erred and passed a mechanical order dated October 21 directing the supply of a physical copy of chargesheet, ignoring the submissions of the state as also the legal provisions,” it argued. The police said that an exception is provided under law if the documents are voluminous in nature, where, instead of furnishing a copy, the court can allow the accused to inspect it either personally or through a pleader in court. “But, the petitioner has in fact supplied the e-copy/soft copy of the chargesheet in a pen drive to the accused persons/respondents. There is no travesty of justice if a hard copy is not made available to the accused persons,” the plea said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-move-hc-against-giving-hard-copies-to-accused/articleshow/79048605.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Unattributed survey says residents want red light area removed||Nagpur: An unattributed survey, which reports that 90% of residents living near the Ganga-Jamuna red light area want the female sex workers (FSWs) evicted, has been doing the rounds. The locality near Itwari has residential homes and the red light area existing side by side since decades.The survey is also doing the rounds among the sex workers, leaving some of them concerned. TOI has a copy of the report too. The residents are alleging that there must be a bigger lobby having interest in realty business, which is eyeing the prime land in the locality.The survey comes at a time the state government, following directions of the National Human Rights Commission is (NHRC), is preparing to grant a Covid relief dole to FSWs. NHRC has issued guidelines to recognize them as informal labour.The survey, which does not name any agency, was released over a week ago. It says that the locals complain of nuisance as the area has become a breeding ground of crime. The residents, on the other hand, stress that their demands are genuine. Since years, they are facing the trouble of living right next to the red light area. The women face harassment and the Ganga Jamuna tag also brought them social stigma.TOI contacted a couple of residents quoted in the report, but they were also not aware who conducted the survey.One of them, Sunil Gotaphode, said no matter who conducted the survey, the locals have been carrying out campaigns demanding eviction. “There is a high court order which says FSWs can stay in the area but not carry out the sex trade. But the women are seen openly soliciting clients,” he saidThe survey covered 100 community members living there since more than 15 to 10 years. The respondents complained of drug trade, brawls and even rape and murder happening in the area.The survey has left the NGOs and sex workers concerned. Even as there has been no large-sale uproar, but it has caused alarm among sex workers, said a NGO activist requesting anonymity. It would be a gross violation of human rights if they are evicted at this time, as they are already in dire straits due to Covid, said a social worker. Daniel George, who also runs a NGO in the area, says the FSWs need to be rehabilitated before eviction.Aarti Pai, legal counsellor of National Network of Sex Workers (NNSW), said they will fight against any forcible eviction of the FSWs. There is already a decision of the Bombay high court that the women have a right to carry out their vocation. “If needed, NNSW is ready for a prolonged legal battle for their rights,” she said.Bharat Tekade, who had also responded to the survey, said a massive campaign was carried out in 1975. However, the then MP, late Jambuvantrao Dhote, came to the FSWs help and the movement lost steam. The struggle continues, though on a smaller scale, even today, Tekade said.The FSWs live in rented homes, and also have papers like Aadhaar cards, with some having PAN cards too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unattributed-survey-says-residents-want-red-light-area-removed/articleshow/79047256.cms||Shishir Arya
November 5, 2020||Madurai||CM lays foundation for Theni drinking water project||Madurai: The foundation stone for a Rs 162.4 crore drinking water supply project in Theni district was laid by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conferencing from the secretariat in Chennai on Wednesday. The project will benefit 250 rural habitations in Andipatti, Kadamalaikundu – Mayiladumparai and Theni panchayat unions.The water supply project in Theni was announced by Palaniswami at the district collectors’ and police officers conference on March 7, 2018. The new combined water supply project will cover leftover villages in the three panchayat unions that are downstream the Vaigai dam. The work will be executed by the Tamil Nadu Water Supply And Drainage Board (TWAD).The project was among the many under the municipal administration and water supply department for which the CM laid the foundation stone. He also laid the foundation stone for the water supply scheme to be executed in Balasamudram town panchayat in Dindigul district, at Rs 9.62 crore. Palaniswami also inaugurated completed projects worth Rs 294 crore in Chennai and other districts.Other new projects in the southern region include the Thirumangalam municipality building at Rs 2 crore in Madurai district and quarters for sanitary workers in Allinagaram town panchayat in Theni district at Rs 3 crore.Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, minister for municipal administration, rural development and implementation of special programme S P Velumani, chief secretary K Shanmugam, additional chief secretary to government, municipal administration and water supply department, and chairman of TWAD board Harmander Singh and TWAD board managing director C N Mahesvaran were among those present at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-lays-foundation-for-theni-drinking-water-project/articleshow/79051044.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Nagpur||Four new deans in NU, all from RSS-backed Shikshan Manch||Nagpur: With the recent appointment of four new deans and pro-vice chancellor, the Shikshan Manch has tightened its grip over Nagpur University affairs, say its officials and statutory members. The march of the Manch, which has links to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), had begun long before, including the appointment of Subhash Chaudhari as vice-chancellor. Last week, Manch secretary Sanjay Dudhe was appointed as pro-VC. On Monday, the NU administration appointed Ramtek-based Tai Golwalkar Mahavidyalaya principal Rajesh Singru as science dean, Tirpude Institute of Management lecturer Sanjay Kavishwar as commerce and management dean, and NU public administration department senior teacher Nirman Singh as humanities dean. The VC has retained Rajashree Vaishnao as interdisciplinary dean. “All of them are related to the Manch in one way or the other,” say NU officials. Dudhe reportedly fared poorly in NU registrar’s interviews when SP Kane was VC. Still, on the insistence of Manch’s senior members, his name was recommended by the VC to chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Dudhe had also accompanied Chaudhari and Manch coordinator Kalpana Pande when they went to meet Union minister Nitin Gadkari after the VC’s appointment, which had raised eyebrows in university circles. It had sparked speculation about him being named as pro-VC. Though Pande didn’t pick up TOI’s calls or reply to text messages, officials and statutory members said she had become the most powerful person in NU circles with these appointments, and would play a role of ‘kingmaker’. Officials said Pande will call the shots in all major NU decisions, although she is not a member of any of the statutory bodies. Former and current statutory body members expressed concern over the way ‘under qualified’ persons of a particular ideology were being appointed in NU. They also questioned appointment of a private college principal and teacher as dean, despite many qualified and experienced candidates being available in NU departments. “It’s a complete mockery of entire system where powers are being misused. At least they could have appointed qualified people from their organization, who could be acceptable to the society. Highly experienced candidates like Vinayak Deshpande could have been named on top post though he wasn’t associated with the Manch. However, the top Manch officials know that such candidates wouldn’t blindly follow their diktats. They wanted puppets on the posts, who would sign on the papers without questioning them,” senior Senate member Baban Taywade said. Agreeing with him, former management council member Abhijit Wanjari said such appointments from particular groups and ideologies would lead to political interference in NU affairs, which is detrimental for academic activities, and promote dictatorship. “The Maharashtra government’s move to appoint a panel under former UGC chairman Sukhdeo Thorat to amend the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, is a good move. In the old Act, the provision for selecting statutory members was proper, and it used to give proper representation to all stakeholders, unlike in the new law,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-new-deans-in-nu-all-from-rss-backed-shikshan-manch/articleshow/79048600.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Abductors abandon builder as car runs out of fuel||Aurangabad: Unidentified kidnappers had to abandon a 30-year old building contractor on the highway, after the car in which they were fleeing ran out of fuel near Chitepimpalgaon on the Dhule-Solapur national highway. However, before fleeing, the suspects reportedly fired a round at the contractor, identified as Nadim Rauf Pathan, a resident of Hussain Colony, leaving him seriously injured. Satara area police inspector Surendra Malale said the police are waiting for Pathan to gain consciousness to get more details. Police said Pathan was kidnapped from a construction site in the Devanagri area at 11.30 am on Wednesday. As per eyewitness accounts, the suspects came in a car and one of them shook Pathan’s hand before forcibly pushing him in the car. The suspects were carrying a firearm. Pathan was found lying in a pool of blood about 10km from the kidnapping spot. Passersby spotted him and informed the police. Chikalthana assistant inspector Vishwas Patil and sub-divisional police officer Rahul Nehul reached the spot. The injured man was taken to GMCH, where he underwent surgery for the bullet injury. He is now recuperating. Police said Nadim Pathan, his brother Matin and father Rauf Pathan, are building contractors and are currently working at Patel Planet in Sadatnagar and Madan Avdhoot Bhosale’s house in PWD housing society. A police officer said last week, the Pathans had an altercation with one of the residents of Patel Planet over construction material lying along the road. The Pathans had damaged the person’s car and the matter was resolved after they paid Rs 25,000 to the car owner. However, friction between the two parties continued. On Wednesday, Nadim Pathan was working at PWD when three-four persons came in a car (MH-14-CK-5735) and called him. One of them shook his hand while the other three tried to push him in the car. When Pathan resisted, one of the accused opened fire. The suspects shoved Pathan in the car and took the Beed bypass. They ran out of fuel near Apatgaon-Bhalgaon. They then left the car and fled after injuring Pathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/abductors-abandon-builder-as-car-runs-out-of-fuel/articleshow/79051045.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vacancies in health dept to be filled||Ahmedabad: It took a Covid-19 pandemic to expose chinks in the armour of the state health department – right from the vacancies at the topmost levels to the issues of DPC, several issues came to fore. Taking it in positive light, the state health & family welfare department has started an initiative to chalk out short-term, mid-term and long-term plans for ramping up the system in the face of the pandemic and becoming future-ready for the next waves of health issues. A top-level meeting of the senior state officials and experts from the private sector was convened in Gandhinagar on Wednesday. While the health department officials remained silent on the agenda, terming it ‘too soon to reveal,’ sources close to the development said that the emphasis was on filling up vacancies, ramping up research and focusing on infrastructure development outside the urban areas. A senior health department official told TOI, “The initiative is taken in light of the lessons learnt from the pandemic management. We are in a comfortable position currently – with the cases falling and healthcare sector breathing easy. But experts are already predicting a second wave, and we must be ready for it. Thus, we are chalking out the agenda for next three months, next six months and next one year.” Sources said that experts emphasized on filling up the vacancies, expediting departmental promotions, opening new positions – especially in medical education research – and improving head-to-tail ratio. “Experts also advocated ramping up funding for medical research, understanding importance of epidemiology and public health, integrating various government schemes and more robust infrastructure for use of digital technology in healthcare,” said an official. On the infrastructure front, the experts have advocated making rural postings more lucrative, investing in training manpower handling CHCs and PHCs, creating spoke-and-wheel model for healthcare delivery and dissemination of information, roping in cadre of grassroots workers for healthcare survey for early signs of outbreak and continuing the training of doctors at centres like Ahmedabad even in non-Covid scenarios.“Of course, the suggestions would go to the highest officials of the state before identification of major points which would later be documented and disseminated to the entire system. We are hopeful of wrapping up identifying the points soon,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vacancies-in-health-dept-to-be-filled/articleshow/79050174.cms||Parth Shastri
November 5, 2020||Delhi||Action plan in works to regulate placement agencies: Panel to Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: A court-appointed panel has informed Delhi high court that an action plan is being readied for strict enforcement of Delhi Private Placement Agencies (Regulation) Order, 2014, to regulate placement agencies that supply domestic workers. The panel was constituted by the high court earlier and it comprises nine members, including lawyers, Delhi government senior officers and Delhi Commission for Women and Child Welfare chairperson. A bench of justices J R Midha and Brijesh Sethi sought a report of the the deliberations of the committee after taking note that senior advocate H S Phoolka, who was appointed amicus curiae by the court and also a member of the committee, is satisfied with the progress of the panel. The court was also informed that the next meeting of the committee was scheduled for November 6. It had in September this year noted that the Delhi Private Placement Agencies (Regulation) Order is not being implemented in its true letter and spirit. While constituting the committee, the court had hoped that the panel will prepare an action plan for enforcement of the order and fix a date for implementation of the action plan. It also asked the committee to fix the responsibility of the departments/officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/action-plan-in-works-to-regulate-placement-agencies-panel-to-hc/articleshow/79048616.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Ranchi||Youth hangs self after panchayat orders him to marry his 'widow' sister in law||Ramgarh: A man committed suicide by hanging himself at his home in Ramgarh district on Tuesday night after his village panchayat allegedly ordered him to marry the widow of his elder brother as a punishment for having an affair with another married woman in the village. The body of Luv Kumar (26) from Rola-Bagicha village under Gola police station, has been sent for post-mortem, police sources said, adding that this the first such case in their district. In a written complaint to the police, Kumar’s father Sukhlal Mahto accused the panchayat for issuing the diktat. Gola OC B N Ojha said, “He has said that the khap panchayat ordered pushed his son to suicide. We are probing into the accusations and if such order was passed, strict action will be taken against those found guilty. Passing judgements is the job of the courts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/youth-hangs-self-after-panchayat-orders-him-to-marry-his-widow-sister-in-law/articleshow/79049854.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Ranchi||Trader gets ‘extortion threat’ from PLFI rebels||Ranchi: A trader in Ranchi said he has received extortion threats from alleged PLFI operatives recently. The trader, Sandip Kumar, who runs a tent house in Dhurwa, has registered a case with the local police station in this connection. Kumar alleged that he received WhatsApp messages from People’s Liberation Front of India supremo Dinesh Gope and three others on October 31. The trader said that he was asked to pay Rs 50 lakh or face risk to his life and property. Police have registered a case in this matter under Sections 384, 385, 386 and 387 of the Indian Penal Code. Dhurwa OC Rajiv Ranjan said, “We are investigating the case. But we cannot yet confirm or deny the involvement of PLFI supremo in it. The police have increased vigil near the house of the complainant.” Notably, two other traders had also received extortion demands in the recent past. A rice mill owner in Tupudana, Anis Gupta, had received extortion threat of Rs 1 crore on September 18. This was followed by another trader, Pravin Kumar, receiving an extortion demand three days later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/trader-gets-extortion-threat-from-plfi-rebels/articleshow/79049372.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Ranchi||Budding entrepreneur held by Steel City police in Kolkata||Jamshedpur: Steel City police arrested an aspiring entrepreneur from a rented flat in Thakdari under New Town police station area in Kolkata on Tuesday for duping several people of lakhs of rupees. A Class 10 drop out, vicenarian Rahul Kumar Kesri, who owns a house in Bangkok, was accumulating money through his two fraudulent e-commerce platforms — Shopeepay and Firstcart — to set up two startups, police said on Wednesday. “The accused was wanted in four separate cases of cybercrime here and he was on the run for the past one year,” SSP M Tamil Vanan said. He has been charged under Sections 419, 420, 467,468, 471, 120 (B) of IPC and 66 (C) (D) of IT Act, 2000. “We have seized six bank accounts of his,” Vanan said. A native of Ara in Bihar, Rahul stayed with his uncle and aunt here and studied in a private school in Mango. After dropping out of school, he did an online programming course in HTML and Java and worked as a programme developer before taking to cybercrime. Through his e-commerce platforms, he sold groceries, electronic goods, cosmetics, etc., at a discounted price to the customers. He delivered inferior products to them on purpose and when the customers called in order to seek a refund, he asked for their account details. As soon as he got the details, he siphoned off the money. Vanan said, “Rahul’s name figured in cybercrime cases last year when four of his aides — Mahesh Poddar, Yogesh Sharma, Dhiraj Sharma and Rakesh Sharma — were arrested on charges of cheating people by posing as bank officials.” He added, “Upon questioning, Rahul told us that he was planning to set up a company along the lines of Mastercard and Visa with the stolen money. He even said that he had registered an online payment firm under a British address and had planned to launch it on November 14. He even had plans of launching an app along the lines of PhonePe in the near future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/budding-entrepreneur-held-by-steel-city-police-in-kolkata/articleshow/79049490.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Ranchi||Chatra villagers accuse NPTC officials of razing houses without any notice||Chatra: A written complaint was filed with police against senior officials of the NTPC accusing the latter of demolishing 10 houses in Tandwa. On Oct 18, JCB machines razed 10 houses built on raiyati land in Raham village of Tandwa, where NTPC is constructing a thermal power plant. House owners alleged that neither any notice was served to them nor were they paid any compensation. The villagers have given a written complaint to Tandwa police station accusing NTPC’s executive director Asim Kumar Goswami, project head Tajendra Gupta and Sohail Khan for the demolition. One of the villagers, Lakshman Tiwary, said: “My eight-room house was demolished. I had used my hard-earned money to construct the building.” Sources in the police department said that the villagers’ version was corroborated when Tandwa circle officer Anup Kachchp went to the village to investigate the matter. No FIR has, however, been lodged in this case till now. Simaria subdivisional officer Sudhir Kumar Das told TOI that NTPC was working on a plan to compensate the affected villagers. “If the differences do not get solved amicably, then we will have to pursue the matter based on the complaint filed by the villagers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chatra-villagers-accuse-nptc-officials-of-razing-houses-without-any-notice/articleshow/79048966.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Ranchi||Maoists open fire at workers, set ablaze JCBs||Hazaribag: Around 20 Maoists on Wednesday afternoon opened fire at workers at a road construction site and set ablaze two JCB machines, worth several crores, around 50km away from the district headquarters in Farnahi Nala under Barkagaon police station after the owner of the private construction company refused to pay extortion money. “The incident took place around 12.30pm when work was on. Further details are awaited,” Hazaribag SP Karthik S said, adding, “Police teams from Barkagaon and Keredari are conducting raids to nab the culprits.” Owner of the company Vijay Prasad said they were constructing a 5.5km-long road under the Pradhan Mantri Sadak Yojana. “The extremists had been threatening me to pay levy, but I refused. They created a mayhem to scare the staff away and stop the construction work,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/maoists-open-fire-at-workers-set-ablaze-jcbs/articleshow/79048918.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 5, 2020||Ranchi||Cov recovery figure breaches 1L-mark, 3 deaths take toll to 913||Ranchi: With 314 persons declared cured of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the total number of recoveries in the state crossed the 1 lakh-mark. With 284 new cases and three deaths reported through the day, the number of active cases of Covid-19 infections dropped to 4,009. Jharkhand now has cumulative caseload of 1,05,224, of which 1,00,302 have recovered and 913 have died. The recovery rate in the state stands at 95.32%. Among the three deaths reported on Wednesday, East Singhbhum, Bokaro and state capital Ranchi reported one each. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state 0.86%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.2% against the national average of 0.39%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 180.14 days against the national figure of 301.08 days. Of the 284 cases detected on Wednesday, 78 were from Ranchi while Bokaro got 40 and Dhanbad reported 37 patients each. As the recovery numbers continue to be slim in state capital in comparison to fresh infections as 98 people recovered against 78 infections on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cov-recovery-figure-breaches-1l-mark-3-deaths-take-toll-to-913/articleshow/79179883.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 5, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant orders probe into job skill summits held in 2018, 2019||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday ordered an independent agency to probe alleged irregularities at the skill summits organised by the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government. A few lawmakers from the present dispensation had on earlier occasions accused the Das government of fudging data related to jobs being offered at the summits. The previous government had claimed that 26,674 candidates were offered jobs at the 2018 skill summit. The following year, the Das government had said that 1,06,619 youths got placements through the Global Skill Summit. Jharkhand had even made it to the ‘Limca Book of Records’ for getting the highest number of placement offers in a single day. Soren said in a statement that the focus of the probe would be to check if the summits benefited the people of the state and whether the claims made were true. Poriyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav was vocal against the two summits in the Vidhan Sabha. Notably, he had demanded a probe by an independent agency. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee, too, had raised doubts over the skill summits and said that the events had put a strain on the exchequer. A source in the CMO said, “There have been reports in the media that many who were shown getting jobs on paper did not receive the promised pay packages. Hence the government is thinking of getting all such summits properly audited and evaluated.” The source added that the government’s decision was also influenced by the recent spurt in protests by job-seekers across the state. Meanwhile, state agriculture minister and Congress leader Badal Patralekh met with over half a dozen groups of job aspirants at the party office here on Wednesday. Delegations from candidates who have qualified the teachers eligibility test (TET) and aspiring homeguard jawans, among others, met the minister. Many of the groups had gone on an indefinite stir at Ranchi’s Morhabadi ground last month, but ended their protests before Durga Puja after getting an assurance from the Congress leadership. Talking to reporters, Badal said, “We are committed towards generating jobs and genuine demands of those awaiting appointments despite clearing the exams will be taken up. I am going to put their demands before the chief minister and the departments concerned to find out a way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-orders-probe-into-job-skill-summits-held-in-2018-2019/articleshow/79049968.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 5, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat scientists bag global honour||VADODARA: A dozen-odd scientists from Gujarat have been ranked among top 2 % global scientists in their respective fields in the report released by the prestigious US-based Stanford University. The rankings are based on a database of over 1.50 lakh scientists on the basis of their ‘standardized citation indicators’ like the number of citations, H-index (a rough measure of scientist’s standing in the scientific community) and co-authorship. So far, there was no large-scale database that ranks all the most cited scientists in each and every scientific field to a sufficient ranking depth. The report has referred largely to Scopus, a multidisciplinary database, which ranks scientific journals and gives a citation index. The scientists are from Vallabh Vidyanagar-based Sardar Patel University (SPU), Ahmedabad University, M S University, Gujarat Forensic Sciences University (GFSU), MP Shah Medical College (MPSCM), Jamnagar; Sardar Patel Renewable Energy Research Institute (SPRERI), Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU), Ahmedabad University, CEPT University, Government Engineering College (GEC), Patan; St. Xavier’s College, Ahmedabad; Anand Agricultural University (AAU) and Muljibhai Patel Urological Hospital (MPUH), Nadiad and CHARUSAT. Professor Datta Madamwar, a retired SPU professor and currently scientific advisor at CHARUSAT has bagged 749 world-wide rank in the area of biotechnology. Similarly, professor NV Sastry who heads SPU’s Department of Chemistry has been ranked 791 in the area of chemical engineering while retired professor L M Manocha from SPU’s Department of Material Science has received 2,432 global ranking in the field of materials. Ambikanandan Misra, the former dean of M S University’s Faculty of Technology and Engineering, who died recently, has been ranked 1,279, for nearly 176 papers on pharmacology and pharmacy that he published between 1985 to 2019. Retired professors Shantilal Oswal and Pratap Bahadur from VNSGU have also got rankings in the field of chemical engineering and chemical physics respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-scientists-bag-global-honour/articleshow/79048679.cms||Prashant Rupera
November 5, 2020||World||Results delayed, but not the march of Covid in US||Even as the US presidential race gets stuck in a tangle that could take days to resolve, the Covid-19 pandemic rages on in the country. The US is less than a week away from posting 10 million coronavirus cases, nearly a fifth of all infections recorded across the world. The US has been the worst hit by Covid-19 on most parameters. Apart from having the highest caseload, nearly 9.7 million so far, the country has also suffered the highest fatalities with over 2,38,000 deaths. The US accounts for 20% of all coronavirus-related fatalities worldwide. Brazil is a distant second with 1,60,000 deaths. Worringly, the US has over 3.2 million active cases, nearly three times the number in France, which has the second-highest pool of active infections at 1.3 million. By contrast, India has just over half-a-million recorded active cases, although its total case tally is second to the US at 8.3 million. Stats such as these had made President Trump’s handling of the pandemic a major poll issue. In the run-up to the polls, an unprecedented third wave hit America. It’s the deadliest surge yet. Over a million fresh cases and 9,350 deaths have been reported in the past 12 days alone. Ironically, in the latest surge, the virus has hit Republican states the hardest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/results-delayed-but-not-the-march-of-covid-in-us/articleshow/79052056.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Noida||Businessman, wife killed in upscale Noida society||GREATER NOIDA: A 59-year-old businessman, who lived in Cherry County and ran a departmental store in the upscale Noida Extension condominium, and his wife were found murdered in their ninth-floor apartment on Wednesday morning. The bodies of Vinay Gupta and Neha were discovered around 9am by a store worker, who the couple’s younger son Kush had sent to inquire after neither had answered their phones. Police questioned over a dozen store workers and said they had some clues after scanning CCTV footage retrieved from the housing society but did not reveal if they had narrowed in on who entered the Tower B2 apartment. A police officer said the entry was “friendly” and the killer was known to the family. Burglary didn’t appear to be the motive as cupboards were intact and nothing seemed to have been stolen. The killer also did not appear to be carrying a weapon, an inference drawn from a bloodstained candle stand found in the house with which Vinay and Neha were bludgeoned to death. Police said Vinay had very large debts to repay. Vinay, a chartered accountant who had unsuccessfully contested the Ghaziabad municipal polls in 2017, and Neha had moved into Cherry County only two months ago. They lived in a housing society in Sector 122 of Noida before that. A relative told TOI Kush had met his parents around 11.30pm on Tuesday and left for the Sector 122 house, where he continued to live with his grandparents. Vinay and Neha’s elder son lives in the US. Kush called his parents on Wednesday morning, but Vinay’s phone returned a switched off message while Neha’s phone kept ringing. A neighbour of the Guptas said, “Kush asked Shehzad, a helper at the store, to check. He went to the flat and informed Kush no one was answering the doorbell, and then discovered the door wasn’t locked. Kush rushed here.” The killer came to the apartment when the Guptas were having breakfast on Wednesday, evident from a chapati that was still on the griddle and a plate of food that lay on the dining table in the living room when police reached the crime scene. Vinay’s body was found on the floor of the living room, face up and with a black eye likely inflicted by a punch. He had serious head wounds. Neha’s injuries were similar. Her body was found in the kitchen, face down. “It seems the family knew the accused well,” said Munish Chauhan, the SHO of Bisrakh police station. Vinay had a jewellery store in Gaur City 1 but shifted focus to Price Smart, the Cherry County departmental store, after the earlier business had to be shut. The jewellery business was also called Price Smart. “The Price Smart shop in Gaur City I was a grocery store too but Vinay started a jewellery showroom there after the grocery was closed,” a shopkeeper who knew Vinay said. The 59-year-old also had a papad business on the side. Anil Kishore Jain, a school friend of Vinay, said soon after completing his education, Vinay worked at a shoe factory where he handled the owner’s accounts. He was entrepreneurial. “Soon after, he purchased two shops in Ramprastha colony of Ghaziabad’s Suryanagar where he started a jewellery and saree business. He served as secretary of the society for some time. He had started a scheme in which he asked people to invest Rs 10,000 per month, offering a reward of 15-20 grams of gold to the winner. However, there were multiple complaints about the quality of the gold promised,” Jain said. Police said they had learnt from Kush that Vinay possibly had debt running into crores. Vinay is believed to have recently had an argument with an acquaintance over the dues. Additional commissioner (law and order) Love Kumar told TOI, the debt was to multiple persons. “It is unclear if what the debt is -- Rs 8 crore or Rs 10 crore. We are verifying,” Kumar said. The dog squad, forensic teams and surveillance teams scanned the crime scene. Police are examining CCTV footage from different cameras installed in the basement of the tower, entry points and lifts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/bizman-wife-found-killed-in-cherry-county-flat-were-clobbered-with-a-candle-stand/articleshow/79050347.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 5, 2020||India||Cop-neta nexus delays trials: HCs||NEW DELHI: Highlighting the politician-police nexus which impeded speedy trials, two high courts on Wednesday complained to the Supreme Court that reluctance of state police to execute arrest warrants for production of accused sitting/former MPs and MLAs before the trial court was a factor stalling proceedings. Senior advocate P N Ravindran, appearing for Kerala High Court told a bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose that arrest warrants were not being executed by the police, which hindered courts from proceeding with the trial without the accused legislators being produced. Appearing for Calcutta HC, advocate Kunal Chatterji too aired similar grievances against the West Bengal police. The bench frowned at Kerala government counsel G Prakash for contesting the HC's report complaining against the state police for non-execution of arrest warrants. The Justice Ramana-led bench said, "Have you seen the report of the HC? Which HC will mention a falsehood in its report? You have to show that your police are working to execute court orders." A chastised Kerala government promised to give priority to execution of arrest warrants in connection with trials pending against politicians. The West Bengal government too faced displeasure from the SC, which said, "Is it not the duty of the state to execute warrants issued by a court? You heard what the counsel for the HC said." The state’s counsel Abhishek Manchanda promised to file a detailed affidavit. After noting that 23 HCs had accepted the SC direction for setting up designated courts to expedite trials in criminal cases pending against sitting/former MPs and MLAs for decades, the bench referred to Madras HC's report, which said it would be unconstitutional to set up exclusive special courts for trial of politicians and sought restoration of status quo ante. The HC has decided to revoke its 2018 consent to the Tamil Nadu government for setting up special courts for speedy trial of criminal cases against politicians, saying it had then "tripped and fell into error" by agreeing with the Telangana model for expeditious trial of legislators. The bench said, "The process for expediting trial in criminal cases against sitting and former legislators started in 2016. Except Madras HC, no other HC has objected to setting up of designated/special courts. The objective is to expedite the trial. The SC has given freedom to HCs to do it whichever way they want. If Madras HC has tripped and fell in error, it is for them to correct the mistake. Because of the mistake committed by one HC, the process that has been taking shape over the years cannot be stopped." It said it would pass orders on further directions on this issue soon. Appearing for petitioner Ashwini Upadhyay, senior advocate Gopal Shankaranarayanan told the bench that the SC in 'Public Interest Foundation' judgment of 2016 had said trial in criminal cases against sitting legislators should be completed in one year. Upadhyay had filed the PIL in 2017 when no action towards implementation of the SC judgment was taken. He also supported amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria who said the SC had ruled in many cases that if a trial was stayed for more than six months, it should be automatically vacated if there was no reiteration of the stay in between.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/police-do-not-execute-arrest-warrants-against-netas-hcs/articleshow/79052197.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 5, 2020||Goa||04-Bindiya- covid upate||TNN Panaji: With eight Covid related deaths including that of a 42-year-old from Keri-Sattari, Goa’s Covid-19 death count shot up to 627 on Wednesday. With 183 new cases and 249 recoveries, the tally of active cases reduced to 2134, and the recovery rate rose to 94%. Five deaths were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC), two patients died at ESI-Covid hospital, Margao and one at private hospital in North Goa. A 60-year-old man from Sawantwadi who suffered from more than one comorbid conditions including a hepatitis infection, died within 24 hours of admission to the hospital. The 42-year-old from Keri-Sattari who was rushed to the GMC after he contracted covid-19, also suffered from chronic kidney disease. He succumbed to the virus after a month’s treatment. Other deaths were those of a 65-year-old man from Mapusa, a 76-year-old woman from Ucassaim, a 67-year-old man from Navelim, a 60-year-old woman from Chimbel, a 55-year-old man from Navelim and a 62-year-old woman from. All had comorbidities. Goa’s case positivity rate has been declining and on Wednesday it was at 10%, the lowest in the last few months, a drastic drop in hospital admissions has not been noticed yet. During the day, as many as 33 patients were hospitalized. The mortality rate has reduced to single digit, the average has been four to five deaths a day and one or two days, it is two. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said with cases dropping, hospital admissions and mortalities will go down in the next few days. In North Goa, five centres have over 100 cases each including Panaji. Chimbel and Panaji have 149 and 146 cases. Infections in Porvorim which witnessed a spike for three months, are dropping and on Wednesday, its caseload reduced to 97. In South Goa, Ponda, Margao, and Vasco have over 100 cases each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/04-bindiya-covid-upate/articleshow/79048818.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||Panaji: Bus owners gherao transport official||PANAJI: Continuing to push for their demand to waive taxes for the lockdown months, private bus owners gheraoed a transport department official at the head office at Panaji on Wednesday. TOI had earlier reported that the All Goa Private Bus Owners’ Association has threatened to go to court if the state government fails to waive off their taxes for the lockdown months. All Goa Private Bus Owners’ Association president, Sudeep Tamankar said that private bus operators have on multiple occasions personally visited the transport department to share their grievances, but in vain. “If our demands are not met with, I will sit here indefinitely and if need be, even give my life,” Tamankar said while confronting deputy director of transport, Pralhad Desai. He listed all the representation dates wherein the association had sought help from the department, besides sharing the various grievances of the private bus operators. Desai said that the department has given subsidies in the past to support them. “Their demand now is to exempt them of taxes. But waiving those has a procedure in place which requires to be followed. We can look at granting their demand after individually accessing each operator’s application showing non-use of vehicle during the lockdown months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bus-owners-gherao-transport-official/articleshow/79048855.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Chopper joyrides set to start when Covid reduces||PANAJI: The Goa Tourism Development Corporation’s (GTDC) newly-built helipad will see choppers take off as soon as footfalls increase with the dying down of the pandemic. “We are waiting for the pandemic to slow down, and then there will be a rise in tourist arrivals,” GTDC chairperson Dayanand Sopte told TOI on Wednesday. “The helipad is ready.” Sopte said that approval for operations to commence has been obtained, and the agreement has been signed at a GTDC board meet last week. The corporation, however, is yet to finalise the routes to be taken. “Routes will be decided as per the choice of tourists, after a few trials,” he said. The helipad at Ela Farm was built after much scouting, and the first GTDC attempt to start helicopter joyrides failed in 2016. A few days into the operation, GTDC had to give up the plan as locals from Calangute objected on the grounds that it would affect fishing and other activities along the coastline. The helicopter service was then shifted to South Goa and conducted till the end of that tourist season using the helipad of a starred hotel. Due to logistics, GTDC could not carry on with the service the following year. Tourists or visitors buying tickets for rides had to be transported to South Goa, proving location was not ideal. GTDC wanted a take-off point in North Goa, and closer to Bardez, for cost and logistical convenience. Thus, Ela Farm would was ideal. The idea of helicopter joyrides was struck around 2012, to boost the image of the state as a high-value destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chopper-joyrides-set-to-start-when-covid-reduces/articleshow/79048907.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||25th European Union film festival goes virtual, begins today||PANAJI: The 25th edition of the European Union Film Festival will be held virtually from Thursday owing to the pandemic. It will feature a line-up of 42 exceptional films across multiple genres, including films by 15 female directors. The ESG has partnered with the festival and viewers can register online for free to watch the films. From Agnes Varda’s seminal ‘Cleo From 5 to 7’ and Kieslowski’s ‘Three Colours: Blue, to Bergman’s Persona’, and Bunuel’s surrealist masterpiece, ‘The Exterminating Angel’, from Antonio Pietrangeli’s iconic ‘I Knew Her Well’ to the classic of the Czech New Wave, Milos Forman’s ‘Loves of a Blonde’, up to the dramatically current ‘Ali: Fear Eats the Soul’ by Rainer Werner Fassbinder, the festival will take viewers through a journey across Europe as retold by its most inventive storytellers. As a tribute to the rich and indelible imprint of Indian cinema, the festival will offer viewers a look into the classic and the contemporary, through the section ‘Poetry on Screen: Satyajit Ray and Chaitanya Tamhane’, featuring the iconic ‘Aparajito’ and the award-winning, ‘Court’. Viewers will get an exclusive insight into the artistic underpinnings of director and screenwriter Chaitanya Tamhane. Given the immediacy of the climate emergency, the festival will provide a means to assess how it is being felt in different parts of the world through a series of shorts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/25th-eu-film-festival-goes-virtual-begins-today/articleshow/79048915.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||NCP to approach HC if Sunburn allowed in Goa||SALIGAO: NCP has threatened to approach the high court if the state government allows the Sunburn EDM festival during the ongoing pandemic. NCP general secretary Sanjay Barde said allowing the festival in the current circumstances may lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases in the area where the festival is organised. He said that the government should be prepared to face an agitation if the plans to hold Sunburn are not called off. “Deaths continue to be reported in the state due to the pandemic, but the state government it seems is not bothered about the health of the people and wants to go ahead with a music and dance festival,” said Barde. The government has stated that it has granted in-principle approval to Sunburn to be held this December with limited capacity. The state has said that all norms will be followed. “During the EDM, it is impossible for people to maintain social distancing with drinks also being supplied at the venue,” said Barde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncp-to-approach-hc-if-sunburn-allowed/articleshow/79048926.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||2 co-operative credit societies to be shut for violating norms||PANAJI: The Registrar of Co-operative Societies has ordered the closure of two co-operative societies for failure to comply with statutory requirements for many years. The two co-operative societies - the Government Agricultural Farm Ela, Employees Co-operative Credit Society Ltd and the Goa Bank Employees Co-op Credit Society Ltd -will be liquidated as part of the winding up process. The registrar had issued a show cause notice to directors of both co-operative societies asking why the affairs of the two entities should not be wound up. However, the boards failed to show up for multiple hearings and also to justify their actions. “From the documents available with this office, it is clear that the society has not complied with the statutory requirement from last many years and also not submitted the status as regards to the functioning of the society,” assistant registrar of co-operative societies P Sawant said. Sawant said that facts and circumstances indicated that “no purpose will be served” if the Government Agricultural Farm Ela, Employees Co-operative Credit Society, which began in 1994, is allowed to continue. Junior auditor Gautam Talaulikar has been appointed as the liquidator of the this society. The registrar also found a fit case for winding up the affairs of the Goa Bank Employees Co-op. Credit Society, also started in 1994. Sawant has appointed junior auditor Chandu Raikar as the liquidator of the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-co-op-credit-societies-to-be-shut-for-violating-norms/articleshow/79049010.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||Public hearing for Goa airport expansion at Sancoale on December 4||PANAJI: Goa State Pollution Control Board announced that it would conduct a public hearing for the proposed expansion of Goa International Airport, Dabolim, at 10am on December 4, at the Community Centre at Sancoale’s airport colony. In light of the ongoing pandemic, GSPCB has decided to permit just 100 people for the public hearing with preference being given to those residing in the vicinity. “The district magistrate or a representative not below the rank of additional district magistrate assisted by a representative of the State Pollution Control Board shall supervise and preside over the entire public hearing process,” member secretary GSPCB Shamila Monteiro. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) plans to expand the present airport terminal building so that the facility is capable of handling at least 3,450 passengers during peak hours. AAI proposes to expand the existing apron over an area of 15,000sqm to accommodate three more aircraft such as the A-321 or B-737. As per norms, a public hearing has to be held. People who desire to attend the public hearing physically are required to register with the GSPCB e-mail ID goapcb@gspcb.in by November 12. Those who wish to participate virtually should submit their contact details to goapcb@gspcb.in so that the link can be sent to them. “Only 100 persons will be allowed to attend the hearing. Preference shall be given to the public who reside in the vicinity of the project. The proceedings of the environmental public hearing shall be forwarded to the Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change for appropriate action in the matter,” Monteiro said. In September, TOI reported that because of the pandemic, AAI’s plans to expand the domestic and international terminal had come to a halt. The Rs 145 crore project was supposed to be completed by 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/public-hearing-for-goa-airport-expansion-at-sancoale-on-dec-4/articleshow/79049042.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi seeing third wave, but no need to panic: CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the capital was witnessing a third wave of Covid-19 as it recorded the highest single-day spike of 6,842 fresh cases. The spike breached the previous highest tally of 6,725 cases, which was recorded on Tuesday. Kejriwal, however, said there was no need to panic as Delhi government was constantly monitoring the situation. “I want to tell the people of Delhi that in the past few days, there has been a spike in the number of corona cases. I think we can call it the third wave because between September end and beginning of October, the numbers had started dipping and were below 3,000,” the chief minister told reporters on Wednesday after inspecting the process of converting stubble to fertiliser at Hiranki village in north Delhi. “I would only like to say that there is no need to panic as we are continuously monitoring the situation and all necessary steps will be taken,” he said. Kejriwal said that he was going to convene a review meeting at 4 pm on Thursday regarding the corona situation. He said that a decision regarding bursting of crackers this year would also be taken in the meeting. Kejriwal said that there were enough dedicated Covid beds in hospitals and the shortage of ICU beds would also be taken care of. “We had increased the number of ICU beds for corona but unfortunately, Delhi High Court stayed that decision. We are going to the Supreme Court to vacate the stay, so that the shortage can be taken care of,” he added. The high court had stayed the Delhi government’s order directing 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80% of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in September. “At the moment, there is no shortage of beds or any inadequacy in medical infrastructure. Some shortage of ICU beds with ventilators can be seen only in a few big private hospitals. However, we are trying to rectify that within a day or two,” he said. “I hope that in the Supreme Court, this stay will be vacated and then this shortage too will be taken care of,” he added. “Our main aim is that if people fall ill, they should get the right facilities and the right treatment. Also, the corona-related deaths should be minimal and that is under control at the moment,” said the CM. Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain also said that the spike in Covid-19 cases could be called a third wave. However, major reasons for the surge in cases were aggressive contact tracing and testing, he added. Jain further said that there was some shortage in ICU beds in private hospitals because many people, particularly from middle and upper middle class who can afford treatment in these hospitals and have insurance policies, were preferring private healthcare facilities. “Earlier, the coronavirus cases were coming from congested areas but now, many cases are coming from the upper segment. However, the treatment protocol is the same in government hospitals where treatment is free and ICU beds are available,” Jain said in a press briefing. Watch Delhi witnessing 3rd COVID wave: CM Arvind Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-seeing-third-wave-but-no-need-to-panic-cm-arvind-kejriwal/articleshow/79052238.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||‘Online classes must continue once a week’||PANAJI: Chairman of the state task force on the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, Subhash Shirodkar said that he favours continuing with online classes once a week in schools even after the Covid-19 situation normalises. Shirodkar told TOI that the pandemic created a situation that pushed students, teachers and parents to learn use of technologies and online platforms much faster than they would under normal circumstances. “It is my opinion that classes should be held online once in a week. Due to corona, everyone, including parents, teachers and students, learnt various technologies and platforms and how to use them. They learnt how Google Meet works, for instance, or what a webinar is. We have to do it if students have to learn all the new technologies,” Shirodkar said. The Shiroda MLA, who also runs several educational institutions in the constituency, said that online classes helped students learn the constructive uses of smartphones. “Everything has its uses and misuses, it depends on us how we choose to use any particular thing,” said Shirodkar. He said the task force is open to suggestions “There are already school management committees and parent teacher associations existing in institutes. They already have discussions regularly. They can send their inputs to us on how to improve the quality of education in view of NEP and how to improve the academic process for students,” Shirodkar said. The task force will present its suggestion for a road map for Goa’s education sector to the government in the next three to four months, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-classes-must-continue-once-a-wk/articleshow/79049052.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 5, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu calls meet on reopening of schools on November 9||CHENNAI: After opposition from rival parties and allies over reopening of schools and colleges from November 16, TN on Wednesday announced a consultative meeting of school heads and parents of government, aided and private schools on November 9. An official release from the school education secretary Dheeraj Kumar said the meeting would take place at 10am adhering to Covid protocols. “The parents of students of classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 shall participate and express their views. Those, who are unable to attend, shall send their views through letters. Based on the outcome of this meeting, the government will decide on reopening those schools,” the officer said. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday announced reopening of schools for classes 9, 10, 11 and 12, colleges and all education institutions from November 16. The guidelines issued on September 30 permitted the reopening of schools after October 15 in a graded manner. examinations,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-calls-meet-on-reopening-of-schools-on-november-9/articleshow/79052230.cms||---
November 5, 2020||Goa||Failure to register foreign tenants hinders crime detection in Pernem||MAPUSA: As many as 50 persons — foreigners and migrants — were subjected to checks in Arambol in a surprise combing operation by the Pernem police held on Tuesday. It was carried out to verify whether these foreigners and migrants were conducting any business illegally in this belt. Property owners in Pernem’s coastal belt are renting out their premises without adhering to the mandatory norm of registering their tenants by submitting the C-Form at the FRRO, police sources said. This often turns out to be a major hurdle in crime detection. Many foreigners, who want to carry out criminal activities, are found taking advantage of this laxity by property owners in the Pernem beach belt. In recent months, many raids have revealed cultivation of narcotic substances, like cannabis by foreigners in the premises rented by them in this area. Sources informed that many locals deliberately do not fill this form as many foreigners set it as a precondition to keep themselves out of police scrutiny. With an eye on the income they can receive from letting out their rooms, the property owners agree to such terms. “In many past cases where the foreigners are arrested in criminal cases, especially drug-related cases, the form C was found to have been not filled. If the foreigner is absconding or missing or wanted in crime it is very difficult to trace him without the details of his or her last stay,” police sources said. Pernem PI Jivba Dalvi said that Tuesday evening’s combing operation was not only to carry out checks on migrants and foreigners staying illegally, but also to warn property owners who rent out their premises. “During this search operation, thorough checking was carried out to see if any illegal activities are being carried out,” Dalvi said, adding that in the coming days, other coastal areas in Pernem will also be see such operations. Police have warned the residents that they would face legal action if found to have rented premises to foreigners without valid documents. The IVFRT (Immigration, Visa, Foreigners’ Registration and Tracking) system became operational in FRRO, Goa with the technical support of National Informatics Centre from June 25, 2014. For C-Form services, hoteliers, guesthouses, all the residents letting out their houses, rooms, flats to the foreigners have to first register with the FRRO office. Hotels, guesthouses and locals letting out their premises to foreigners have to inform of their guests’ arrival within 24 hours through filling of the C-Form.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/failure-to-register-foreign-tenants-hinders-crime-detection-in-pernem/articleshow/79049064.cms||Keshav Naik
