November 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Church Street gets final touches ahead of no-vehicle weekends||It’s a makeover that took over two years, at the end of which the 750-metre stretch of Church Street was a hand-laid granite cobblestone beauty. The new look, of course, made it a hot spot for photo shoots and live musical activity and now, much to the delight of pedestriants, the stretch will be vehicle-free on weekends. Starting November 7, there will be no vehicular movement along Church Street during weekends as part of a five-month Clean Air Street initiative by Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT). The decision to make the stretch look and feel like a Parisian street with cafes and restaurants that have tables on the pavements has raised excitement levels among visitors to that side of town. Irfan Noor, secretary, Church Street Occupants Association, says, "This is a good move. We will have to wait for the inauguration and the feedback from the people to see how we can function. This is a good move that should help businesses along the strength, all of which have been through a prolonged dull phase owing to the pandemic. This move might just help revive that and bring people to the street." In the run-up to the initiative, the BT lens spotted workers hurriedly conducting repair works along the entire stretch to ensure everything is right before the street is thrown open to pedestrians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/church-street-gets-final-touches-ahead-of-no-vehicle-weekends/articleshow/79064298.cms||Sunayana Suresh
November 6, 2020||Business||IBM unveils cloud for 5G telcos, gets Nokia and Samsung as partners||STOCKHOLM: International Business Machines Corp on Thursday became the latest US technology company to launch a cloud platform directed at telecom operators deploying 5G and signed up Nokia and Samsung as partners. A cloud platform uses software instead of physical equipment to do network functions, helping telecom operators to build 5G networks faster, reduce costs and sell customised services to business clients. The US government has been pushing big US companies to get more involved with 5G - a technology which promises to enable everything from self-driving cars to remote surgery and more automated manufacturing. Companies such as Microsoft and Amazon have launched their own cloud platforms targeting telecom operators. Collaboration, not competition, is the way forward as customers will consume from more than one cloud service provider, be it Amazon or Microsoft, Howard Boville, IBM’s senior vice president for Hybrid Cloud, told Reuters. IBM will supply services to its telecom partners to run their networks and also to assist them in selling custom products to their customers, he said. Under its new chief executive Arvind Krishna, 109-year-old company is splitting itself into two public companies to focus on high-margin cloud computing business. Before becoming CEO in April, Krishna was heading IBM’s cloud business and was the key architect behind its $34 billion acquisition of cloud company Red Hat last year. IBM’s cloud for telecom is built using technology from Red Hat and has signed up 35 partners, including network equipment suppliers and software vendors to build an ecosystem. The pandemic has accelerated the desire for every company, not just telcos, for digital transformation and there has been a massive uptick to this approach, Boville said. More than a dozen clients are already testing its new telco cloud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/ibm-unveils-cloud-for-5g-telcos-gets-nokia-and-samsung-as-partners/articleshow/79068959.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Business||Samsung consumer electronics sales boosted by India's festive season||NEW DELHI: Samsung Electronics Co is seeing a big surge in consumer appliance sales during India’s festive season, a senior company executive said, helped by pent-up demand following a nationwide lockdown to battle the coronavirus pandemic. A slew of new launches across categories like televisions, refrigerators, and washing machines as well as financing schemes have buoyed sales, said Raju Pullan, senior vice president for consumer electronics at Samsung India. “We’re seeing 32% growth (year-on-year) across televisions, refrigerators, washing machines and microwaves,” Pullan told Reuters on Thursday. The demand uptick is good news for the Indian economy, which contracted by 23.9% in April-June during a stringent lockdown to slow the spread of the pandemic. Indians typically make big-ticket purchases of everything from gold to cars and electronics during the country’s festive season, which typically begins around October and lasts until the end of the year. While the value of overall sales last month was much higher in cities like Delhi and Mumbai, sales growth in smaller towns outpaced the bigger cities, Pullan said. Samsung also witnessed a shift in consumer behaviour with growing purchases of pricey, high-end televisions. “Consumers are spending more time at home, and are not able to venture out for entertainment,” said Pullan. “That’s leading to some quality purchases.” As India’s coronavirus infections reach 8.36 million, people are being cautious in stepping out for daily purchases. That has also boosted sales of large-capacity refrigerators for Samsung, Pullan said. Samsung’s overall consumer electronics sales grew an annual 20% in Aug-Sept after India’s economy began opening up, Pullan said, declining to comment whether sales in the second half of the year would be enough to bridge the shortfall during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/samsung-consumer-electronics-sales-boosted-by-indias-festive-season/articleshow/79069149.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Business||IOC director A K Singh to head Petronet LNG||NEW DELHI: IndianOil director (pipelines) Akshay Kumar Singh will head India’s largest gas importing company, Petronet LNG, sources close to the company’s board-appointed selection committee said. Singh will succeed Prabhat Singh, who completed his 5-year term in September but did not get extension for two years that he was eligible for. In March, the oil ministry told Parliament in a written reply it had received several allegations of alleged corruption/irregularities against Prabhat Singh. This will mark Singh’s return to the gas business as he was executive director in state-run gas utility GAIL before joining the IndianOil board in 2018 as in charge of the company’s substantial pipeline network. A mechanical engineer from MIT, Muzaffarpur (Bihar) and a post-graduate in turbomachinery from South Gujarat University, Singh has about 34 years of experience in the oil and gas industry. At IndianOil, Singh red-flagged a move to hive off the company’s vast network of pipelines and storage depots, a vital infrastructure that gave India’s largest fuel refiner and retailer an edge in the market. At Petronet, his primary challenge will be tackling the pricing conundrum of long-term contracts in the backdrop of falling spot prices. Singh has experience in executing challenging, complex and large-size cross-country pipeline networks. He is also experienced in design engineering, planning, execution and operation of hydrocarbon pipeline systems and process plants. Petronet is a private company floated by state-run oil majors GAIL, IOC, ONGC and BPCL. All of the promoters hold 12.5 per cent equity stake each. Chairmen of promoter PSUs are normally the nominee director on the Petronet board, while the petroleum secretary is the ex-officio chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ioc-director-a-k-singh-to-head-petronet-lng/articleshow/79069492.cms||Sanjay Dutta
November 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbaikars, keep your masks on||We are in Unlock 5 mode with restrictions easing in many ways, but the one thing that has not and will not change is the COVID-19 safety mandate — of wearing a mask. Yet, this is precisely the one thing that people are forgetting to wear in so many places Mumbai. With Maharashtra being the only state in the world to have crossed the ‘1 million COVID-19 count’ and Mumbai and Pune among the worst-hit cities, healthcare experts have constantly sent out warnings of wearing a mask a number of times. Bollywood celebs have also spoken up time and again on the subject, with the latest being Kareena Kapoor Khan, who shared her photo in a mask from a plane with the words: “Mask pehniye aur bahar dekhiye.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too has sent out a caution slogan, “ Jab tak dawai nahi, tab tak dhilai nahi. Do gaj ki doori, mask hai zaroori.” Yet mask-compliance levels in the city are still low, and clearly, a cause for concern. City gets ‘marshals’ to catch violators, first FIR for not wearing a maskViolators have to pay a penalty of Rs 200 for not wearing a mask With mask wearing becoming a cause of worry, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) kickstarted an aggressive face-mask drive to pull up offenders. They appointed a team of marshals to keep an eye on the general public and penalise those not following the rules. Each ward has 10-15 officials to collect fines and those without a mask were fined `200. BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal also announced a ‘No Mask No Entry’ rule to any place or means of transport in the city. Recently, the BMC also registered an FIR, a first of its kind, against a 28-year-old resident of Govandi for going mask-less. He was reportedly booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act. Many still go maskless at the seafront, in parks and busy marketsPeople spotted without masks in a parkA drive or a walk around the city will reveal to you people passing each other without masks or with those that just hang sloppily under the nose or the chin. What’s worse, these things are happening Mumbai’s busiest areas — like the markets, open-air gyms, seafront promenades and more. Says Ashok Gupta, vice-president, Marine Drive Citizens Association (MDCA) and a daily walker at the Marine Drive promenade, “I haven’t been able to walk at the promenade at Marine Drive since March. I’ve hardly stepped out of my building for the fear of people not adhering to the rule of wearing a mask. And this has been even more evident in recent weeks. People have become lax as they feel that coronavirus is on the way out. It’s like they just don’t get the seriousness of the issue. We ourselves do check people, but how many people can we stop and explain the risk to? Sometimes, it’s not even taken in the right spirit.” People can also be seen taking selfies at popular hotspots without masks. Bandra resident, actress Shazahn Padamsee adds, “I used to step out to pick up things and take a stroll, but that has become worrisome of late as people are just not wearing a mask. All one can do is to double up the safety levels on an individual basis. I always wear a mask and find that it’s totally irresponsible not to do so.” ‘Natural to feel mask fatigue, but a mask is also essential’The excuses given by people not wearing masks usually range from ‘I can’t breathe’ to ‘The straps hurt my ears’ and ‘I’m not walking with anyone next to me’. “You must mask up; it is absolutely stupid to not do that,” says Dr Behram Pardiwala, internal medicine expert, adding, “It is natural to feel fatigued after all these months, but a mask is essential. It’s been found that risk of infection or transmission when wearing a mask was 3% versus 17% without a mask. Also, change it frequently depending on the kind of mask you have. Don’t lose vigilance when it comes to safety efforts.” BMC TAKES ACTIONAs per the BMC rules for COVID-19 prevention, those without masks will be prohibited entry into malls, shops, restaurants, offices, buses, taxis and rickshaws. Those seen on the street without masks have to pay a fine of `200. “We don’t want action to be punitive, but an opportunity to educate people about the need to wear a face mask when outdoors,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Celebs add to the voice of caution These B-Towners have been stressing on the importance of a mask on social media: Kareena Kapoor Khan shared an image on Instagram in a face mask Kareena Kapoor Khan Ajay Devgn Abhishek Bachchan  Anupam Kher  Malaika Arora  Sonakshi Sinha  Shreya Ghoshal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaikars-keep-your-masks-on/articleshow/79065172.cms||Ismat Tahseen
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhiites plan Diwali vacations to the hills to avoid pollution||Thick haze, ‘very poor’ air quality, which is only expected to get worse in coming weeks and during Diwali holidays – Delhiites and residents of neighbouring cities in NCR have been literally left gasping for breath recently. To escape from the city’s toxic air, Delhiites are opting for trips, especially in nearby hill stations, during Diwali. Many of those who were already holidaying, have decided to extend their stays so that they can spend the festival away from NCR’s bad air. And with a number of people working from home, taking extended leave from work is no longer a prerequisite for staying out of town. “As the festive season commenced across the country, we began noticing a significant uptick in travel bookings. As Diwali approaches, we are witnessing a week-on-week increase in flight bookings – currently, our data indicates a 20% jump in bookings for Diwali on dates between November 6 to 16,” says Vipul Prakash, Chief Operating Officer, MakeMyTrip, in a statement. Neha Pranay Nath, Director, RN Tour and Travels, adds that “most popular places and homestays in Uttarakhand and Himachal are already booked and we are getting queries each day. Considering that most people are still working from home, getting back to work is no more a hassle. Most bookings are for a week or more,” she says. ‘For people with breathing problems, this is the worst time to be in Delhi, so staying away’For some travellers, vacation plans were being explored for some time, but worsening air quality in NCR proved to be the push for traveling this month. Anindita Vohra, a corporate employee and a resident of Sohna Road, Gurgaon, says, “We have been planning a trip with a friend’s family at a homestay near Nainital. We had earlier planned to leave soon after doing Diwali puja. But the worsening air quality in NCR is already making my daughter, who is asthmatic, sick. Even last year, we went for a vacation on Diwali to escape pollution. This year, we don’t have to plan as per school or office holidays, so we thought it is better to leave now and we plan to return by the end of this month. We are thinking of leaving this weekend,” she says. Many Delhiites have booked homestays in Nainital during DiwaliLike Anindita’s daughter, there are others too who are suffering from breathing problems and don’t want to take any risk. “Every year, we get reports of Delhi’s AQI peaking to alarming levels, especially on Diwali. Last year, I had a bad cough and my eyes were watering. Then only I had decided that I won’t be staying in NCR on Diwali in 2020. I’ll be driving to the hills next week and return after 20 days. This is the worst time for people with breathing problems to stay in Delhi,” says Sanjiv Bhatt, a resident of Model Town. An evergreen holiday destination for Delhiites, Shimla has been getting a number of tourists from NCR recently, looking to escape bad air‘No family obligations on Diwali due to COVID, so extending my stay in the hills’There are some people who are already on workcations and have decided to extend their vacation after reading reports about poor air quality in Delhi. Pratibha Kakkar, a resident of RK Puram who stays by herself, is in Shimla and was planning to return next week. “But after reading reports of NCR’s poor air quality, I thought there’s no point returning for Diwali as we will have to be at home anyway. Due to the pandemic, there is no obligation to visit relatives or friends this Diwali. The best thing to do, I realised, is to extend my vacation and keep working from here,” she says. Sidhant Arora, a resident of Sector 90 in Gurgaon, is in Dehradun with his family and has decided to return after Diwali “to avoid smog and pollution”. Around 250km from Delhi, Dehradun is a popular choice for NCR residents planning trips and workcations around this time of the year||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhiites-plan-diwali-vacations-to-the-hills-to-avoid-pollution/articleshow/79062489.cms||Divya Kaushik
November 6, 2020||Varanasi||Banarasis pedal for a healthy lifestyle||To spread the message of a healthy lifestyle, a Cycle For Change Challenge was organised under the aegis of Smart City (Varanasi) Project in association with Institute For Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) and Fit India movement. People from various walks of life participated in the event, right from bureaucrats, sportsperson to homemakers. (L) Kunal Kasawani (R) Amit (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Kunal Kasawani (R) Amit (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)  Enjoying the early morning ride, the cyclists started from Covid-19 war room, in the Sigra area. The enthusiasts rode through Maldhaiya, Andharapul, Nehru Park, Cantonment area and back to Sigra. (L) Pawan Kumar (R) Neelu Mishra (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Pawan Kumar (R) Neelu Mishra (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Pawan Kumar, a bureaucrat said, “Cycling is the best way to relive your childhood and also keep yourself fit.” (L) Rakesh (R) Sunil Singh (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Rakesh (R) Sunil Singh (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Sportsperson Neelu Mishra, said, “The idea behind this event is to raise awareness about incorporating bicycles in our lifestyle. It not only keeps us fit but also helps in controlling the pollution level.” (L) Vinita (R) Yogesh and Sahana (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Vinita (R) Yogesh and Sahana (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/banarasis-pedal-for-a-healthy-lifestyle/articleshow/79062852.cms||Meera Vohra
November 6, 2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami case: Revival of probe forms crux of high court case||MUMBAI: A case closed by police and legal issues pertaining to its reopening will be the crux of the arguments before the Bombay high court when it hears the interim bail plea of Arnab Goswami on Friday.  The Alibaug magistrate’s court which heard the plea against custody by Goswami and two others on Wednesday noted that on April 16 last year, the court had accepted the closure report submitted by the police. Read AlsoAnway Naik suicide case: Arnab Goswami gave statement in Mumbai, says Maharashtra ministerMUMBAI: The intervention of a senior cabinet member in the previous government made it possible for Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami to record his statement in the suicide abetment case in Mumbai instead of Raigad, said state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Goswami’s statement in the case While remanding Goswami to judicial custody, the order said the objections raised by the trio against police custody and arrest appear to be premised on the ground that their arrest itself is illegal. The magistrate said in the absence of ‘cogent evidence’ no legal ground is made out to grant police custody as “nothing is recovered from the arrested accused.” Read AlsoMake wife of man who ended life a party to case, Bombay HC tells Arnab GoswamiArnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, had to spend his second night in custody as the Bombay high court on Thursday granted him no relief but posted his urgent plea for interim release to 3pm on Friday. The closure report was in relation to the probe of abetment to the suicides of Anvay Naik, 53, and his mother Kumud. The incident happened in May 2018 and police had registered a case based on a suicide note recovered from their bungalow in Alibaug. Read AlsoArnab Goswami arrest: 'Anvay Naik a son of the soil, cops following law'MUMBAI: Shiv Sena on Thursday slammed BJP for supporting Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and calling his arrest in a 2018 abetment to suicide case an “Emergency-like situation” and “an attack on the freedom of the press.” An editorial in its mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ said the Fadnavis Both were directors in an architect firm and it was alleged they ended their lives because Goswami and two other businessmen did not clear their dues totalling Rs 5.4 crore.  The police submitted a closure report under an ‘A’ summary which means the case was classified as true but undetected. Once the report is submitted, it is for the magistrate’s court to decide to accept or reject the report. Read AlsoMumbai: Magistrate told Arnab Goswami to ‘maintain decorum’The chief magistrate of the Alibaug court on Wednesday evening told Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami to maintain decorum, “behave like an accused” and not interrupt the proceedings. The prosecutor told the magistrate’s court on Wednesday that on a fresh complaint made by the widow of the deceased, the probe was revived and 28 witnesses issued notice; of these, 17 have appeared before the police and their statements recorded. Read AlsoArnab Goswami arrest: Maharashtra home dept set up 40-member team to carry out ‘Operation Arnab’The state home department led by NCP’s Anil Deshmukh drafted a high-level 40-member team led by Kokan range inspector general Sanjay Mohite to arrest Arnab Goswami in the 2018 suicide abetment case. Police also relied on a letter written on October 15 to the Alibaug court intimating that a final closure report was submitted earlier to the magistrate but it was carrying out further investigation under provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code. The noting on the letter says it’s been ‘seen and filed’ on October 16. Read AlsoArnab Goswami arrest: Arguments to focus on ‘closure report’ in Anvay Naik caseThe arguments before the Bombay HC today are likely to focus on the ‘closure report’ in Anvay Naik’s suicide case. While the prosecutor told the magistrate’s court on Wednesday that the probe was revived on a fresh complaint made by the widow of the deceased, Goswami’s lawyer said, “rightly or Goswami’s lawyer Aabad Ponda, however, told the Bombay high court on Thursday that the noting is not a court order. He said, “rightly or wrongly, the case was closed’’ and cannot be reopened without a court “nod”. The October 15 letter by the police “does not tell the court’’ that the magistrate has accepted the closure report on April 16, 2019, he said. The legal issue raised before the HC now is whether “this error” can be rectified by the police without approaching a court when the case remains closed. Ponda relied on a 2019 Supreme Court ruling which said “whether further investigation should or should not be ordered is within the discretion of the magistrate.’’ Lawyer Manoj Taneja from Delhi said, “strictly legally speaking on aspects of the law’’, several SC rulings make it clear that police are empowered to undertake further investigations under 173(8) CrPC even when a closure report filed earlier has been accepted. “If some more relevant and tangible evidence surfaces thereafter, as per law it is the bounden duty of the police to further investigate the case,’’ he said adding, “Section 173(8) CrPC nowhere says that necessary permission or an order of court is required before undertaking further investigations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/goswami-case-revival-of-probe-forms-crux-of-hc-case/articleshow/79070880.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 6, 2020||Business||SAT upholds Sebi order against RIL in ’07 insider trading case||MUMBAI: The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on Thursday dismissed an appeal by Reliance Industries (RIL) challenging a Sebi order in connection with its sale of Reliance Petroleum (RPL) shares in November 2007. SAT, in a 2:1 majority order, also upheld Sebi’s decision directing RIL to disgorge Rs 447 crore with an annual interest of 12% since 2007. The tribunal has given RIL 60 days to pay the penalty. RIL, the company controlled by India’s richest man Mukesh Ambani, said it will “prefer an appeal to the Supreme Court” against the SAT verdict. “All trades carried out by the company were genuine and bona fide. No irregularity can be attached to these transactions,” RIL said on Thursday. Three years ago, markets regulator Sebi in an order said that RIL had made unlawful gains from the sale of its 5% stake in RPL in 2007. It observed that RIL, through 12 entities, took separate positions in the November 2007 stock futures of RPL. While the 12 entities earned commissions, all profits and losses were transferred to RIL’s account. RIL subsequently merged RPL into itself in 2009. Sebi had also barred RIL and the 12 entities from dealing in equity derivatives in the F&O segments of the market for one year. The SAT order, however, said since “the period of restraint” had already run its course, hence RIL’s appeal was “confined to the question as to whether the imposition of disgorgement…was justified or not”. Of the three members at the tribunal, presiding officer justice Tarun Agarwala said that the Sebi order should be set aside, while members C K G Nair and justice M T Joshi agreed with the Sebi order against RIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sat-upholds-sebi-order-against-ril-in-07-insider-trading-case/articleshow/79070901.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 6, 2020||World||US Election Results: Why Biden saw big surge in Georgia but not in Arizona||Why has Georgia seen such a dramatic turnaround with Joe Biden, at one point trailing by well over 1 lakh votes, closing the gap to barely 18,000 and threatening to overtake Donald Trump? The answer lies in the enormous lead Biden had in absentee mail ballots and the fact that these were the ones being counted towards the end of the process. As per latest results on the Georgia state department’s website, Trump dominated the votes cast on polling day, with a 60% share to Biden’s 38% (see graphic below). He also had a lead in early voting done in-person, though not by as much. However, the mail ballots were decisively in favour of Biden, who had thus far picked up 64% of those counted. With much of the remaining votes being mail ballots, Democrats and independent analysts see Biden with a very real chance of finishing the winner in the state. Follow live updates: US election resultsA similar trend is evident in North Carolina as well, with Trump winning nearly 66% of election day votes and a smaller majority of early in-person votes (called absentee one-stop votes in that state), but Biden winning over 68% of mail-in ballots. However, Trump’s lead may be just a little too much for Biden to erase here. All anecdotal evidence suggests a similar trend in Pennsylvania, but a break-up of votes by type could not be obtained for the state. US elections 2020: Complete coverageIn Arizona, in contrast, the race hasn’t moved further and further in Biden’s direction as counting has progressed. This too can be understood by looking at the break-up for different types of votes. Unlike in these other states, in Arizona Biden does not have a commanding lead in early voting. The state does not provide a break-up of results by mail-in and in-person early voting, but in early voting as a whole, Biden had a relatively smaller edge over Trump (53% to 46%). That means it is not necessary his lead will keep increasing or even be maintained as more and more mail-in votes get counted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/why-biden-saw-big-surge-in-georgia-but-not-in-arizona/articleshow/79071099.cms||Shankar Raghuraman
November 6, 2020||Business||WhatsApp Pay finally gets nod to launch with 20 million users||BENGALURU: After being stuck in beta mode for over two-and-a-half years, popular messaging platform WhatsApp has got the regulatory approval to launch on Unified Payments Interface (UPI) in a ‘graded manner’ where it can expand to maximum 20 million users initially. So far, it was restricted to 1 million users since February 2018. The significant development came on a day when National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), which manages UPI, also said it will implement a 30% cap on total payment volumes through a single third party payments app from January 1, 2021. For existing third-party apps on UPI, they will get two years to comply till January 2023. For WhatsApp and other future apps on UPI, this will apply from next January. WhatsApp, which has 400 million monthly active users in India, was expected to corner up a significant chunk of users on UPI given its popularity. A senior banker said the payment volume cap is to ensure no one single player ends up with “most of the market share”. “Based on how WhatsApp Pay does over the next two-three months, it would be decided if their user base can be expanded further,” this person added. As of now, Google Pay and Walmart-owned PhonePe are the UPI leaders who each control nearly 40% share on UPI, as of October. WhatsApp’s entry has long been feared by rivals like Google Pay, PhonePe, Paytm and others as it can change industry dynamics. Both the announcements have come right after UPI just clocked 2 billion transactions in a single month for the first time last month. NPCI said WhatsApp can launch on UPI in the multi-bank model while its payments volume cap of 30% will ‘help to address the risks and protect the UPI ecosystem as it further scales up’. Industry players have been averse to this idea. In fact, PhonePe co-founder and CEO Sameer Nigam told TOI in September that the idea wasn’t good and why would anyone invest if their leadership is ‘punished’. For Facebook-owned WhatsApp, getting the final nod has not been easy. While regulators weren’t happy with its data localisation compliance initially, it also faced at least two legal challenges in the Supreme Court where petitions sought its entry blocked in digital payments. In July, TOI reported, quoting an NPCI letter to RBI that was sent in June, which confirmed WhatsApp’s data localisation compliance to the banking regulator. But the approval was not given then. “The only player which may get hit immediately with this market share cap is WhatsApp because they are the new player. One fear was that WhatsApp will walk away with the entire market and this is a middle ground to pave the way for their launch,” said Deepak Abbot, a payments industry veteran and co-founder of fintech startup Indiagold. He also added that implementing a market share cap for companies will be another challenge as they may have to implement user-level or an hourly cap on transactions, which will hit customer experience. “But how will players know if they have hit the 30% cap will be the questions as they don’t know exactly how many transactions their rivals are doing at a given point of time,” he added. The banker quoted above said NPCI is expected to issue further guidelines over the next 30-45 days over the implementation so consumer experience is not hit. “The cap of 30% will be calculated basis the total volume of transactions processed in UPI during the preceding three months (on a rolling basis),” NPCI circular added. A WhatsApp spokesperson did not immediately comment on the regulatory nod. Spokespersons of Google Pay, PhonePe and Paytm did not offer a comment on market share cap either. Watch WhatsApp finally gets regulatory nod to launch UPI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whatsapp-pay-finally-gets-nod-to-launch-with-20-million-users/articleshow/79071913.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 6, 2020||Business||PM seeks long-term investments from top global funds||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday pitched India as a lucrative investment destination, which was not just open for business but ready to contribute to global growth. “If you want returns with reliability, India is the place to be. If you want demand with democracy, India is the place to be. If you want stability with sustainability, India is the place to be. If you want growth with a green approach, India is the place to be,” Modi said during an interaction with 20 top funds from across the world and listed out the reforms undertaken during the last few years — from GST to the recent reforms in labour and farm laws. Modi also focused on the changes in business and governance practices initiated by his government. “We are building a New India which is free of old practices. Today, India is changing and for the better,” he said. The pitch came against the backdrop of signs of recovery from the pandemic shock. The PM sought long-term investments in infrastructure, manufacturing, technology, farm, finance and even social sectors like health and education, while seeking to make India a manufacturing hub. He again sought to impress upon investors that the push for self-reliance was not to be confused with a pursuit of autarky. Modi said it was an attempt to improve the country's capabilities. “India’s quest to become Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) is not just a vision but a well-planned economic strategy. A strategy that aims to use the capabilities of our businesses and skills of our workers to make India into a global manufacturing powerhouse, a strategy that aims to use our strength in technology to become the global centre for innovations, a strategy that aims to contribute to global development using our immense human resources and their talents,” he said. The government is hoping that pension and sovereign wealth fund bosses, who Modi interacted with on Thursday, will pump long-term funds into infrastructure for which a National Investment Pipeline with over 7,000 projects and around $1.5 trillion funding has been readied. In an interview, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had told TOI on Monday that infrastructure investment will have a multiplier effect, boosting demand in other sectors. India has been seeking global investors and weaning away companies from China, seeking to diversify their production bases. During his address at the Virtual Global Investor Roundtable organised by the finance ministry and the National Infrastructure Investment Fund (NIIF), Modi emphasised on democracy and responsible practices in the country and sought to position India as a large diverse market. “I am conscious of your requirement to provide the funds in your trust, the best and safest long-term returns. Therefore, I would like to emphasise that our approach is of finding long-term and sustainable solutions for issues. Such an approach mixes very well with your requirements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pm-seeks-long-term-investments-from-top-global-funds/articleshow/79071944.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Business||Japan to offer aid to 2 companies moving manufacturing base from China to India||NEW DELHI: Japan has agreed to offer financial assistance to two companies — Toyota-Tsusho and Sumida — to diversify their manufacturing base to India as part of its recent initiative to provide subsidy to companies relocating from China. The move was announced following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with global investors on Thursday, sources told TOI. Modi is to follow up Thursday’s round table discussions with one-on-one meetings with the investors, including some marquee Japanese players. Toyota-Tsusho is looking to set up a rare earth metal facility and Sumida is for automotive parts. “Work had been going on to seek to get these companies to India but the Japanese side decided to provide assistance to make the process more attractive for the two companies,” said a government source. India and Japan have been seeking to build a coalition to counter China’s growing dominance and the ties have been strengthened following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Along with Australia, India and Japan had launched supply chain resilience initiative for Indo-Pacific, where the government had also urged Tokyo to expand the coverage of the financial assistance to India. Japan had announced a $2 billion initiative, unofficially aimed at re-shoring some of its companies as well as diversifying into other markets. While a bulk of the funding is aimed at those entities that shift from China back to Japan, India and Bangladesh are among countries where assistance will be provided. There are an estimated 30,000 Japanese companies that have production bases in China, which had emerged as the factory to the world, compared with 5,100 in India. Recently, Japan External Trade Organisation (JETRO) had announced that it would help 10 Japanese companies to get into high-tech projects with Indian companies. The list included the likes of Suzuki and Olympus. While Suzuki is working on IT infrastructure to develop a transit bus traffic control system in rural areas, Olympus and HCL Technologies are working on technologies to aid doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/japan-to-offer-aid-to-2-companies-moving-manufacturing-base-from-china-to-india/articleshow/79071600.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Business||Saudi wealth fund buys 2% in Reliance Retail for Rs 9,555cr||MUMBAI: Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund (PIF) will put Rs 9,555 crore ($1.3 billion) in Reliance Retail Ventures for a stake of just over 2%, the two companies announced on Thursday. The move follows PIF’s earlier investment of Rs 11,367 crore in Reliance Retail’s sister company Jio Platforms. Through that investment, PIF had acquired a 2.3% share in Jio, which was the star contributor to parent Reliance Industries’s second quarter operating profit amid the pandemic. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with whom RIL has a “long-standing relationship”, will be the eighth investor in Reliance Retail, which has mobilised Rs 47,265 crore since September 9. About 11% of Reliance Retail will be in the hands of foreign investors once all the transactions are concluded. PIF’s Rs 9,555-crore investment is the biggest external capital commitment Reliance Retail has received. US-based Silver Lake had committed Rs 9,375 crore in Reliance Retail for a 2.1% stake. PIF’s investment has assigned Reliance Retail a valuation of Rs 4.6 lakh crore ($62 billion), which is 7% higher than the valuation given by the previous investor Abu Dhabi Investment Authority. The latest enterprise value sets a benchmark for Reliance Retail and will help RIL as it plans to take the unit public in the future. Saudi Arabia’s investment in Reliance Retail comes after a deal inked by the latter has been mired in a legal dispute. RIL, however, said that it will go ahead with the Rs 24,713-crore acquisition of Future Retail, despite Amazon’s objections. Besides Reliance Retail, PIF plans to invest Rs 3,779 crore in RIL’s fibre-optic assets. The share-sale in Reliance Retail reflects RIL’s bet on the India consumer story as it reduces its dependence on industrial segments. In the second quarter of fiscal 2021, RIL saw operating profit of its refining and petrochemicals businesses fall by 49% and 33%. India’s retail sector, one of the largest in the world, accounts for over 10% of its gross domestic product (GDP), which presents “meaningful growth potential”, said the joint release by PIF and RIL. Saudi Arabia is tapping RIL’s ability to grow in India’s market of a billion-plus consumers where the pandemic has accelerated a shift in consumer behaviour from brick-and-mortar retail to e-commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/saudi-wealth-fund-buys-2-in-rel-retail-for-rs-9555cr/articleshow/79072016.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 6, 2020||Business||‘Digital, a unifier, can truly make us Atmanirbhar’||Pankaj.Doval@timesgroup.com In pre-Covid times, Tech Mahindra CEO & MD C P Gurnani used to clock 200 days of travel a year, visiting the company’s offices and clients in 90 countries. Today, nearly 95% of the IT services firm’s 1.2 lakh employees are working from home, including Gurnani. He says that the system has been working, and that the industry has moved beyond its “worst challenge”. How far has your business returned to normal? We have responded on a war footing, collaborated with clients and government institutions to ensure wellness and health of our associates, while ensuring a safe and secure WFH environment with no negative impact on deliverables. Only 5-6% of our associates are currently working from offices, sustaining critical services. What have been the main challenges? While there may have been short-term challenges, I believe Covid-19 has given us an opportunity to reduce the cost structure of IT organisations’ operations. We envisage WFH continuing in the longer term, which reduces the need for physical infrastructure to support operations. Also, we can tap a diverse base of talent across cities. Clients will see significant benefits in moving some work offshore. While these are longer term trends, we are addressing near-term challenges with improved analytics. A team of 100 data scientists, under the guidance of the chief transformational officer, is literally measuring in micro-millimetres and using industrial management processes to work on several operational metrics. What more can the government do to help? We see digital becoming the ultimate unifier that can help us become truly ‘Atmanirbhar’. Therefore, concern about the consistency of digital policies issued by the government is bound to arise. Long-term digital policies and consistent terms about taxation and licensing will give us a more vivid picture of our future. Covid-19 has accelerated digitisation resulting in a renewed interest in new-age technologies like 5G, AI, blockchain, cloud, virtual reality, etc. The government, industry, and the academia need to collaborate to promote reskilling and upskilling to address skill gap. Any learnings from the way business has been done during the pandemic? What worked yesterday may not work today, and leaders must be prepared for that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/digital-a-unifier-can-truly-make-us-atmanirbhar/articleshow/79064162.cms||Pankaj Doval
November 6, 2020||Allahabad||High-profile thief held, turns out to be an MBBS dropout||Prayagraj: The officials of the Government Railway Police (GRP) were stunned after ensuring the arrest of a 24-year-old MBBS drop out who had executed several high-profile thefts in Rajdhani express between Kanpur and New Delhi. The youth identified as Puneet Kumar, a resident of Pilibhit was arrested by a joint team of GRP of UP police and RPF near Chaudhary Charan Singh airport in Lucknow recently. SP (GRP) Manoj Kumar Jha told TOI that a special team of GRP started probing a theft case after some unidentified persons had stolen a purse containing Rs 3 lakh of a BJP MP’s wife from Bihar on October 18. While investigating the high-profile theft case, the team started linking other theft cases that occurred in Rajdhani express on October18, October 27 and November 1 and decided to scan the passengers’ list. “After scanning the list, police came to know that Puneet Kumar, who was currently staying in Lucknow, had boarded the Rajdhani express from Kanpur after booking tickets on similar dates. The police team later put his mobile number under surveillance and came to know that he had returned to Lucknow every next day after arranging flight tickets,” said the SP. “Puneet travelled from Lucknow to Kanpur via car and used to take reservation in third a\c. His friend who dropped him at Kanpur central railway station returned after dropping him. After executing high profile thefts, Puneet used to book flight tickets from Delhi to Lucknow to avoid suspicion,” SP added. “The high profile thief was arrested by a joint team of GRP and RPF outside the airport when he had landed at Lucknow from Delhi on November 2. Police said that a total of seven cases were registered against Puneet in state capital,” SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/high-profile-thief-held-turns-out-to-be-an-mbbs-dropout/articleshow/79067831.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Allahabad||HC rider: No social media for two years||Prayagraj: The Allahabad High Court has granted bail to a person accused of making objectionable remarks against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and other public representatives. However, while granting bail to Akhilanand Rao, Justice Siddhartha imposed several conditions on the applicant, like he will not use social media for the next two years. Secondly, he will cooperate in the trial sincerely without seeking any adjournment till the conclusion of the trial before the trial court. A first information report (FIR) was registered against Rao by the police under sections 420 (cheating), 120B (conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code and section 66D of IT Act at Kotwali police station of Deoria and he is in jail since May 12, 2020. It was also alleged that he had falsely shown his status and had tried to obtain undue advantages. Further, the applicant was also posting objectionable posts against some local police officers on social networking sites. The petitioner’s counsel submitted before the court that it is a case of false implication by the police. The bail was granted on November 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-rider-no-social-media-for-two-years/articleshow/79067922.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 6, 2020||Varanasi||14 IIT-BHU profs among top scientists of world||Varanasi: The scientists of the Indian Institute of Technology (BHU) have figured among the top 2% scientists of the world. Besides, 19 scientists of BHU from different fields have also been included in the list. According to the IIT-BHU spokesperson, 14 scientists from the institute have figured among top 2% scientists in the world database created by a team of three scientists led by Dr John PA Loannidis of Stanford University, California, USA. The study is published in the journal Public Library of Science (PLoS) Biology. The list made by Stanford University has placed 1,500 scientists, doctors and engineers in the country. The study includes the name of 14 professors of IIT-BHU, selected on the basis of their research paper’s international evaluation. The selected scientists include Prof Rajiv Prakash, dean (research and development), Prof Pralaya Maiti, Prof Dhananjay Pandey from School of Material Science & Technology, Prof Yogesh Chandra Sharma, Prof PC Pandey from Chemistry department, Prof Brahmeshwar Mishra, Prof Sanjay Singh, Prof SK Singh, Dr MS Muthu from Pharmaceutical Engineering and Technology, Prof Devendra Kumar from Ceramic Engineering, Prof Subir Das from Mathematical Sciences, Dr Rakesh Kumar Singh from Physics, Dr Zahra Sarkar from Mechanical Department and Dr Om Prakash. IIT-BHU director Prof Pramod Kumar Jain congratulated all the teachers on this achievement. Training prog: A two-day online computer training programme organised by the Rajbhasha cell of BHU for non-teaching staff concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/14-iit-bhu-profs-among-top-scientists-of-world/articleshow/79068236.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Patna||Caste likely to play key role in six Araria seats||ARARIA: Six assembly constituencies in Ararira district – Araria, Sikti, Jokihat, Forbesganj, Raniganj and Narpatganj – will go to the polls in the third and final phase on November 7. Caste factor, according to poll observers, will play a major role in all the six seats as far as performance of political parties is concerned. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi and RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav have been promising formation of special development commission for Seemanchal, invoking Article 371 of the Constitution of India. Here is how the political scenario in the six seats looks like: ARARIA: A direct contest appears imminent between JD(U)’s Shagupta Azim and Congress’s Abidur Rahman in Araria. LJP candidate and former BJP district chief Chandrasekhar Singh Babban, however, poses threat to JD(U), while AIMIM candidate Rashid Anwar is trying to garner Muslim votes, affecting the Congress candidate. Altogether 12 candidates are in the fray in the constituency. FORBESGANJ: Although 13 candidates are in fray in Forbesganj, the main contest is between BJP’s Vidyasagar Keshari and Congress’s Jakir Anwar. Anwar was elected on a BSP ticket from here in 2000. Rahul Gandhi and PM Narendra Modi have addressed rallies in Forbesganj. Being the business hub of the district, Forbesganj seat is considered significant. NARPATGANJ: Sitting MLA Anil Yadav of RJD is locked in a direct battle with BJP’s Jai Prakash Yadav, a retired police officer. JAP-L and AIMIM candidates, who are also in fray, may hamper the poll prospect of RJD’s Yadav as they may also get Yadav and Muslim votes. RANIGANJ (R): Sitting JD(U) MLA Achmit Rishideo is in a direct contest with Abinash Mangalam of RJD. Former BJP MLA Parmanand Rishideo, who has been fielded by LJP this time, has posed a threat to JD(U)’s Achmit, making the fight triangular. SIKTI: The electoral battle in Sikti is between BJP and RJD. However, RJD candidate Shatrughan Mandal is facing threat from party rebels Md Kamrujama and Abhishek Anand (son of former Sikti BJP MLA late Anandi Yadav), who were denied ticket by RJD. BJP’s former district spokesperson Raja Mishra is also in fray as independent. JOKIHAT: It’s a fight between brothers in Jokihat. Former Union minister late Mohammad Taslimuddin’s two sons Sarfaraz Alam and Md Shahnawaz are pitted against each other. While Safaraz, a former MP, has been fielded by RJD, his younger brother Shahnawaz is fighting on an AIMIM ticket. BJP, on the other hand, has fielded Ranjit Yadav. Poll observers believe the fight between the two heavyweight brothers may divide Muslim votes in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/caste-likely-to-play-key-role-in-six-araria-seats/articleshow/79068830.cms||L P Nayak
November 6, 2020||Patna||Sharad’s daughter, others all set to make poll debut in state||PATNA: The third phase of polls will decide the fate several young leaders making political debut in the state. Among the first-timers in fray are veteran socialist leader Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Bundela, suspended JD(U) MLC Dinesh Kumar Singh’s daughter Komal Singh, former IAS officer Arund Kumar’s wife Ritu Jaiswal and B P Mandal’s grandson Nikhil Mandal. In Madhepura’s Bihariganj assembly seat, Congress has fielded Subhashini against Niranjan Kumar Mehta of JD(U) and Vijay Kumar Singh of LJP. Subhashini’s election posters in the constituency introduce her as ‘Subhashini Sharad Yadav’. In the 2015 assembly elections, Mehta had defeated BJP’s Ravindra Charan in Bihariganj. Subhashini had joined Congress in mid-October. While addressing the rallies to seek votes from the people of Bihariganj, she said, “I am your daughter and this has been my father’s ‘karmbhoomi’. I have come here to serve you and to fulfil my father’s dreams.” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had also campaigned for her. Nikhil (39), also known as ‘Nokia’ among his friends, is fighting his first assembly election from Madhepura seat. The JD(U) candidate will take on two-time RJD MLA Chandra Shekhar, LJP’s Saakar Suresh Yadav and JAP-L chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav. After completing his masters in law from Open Global University in Nagaland, Nikhil worked in the corporate sector and also served IDBI as financial adviser. He also practised in the Patna high court and later joined JD(U) as its spokesperson. His father Manindra Kumar Mandal, who contested from Madhepura seat, won twice in 2005 (February) and 2005 (October). It was in 2005 when Nikhil joined active politics. Ritu (43), mukhiya of Singhwahini village in Sitamarhi, has been fielded by the RJD from Parihar constituency. She is facing a tough battle against the sitting BJP MLA Gaytri Devi. Ritu was conferred Champions of Change award 2018 by the Vice-President of India Venkaiah Naidu in 2018 and National Panchayat Award in 2019 for her development work in gram panchayat. She is married to Arun, a 1995- batch Indian Civil Service (Allied) officer, who has served as the director of Central Vigilance Commission. One of the youngest among all the candidates, Komal Singh (27) is contesting from Gaighat seat in Muzaffarpur on LJP’s ticket. She is facing a triangular fight against sitting MLA Maheshwar Prasad Yadav of JD(U) and Niranjan Rai of RJD. Her mother, LJP leader Veena Devi, is the sitting MP from Vaishali. She had won the seat by defeating late late Raghuvansh Prasad Singh of RJD. Veena had also won the Gaighat assembly seat in 2010 as a BJP candidate. Komal did her graduate from DU and MBA in international business from Symbiosis University, Pune. She later quit her job in a multinational conglomerate company and joined the LJP. Massive crowds have been witnessed in her election rallies. During electioneering, she was seen riding a Bullet to reach out to voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sharads-daughter-others-all-set-to-make-poll-debut-in-state/articleshow/79068695.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 6, 2020||Business||SAT upholds Sebi order against RIL in 2007 case||TNN Mumbai: The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on Thursday dismissed an appeal by Reliance Industries (RIL) challenging a Sebi order in connection with its sale of Reliance Petroleum (RPL) shares in November 2007. SAT, in a 2:1 majority order, also upheld Sebi’s decision directing RIL to disgorge Rs 447 crore with an annual interest of 12% since 2007. The tribunal has given RIL 60 days to pay the penalty. RIL, the company controlled by India’s richest man Mukesh Ambani, said it will “prefer an appeal to the Supreme Court” against the SAT verdict. “All trades carried out by the company were genuine and bona fide. No irregularity can be attached to these transactions,” RIL said on Thursday. Three years ago, markets regulator Sebi in an order said that RIL had made unlawful gains from the sale of its 5% stake in RPL in 2007. It observed that RIL, through 12 entities, took separate positions in the November 2007 stock futures of RPL. While the 12 entities earned commissions, all profits and losses were transferred to RIL’s account. RIL subsequently merged RPL into itself in 2009. Sebi had also barred RIL and the 12 entities from dealing in equity derivatives in the F&O segments of the market for one year. The SAT order, however, said since “the period of restraint” had already run its course, hence RIL’s appeal was “confined to the question as to whether the imposition of disgorgement…was justified or not”. Of the three members at the tribunal, presiding officer justice Tarun Agarwala said that the Sebi order should be set aside, while members C K G Nair and justice M T Joshi agreed with the Sebi order against RIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sat-upholds-sebi-order-against-ril-in-2007-case/articleshow/79071010.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Business||Saudi wealth fund buys 2% in Reliance Retail for Rs 9,555 crore||MUMBAI: Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund (PIF) will put Rs 9,555 crore ($1.3 billion) in Reliance Retail Ventures for a stake of just over 2%, the two companies announced on Thursday. The move follows PIF’s earlier investment of Rs 11,367 crore in Reliance Retail’s sister company Jio Platforms. Through that investment, PIF had acquired a 2.3% share in Jio, which was the star contributor to parent Reliance Industries’s second quarter operating profit amid the pandemic. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with whom RIL has a “long-standing relationship”, will be the eighth investor in Reliance Retail, which has mobilised Rs 47,265 crore since September 9. About 11% of Reliance Retail will be in the hands of foreign investors once all the transactions are concluded. PIF’s Rs 9,555-crore investment is the biggest external capital commitment Reliance Retail has received. US-based Silver Lake had committed Rs 9,375 crore in Reliance Retail for a 2.1% stake. PIF’s investment has assigned Reliance Retail a valuation of Rs 4.6 lakh crore ($62 billion), which is 7% higher than the valuation given by the previous investor Abu Dhabi Investment Authority. The latest enterprise value sets a benchmark for Reliance Retail and will help RIL as it plans to take the unit public in the future. Saudi Arabia’s investment in Reliance Retail comes after a deal inked by the latter has been mired in a legal dispute. RIL, however, said that it will go ahead with the Rs 24,713-crore acquisition of Future Retail, despite Amazon’s objections. Besides Reliance Retail, PIF plans to invest Rs 3,779 crore in RIL’s fibre-optic assets. The share-sale in Reliance Retail reflects RIL’s bet on the India consumer story as it reduces its dependence on industrial segments. In the second quarter of fiscal 2021, RIL saw operating profit of its refining and petrochemicals businesses fall by 49% and 33%. India’s retail sector, one of the largest in the world, accounts for over 10% of its gross domestic product (GDP), which presents “meaningful growth potential”, said the joint release by PIF and RIL. Saudi Arabia is tapping RIL’s ability to grow in India’s market of a billion-plus consumers where the pandemic has accelerated a shift in consumer behaviour from brick-and-mortar retail to e-commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/saudi-wealth-fund-buys-2-in-rel-retail-for-rs-9555cr/articleshow/79071045.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 6, 2020||Patna||‘Rome of Yadavs’ set for a multi-corner contest||PATNA: Madhepura assembly constituency is all set to witness a multi-corner fight in the third phase of Bihar election with altogether 18 candidates all set to fight it out, including from major parties such as JD(U), RJD and LJP. The sitting MLA Chandra Shekhar of RJD is locked in a tight contest with JD(U)’s Nikhil Mandal, Saakar Suresh Yadav of LJP and JAP-L’s chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav. Shekhar became the MLA from Madhepura when he bagged 72,481 votes and won the seat in the assembly election held in 2010. He defeated Ramendra Kumar Yadav Ravi of JD(U) who managed to get 60,537 votes. In 2015, RJD candidate retained the seat against BJP’s Vijay Kumar by a margin of 37,642 votes. Madhepura seat has a sizeable population of Yadavs, which is around 40% of the total population of the district. This seat has been identified with the popular slogan - ‘Rome Pope ka, Madhepura Gope ka’ (Rome belongs to Pope, Madhepura belongs to Yadavs). Keeping the Yadav population in mind, political parties have pitted candidates belonging to the same castes to woo the voters. Pappu, who has declared himself as a CM candidate of the newly-formed Progressive Democratic Alliance, said in his party’s manifesto that he would make Bihar a corruption-free state in next six months if his party is voted to power. He became MLA in 1990 from Singheshwar assembly seat in Madhepura as an Independent by a margin 21,000 votes by defeating Janata Dal’s Siya Ram Prasad Yadav, and in 1991 he contested and won the 10th Lok Sabha from Purnia. He was elected as MP for four times in 1991, 1996, 1999, and in 2004 from several constituencies in Bihar. After 20 years, Pappu Yadav is again contesting in the assembly election. A total of 3,30,248 electors, including 1,71,075 men and 1,59,162 women as well as 11 transgenders, will decide the fate of all 18 candidates in the poll fray from Madhepura seat. Flood, poverty, roads and education are some of the key issues in this constituency. CHART: Assembly segment- Madhepura District- Madhepura Total voters- 3,30,248 Male- 1,71,075 Female- 1,59,162 Third gender- 11 Polling day- November 7 Sitting MLA- Chandra Shekhar of RJD||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rome-of-yadavs-set-for-a-multi-corner-contest/articleshow/79069812.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 6, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: High-voltage campaign ends, stage set for polling tomorrow||PATNA: The high-voltage campaign in 78 constituencies going to polls in the third and final phase of the assembly polls in the state came to an end on Thursday. The voting will take place on November 7. As many as 1,204 candidates are in the fray in the final phase, including 110 women. Among 2.35 crore voters, 1.12 crore are women and 894 third gender. In addition, there are 22,019 service voters in the third phase, including 1,000 women. ACEO Sanjay Kumar Singh said polling would be held from 7am to 4pm in four constituencies and till 6pm in 74 remaining seats. In all, 33,782 polling stations have been set up, including 4,999 sensitive ones. Around 1,77,450 voters have been identified as vulnerable and 18,854 as troublemakers. In addition, foolproof security arrangements have been made for the by-election in Valmikinagar parliamentary seat in West Champaran district where polling will be held simultaneously. Preparations have been made to provide postal ballot papers to voters above 80 years and those who come under physical disabilities category, the ACEO said. Going by the number of electorate, Saharsa is the largest constituency while Gaighat in Muzaffarpur district is the smallest one in the final phase. The contest by and large will be between GA and the NDA, but as majority of the regions fall in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal area, parties such as AIMIM, LJP and NCP may end up cutting votes of the larger parties. The AIMIM, for instance, won the Kishanganj assembly seat in 2015. As per the Election Commission data, Kishanganj has more than 60% Muslim population, followed by Araria (45%), Katihar (40%) and Purnia (more than 30%). Hence, the narratives for the final phase changed. The NRC, CAA and migration issues dominated the electoral scene. Seemanchal is traditionally considered as RJD bastion. In 2015, the JD(U) had managed to bag 23 seats in the region. Then, the JD(U) was part of GA and hence voters of Muslim community backed it. The equation has now changed as the JD(U) has joined hands with the saffron party. In Grand Alliance, 46 candidates are contesting on RJD tickets, 25 on Congress tickets, five on CPI-ML (Liberation) and two on CPI tickets. In NDA, the JD(U) is contesting 37 seats, BJP 35, VIP five and HAM(S) one. The LJP, which is contesting solo, has put up its candidates on 42 seats, mostly against the JD(U). The other key players in the third phase are the Grand Democratic Secular Front comprising RLSP, AIMIM and BSP. “The NDA’s prospects largely depend on Mithilanchal with focus on Seemanchal. Multi-corner contest is expected in Seemanchal and Kosi belts,” Pramod Kumar, a political observer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/high-voltage-campaign-ends-stage-set-for-polling-tomorrow/articleshow/79068668.cms||Ramashankar
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cracker industry stares at Rs 5,000-crore loss after ban||KOLKATA: Manufacturers and dealers of fireworks in the state are staring at a loss of nearly Rs 5,000 crore following the ban on sale of fireworks till the end of November. With five festivals — Kali Puja, Diwali, Chhath, Jagaddhatri Puja and Kartik Puja — lined up during the month, fireworks traders say nearly 75%-80% of the annual sale will go up in smoke following the ban. Kolkata accounts for around 10%-15% of the fireworks sold statewide. “Fireworks aren’t used everyday. Usually, bulk sales happen over just 20 days in a year. With the ban, it is the end of the road for us,” said Babla Roy, president of Sara Bangla Atoshbaji Unnayan Samity that represents fireworks manufacturers, wholesalers, dealers and retailers in the state. The court’s decision foiled an attempt by the association to lobby with the government for a two-hour window to celebrate Kali Puja and Diwali with green crackers. A meeting scheduled between the association and state’s senior bureaucrats at Nabanna was called off following the HC order. Santanu Dutta, the joint secretary of Burrabazar Fireworks Dealers’ Association, rued the decision despite the shift to green fireworks. “All of us have purchased fireworks for the season and the stocks are in the godown. Around 90% of the fireworks that we sell are from Sivakasi. It is the local manufacturers in Nungi and Champahati who will get hit the most,” said Dutta. Hours after the court ruling, men, women and children engaged in the manufacturing of fireworks — a cottage industry in a belt in South 24 Parganas — took to the streets and blocked a road. “No one cares about what will happen to them. The state should try to offer them some compensation,” said Roy. The order came barely four days ahead of the all-India case before the National Green Tribunal on November 9. Traders in Burrabazar, while crestfallen, said it was also an opportunity for the administration and enforcement authorities to see where the violations happened. “We have been selling legal fireworks at the Baji Bazaars. Since the HC has now said we cannot sell anything, we will comply. But will Kali Puja and Diwali be quiet or will illegal crackers make its way into homes?” wondered Dutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cracker-industry-stares-at-rs-5k-cr-loss-after-ban/articleshow/79068696.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal woman does an Angelina Jolie, gets preventive breast cancer operation||KOLKATA: There was hardly anything common between Hollywood actor Angelina Jolie and Bengal’s Mousumi Roy till the 37-year-old Midnapore homemaker underwent the same procedure that had got Jolie headlines across the world. Roy, whose name and photograph were taken with her and the hospital’s consent, had a preventive nipple sparing mastectomy, a risk reducing procedure for cancer, at a city hospital last month. This was probably the first time such a cancer risk reduction surgery was performed in eastern India. Jolie went through the procedure seven years ago at a Beverly Hills hospital. Like Jolie, Roy lost her mother to breast cancer when she was 10 and then her maternal aunt, too, died of breast cancer. Later, she lost her father to cancer as well. The fear of cancer would often haunt Roy. Worried when she found a lump in her right breast in January, Roy immediately sought treatment at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. Detected at a very early stage, the cancerous tumour was removed by onco-surgeon Suvadip Chakrabarti. But Roy wanted to take a BRCA test (breast cancer gene test) to check if the disease could recur. She tested positive to the test in April, which meant that she had a high risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer. Roy readily agreed to undergo a ‘nipple sparing mastectomy’, which involves removal of the breast tissues keeping the nipple intact and reconstruction of the breast using an implant and the patient’s own muscles. “I was aware of Angelina Jolie’s surgery, but was not sure if it happens in India. My single-minded focus was to rid myself of it completely. My husband has been a pillar of support. It was actually a pleasant surprise when the surgeon said he could do it at Apollo Kolkata itself,” said Roy, a post-graduate in English literature and mother to a seven-year-old girl. Along with her breasts, both her ovaries and fallopian tubes were removed through a laparoscopic bilateral salphingo-oopherectomy. “The patient’s BRCA report showed that risk for her developing breast cancer was 90%. But after the surgeries now, it has come down to less than 5%, which is lower than the risk faced by the average Indian woman her age,” said Chakrabarti. The eight-hour surgery was performed by a team of surgeons led by Chakrabarti. Gynaecologist Ramna Banerjee, plastic surgeon Saptarshi Banerjee and surgical oncologist Tapas Kar were also part of the team. Along with the nipple sparing mastectomy of the left breast, Roy also underwent removal of ovaries and the fallopian tubes. “In special and difficult cases like this, the treatment modalities are discussed in what we call a tumour board that comprises medical, surgical and radiation oncologists,” said cancer surgeon Shaikat Gupta, director, surgical oncology, at Apollo. Syamasis Bandyopadhyay, director of medical services at the hospital, said women who are in the risk category should draw inspiration from Roy. “They have options to explore for conquering cancer rather than keeping it under wraps and lending it further potency,” said the internal medicine specialist. “We thank Roy for bestowing her trust in us,” said Rana Dasgupta, CEO, eastern region, Apollo Hospitals Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-woman-does-an-angelina-jolie-gets-preventive-breast-cancer-op/articleshow/79068726.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 6, 2020||Kanpur||Thermal energy storage system opened at IIT-K||Kanpur: IIT-Kanpur director Prof Abhay Karandikar on Thursday inaugurated a thermal energy storage system of 775 turn/hour capacity in the Centre for Environmental Science and Engineering (CESE) building on the institute campus. Prof Karandikar said that the institute is leading a joint Indo-US project, which is called UI-ASSIST, on smart grid and storage technology, funded by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), through Indo-US Science and Technology Forum, New Delhi. He said that under this project, five demonstration pilot units are being set up in rural, semi-urban, and urban/institutional settings. As part of its urban pilot plan, a 775 turn/hour thermal energy storage system was inaugurated on Thursday, said the director. He added that this system has been installed at the Centre for Environmental Science and Engineering building. “This technology is quite effective in reducing the building air conditioning load and minimizing peak electricity demand in the system. This thermal storage system utilizes the latest concept of the use of phase change material with a Brine solution as coolant which takes low-cost energy during off-peak period to achieve the coolant temperature up to -4 degree Celsius and supports the air conditioning load during peak period to the tune of 77.5 TR for 10 hours. This also results in significant energy saving that can be adopted in Smart City and data centre applications,” Prof Karandikar added. The project is led by Prof. SC Srivastava, Prof. Santanu Mishra and Prof. Ankush Sharma of the Electrical Engineering department of IIT-Kanpur and primarily executed by Vinay Kumar Tiwari, executive engineering in the institute’s works department and Shiv Kumar Singh, research establishment officer, electrical engineering department at IIT-Kanpur, with Kehems Technologies, Indore as the service provider. Prof Sameer Khandekar from the mechanical engineering department has provided periodic guidance for the selection of the technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/thermal-energy-storage-system-opened-at-iit-k/articleshow/79068315.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
November 6, 2020||Varanasi||Bizmen thank CM for approval of readymade garments as ODOP||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur chamber of industries chairman Vishnu Ajit Saria, former chairman SK Agarwal along with other industrialists met Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at Gorakhnath temple on Thursday and thanked him for giving approval to readymade garments as second One District One Product (ODOP). They also handed over a memorandum to the CM seeking help on several industrial issues of the district. “We requested CM Yogi to provide small shades to workers of readymade garment industry so that more people are attracted to establish small garment units. Already 100 acre Textile Park at Purvanchal link expressway is proposed in which spinning mill, power loom, process house and readymade garments units will be established. For readymade garments, a small space is required and it will be very helpful,” said Vishnu Ajit Saria. “In Gorakhpur, we have only 4% industrial area and it needs to be increased to at least 7%,” he said. “We also told CM Yogi that we are trying to provide employment to those 15 thousand workers of garment industry who came to the city during the corona lockdown,” the chairman of Gorakhpur chamber of Industries said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bizmen-thank-cm-for-approval-of-readymade-garments-as-odop/articleshow/79068291.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Patna||HC fumes as over 50% funds for tribals unspent||PATNA: The Patna high court on Thursday was annoyed to know that on an average more than 50% of funds allocated by the Centre for the welfare of scheduled tribes in the state remains unused every year or gets lapsed due to the apathy of the state government. A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar observed that they would not be able to sleep after coming to know such a poor state of affair for tribals in the state. The division bench was hearing a PIL filed by Bihar Adiwasi Adhikar Forum, which had moved the high court over the deplorable condition of the government-run Yugal Shah tribal girl’s high school, the lone residential school for tribal girls in the state located at Harnatand in West Champaran. Amicus curiae Siddhartha Prasad in his detailed report on Thursday, apprised the high court that altogether Rs 48 crore (approx.) was released by the Centre for special programmes for the scheduled tribes between the financial year 2010-2011 and 2017-2018 of which Rs 29.6 crore remained unspent. Prasad also submitted that no fund was released by the Centre for Bihar in the financial years 2012-2013, 2013-2014, 2015-2016 and 2018-2019. He also submitted that Bihar didn’t submit any proposal to the Centre at least four times during the nine financial years. Additionally, the forum’s counsel Vikash Kumar Pankaj submitted that Rs 3.45 crore was sanctioned in November 2017 for construction of a new 100-bed hostel in the tribal school, but West Champaran district education officer is collecting donation and contribution for the same on his initiative. Pankaj also submitted that school teachers had alleged that the in-charge headmaster is growing paddy in school land earmarked for girl’s hostel constructed. He also submitted that the education department’s principal secretary’s affidavit categorising school of secondary level indicates he is ignorant of the fact that +2 level classes are functional there since 2011. These two reports had the high court fuming after which it was ordered that the chief secretary will now reply for the hearing on November 23. Additional advocate general Ashutosh Ranjan Pandey had appeared for the state at the hearing. The forum alleged that Class-VI and Class-VII were abruptly discontinued last year and the hostel for 75 girls was shut. It also alleged that girls’ enrolment was systematically reduced and there was gross mismanagement in running the school which was taken over by the government on July 29, 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-fumes-as-over-50-funds-for-tribals-unspent/articleshow/79070186.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 6, 2020||Patna||NDA, GA candidates to fight it out in five Darbhanga seat||The electoral battle in the five assembly segments of Darbhanga district going to polls in the third phase is likely to be fought between the heavyweights from the ruling NDA and the Mahagathbandhan or the Grand Allaince. Sitting JD(U) MLA from Gaura Bauram segment, Madan Sahni, is contesting from Bahadurpur and RJD MLAs— Bhola Yadav and Abdul Bari Siddiqui— from Bahadurpur and Alinagar constituencies respectively are contesting from Hayaghat and Keoti respectively for. Another turncoat Amarnath Gami, who earlier represented Hayaghat on JD(U) ticket, is now RJD candidate from Darbhanga seat, giving a tough fight to BJP’s Sanjay Sarawgi. Darbhanga (Urban): BJP candidate Sanjay Sarawgi is contesting for the fourth time in a row. He had won this seat in 2005 and 2010 but in 2015, his victory margin dwindled to 7,460 votes. The scenario has changed this time as the sitting JD (U) MLA from Hayaghat Amarnath Gami after joining RJD is contesting from Darbhanga. Altogether 19 candidates are in the fray. Some RJD workers are unhappy with Gami and treats him as an ‘outsider’. As traders are BJP’s vote bank from this area and since Gami comes from the trading community, his presence will make the situation tough for Sarawgi. Hayaghat: Hayaghat was represented by JD(U)’s Gami but it has now gone to BJP under the seat-sharing agreement, which has fielded Ramchandra Prasad. Prasad is pitted against RJD’s sitting MLA from Bahadurpur seat and Lalu Prasad’s close aide Bhola Yadav Altogether 10 candidates are in the fray from here. However, there will be a direct fight between Yadav and Prasad. The local issues here include reopening of the Ashok Paper Mill and protection from annual floods. Bahadurpur:Outgoing minister and JD (U)’s sitting MLA from Gaura Bauram, Madan Sahni, is contesting from this seat against Ramesh Chaudhary of RJD and Devendra Kumar Jha of LJP. While 15 candidates are in the fray, the contest seems to be a triangular one i.e.– the BJP, the JD (U) and the LJP all seems confident. Jale: In the last election, BJP candidate Jivesh Kumar had won the seat by defeating JD (U)’s Rishi Mishra by a margin of 4,620 votes. Jivesh is now pitted against 12 nominees, including Maskur Ahmad Usmani from Congress and Nazir Ahmad Ansari of NCP. Keoti: The constituency is witnessing a straight fight between Abdul Bari Siddiqui of RJD and Murari Mohan Jha of BJP. Altogther 15 candidates are in the race. In the last election, Faraj Fatmi of RJD has won this seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-ga-candidates-to-fight-it-out-in-five-darbhanga-seat/articleshow/79070369.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
November 6, 2020||Patna||Man, woman tonsured & paraded in Katihar||PATNA: Police have lodged an FIR against unknown people after a man and a woman, who allegedly had illicit relations, were thrashed, tonsured and paraded at Bhatwara village under the Korha police station area in Katihar district. The incident, which occurred on Tuesday, came to light on Wednesday after a video went viral on social media platforms. A village panchayat had ordered for tonsuring of the couple. SHO of Korha police station Ravindra Kumar said an FIR has been registered in connection with the incident on the basis of a local chowkidar’s statement. “The villagers have refused to divulge details. We are trying to identify those involved in the incident on the basis of video footages,” he said. Police sources said the man was found at the woman’s house on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-woman-tonsured-paraded-in-katihar/articleshow/79069553.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Patna||12 ministers face tough fight in Phase III||PATNA: The third and last phase of polls on November 7 will decide the fate of 12 cabinet ministers of Nitish Kumar government and the kin of two other cabinet ministers who died of Covid-19 recently. Besides the ministers, other prominent personalities who are in the fray in the last leg of polls are assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) president Mukesh Sahni, veteran socialist leader Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Yadav, senior RJD leader and former finance minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui, RJD boss Lalu Prasad’s aide Bhola Yadav, AICC secretary Shakeel Ahmad Khan, award-winning mukhiya Ritu Jaiswal and CPI’s state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey. The 15 districts going to polls in this phase include West Champaran, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Araria, Kishanganj, Purnia, Katihar, Supaul, Saharsa, Madhepura, Darbhanga, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur. Of the 12 cabinet ministers, eight hail from the JD(U) and four from the BJP. The JD(U) ministers who are in the fray are Bijendra Prasad Yadav (Supaul), Narendra Narayann Yadav (Alamnagar), Maheshwar Hazari (Kalyanpur), Ramesh Rishideo (Singheshwar), Khursheed alias Firoz Ahmad (Sikta), Lakshmeshwar Rai (Laukaha), Bima Bharti (Rupauli) and Madan Sahni (Bahadurpur). The four BJP ministers in fray are Binod Narayan Jha (Benipatti), Pramod Kumar (Motihari), Suresh Sharma (Muzaffarpur) and Krishna Kumar Rishi (Banmankhi). Two cabinet ministers – Vinod Kumar Singh (BJP) and Kapildeo Kamat (JD-U) – recently died of Covid-19. While Vinod’s wife Nisha Singh is contesting as the BJP candidate from her husband’s Pranpur seat in Katihar district, the JD(U) has fielded Kamat’s daughter-in-law Meena Kamat from his traditional Babubarhi seat in Madhubani district. Assembly Speaker Vijay Kuamr Choudhary is seeking re-election from his Sarairanjan seat in Samastipur district. His main rival is RJD’s Arvind Sahni. VIP president Mukesh Sahni is contesting election for the first time from Simri Bakhtiarpur seat. He is pitted against RJD’s Yusuf Salauddin, son of LJP’s Khagaria MP Mehboob Ali Kaiser. Another prominent candidate who is drawing people’s attention is Subhashini Yadav, the Congress candidate from Madhepura district’s Bihariganj seat. She is daughter of veteran socialist leader and former Union minister Sharad Yadav. After completing an MBA degree in marketing, the 30-year-old has made a sudden plunge into politics. Her assembly segment falls under Madhepura Lok Sabha seat which her father has won a number of times. Nearly six former ministers are also in fray in the third phase. Prominent among them are former secondary education minister Ram Praksh Mahto (Katihar), Ramai Ram (Bochahan), Ranju Geeta (Bajpatti), Lesie Singh (Dhamdaha), Shivchandra Ram (Patepur) and Abdul Zalil Mastan (Amour).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12-ministers-face-tough-fight-in-phase-iii/articleshow/79068753.cms||Madan Kumar
November 6, 2020||Patna||Nitish will bow to Tejashwi & Lalu after poll results: Chirag||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Thursday said chief minister Nitish Kumar will be seen bowing before the Mahagathbandhan’s CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav after the election results are declared on November 10. Reacting to Nitish’s announcement that it will be his last election, Chirag said this will lead to the “decimation” of JD (U) in the polls as the candidates’ morale will take a hit due to this in the last phase. “If the leader runs away from the battleground, what will the supporters do? He has assured loss of his candidates on the remaining seats. Now, there is no existence of JD (U),” Chirag said, reaffirming that BJP and LJP will form the next government and Nitish will vacate the CM’s 1 Aney Marg official residence. He told a TV channel at Simri-Bakhtiyarpur that he continues to be with BJP. “I was with PM Modi from the beginning and will continue to be with him. BJP-LJP will form the government on November 10,” Chirag said, adding he is not in the race to be CM and there is no possibility of any post-poll alliance with RJD. Earlier in the day, the 38-year-old Jamui MP said in a press meet held at the LJP’s state headquarters here that migration has increased in Bihar due to “faulty” policies of the Nitish government in the last 15 years. “There was complete mismanagement in Bihar over the last 15 years, due to which the CM and his candidates have lost the faith of voters...He had all the time to make personal attacks on me during electioneering but on the last day of electioneering I would like him to tell at least one achievement of his government in the last five years and what is his roadmap for the next five years,” he said. Chirag went on to say that a strong undercurrent is prevailing against Nitish. “I condemn the way some people pelted onions at the CM a few days ago but his reaction to them could have also been better. He could have talked to them about their grievances, rather than asking them to go on. Nevertheless, it is such anger that is going to lead to a situation after counting of votes on November 10 that Nitish will have to vacate 1, Aney Marg (CM residence),” he said. The LJP chief also alleged that the Seven Resolves of the Nitish government and liquor prohibition led to rampant corruption. Chirag went on to say that like Nitish has ‘bowed down’ to PM Modi, he will do the same to Tejashwi and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. “He knows he will not be able to form the next government as part of NDA. Thus, he will run to Ranchi (to meet Lalu, who is serving a prison term in fodder scam cases),” Chirag said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-will-bow-to-tejashwi-lalu-after-poll-results-chirag/articleshow/79069017.cms||Piyush Tripathi
November 6, 2020||Patna||CAA, NRC take centre stage in Seemanchal poll campaign||PATNA: With Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region going to polls in the final phase on November 7, even campaign narratives saw a shift with Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) hogging the limelight. Even migration was largely discussed by the leaders as people residing in Seemanchal and Kosi, the regions going to polls on November 7, migrate in large numbers to other states to earn livelihood. Uttar Pradesh CM and BJP’s star campaigner Yogi Adityanath, while addressing a rally in Katihar on Wednesday, promised to deport Bangladeshi infiltrators. He also talked about CAA, triple talaq and how people of Katihar could buy land in Jammu and Kashmir. On the same day, CM Nitish Kumar tried to console Muslims, saying none could drive them out of the country. Nitish was speaking in Muslim-dominated Kochadhaman constituency. He said no one in the country had power to throw a ‘Hindustani’ out. While both Nitish and Adiytanath spoke contrary to each other, Mahagatbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav tried to remind Muslims of his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s commitment towards them. The younger Yadav scion recalled how his father had arrested veteran BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani. “My father is in jail because he took on the saffron party leaders, including PM Narendra Modi,” he had said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also addressed four rallies in the last phase. Apart from touching issues like migrants and farmers, Rahul also asked people to be aware of BJP’s ‘B’ team, in an oblique reference to Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM, which is seen as a big trouble for Mahagatbandhan. In fact, all the Mahagatbandhan leaders are describing Owaisi as ‘team B’ of BJP as they fear dent in their vote bank. Political analyst D M Diwakar said politicians change the narrative seeing the population. “The BJP and JD(U) have taken different stands in Seemanchal region. BJP knows that it will get Hindu votes and JD(U) will divide Muslim votes, which will help them,” Diwakar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/caa-nrc-take-centre-stage-in-seemanchal-poll-campaign/articleshow/79069890.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 6, 2020||Patna||One dead, five missing in Bhagalpur boat capsize||PATNA: A woman’s body was fished out from the Ganga and five others feared drowned after an overloaded boat capsized near Darshan Manjhi Ghat at Teen Tanga village under the Gopalpur police station area in Bhagalpur district on Thursday. SHO of Gopalpur police station Kunal Anand said the deceased was identified as Sunaina Devi (35), a resident of Teen Tanga village. “The woman’s body was handed over to her family members after an autopsy. The process to disburse Rs 4 lakh ex gratia to the next of the kin of the deceased has been initiated,” the SHO said. He added four women – Kaushalya Kumari (18), Bindo Devi (40), Sita Devi (30) and Geeta Devi (23) – and a minor boy, Ranvir Kumar (10), all from Teen Tanga village, are still missing. “They were last spotted boarding the boat. They are feared drowned. However, we cannot confirm it until the bodies are fished out from the river,” he said. The SHO said altogether 17 people, including several children and women, who were on the boat reached primary health centre at Gopalpur for treatment. “Of the 17, five had been sent to home after primary treatment. The rest are still under observation,” he said, adding the incident took place around 8.30am. Naugachhia SDPO Dilip Kumar said the unlicensed boat was carrying 50 to 60 people. “The boat has the capacity to carry 150 people. However, fertilisers and other agricultural items were loaded on the boat beyond capacity,” the SDPO added. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar said search and rescue operations were on at the spot. “Efforts are on to trace the missing people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-dead-five-missing-in-bhagalpur-boat-capsize/articleshow/79068949.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 6, 2020||Patna||741 fresh Covid cases take tally to 2.2 lakh||PATNA: Altogether 741 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Thursday, taking the tally to 2,20,246. Officially, eight deaths were registered, following which the toll reached 1,121. However, with 2,12,298 recoveries, there are 6,825 active cases in Bihar. As per the data shared by the state health department, two deaths were reported from Patna, taking the toll to 272 here. Districts like Begusarai, Bhojpur, Buxar, Goplaganj, Kishanganj and Muzaffarpur reported one death each. AIIMS-Patna reported three deaths and deceased include a 42-year-old male of Jamui, a 55-year-old male of Sakmohan village in Samastipur and a 70-year-old male of Kasba village in Purnia. As per the information shared by hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, eight people were discharged and 13 new Covid-19 patients were admitted on the day and as on Thursday, there were 170 patients in the hospital. While no death was reported from Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on Thursday, two new patients were admitted and three were discharged and there were 16 patients in the hospital. Also, of total 741 new Covid-19 cases, 189 were from Patna, taking the tally to 36,866. However, with 34,699 recoveries and 272 deaths, there are 1,895 active cases in Patna district. Covid-19 cases registered from some other districts include Purnia (44), Nalanda (37), Gaya (32) and Muzaffarpur (30). As per the tweet shared by state health minister Mangal Pandey, 476 people have recovered in the past 24 hours and state’s recovery rate was 96.39%. In the same time period, 1,38,539 samples were tested and so far, over 1.16 lakh samples have been tested in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/741-fresh-covid-cases-take-tally-to-2-2-lakh/articleshow/79069031.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Business||WhatsApp Pay finally gets nod to start with 20mn users||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: After being stuck in beta mode for over two-and-a-half years, popular messaging platform WhatsApp has got the regulatory approval to launch on the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) in a “graded manner”. Under this route, it can expand to a maximum 20 million users initially. Since February 2018 it had been restricted to 1 million users. The significant development came on a day when the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), which manages UPI, also said it will implement a 30% cap on total payment volumes through a single third-party payments app from January 1, 2021. For existing third-party apps on UPI, they will get two years to comply till January 2023. For WhatsApp and other future apps on UPI, this will apply from next January. WhatsApp, which has 400 million monthly active users in India, was expected to corner a significant chunk of users on UPI given its popularity. A senior banker said the payments volume cap is to ensure no single player ends up with “most of the market share”. “Based on how WhatsApp Pay does over the next two-three months, it would be decided if their user base can be expanded further,” this person added. Currently, Google Pay and Walmart-owned PhonePe are the UPI leaders, each controlling nearly 40% share on UPI, as of October. WhatsApp’s entry has long been feared by rivals like Google Pay, PhonePe and Paytm as it can change the industry’s dynamics. Both the announcements have come right after UPI just clocked 2 billion transactions in a single month for the first time in October. NPCI said WhatsApp can launch on UPI in the multi-bank model, while its payments volume cap of 30% will “help to address the risks and protect the UPI ecosystem as it further scales up”. Industry players have been averse to this idea. In fact, PhonePe co-founder and CEO Sameer Nigam told TOI in September that the idea wasn’t good and why would anyone invest if their leadership is “punished”. For Facebook-owned WhatsApp, getting the final nod has not been easy. While regulators weren’t happy with its data-localisation compliance initially, it also faced at least two legal challenges in the Supreme Court where petitions sought its entry to be blocked in digital payments. In July, a TOI report quoted an NPCI letter to the RBI that was sent in June, confirming WhatsApp’s data-localisation compliance to the banking regulator. But the approval was not given then. “The only player which may get hit immediately with this market share cap is WhatsApp because they are the new player. One fear was that WhatsApp will walk away with the entire market and this is a middle ground to pave the way for their launch,” said Deepak Abbot, a payments industry veteran and co-founder of fintech startup Indiagold. He also added that implementing a market share cap for companies will be another challenge as they may have to implement user-level or an hourly cap on transactions, which will hit customer experience. “But how will players know if they have hit the 30% cap will be the question as they don’t know exactly how many transactions their rivals are doing at a given point of time,” he added. The banker quoted earlier said NPCI is expected to issue further guidelines over the next 30-45 days over the implementation so consumer experience is not hit. “The cap of 30% will be calculated basis the total volume of transactions processed in UPI during the preceding three months (on a rolling basis),” the NPCI circular added. A WhatsApp spokesperson did not immediately comment on the regulatory nod. Spokespersons of Google Pay, PhonePe and Paytm did not offer a comment on market share cap either.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whatsapp-pay-finally-gets-nod-to-start-with-20mn-users/articleshow/79071074.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 6, 2020||Patna||4 East Champaran seats may witness triangular contests||MOTIHARI: There are six assembly constituencies left in East Champaran district going to the polls on November 7 in the last pahse. Among them, Motihari and Raxaul will have a direct fight between NDA and the Mahagathbandhan, while segments like Sugauli, Dhaka, Chiraiya and Narkaitya are likely to witness triangular contests. Motihari: Motihari assembly segment has been considered as the stronghold of BJP and sitting MLA Pramod Kumar has represented this seat four times. He is pitted against Om Pralash Chaudhary of RJD. Chaudhary had contested as RJD nominee from Sugauli segment in 2015 but was defeated by the BJP. RJD fielded Chaudhary from Motihari this time, eyeing votes of the Mallah community. Raxaul: A sub-divisional town on Indo-Nepal border and the gateway to Nepal, Raxaul has 13 candidates in fray this time. However, BJP’s Pramod Sinha is locked in direct contest with Rambabu Yadav of Congress. Also, five time MLA Dr Ajay Kumar Singh has been denied ticket by the BJP and he is contesting as a BSP candidate. Former RJD leader Suresh Yadav on the other hand, is contesting as an Independent. Shashi Bhushan Singh, a resident of Raxaul said, “The NDA is banking on its core votes and Mahagathbandhan is banking on its M-Y (Muslim-Yadav) combination.” Sugauli: Altogether 15 candidates are in the fray in Sugauli and about 2,85,138 electors are expected to exercise their franchise on 414 booths. This assembly segment has been badly damaged by floods earlier this year. Sitting BJP MLA Ram Chandra Sahani, who represented this constituency thrice, is locked as ally VIP’s candidate and is in direct contest with RJD’s Shashi Bhushan Singh. Former minister Vijay Gupta is also in the fray on LJP ticket, making the contest triangular. Chiraiya: Altogether 24 candidates are trying their luck in this election from the Chiraiya assembly segment. BJP’s sitting MLA Lalbabu Gupta is pitted against RJD’s Achhelal Yadav, a new face. Former RJD leader Luxmi Narayan Yadav and three times MLA has been denied ticket and he is contesting as a rebel. Awanish Kumar Singh, who represented Chiraiya and Dhaka constituencies for five terms as BJP nominee, is also contesting as an Independent this time. Independent candidate Sanjay Kumar is making it a multi-cornered contest. Dhaka: Though total nine candidates are in the fray this time but Dhaka assembly segment is broadly witnessing a triangular contest. RJD’s sitting MLA Faisal Rahman is pitted against BJP nominee Pawan Jaisawal. Pawan was defeated by Faisal in 2015 election. Ram Pukar Sinha, a JD (U) leader, resigned from the party and is contesting as RLSP candidate, making the contest triangular. Narkatiya: There are 13 candidates in fray in Narkatiya assembly segment but the main contest, poll observers say, is between Dr Shamim Ahamad of RJD and JD (U) candidate Shyan Bihari Prasad. Dr Shamim is sitting MLA of RJD and Shyam Bihari is former MLA from this segment. LJP has also fielded Sonu mukhiya as its candidate, making the contest triangular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-east-champaran-seats-may-witness-triangular-contests/articleshow/79070426.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
November 6, 2020||Business||MFs can invest up to $600mn abroad||TNN Mumbai: To help retail investors diversify their portfolio but in a less risky manner, Sebi on Thursday doubled the investment limit for each mutual fund to invest in foreign securities to $600 million with the overall fund industry limit set at $7 billion. The markets regulator had last set this limit in 2008. Mutual funds can make overseas investments subject to a maximum of $600 million per fund house, within the overall industry limit of $7 billion, Sebi said. In addition, mutual funds can make investments in overseas ETFs subject to a maximum of $200 million per fund house, within the overall industry limit of $1 billion, it said. According to PPFAS Mutual Fund CIO Rajeev Thakkar, Sebi’s decision will provide Indian funds an enhanced opportunity to invest abroad. It also increases the option of diversity for Indian fund investors, he said. The fund house has been one of the early movers of investing abroad since it launched its first scheme in 2013. In addition to PPFAS MF, Motilal Oswal, ICICI Prudential and Franklin Templeton also have schemes that invest abroad and some of these were nearing their current $300-million limit, industry players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mfs-can-invest-up-to-600mn-abroad/articleshow/79070989.cms||---
November 6, 2020||---||Give us one chance: Tejashwi Yadav to voters||PATNA: On the last day of poll campaigning in the state for the final phase, Mahagatbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday appealed to people to give the alliance one chance to usher in development in the state. Tejashwi, who addressed 17 rallies during the day, reiterated his 10 lakh government job promise, increase in remuneration of self-help groups, equal pay for equal work, increase in widow pension and better health and education facilities in the state. “It’s Nitishji’s farewell on November 10 and also time for the people to say goodbye to BJP,” Nitish said in all his rallies, In Saraiganj, he took jibe at the double-engine government. “What is the use of this double engine when it failed to give special package and special status to Bihar. One engine is doing corruption and another crime,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/tejashwi-give-us-one-chance/articleshow/79073183.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 6, 2020||Patna||Give us one chance: Tejashwi Yadav to voters||PATNA: On the last day of poll campaigning in the state for the final phase, Mahagatbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday appealed to people to give the alliance one chance to usher in development in the state. Tejashwi, who addressed 17 rallies during the day, reiterated his 10 lakh government job promise, increase in remuneration of self-help groups, equal pay for equal work, increase in widow pension and better health and education facilities in the state. “It’s Nitishji’s farewell on November 10 and also time for the people to say goodbye to BJP,” Nitish said in all his rallies, In Saraiganj, he took jibe at the double-engine government. “What is the use of this double engine when it failed to give special package and special status to Bihar. One engine is doing corruption and another crime,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-give-us-one-chance/articleshow/79069778.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||Chhath should not be held at Lake, Subhas Sarobar: Calcutta HC||KOLKATA: Calcutta High Court’s observation on Thursday that the state government consider keeping Chhath rituals away from Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar has given environment activists, birders and morning walkers at the lakes a fillip. “The HC’s observation will strengthen our case at Supreme Court against the KMDA’s plea to allow Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar,” said Subhas Datta, who had moved the National Green Tribunal in 2015 against the pollution caused by Chhath rituals, which included pouring oil and ghee into the lake’s water and bursting of crackers after dusk and before dawn by revellers. Following the petition, the NGT had ordered a ban on all religious and cultural activities in the lake but Chhath continued to be held with the tacit support of political leaders. This year, KMDA — the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar — has moved SC to allow Chhath after NGT dismissed its plea. The case will come up for hearing on November 16. Sudip Ghosh, an IT professional and a passionate birder at the lake, felt the government ought to take a cue from the court’s observation and make alternative arrangements for Chhath devotees while allowing the twin lakes stay pristine. “The lockdown has helped rejuvenate Subhas Sarobar and Rabindra Sarobar. Painted stork from Siberia that was last seen in 2015 when the sudden explosion of Chhath celebrations drove the migratory birds away, have returned this year. Let’s hope they are not traumatised again,” he said, adding that the use of crackers in and around Rabindra Sarobar also leads to deaths of smaller birds each year. Against 94 species of birds that had been recorded last year, birders have spotted 119 species of birds at Rabindra Sarobar this year, the highest count in recent years. Sumita Banerjee, who has been crusading for Rabindra Sarobar’s preservation for years, welcomed the court observation and hoped KMDA would reconsider pursuing its plea to allow the festival at the lake before the apex court. Mani Prasad Singh, the president of Bihari Samaj that represents a section of Chhath devotees, while welcoming the ruling against use of crackers at the festival, remained circumspect about the observation on Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. “We are happy with the ban on crackers. Chhath is a pious festival. The crackers were polluting the festival. It was fine when the population was small and there wasn’t as much pollution in the atmosphere. We even want a ban on band parties and dancing on the road. But there should be no curbs on observing the Chhath rituals at the lakes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chhath-should-not-be-held-at-lake-subhas-sarobar-cal-hc/articleshow/79068665.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar has accepted defeat: Opposition||PATNA: The opposition leaders on Thursday reacted sharply to CM Nitish Kumar’s remark that it was his last election, saying the latter has foreseen his defeat. Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav tweeted, “Respected Nitishji was not ready to accept people’s desire and ignorance as well as the ground reality. Since the beginning, I have been saying that he has got tired. He has put a stamp on my words (sic).” LJP chief Chirag Paswan tweeted, “There is a commotion among JD(U) leaders after announcement by NItish Kumarji. Many big leaders of JD(U) have become jobless. They will not be given any place in Bihar First, Bihari First (vision document of LJP). They will always remain unemployed. We will not allow Bihar to be destroyed anymore.” Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said Nitish has accepted his defeat. “It would have been better had CM Nitish and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi apologised to the people of Bihar for ruining the state. Nitish has accepted his defeat even before the third phase of polls. He did this in the middle of polls and not before the beginning only after seeing his defeat.” RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha described Nitish’s remark as a “desperate rhetorical position” “He has finally come out of denial mode. There is a call for a pro-people government. As a result, he had to take this step today,” Jha said. Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, however, appealed to Nitish to reconsider his decision. “I and many Biharis like me are saddened with the announcement by Nitishji about this being his last election. The work done by Nitish for development of Bihar is exemplary. He should reconsider his decision in the interest of the state,” Manjhi tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-has-accepted-defeat-opposition/articleshow/79068730.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Patna||Patna: Markets gear up for festive sales||PATNA: After Navratri and ‘Karva Chauth’, markets are gearing up for another round of festive sales during the upcoming Dhanteras and Diwali celebrations. Traders are eagerly waiting for a surge in gold and car sales during this festive season. Umesh Tekriwal, owner of a branded jewellery shop at Fraser road said, “The weddings scheduled for April, May and June were postponed to November, December and January due to Covid-19 pandemic. This led to a plunge in the demand for gold, but it is gradually surging with the onset of festive season.” Tekriwal added, “The price of gold has increased to Rs 50,000 per 10gm. This has led to increase in sales as customers want to avoid further price rise in the festive and wedding season. We have plenty of bookings already for Dhanteras as customers wish to avoid the crowd on that particular day.” Automobile dealers also said that they are already registering high sales. “Compared to last year, the sale of cars has increased significantly this year. We see it as the after-effect of Covid- induced lockdown, wherein people are ignoring public transport and giving importance to personal vehicle,” said Kumar Nitesh, marketing manager at a city-based automobile showroom. He added: “The pandemic in a way has boosted the demand for cars, especially during this festive season. We already have bookings for Dhanteras as customers tend to wait for this festival every year to buy car.” Consumers are also enthusiastic about making the purchase on time. Raman Das (36), an engineer said, “We have booked a car for Dhanteras as we do not want to get into the rush of the festival. The pandemic has made me realize the need for a personal vehicle. Hence, we will purchase our own car to avoid public transport.” Some people are also buying gold for investment purpose. “We always wait to buy consumer durable goods during the Dhanteras and Diwali. This pandemic has made us realize the importance of savings. Hence, we have decided to buy gold on the occasion of Dhanteras, as it would be an investment,” homemaker Abhilasha (32) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/markets-gear-up-for-festive-sales/articleshow/79070301.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Patna||RJD has not changed a bit: J P Nadda||PATNA: BJP national president J P Nadda on Thursday appealed to the people of Mithila region to vote overwhelmingly for the NDA candidates during the third phase of polls on November 7. “Ensure victory of NDA candidates for rapid development in the state,” Nadda said at Hayaghat. State road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav and Darbhanga MP Gopaljee Thakur also addressed the rally. BJP’s Hayaghat nominee Ram Chandra Prasad and JD(U)’s Benipur candidate Ajay Choudhary were also present.Nadda said PM Narendra Modi has given the people of Darbhanga All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to be constructed at an investment of Rs 1,200 crore. “Doubling and electrification of railway lines in the region and construction of six flyovers in Darbhanga are also on the cards,” he said. Nadda said the Centre has planned to establish food processing units to process makhana if the farmers form 1,000 farm producers’ organisation(FPOs). “The farmers will get storage facility, cold storage, roads to the market and whatever they want if they form the FPOs,” Nadda said, adding Rs 172 crore had been allotted to Bihar for fishery development.Describing the Grand Alliance comprising the RJD, Congress and three Left parties as a combination of parties which “will plunge the state into anarchy”, Nadda said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was “not a patriot” as his statement had been used by Pakistan to buttress its claims on India at the UN. “I refer to the ‘jungle raj’ because I want to remind people of their track record and to stress that the RJD has not changed a bit. Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has promised to give 10 lakh jobs, but he cannot. He did not even participate in the budget session of the state assembly,” Nadda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-has-not-changed-a-bit-nadda/articleshow/79069721.cms||Abhay Singh
November 6, 2020||Goa||Tender with new terms likely for Bainguinim waste plant||PANAJI: Anticipating that no bidders are likely to qualify for setting up of the solid waste management facility at Bainguinim, the Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) may relax the criteria for bidders and float a fresh tender. The tender document was floated as per the guidelines of Central Public Works Department (CPWD), waste management minister Michael Lobo told TOI. “We will wait till November 9 to see how many bidders qualify for the bids, and then we will float a fresh tender,” Lobo said. “As per CPWD guidelines, nobody will qualify,” he said. Lobo said that they will revise the capacity of daily waste treatment and its turnover capacity. The waste management minister said that the same tendering procedure was followed after the state government did not get a bidder to set up the solid waste management facility at Saligao. The long-pending Bainguinim garbage treatment plant is poised to take shape soon as GWMC has invited bids for setting up a solid waste processing facility with a processing capacity of 250 tonnes per day. In 2008, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) had acquired land at Bainguinim to set up the plant, and in 2017 it was handed over to GWMC. A public hearing was conducted by GWMC, and subsequently environment clearance was obtained. Four companies participated in the pre-bid meeting for the solid waste management plant at Bainguinim. Companies that attended the meeting include Organic Recycling System, Hindustan Waste Treatment, 3R Management and Landsky Engineers. The plant, estimated to cost Rs 200 core, is expected to cater to the entire Tiswadi taluka. The corporation had invited a request for qualification (RFQ) for the proposed plant. Bids must be submitted before November 9. GWMC has decided to undertake the project through public private partnership (PPP) on a design-build-finance-operate-transfer (DBFOT) basis, wherein the plant infrastructure will be implemented by the concessionaire along with operations and maintenance for a period of ten years. The plant will include recycling and sorting lines, segregation, bio-methanation and composting system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tender-with-new-terms-likely-for-bainguinim-waste-plant/articleshow/79071083.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||Task cut out for police to execute HC’s cracker order||Kolkata: On a day Calcutta High Court banned the selling and use of firecrackers this Kali Puja, Lalbazar said it was planning a multi-pronged response to implement the order. In private though, several officers on the ground called it a ‘Herculean task’, given most of the stocks have already reached the city. Lalbazar said it had decided to approach the challenge in three different ways. “To begin with, we will try and seize as many firecrackers as possible. This will include stopping the entry of crackers into the city and taking action against local sellers. Second, we will try to educate the mass about the court order. The process has already begun. This will include talking to resident associations and making them aware of the legal implications. Lastly, we will be prosecuting some people with stringent sections to send out a strong message. This will include asking them to take bail from court,” explained a joint CP. A detailed guideline of action will be prepared and circulated to the cops soon. The usual anti-illegal cracker drives, including going around neighbourhoods in autos announcing the advice of the state and the subsequent HC order and putting up smaller teams at “specific zones” to crack down on banned fireworks and even using road display boards to try and drill sense among citizens, will be initiated at the earliest. “The sensitization will be the first big challenge,” said a police officer. The central division has been asked to contact all stockists who have a license to sell firecrackers. All local police stations have been asked to keep a list of local retailers ready. The market domination will also be part of the strategy, said sources. However, senior officers conceded that this was a tough job. “If a cracker is burst on top of a highrise, there is little we can do. By the time we reach the gated communities, the accused will remove all evidence. This year, when we have to arrange for cops at pandals too, we will be severely constrained as far as manpower is concerned. Add to it the fact that firecrackers have already made their way into the city. A coordinated response — with help from North and South 24 Parganas, Bidhannagar and Barrackpore city police — will be required, said an officer. Police have already seized over 2000kg of illegal firecrackers in the city and its suburbs. “Specific cases under the Explosives Act have been registered. Like last year, we will not release those found to be bursting illegal crackers immediately after they are caught in the act. In certain cases, we plan to take them to court to obtain bail,” said an officer. Environmentalists though say that there is a gap between what Lalbazar plans and what is finally done. “Nothing significant has been obtained from the 15 FIRs registered last year,” said a spokesperson from NGO Sabuj Sathi. The police urgency this time though is evident from the circular that has ordered the river traffic police to patrol ghats and asked all police stations along Tolly Nullah and especially the two divisions of Behala and Jadavpur to form squads to stop illegal crackers from entering the city. Police said they will be adding the firecracker clause to all its ongoing Covid campaigns at markets and important street corners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/task-cut-out-for-police-to-execute-hcs-cracker-order/articleshow/79068684.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 6, 2020||Patna||Nitish must condemn Yogi’s ‘infiltrator’ jibe or dump BJP: Congress||PATNA: Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Thursday asked chief minister Nitish Kumar to either break ties with BJP or condemn Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath’s statement on “Bangladeshi infiltrators” in Bihar. Surjewala’s statement came in the context of speeches made by the CM assuring Muslims on Wednesday that no one will be thrown out of the country, while the UP CM had said all "Bangladeshi infiltrators" would be thrown out of the country. “Now Nitish Ji should either leave BJP or publicly say that Ajay Singh Bisht is wrong. Both these losing parties are now trying to spread confusion,” said Surjewala at a press conference in Patna. Continuing his attack on the NDA government, he said people this time had voted for development, employment, MSP, education and better health. “They tried to deviate from real issues, but could not succeed. We can smell the fragrance of Mahagatbandhan’s victory.” Upping the ante against AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, Surjewala in another press conference in Purnia termed Owaisi as BJP’s ‘B team’. He asked why AIMIM is contesting 24 seats in Seemanchal when it contested just nine seats in its home state Telangana. “Whenever Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s defeat is forecast, he takes the help of Owaisi’s AIMIM for the polarization of votes. This is done to bury development issues,” said Surjewala, adding, “Even the script for Owaisi’s speech is prepared by BJP.” He said AIMIM contested only nine seats in Telangana, which has a total of 119 Vidhan Sabha seats. “A party from Telangana whose existence is with nine seats there, with whose help are they fighting on 24 seats in Seemanchal? A party which does not contest outside of one city in Telangana, why does it contest in states like Maharashtra, Bihar, UP and Jharkhand? This should be given a thought. ” He also pointed out AIMIM’s alliance with the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and its cordial relation with PM Modi. “This TRS was a strong supporter of CAA and NRC and indirectly AIMIM is supporting BJP,” said Surjewala. He even talked about BSP’s Mayawati supporting BJP in UP and then BSP and AIMIM forging an alliance in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-must-condemn-yogis-infiltrator-jibe-or-dump-bjp-congress/articleshow/79068793.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 6, 2020||Vadodara||Flouride-laced groundwater threatens Gen-next Barodians||Vadodara: Barodians are staring at a parched future, caught between municipal corporation’s turbid tap water and the highly unhealthy groundwater. While the tap water is rendered unfit for consumption owing to leakages and other pipeline issues, citizens face a bigger health hazard from the underground water table, claims a study done by Anuva Saha and Priyal Gandhi, students of MS University’s environmental science department, with support of Gujarat Ecology Society (GES).The study reveals that in the last five years, fluoride concentration in Banyan City’s groundwater has exponentially increased and reached a level now which is way above the prescribed limit by the Bureau of Indian Standards. The researchers collected samples of groundwater through geographic information system (GIS) mapping of different administrative wards of Vadodara Municipal Corporation. These samples suggest that the fluoride concentration in western, northern, southern and central parts of the city has raised by an alarming level in five years. The revealed that the high fluoride concentration will pose several health risks such as fluorosis, ligament calcification, developmental disorder in children, liver and kidney dysfunction as well as nerve weakness.A similar study done by GES in 2014 shows that in these areas the fluoride concentration was 1 milligram per litre (mg/l) or even less than that, but the study of 2019 shows that the fluoride concentration is in the range of 1.5-2 mg/l.“In some parts the water table has decreased to the level of the lower aquifer where fluoride concentration is high. This concentration will continue to remain high until groundwater is recharged,” said Dr Deepa Gavali, director of GES, adding that groundwater recharge has also reduced as the city is losing urban wetlands.Gavali further said that Vadodara city has lost 40 hectares of urban wetlands since 2005. “This area is equal to the size of eight Sursagar ponds,” she said.While the problem of total dissolved solids (TDS) in water can be resolved through the household RO systems, fluoride concentration cannot be reduced through RO or boiling. “High fluoride concentration will lead to several health disorders if the groundwater quality goes unchecked,” Gavali warned, adding that health risk appraisal already indicates fluoride carcinogenicity high in children than in adults and negligible in infants. The fluoride concentration can be checked only if the groundwater is recharged, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/flouride-laced-groundwater-threatens-gen-next-barodians/articleshow/79067040.cms||Jay Pachchigar
November 6, 2020||Business||Sensex hits pre-Covid high of Feb||TNN Mumbai: Democrat presidential candidate Joe Biden’s chances of becoming the next US president led to a strong global rally, which also lifted the sensex by 724 points, or nearly 2%, to close at 41,340. At Thursday’s close, the sensex is finally above the levels seen before Covid’s outbreak — also its eight-month high mark. On February 19, the sensex had closed at 41,323 and the massive slide that took it to a multi-year low of 25,639 points on March 24 had started the next day. Thursday’s rally also took BSE’s market capitalisation to Rs 161.1 lakh crore, its highest ever level. Since February 19 till now, investors’ wealth, as measured by the BSE’s m-cap, has increased by about Rs 3 lakh crore. During the day’s session, Reliance Industries and financials led the rally that was across the board with all of the 30 sensex stocks closing higher, which is a rarity. The sessions also witnessed strong foreign fund buying with the net inflow figure at Rs 5,368 crore, while domestic funds were net sellers at Rs 2,208 crore, BSE data showed. There are some in the market who believe that a split verdict in the US — a Democratic president with a Republican-majority Senate — is good for the global economy and the market. “Investors across the globe appear happy that there may not be a ‘Blue wave’ outcome in the US elections,” HDFC Securities head (retail research) Deepak Jasani said. “If Republicans hold the Senate, they will want to stop what they see as the Joe Biden ‘spending agenda’ and ‘runaway federal debt’, which will mean less fiscal stimulus and no corporate tax increases. A divided US government is likely to be a favourable outcome for most asset classes,” Jasani said. Although the sensex is now less than 3% away from its all-time high level of 42,274 points, market players warned of volatility ahead. The prevailing volatility will continue in line with global indices until there is a clear winner in the US presidential elections, Religare Broking VP (research) Ajit Mishra said. “However, the recent buoyancy in the banking pack on the domestic front is certainly encouraging. But that might also take a breather after the recent surge.” On Friday, market players here expect another session of gains, again because of the strong rally on Wall Street on Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-hits-pre-covid-high-of-feb/articleshow/79070930.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Patna||Met: Onset of winter in state by month-end||PATNA: Minimum temperature has plunged to below 15 degrees C at most places in the state, including Patna, paving way for onset of wintry conditions in the region. The lowest minimum temperature was recorded at 10.7 degrees C at Gaya on Thursday. The change in weather pattern is observed across the state with the gradual plunge in mercury column as the minimum temperature in Purnia and Muzaffarpur was recorded at 14.2 and 14.9 degrees C. The all-India weather bulletin issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday stated that minimum temperature would fall in Bihar by 3-4 notches over the next three to four days. Weathermen claimed that the minimum temperature is likely to remain in the range of 10-15 degrees C in the south-western parts of the state and 15-20 degrees C in north- eastern parts. Maximum temperature, on the other hand, is likely to be in the range of 28-32 degrees C over the next five days. Sanjay Kumar, a meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre, said the temperature is likely to be lower in south-west Bihar as compared to north-eastern parts of the state. “Minimum as well as maximum temperatures will gradually fall and the onset of winter is expected by the end of this month. The gradual plunge in temperature across the state will continue till the onset of winter,” he said. He added, “The fall in temperature will be observed less in the day as compared to night owing to the clear skies. The clear skies allow the solar rays to penetrate directly in the lower level of atmosphere during the day time, leading to comfortable day temperature. However, the same clear skies allow solar radiation to escape in the upper level of atmosphere, leading to plunge in the night temperature.” Amit Sinha, another official at Patna Meteorological Centre, attributed the plunge in night temperature to dry and cold north-westerly winds blowing in the region. “The weather is likely to remain dry over the next four to five days, which is conducive for sowing of wheat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-onset-of-winter-in-state-by-month-end/articleshow/79069108.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: High-voltage campaign ends, stage set for polling tomorrow||PATNA: The high-voltage campaign in 78 constituencies going to polls in the third and final phase of the assembly polls in the state came to an end on Thursday. The voting will take place on November 7. As many as 1,204 candidates are in the fray in the final phase, including 110 women. Among 2.35 crore voters, 1.12 crore are women and 894 third gender. In addition, there are 22,019 service voters in the third phase, including 1,000 women. ACEO Sanjay Kumar Singh said polling would be held from 7am to 4pm in four constituencies and till 6pm in 74 remaining seats. In all, 33,782 polling stations have been set up, including 4,999 sensitive ones. Around 1,77,450 voters have been identified as vulnerable and 18,854 as troublemakers. In addition, foolproof security arrangements have been made for the by-election in Valmikinagar parliamentary seat in West Champaran district where polling will be held simultaneously. Preparations have been made to provide postal ballot papers to voters above 80 years and those who come under physical disabilities category, the ACEO said. Going by the number of electorate, Saharsa is the largest constituency while Gaighat in Muzaffarpur district is the smallest one in the final phase. The contest by and large will be between GA and the NDA, but as majority of the regions fall in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal area, parties such as AIMIM, LJP and NCP may end up cutting votes of the larger parties. The AIMIM, for instance, won the Kishanganj assembly seat in 2015. As per the Election Commission data, Kishanganj has more than 60% Muslim population, followed by Araria (45%), Katihar (40%) and Purnia (more than 30%). Hence, the narratives for the final phase changed. The NRC, CAA and migration issues dominated the electoral scene. Seemanchal is traditionally considered as RJD bastion. In 2015, the JD(U) had managed to bag 23 seats in the region. Then, the JD(U) was part of GA and hence voters of Muslim community backed it. The equation has now changed as the JD(U) has joined hands with the saffron party. In Grand Alliance, 46 candidates are contesting on RJD tickets, 25 on Congress tickets, five on CPI-ML (Liberation) and two on CPI tickets. In NDA, the JD(U) is contesting 37 seats, BJP 35, VIP five and HAM(S) one. The LJP, which is contesting solo, has put up its candidates on 42 seats, mostly against the JD(U). The other key players in the third phase are the Grand Democratic Secular Front comprising RLSP, AIMIM and BSP. “The NDA’s prospects largely depend on Mithilanchal with focus on Seemanchal. Multi-corner contest is expected in Seemanchal and Kosi belts,” Pramod Kumar, a political observer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/high-voltage-campaign-ends-stage-set-for-polling-tomorrow/articleshow/79072779.cms||Ramashankar
November 6, 2020||Patna||NIT-Patna grad dies of drug overdose, three detained||PATNA: An engineering graduate of NIT-Patna, who had come to the state capital to collect his degree certificate, allegedly died from a drug overdose during a party at one of his senior’s rented accommodation in Sheikhpura on Thursday. Airport police station SHO Arun Kumar said the deceased, Aditya Jai Singh, is a resident of Ballia in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. The SHO said Singh was an electrical engineering student and graduated this year. He said the deceased’s maternal uncle Sachin Kumar, who resides in the Boring Road locality, has lodged an FIR against two of his nephew’s seniors at NIT-Patna and one who is currently a third-year student. “Saurav Tripathi of Amethi and Anmol Kumar of Begusarai, who graduated a year ago, have been detained along with Raj Gopal of Patna City, a third-year student, on the basis of the FIR in which they have been accused of feeding Aditya some poisonous substance,” he said. SHO said Aditya had reached Patna just a day ago after which he went to the rented accommodation of his senior Saurav’s accommodation for the party on Wednesday evening. The SHO said the trio woke up on Thursday to find froth coming out of Aditya’s mouth after which they rushed him to IGIMS but doctors declared him dead. “The trio told police that Aditya was a drug addict and had consumed drugs before reaching Sheikhpura,” he said. SHO Kumar said an investigation is on and the detained trio would be arrested based on the evidence against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nit-patna-grad-dies-of-drug-overdose-three-detained/articleshow/79069366.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 6, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar has accepted defeat: Opposition||PATNA: The opposition leaders on Thursday reacted sharply to CM Nitish Kumar’s remark that it was his last election, saying the latter has foreseen his defeat. Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav tweeted, “Respected Nitishji was not ready to accept people’s desire and ignorance as well as the ground reality. Since the beginning, I have been saying that he has got tired. He has put a stamp on my words (sic).” LJP chief Chirag Paswan tweeted, “There is a commotion among JD(U) leaders after announcement by NItish Kumarji. Many big leaders of JD(U) have become jobless. They will not be given any place in Bihar First, Bihari First (vision document of LJP). They will always remain unemployed. We will not allow Bihar to be destroyed anymore.” Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said Nitish has accepted his defeat. “It would have been better had CM Nitish and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi apologised to the people of Bihar for ruining the state. Nitish has accepted his defeat even before the third phase of polls. He did this in the middle of polls and not before the beginning only after seeing his defeat.” RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha described Nitish’s remark as a “desperate rhetorical position” “He has finally come out of denial mode. There is a call for a pro-people government. As a result, he had to take this step today,” Jha said. Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, however, appealed to Nitish to reconsider his decision. “I and many Biharis like me are saddened with the announcement by Nitishji about this being his last election. The work done by Nitish for development of Bihar is exemplary. He should reconsider his decision in the interest of the state,” Manjhi tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-has-accepted-defeat-opposition/articleshow/79080178.cms||---
November 6, 2020||---||RJD has not changed a bit: J P Nadda||PATNA: BJP national president J P Nadda on Thursday appealed to the people of Mithila region to vote overwhelmingly for the NDA candidates during the third phase of polls on November 7. “Ensure victory of NDA candidates for rapid development in the state,” Nadda said at Hayaghat. State road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav and Darbhanga MP Gopaljee Thakur also addressed the rally. BJP’s Hayaghat nominee Ram Chandra Prasad and JD(U)’s Benipur candidate Ajay Choudhary were also present.Nadda said PM Narendra Modi has given the people of Darbhanga All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to be constructed at an investment of Rs 1,200 crore. “Doubling and electrification of railway lines in the region and construction of six flyovers in Darbhanga are also on the cards,” he said. Nadda said the Centre has planned to establish food processing units to process makhana if the farmers form 1,000 farm producers’ organisation(FPOs). “The farmers will get storage facility, cold storage, roads to the market and whatever they want if they form the FPOs,” Nadda said, adding Rs 172 crore had been allotted to Bihar for fishery development.Describing the Grand Alliance comprising the RJD, Congress and three Left parties as a combination of parties which “will plunge the state into anarchy”, Nadda said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was “not a patriot” as his statement had been used by Pakistan to buttress its claims on India at the UN. “I refer to the ‘jungle raj’ because I want to remind people of their track record and to stress that the RJD has not changed a bit. Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has promised to give 10 lakh jobs, but he cannot. He did not even participate in the budget session of the state assembly,” Nadda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rjd-has-not-changed-a-bit-nadda/articleshow/79080216.cms||Abhay Singh
November 6, 2020||Business||After e-grocery, Tatas eye 1MG stake for e-pharma biz||BENGALURU: Tata Group is now eyeing the online pharmacy space and is in discussions to buy a large stake in Gurgaon-based 1MG, said three sources familiar with the matter. The development comes as 1MG is also in talks to raise $100 million in funding from a private equity consortium led by Gaja Capital, which was first reported by TOI in September. Both the investment talks are happening in parallel. The development comes even as the Tatas are also in advanced discussions to buy close to 50% in e-grocer Bigbasket. Tata’s investment in 1MG is still not finalised, but this indicates the growing interest of large strategic players in this segment. Reliance’s retail arm picked up a 60% stake in Netmeds, while Amazon India and Flipkart have also recently entered the space. PharmEasy too is merging with smaller rival Medlife. This combined entity is in talks to raise new capital to battle the bigger conglomerates. “There is definitely a lot of interest in 1MG and Tatas have held talks with them as part of the broader e-commerce push. At the same time, Gaja continues to engage with 1MG over its planned $100-million fund-raise,” a person aware of the matter said. Sources added, with the Tatas coming into the picture, the overall round may surpass $100 million in size. “They (1MG) were working out the contours as to which investors they want to go ahead with, when Tatas expressed interest,” another person aware of the discussion added. When contacted, 1MG co-founder and CEO Prashant Tandon, a spokesperson of Gaja Capital and Tata Group declined to comment on the matter. If the deal fructifies with Tatas, then 1MG — so far the only remaining large independent player — would also become part of a bigger group. 1MG was valued $200-225 million after closing its last round in 2019. For 1MG, unlike its rivals, its business is split almost equally between medicine delivery and services like lab tests and online doctor consultation. For 1MG’s rivals, most of their revenue comes from medicine delivery, while they are expanding into verticals like online doctor consultations and lab tests. 1MG’s existing investors include Sequoia Capital and World Bank investment arm IFC. E-pharmacy has already benefited from the pandemic with industry reports saying 6 million new households have tried e-pharmacy since the virus outbreak, taking the total to 9 million. A potential entry of Tatas along with existing names like Reliance and Amazon indicates a digital healthcare play at a higher scale in India. A high-order frequency, the average ticket size of purchases along with a bigger healthcare play is what these large strategic players are focusing on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-e-grocery-tatas-eye-1mg-stake-for-e-pharma-biz/articleshow/79071032.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 6, 2020||Varanasi||PDA begins demolition of MLA Vijay Mishra’s house||Prayagraj: A team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), district officials and police started demolishing a three-storied house allegedly constructed and owned by jailed Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra in Allahpur area in the city on Thursday evening. Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) official Alok Pandey told TOI, “The house has been constructed on 500 square metre area without getting a map sanctioned by the civic agency. The cost of the house is estimated to be around Rs 10 crore.” He further added that the demolition work started at around 4:30 pm after compilation of the records and orders. He said that it would take time to demolish the complete house. The demolition drive was conducted by a joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority, administrative officials and the police. Heavy police bandobast was made to deal with any protest or disruption, officials said. As the joint team started its demolition drive, locals too assembled there but the police asked them to leave the spot. The police also restricted the movement of vehicles towards the area. The police officials told the locals that the house was constructed without the sanction of the map from PDA. Meanwhile, family members of the MLA alleged, “It’s a politically motivated move. We have all the required documents. They said that PDA had not given any notice in this regard.” Mishra, who is currently lodged at Agra jail, had come in the line of fire when Aurai cops booked him under Goonda Act on July 18 for issuing threat to a contractor, who got the contract of realising toll at Lalanagar toll plaza on national highway-2 in Aurai area. Mishra has also been booked in several other cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pda-begins-demolition-of-mla-vijay-mishras-house/articleshow/79067859.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Greens see red over Western Ghats heating up||MANGALURU: The Western Ghats play a crucial role in deciding the country’s climatological characteristics. Trekkers and environmentalists who frequent various places in the Western Ghats are noticing a rise in temperature since the last four years. Dinesh Holla, convenor, Sahyadri Sanchaya, who is working for the protection of the Western Ghats and an avid trekker said, “We were shocked to feel the heat in Bisle Ghats during our visit last week. This is the best time (October- December) of the year to trek and the temperature in the shola forest during this season is generally around 20-25⁰ C. During our visit, the temperature recorded was around 30⁰C, which shocked us. Continuous landslides in the entire stretch of the Western Ghats has led to large-scale deforestation. Illegal homestays that have mushroomed over the years, and development projects have already destroyed the sources of rivers to a great extent. Landslides and change in the direction of river flow have added to the problem,” he said. A rise in temperature during the first week of November could mean an increase in forest fires and man-animal conflicts. “We urge the government to seriously look into the issue of forest fires and take permanent measures to curb them, in addition to taking measures to prevent landslides,” he added. Dr Anish Kumar Warrier, associate professor of geology, Manipal Institute of Technology and coordinator, Centre for Climate Studies, MAHE, said, “In recent decades, anthropogenic activities have amplified the climate change processes and have led to a significant and steady rise in the global temperature.” “The Western Ghats is also feeling the effects of climate change and will continue to do so in the future. This will have an impact on wildlife in the Western Ghats. Further, human activities like deforestation and mining inside the western ghats should be halted, as they can lead to a rapid fragmentation of the Western Ghats as seen in the recent landslides in Karnataka and Kerala,” Dr Anish added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/greens-see-red-over-w-ghats-heating-up/articleshow/79067726.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 6, 2020||Goa||Goa an ideal place for defence research startups, says Shripad Naik||PANAJI: Goa has the potential to facilitate research in defence technologies and defence manufacturing startups, particularly for the Indian Navy, minister of state for defence Shripad Naik said. The minister, who was speaking at the virtual roadshow for the Defence India start-up challenge (DISC), said that the Indian armed forces have huge requirements which innovative Indian startups can address. “The access to shipyards and MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) dealing with the manufacturing of the shipping components equip the state to transform itself into a premier defence hub and a foremost partner incubator for defence innovation organisation,” Naik said. The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) - Goa along with the Union ministry of defence and defence innovation organisation hosted the virtual roadshow to encourage budding innovators to meet the needs of the armed forces. DISC allows various stakeholders to tap into Goa’s potential for establishing itself at the helm of research in defence technologies and defence manufacturing, especially those related to the Indian Navy, said Naik. Additional secretary for defence production Sanjay Jaju, along with other representatives from the defence ministry and the three armed forces encouraged IIT-Goa students to take advantage of the Centre’s initiatives to build the Indian commercial ecosystem, particularly in the defence and aero-space sector. Naik, who is the North Goa MP, said that IIT Goa’s role in the growth of India’s commercial and defence ecosystem is crucial. “IIT Goa and the local MSMEs’ efforts to create jobs and technologies for the future would subsequently help build this region as well lay the foundations for a stronger sustainable nation,” said Naik. Director of IIT Goa Prof BK Mishra said that IIT Goa has signed various MoUs with Goan industries and defence sector companies such as Kineco Kaman composites, Goa Shipyard Ltd (GSL) and others, and thus IIT Goa would be the right place for the IDEX-proposed (innovation for defence excellence) start-up incubation hub to be set up. IIT Goa’s role in defence ecosystem crucial: NaikAdditional secretary for defence production Sanjay Jaju, along with other representatives from the defence ministry and the three armed forces encouraged IIT-Goa students to take advantage of the Centre’s initiatives to build the Indian commercial ecosystem, particularly in the defence and aerospace sector. Naik, who is the North Goa MP, said that IIT Goa’s role in the growth of India’s commercial and defence ecosystem is crucial. “IIT Goa and the local MSMEs’ efforts to create jobs and technologies for the future would subsequently help build this region as well lay the foundations for a stronger sustainable nation,” said Naik. Director of IIT Goa Prof BK Mishra said that IIT Goa has signed various MoUs with Goan industries and defence sector companies such as Kineco Kaman composites, Goa Shipyard Ltd (GSL) and others, and thus IIT Goa would be the right place for the IDEX-proposed (innovation for defence excellence) start-up incubation hub to be set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-an-ideal-place-for-defence-research-startups-says-shripad/articleshow/79071067.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||City doctors remove tumour covering 50% of skull cavity||Nagpur: High grade meningioma – a type of brain tumour — was removed from a 45-year-old woman’s brain by doctors at Kingsway Hospital recently. Doctors told TOI the tumour had covered almost half of her cranial cavity, which is the large space in the skull that houses the brain. Meningiomas are most common type of primary brain tumour. Higher grade meningiomas are very rare. “A meningioma is a tumour that forms on membranes that cover the brain just inside the skull. Specifically, it forms on the three layers of membranes that are called meninges. These are often slow-growing and most of them are not cancerous,” said Dr Shailesh Kelkar, neurosurgeon who led the team that performed this surgery. The procedure involved removing a piece of bone from the skull. Doctors used latest cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator (CUSA) technology in this process. “CUSA distinguishes pathologic tissue from normal tissue and prevents damage to healthy tissues. This result in minimal brain disruption, reduced surgical time and improved patient outcomes,” said Dr Kelkar. Due to this, the patient did not suffer any medical or neurological disability post operation. Dr Lokendra Singh, veteran neurosurgeon and national president of Neurological Society of India (NSI), said such tumours grow big in Indian people, especially women, because people rarely visit doctors at early symptoms stage. “Neurosurgeons across the country have to remove meningioma surgically, because such tumours get detected at advanced stage. They keep growing slowly. Symptoms do come, but people avoid mild symptoms in India. In our country, we don’t visit doctors until symptoms turn serious,” said Dr Singh. Even in the case at Kingsway Hospital, the woman patient was getting treatment from an ENT specialist as she was experiencing symptoms like strange voices in right ear. Without timely treatment, the growth of tumour can cause serious problems. In some cases, it can be fatal. Symptoms like headaches, seizures, blurred vision, weakness in arms or legs, numbness, speech problems should not be neglected, said doctors. Don’t neglect tumour symptoms - Headaches, seizures, blurred vision, weakness in arms or legs, numbness, speech problems indicate possible tumour in brain - A woman patient came with complaint of frequent falls while walking and hearing strange voice in right ear - As her symptoms indicated possibility of tumour, doctors at Kingsway Hospital went in for MRI - A large tumour covering almost 50% of cranial cavity was detected - Surgery involved removing a piece of bone from the skull which gave the surgeon access to affected portion of her brain - The surgeon then removed the tumour. The bone removed at the start was replaced||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-doctors-remove-tumour-covering-50-of-skull-cavity/articleshow/79067810.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 6, 2020||Delhi||75% of ICU beds taken as hospitals in Delhi creak under Covid pressure||NEW DELHI: Lalit Gaur’s 85-year-old mother hadn’t been doing well for the past few days. But on Wednesday night, her condition deteriorated. Her blood pressure shot up to dangerous levels and the octogenarian couldn’t breathe properly. Gaur, a resident of Naveen Shahdara in northeast Delhi, told TOI that he rushed his ailing mother to the top three private hospitals in the area but everyone denied admission, citing unavailability of beds. “Finally, around 4 am, we managed to find a bed for her at a nursing home in Karkardooma where she was put on oxygen support immediately and the results of Covid-19 test were awaited,” Gaur, 55, said. Shruti Sharma, a marketing executive, said she, too, had to struggle to get an ICU bed. for her husband, who developed severe symptoms due to Covid-19 two days ago. “It is not the disease, but the dearth of health services required to treat a person suffering from it that is causing a crisis,” Sharma added. According to the Delhi Corona App, which provides real-time updates on availability of beds for Covid-19 patients in Delhi, the overall occupancy of Covid-19 beds in the state is 46%. However, the occupancy of ICU beds with ventilators and those without ventilators is 70% and 75%, respectively. The majority of the vacant ICU beds are either in government hospitals or in relatively smaller hospitals. Apollo, Akash Healthcare, Max Patparganj, Manipal hospital VIMHANS, among others, do not have any vacant ICU beds. “The bed situation has worsened in the last week. Our ICU is running full,” a senior doctor at Apollo hospital said. He added that the rush could be due to increase in new cases and severity of symptoms due to the air pollution. “On an average, all Covid-19 patients, who are hospitalized, are required to stay for 7 to 10 days. New admissions can only be done when they are discharged,” doctors say. The Delhi government has been pushing hospitals, public and private both, to increase the number of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. This is because patients with milder symptoms can be managed at home but those with severe symptoms, for example sharp drop in oxygen saturation, require admission and the administration of oxygen therapy. “Covid-19 affects multiple organs. Critical care is important in patients with severe symptoms to save lives,” doctors say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/75-of-icu-beds-taken-as-hospitals-in-city-creak-under-covid-pressure/articleshow/79071235.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 6, 2020||Varanasi||PM Narendra Modi to launch 42 projects of Rs 895 crore||VARANASI: Ahead of the festival of Diwali, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate at least 24 ready projects of Rs 375 crore and lay the foundation of 18 new projects worth Rs 520 crore in his parliamentary constituency through video conferencing. Officials said that the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) will finalise the date of the PM’s virtual event, which is likely to be on or before November 12. In view of the proposed event, a series of meetings to finalise the list of projects, which will be inaugurated and also those for which Modi will lay foundation, were held at divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal’s office on Thursday. The commissioner along with district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi and other officials discussed segregation of the ready projects belonging to education sector to be excluded from the list of projects to be inaugurated by the PM in view of the promulgation of model code of conduct for MLC (teachers’ constituency) elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-launch-42-projects-of-rs-895cr/articleshow/79068257.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 6, 2020||Puducherry||Over 100 from Tamil Nadu, Puducherry ranked among world’s top 2% scientists||PUDUCHERRY: More than 100 experts from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry have featured in the top 2% of scientists worldwide, in a report by Stanford University. The Stanford report was published in the October issue of PLOS, a nonprofit and an open-access publisher empowering researchers to accelerate progress in science and medicine. The report was based on a data-set of one lakh top scientists from 22 main fields and 176 sub-fields. Based on various indicators, mainly the impact of the scientists in terms of citations of their publications, the Stanford team has identified the world’s top 2% scientists. Specialist doctors, researchers and teaching faculty from more than a dozen premier institutions including Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Trichy, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Madurai Kamaraj University, Bharathiar University and Bharathidasan University in Tamil Nadu, and Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer) and Pondicherry University in Puducherry, are among the top 2%. The list includes N Kumarasamy (virology) from Chennai Antiviral Research and Treatment Clinical Research Site, Jipmer director Rakesh Aggarwal (gastroenterology & hepatology), former Jipmer director S C Parija (tropical medicine) and S A Abbasi (strategic, defence & security studies) from Pondicherry University among others. Kumarasamy is the chief and director of the centre at Voluntary Health Services (VHS) Hospital in Chennai, an advisor and expert panel member for WHO - ARV treatment guidelines committee and a clinical advisor to Clinton Health Access Initiative. Parija has two patents, authored 16 books and more than 350 papers both in the national and international journals of repute. Abbasi was ranked 34th overall in his field in the list of world’s top 2% scientists. Other faculty members of Pondicherry University included in the list were Ramaswamy Murugan (energy), Subramania Angaiah (energy), Arumugam Vadivel Murugan (materials), Kuppuswamy Porsezian (optics) and T V Ramakrishnan (applied physics).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/over-100-from-tn-pondy-ranked-among-worlds-top-2-scientists/articleshow/79076395.cms||Bosco Dominique
November 6, 2020||Chennai||Over 100 from Tamil Nadu, Puducherry ranked among world’s top 2% scientists||PUDUCHERRY: More than 100 experts from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry have featured in the top 2% of scientists worldwide, in a report by Stanford University. The Stanford report was published in the October issue of PLOS, a nonprofit and an open-access publisher empowering researchers to accelerate progress in science and medicine. The report was based on a data-set of one lakh top scientists from 22 main fields and 176 sub-fields. Based on various indicators, mainly the impact of the scientists in terms of citations of their publications, the Stanford team has identified the world’s top 2% scientists. Specialist doctors, researchers and teaching faculty from more than a dozen premier institutions including Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Trichy, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Madurai Kamaraj University, Bharathiar University and Bharathidasan University in Tamil Nadu, and Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer) and Pondicherry University in Puducherry, are among the top 2%. The list includes N Kumarasamy (virology) from Chennai Antiviral Research and Treatment Clinical Research Site, Jipmer director Rakesh Aggarwal (gastroenterology & hepatology), former Jipmer director S C Parija (tropical medicine) and S A Abbasi (strategic, defence & security studies) from Pondicherry University among others. Kumarasamy is the chief and director of the centre at Voluntary Health Services (VHS) Hospital in Chennai, an advisor and expert panel member for WHO - ARV treatment guidelines committee and a clinical advisor to Clinton Health Access Initiative. Parija has two patents, authored 16 books and more than 350 papers both in the national and international journals of repute. Abbasi was ranked 34th overall in his field in the list of world’s top 2% scientists. Other faculty members of Pondicherry University included in the list were Ramaswamy Murugan (energy), Subramania Angaiah (energy), Arumugam Vadivel Murugan (materials), Kuppuswamy Porsezian (optics) and T V Ramakrishnan (applied physics).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/over-100-from-tn-pondy-ranked-among-worlds-top-2-scientists/articleshow/79068978.cms||Bosco Dominique
November 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: As opposition mounts, railways indefinitely postpones double-tracking work||MARGAO: Faced with tremendous opposition to its double tracking work in Goa, the South Western Railway (SWR) on Thursday announced its decision to indefinitely postpone work at the level crossing at Davorlim that was scheduled to be executed from 12am to 5am on Monday. The South Goa collector had earlier granted SWR permission to close the road at the level crossing at Davorlim on November 9 to facilitate the track doubling work. “However due to operational constraints, the work at Davorlim level crossing No. 20 is postponed till further notice,” a press note by SWR said. On November 2, a large number of protesters converged in front of the Chandor church around midnight and later marched to the railway tracks in a bid to thwart any attempt by the railways to begin double tracking work by closing the level crossing. Squatting on the railway tracks, they kept a night-long candlelight vigil, and dispersed only at 5am on Monday. The railways, however, decided against carrying out the work in view of the protest. The Maina Curtorim police on Wednesday booked an offence against all the protesters (mostly unidentified) who had gathered at Chandor for the midnight protest. They were booked under Sections 143 and 147 of the Indian Penal Code for forming unlawful assembly and rioting. Co-convener of the Goyant Kollso Naka, Abhijit Prabhudessai had said that holding protests to safeguard public interests was a constitutional right and that the police action of booking offences against them wouldn’t deter them from continuing with their agitation. The protesters had braced themselves up to gather in even larger numbers at the Davorlim on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-oppn-mounts-rlys-indefinitely-postpones-double-tracking-work/articleshow/79071036.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Two fishermen go missing in sea off Kanyakumari coast||Kanyakumari: Two fishermen went missing in the sea in separate incidents off the Thengapattanam coast in Kanyakumari district on Thursday morning.N Freddy, 36, from Poothurai, went missing at the entrance of Thengapattanam fishing harbour. He owns a motorised fibre boat ‘Immanuvel’. Around 3.30am, he ventured into the sea with seven others for fishing. As the boat was leaving the harbour, Freddy who was sitting on the side of the boat allegedly fell into the sea. The crew searched for him, but in vain. The marine police and locals too joined the search on 10 boats. Fisheries department officials said there were no rough waves or accident, and that divers from Tuticorin will also join the search.This is the second incident in less than a week and fifth in the last few months. On Wednesday, their representatives had met chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and fisheries minister D Jayakumar in Chennai and urged them to put an end to the deaths by restructuring the harbour and extending the groyne among other demands.In another incident, Ravi, 35, a fisherman from Puducherry, went missing from a boat near Thengapattanam. He was among the 11 crew members on a mechanised boat that started from Tharuvaikulam in Tuticorin district on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-fishermen-go-missing-in-sea-off-kanyakumari-coast/articleshow/79071236.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar aide’s shopping mall razed in Mau||Varanasi: A Rs 20 crore three-storied shopping mall, Paris Plaza, owned by jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s henchman Mohd Isha Khan, was demolished amidst tight security at Ghazipur Tiraha in Mau district on Thursday. In Varanasi also, illegal constructions in the house of another Mukhtaer accomplice, Meraj Ahmed alias Bhai Meraj, who had surrendered before the police recently and was sent to jail, were demolished in Ashok Vihar Colony under the limits of Jaitpura police station. Earlier, Mukhar family’s hotel Ghazal in Ghazipur was demolished on November 1. A joint team of district administration and police led by city magistrate and ASP reached Ghazipur Tihara under the limits of Kotwali police station, which is the prime location in Mau city, in the morning. After diverting traffic and isolating neighbouring areas, the officials engaged bulldozers to demolish the three-storied building of the shopping mall named as Paris Plaza. Regarding this action ,ASP Mau Tribhuvan Nath Tripathi said that the shopping complex had been constructed illegally after capturing government land by Mohd Isha Khan. The map of the building was not sanctioned. A case in this connection had been lodged in 2004 and on August 27 the demolition order had been passed in local court, he said adding, Mohd Isha had filed an appeal before the district magistrate and controlling authority Mau, which was rejected on October 31. Tripathi said that as per the order of the DM and controlling authority, the action of demolishing the illegal building was initiated. He said that the cost of the shopping mall was over Rs 20 crore. When Mau officials were razing the mall in Mau, a joint team of Varanasi Development Authority and Jaitpura police raided the place of Meraj, another accomplice of Mukhtar, in Ashok Vihar Colony in the district. VDAs joint secretary Parmanand Yadav said that Meraj had constructed a garage and a store room in the front portion of the authority’s allotted flat, while a three-storied building was constructed in the rear area. A notice for removing the illegal constructions had been issued over a month ago by VDA, he said, but as those illegal constructions were not removed the authority ensured its demolition. Meraj had surrendered before the Jaitpura police on October 3 in a case of fraud committed to procure arms licence. Before razing these buildings of Mukhtar’s henchmen, a hotel owned by his wife and son in the main city area of Ghazipur, which was constructed in 2004, had been demolished. On October 24, Shamm-e-Husaini Institute of nursing and paramedical college and hospital in Ghazipur owned by the don’s henchmen Dr Shadab Siddaqi and Azam Siddaqi were demolished. These actions were initiated following demolition of Mukhtar’s sons Abbas and Umar two illegally constructed buildings in Dalibagh area of the state capital on August 27. Currently lodged at Ropar jail of Punjab, Mukhtar, his family, gang members and henchmen have already suffered losses of over Rs 150 crore in government action after May end in Ghazipur, Mau, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Lucknow and other districts. Mukhtar was not sent to UP by Punjab officials to be produced before the MP-MLA court of Prayagraj on October 21 on the basis of a medical board report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtar-aides-shopping-mall-razed-in-mau/articleshow/79068274.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Pune||Over 700 ZP schools in Pune district with unpaid bills have no electricity||PUNE: Electricity supply to hundreds of Zilla Parishad schools in Pune district has been disconnected over non-payment of bills. Maval taluka with 149 schools is the biggest defaulter. Pune ZP education officer Sunil Kurhade said the power supply has been cut in 724 schools in the district over electricity dues. “The schools have been closed since the lockdown so it may not have a direct impact on the students. In most schools, the connection has been snapped during the lockdown period, but there are some where it was done before the lockdown,” he said. Kurhade said non-conversion of electricity supply from commercial to the domestic category is also leading to high power bills in schools. “Since ZP schools are not profit-making entities, they must get electricity supply under the domestic category. Many have old connections which have not been changed to the domestic category. The minimum charge for commercial connections is high. We have told block education officers to tell the schools to convert these connections to the domestic category,” Kurhade added. A ZP official said the problem of non-payment of bills also arises because the government does not release non-salary grants to schools. “These grants have not been released since 2012. This money is used by schools to pay electricity bills and other such purposes. Without this grant, it is hard for the school administrations to pay the power bills. For this year, the non-salary grants have been sanctioned, and we are hoping that soon the schools will get their dues,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-700-zp-schools-in-pune-district-with-unpaid-bills-have-no-electricity/articleshow/79070711.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 6, 2020||World||The other big count: US sees record 1,00,000 cases in a day||The US on Wednesday recorded over 1,00,000 new coronavirus cases in a single day for the first time since the pandemic began, bursting past a grim threshold even as the wave of infections engulfing the country shows no sign of receding. The total count of new infections was at least 107,000, according to a New York Times database. Twenty-three states have recorded more cases in the past week than in any other seven-day stretch. Five states — Colorado, Indiana, Maine, Minnesota and Nebraska — set single-day case records on Wednesday. Daily case reports in Minnesota, on average, have increased 102% over that time, and in Indiana 73%. Deaths, which lag behind case reports, have risen 21% across the US in the last two weeks. Hospitals in some areas are feeling the strain. More than 50,000 people are currently hospitalised with Covid-19 across the country, according to Covid Tracking Project, a rise of roughly 64% since the beginning of October. Anthony Fauci, the country’s top infectious disease expert, predicted in June, when cases were averaging roughly 42,000 a day, that the rate would eventually reach 1,00,000 a day if the passndemic was not brought under control. In an interview on Friday, he said: “We’re in for a whole lot of hurt.” He said the country “could not possibly be positioned more poorly” as winter approaches. Susan Bailey, president of American Medical Association, said, “Regardless of the election outcome, everyone in America needs to buckle down,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/the-other-big-count-us-sees-record-100000-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/79072073.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 9 Covid-19 deaths, 480 new cases||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded nine Covid-19 deaths on Thursday taking the death toll to 1,047 while 480 new cases were registered and the total count has soared to 64,065 in the state. The results of 12,671 samples are awaited. Among those who died were five men and four women, the youngest who succumbed to the infection was a 38-year-old man, who died at Rudrapur district hospital due to acute respiratory distress syndrome. The eldest who died was a 73-year-old woman who breathed her last at Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital and had multiple other ailments, including the novel coronavirus. On Thursday, the highest number of positive cases surfaced from Pauri Garhwal district (118), where more than 80 teachers tested positive for Covid-19 thereby pushing the school administration to close the schools where they were employed. An employee of the education department in Garhwal region also tested positive and as a result of this, the department’s office has been shut down for three days starting Friday. Dehradun district stood second in terms of number of cases with 84 positive cases followed by Rudraprayag (73), Nainital (47), Haridwar (25) and 19 each in Tehri, Chamoli and Bageshwar. Currently, Uttarakhand has 3,680 active cases, of which the highest number of cases are from Dehradun (637), Pauri Garhwal (545), Haridwar (417), Nainital (348), Rudraprayag (320), Tehri (261) and Chamoli (234). So far, the maximum number of deaths have been reported from Dehradun (600), Nainital (147), Haridwar (124), Udham Singh Nagar (95) and Pauri (30). On Thursday, 602 people recovered from the virus taking the overall recovery rate to 91.82%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-9-covid-19-deaths-480-new-cases/articleshow/79067817.cms||Shivani Azad
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Four-year-old boy goes missing in Madhapur||HYDERABAD: A four-year-old boy went missing from his residence in Chandranaik colony of Madhapur on Sunday. As the police suspected that he might have fallen into a water-filled cellar in the neighbourhood, the pit was drained out but no trace of the boy was found. According to the police, Moksha went out of his house to play on Sunday afternoon, but did not return till evening. His parents tried to search for him in the nearby areas, but after being unable to trace him, they approached the police. A missing case was booked and cops started investigation. During the investigation, water-filled pit was found near a construction site in the neighbourhood. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) disaster management force was called to pump waster out of it to ensure that the boy did not fall in it. The operation lasted until 7 pm on Monday but the boy was yet to be found. The police are now exploring the angle of kidnap. The boy’s father, Ramulu, who is from Nalgonda district, had moved to the city along with his wife and three children several months ago in search of a livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-yr-old-boy-goes-missing-in-madhapur/articleshow/78502444.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Pune||Five batches of pupils a crowd, FTII may cancel admissions for next year||PUNE: Officials from the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) said they are planning a staggered arrangement to call back students and clear academic backlogs. It will depend on the state government rules over reopening colleges and universities. There are three batches currently enrolled at FTII. Some officials said a fourth batch of students can be accommodated on campus and taught, but next year’s admission process may be affected, including the prospect of cancellation. “By the time next year’s prospective admission process shall be complete, there would be as many as five batches on campus. There will be huge issues in securing enough hostel rooms for students from outside Pune, as many will not be able to afford to rent a place. Besides, there will be issues of having enough teachers and classrooms for all of them. Although this decision needs to be approved by the academic and governing councils, it is possible that next year’s admission process may have to be cancelled,” an FTII official said. In recent years, the institute has had to cancel an upcoming admission process twice, most notably in 2015, when campus unrest over the appointment of the actor Gajendra Chauhan led to academic backlogs, that had to be cleared over the next few years, necessitating one year’s admission to be cancelled. FTII director Bhupendra Kainthola said, “If a full reopening is allowed, then we can call back our students to the campus. But, if there are issues of maintaining physical distancing in classrooms or even hostel rooms, such as only one person per hostel room to be allowed, we may have to call back our students in a staggered manner. This may also be necessary because the new batch is coming in from January.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-may-put-off-admissions-for-next-year/articleshow/79070732.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 6, 2020||Madurai||‘Class VI-XII rule’ robs many high scorers of 7.5% quota eligibility||Madurai: Some of the top-scoring students in NEET 2020 from government schools in Madurai district were left disappointed despite scoring high marks after they were found ineligible for the new 7.5% MBBS quota since they did not study from Class VI to XII in a government school. District education officials said at least 19 students from government schools are expected to secure a medical or BDS seat under the quota.Madurai district chief education officer R Swaminathan said the 19 found eligible will receive help from education officials in completing the registration process. “A camp is being conducted. The students will be issued the required bonafide certificate indicating they studied from Class VI to XII in government-run schools. Four officials have been appointed to help students with online registration by providing access to computers, printers, scanners etc., so that the process is smooth,” he said.Some of the top NEET scores of government-run school students in the district were in the range of 200-300 and hence teachers were expecting them to have any chance of getting a medical or BDS seat only through the 7.5% quota. “However, we found that the criteria to allow only those who studied from Class VI to XII has shattered any chance for some high scoring students,” said a co-ordinator for the government NEET coaching programme. Among government school students, the highest score in Madurai was 320 by a student of Y Othakadai Government Girls Higher Secondary School. However, the girl didn’t study from Class VI to XII at a government-run school.Similarly, according to corporation school sources, only 14 of the total 37 students who scored the minimum marks were found to be eligible for the 7.5% quota and of them only one student is expected to get a seat. At Avvai Corporation Girls HSS, two students had scored above 200 marks, including one being the topper among corporation schools with 234 marks. But both of them did not study from Class VI - XII in government-run schools. “The sudden implementation of the quota with these criteria has shattered hopes of some students, especially girls whose families are unwilling to even let them repeat the exam to have a shot at a medical seat next year,” said the headmaster of a corporation school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/class-vi-xii-rule-robs-many-high-scorers-of-7-5-quota-eligibility/articleshow/79071238.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 6, 2020||Pune||Delay in survey of new sites casts poser on new airport project||PUNE: The district administration is yet to start the survey of the six alternative sites suggested for the proposed airport in Purandar last month, casting a shadow on the greenfield project’s take-off time. An official of the Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC) said they would write to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for a re-survey of sites it had surveyed earlier. “The local MLA is pushing for any of the six new sites for the airport. The AAI had surveyed many sites in Purandar, including some suggested by the MLA, and zeroed in on the present site having seven villages in 2015. As there is political pressure to change the site now, we are in the process of writing a letter to the AAI to re-survey all the sites. A site change cannot happen without a fresh survey,” a source in the MADC said. On October 14, the district administration was told to complete the survey of the proposed new sites for the airport within a month. Calls to the Pune collector and the Pune divisional commissioner went unanswered. Purandar MLA Sanjay Jagtap, pitching for the change in site, told TOI on Thursday, “We are hopeful the surveys would be conducted this month. NCP chief Sharad Pawar and deputy chief minister Ajit Pwar had instructed the authorities last month to survey the alternative plots and give a report. One thing is sure that the airport will come up in Purandar taluka.” The greenfield airport project was announced in October 2016. As per the existing plan, a total of 2,832 hectares of land was to be acquired from the seven selected villages. But the land acquisition did not start because of the residents’ opposition. Experts stressed that the long delay could make the project a non-starter. Anant Sardeshmukh, the former director-general of the Marhatta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture, said, “The availability of land and the project cost can make it a non-starter now. One has to accept the bitter truth that it is beyond the capacity of the government to execute such a project with its shoestring budget and ineffective action plans.” Sardeshmukh said the only option left now was to offer the project to a domestic or international private player. Aviation analyst and expert Dhairyashil Vandekar said, “The Pune region already suffered significant impediments in its growth because of the non-availability of a 24X7 international airport. Starting the exercise all over again with a change in site will come at a huge price and socio-economic setback for the region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/delay-in-survey-of-new-sites-casts-poser-on-new-airport-project/articleshow/79069019.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Clerk dupes bank of Rs 1.9 crore, held||PUNE: The Wakad police on Tuesday arrested a 30-year-old clerk of a cooperative bank on the charge of duping the bank to the tune of Rs1.9 crore. Vivek Mugalikar, senior inspector, Wakad police, told TOI, “Dhiraj Pagaro (28) of Pimpri activated some dormant accounts in the bank’s Kalewadi branch. He also opened an account under a fake name and transferred around Rs 2.3 crore to these accounts from the accounts of five customers of the bank. Pagaro purchased a flat worth Rs 1.2 crore in Pimpri Chinchwad by using the money.” Pagaro returned Rs38 lakh to the bank when the fraud came to light, Mugalikar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/clerk-dupes-bank-of-rs-1-9cr-held/articleshow/79069023.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19, anti-China sentiment set the agenda for Diwali shoppers in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: With Diwali celebrations just round the corner, the Covid-19 pandemic and the Chinese aggression has made a massive impact on the purchasing pattern of the people. While the demand for ‘Made in India’ lights and fancy diyas has shot through the roof—owing to the border clash with the Chinese forces— there have been less takers for firecrackers, due to fear that the pollutants might increase the risk of infection. The light sellers in Paltan Bazaar claimed that customers are particularly asking for ‘Made in India’ lights, despite it being 40 % to 50% costlier than the Chinese ones. "The fancy lights made by locals are also becoming quite popular among the customers, and the retailers are also placing bulk orders in good numbers," said Rajeev Sharma, an electrical goods supplier at Pipal Mandi. Similarly, the presence of Indian made items has also benefitted local idol makers who are doing brisk business due to renewed demand. "Though we are not receiving large number of customers like last year, but people are showing interest in us just to support the local artistes. We are giving better finishing work compared to the Chinese goods," Pradeep Kumar, a terracotta artist from Rajasthan said. However, in a break from the past, the demand for firecrackers, sweets and flowers has seen a massive dip this Diwali season. The traders say that despite an improvement in footfall of people in the markets, they have been able to do only 30% to 40% of average sales than they did last year. "I have been in the flower business for over a decade now. Although the markets have opened, there is no business this year. There is an estimated drop of around 70% in business compared to previous years festive seasons," said Laxman Prasad, who is a flower dealer in the city and runs a shop named Surbhi Florist. Nitin Badoni, who is a flower decorator and has a similar story to share, said, "This is our prime time to do business with Navratri, Diwali, marriage season all coming together in successive months. But this year, I could earn just 50% of what I did last year." The sweet shops, who usually do brisk business in this time, have rued at the sluggish sales as people are still apprehensive about dining out and buying sweets. "The festive zeal remains missing this season. We are making almost 50% less sweets on daily basis due to low demand. We are still hopeful of business picking up as we approach closer of Diwali," said Rajesh Maggo, owner of a sweet shop near Clock Tower. Likewise, the firecracker business also had to face the brunt of low demand. "Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant low demand, there has been 40% less supply of firecrackers this year," said Ashish Chopra, who runs one of the biggest wholesale shops for firecrackers in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-anti-china-sentiment-set-the-agenda-for-diwali-shoppers-in-doon/articleshow/79067802.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 6, 2020||Pune||ATM tampered, Rs 1.09 lakh withdrawn||PUNE: The Chatushrungi police on Wednesday booked two men on the charge of tampering with a Canara Bank ATM and withdrawing Rs1.09 lakh without the transaction being recorded in the bank’s electronic system. The matter came to light after the bank’s head office learnt about 12 suspicious transactions from one of its ATMs at Kapil Malhar housing society on Baner Road on September 26. The bank’s senior manager, Suhas Mali (33) from Kothrud, registered a first information report (FIR) under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. Senior inspector Anil Shewale, in-charge of the Chatushrungi police, told TOI on Thursday, “Two men, whose images were captured by the CCTV camera, visited the ATM to withdraw money using a debit/credit card. When the machine was dispensing cash, they opened the box lock and switched off the system. Though they removed the cash, the transaction was shown as cancelled.” Shewale said, “The suspects, who have technical knowledge, programmed the ATM in such a manner as to show the transaction as cancelled during cash dispensation stage. When the cash is withdrawn, the money is not debited from the account as the “transaction” is cancelled. The account holder will continue to have money in his or her account even if the suspects have withdrawn cash from the machine.” After the suspicious transactions came to light, the CCTV footage showed the two men tampering with the ATM. The bank filed a complaint application following which a preliminary inquiry was conducted and an FIR was registered, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/atm-tampered-rs-1-09-lakh-withdrawn/articleshow/79070740.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Pune||SWaCH drive to collect recyclable items lying unused at homes||PUNE: The wastepickers’ collective, Solid Waste Collection and Handling (SWaCH), will launch “V-Collect on Wheels” this Diwali to provide citizens with better access to recycling facilities while decluttering their homes. V-Collect is a programme run by SWaCH, in association with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), to recycle and reuse good quality usable items that are lying unused in homes, which would otherwise end up in landfills. SWaCH accepts books, toys, unused household items, electronics, furniture among other items. The V-Collect on Wheels drive will cover areas such as Kothrud, Model Colony and Bhosalenagar on November 9, Pashan to Warje on November 10, Sahakarnagar to Magarpatta on November 11, Dhole Patil Road, Kharadi, Vishrantwadi on November 12 and Nigdi and Thergaon on November 13. Suchismita Pai, a SWaCH representative, said, “Everyone cleans and declutters their homes during Diwali. Normally, V-Collect drives are organized at one housing society or spot and people have limited access. For example, it would be difficult for a person living in Kalyaninagar to travel to Hadapsar to drop off items they wanted to give away. So, we decided to launch V-Collect on Wheels, where our teams will take a different route with multiple stops on each day at a specific time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/swach-to-launch-v-collect-on-wheels-drive/articleshow/79069024.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 6, 2020||Delhi||With 6,715 new cases in Delhi, positivity rate now close to 13%; tally nears 4.2 lakh||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded more than 6,000 new Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day on Thursday, pushing the infection tally in the city to over 4.16 lakh. Meanwhile, 66 more fatalities — the highest in around four months — took the death toll to 6,769. A total of 6,715 new cases were confirmed in the national capital, following 52,294 tests (15,704 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 36,590 Rapid Antigen Tests) conducted on Wednesday. The positivity rate — meaning the number of positive cases from those tested — stood at 12.8% amid the festive season and rising pollution. Delhi reported 6,842 cases on Wednesday, the maximum till date, and 6,725 cases on Tuesday. The city has recorded over 5,000 daily cases for five days on the trot ending Sunday, when the count stood at 5,664. On Monday, it added 4,001 new Covid-19 cases to the cumulative count. Thursday’s 66 new fatalities are the highest in around four months. Authorities reported 51 deaths on Wednesday, 48 on Tuesday, 42 on Monday and 51 on Sunday. However, Delhi health minister Satyender Jain insisted the capital was doing much better than all the metro cities in India and is on the 17th position in Covid-19 death per million population. “Mumbai tops the list of death per million due to Covid-19 as it has around 831 cases, followed by Chennai that has 518 cases, Kolkata with 503 cases and Bangalore urban with 408 cases,” Jain said. Adding to Jain’s statement, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “Delhi government has taken several steps to ensure that fatality rate does not increase despite increase in number of cases.” Most viral illnesses affect an organ or two, predominantly. For example, swine flu affects the lungs and viral hepatitis affects the liver. Covid-19, on the other hand, is known to cause systemic inflammation that can affect the whole body. The virus attaches to the ACE2 receptors that are present in many organs. It also affects the blood vessels. That’s why even after the infection subsides the inflammation caused by it continues to affect and causes serious complications in some patients, doctors say. “Delay in admission is emerging as an important cause of rise in critical illness and fatalities due to Covid-19. If someone has Covid-19 symptoms, for example fever, cough or difficulty breathing, he or she should get tested immediately. Also, even those under home isolation should be under medical supervision,” said a senior doctor. She added deterioration of symptoms can be very sudden in Covid-19 and, therefore, patients need to be watchful of warning signs such as breathlessness or irregular heart beat or sudden loss of consciousness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/positivity-rate-close-to-13/articleshow/79071244.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Goa||Poonam Pandey, hubby arrested in obscene video case, both get bail||POINGUINIM/CALANGUTE: Goa police on Thursday arrested actor Poonam Pandey and her director husband, Sam Ahmed Bombay, after apprehending them at a Sinquerim-based resort in connection with the circulation of an obscene video clip shot at Chapoli dam in Canacona. The couple was granted bail by the judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), Canacona, at around 9.15pm on Thursday. Cuncolim PI Therron D’Costa, who is holding additional charge of the Canacona police station, said that the couple cannot move out of Goa wihout the permission of the court and have to report to the police station for six days. Read AlsoUproar in Goa over Poonam Pandey nude video shootA video of actor Poonam Pandey shot in the nude at Chapoli dam in Canacona has led to an uproar among locals, who on Wednesday mobbed the deputy collector’s office demanding suspension of the Canacona police inspector Tukaram Chawan. Canacona residents, under the banner of Canacona Jagrut SamitiD’Costa also told TOI that Pandey and her husband will be kept at the police station until they furnish the bail bond of Rs 20,000 each. While Canacona PI Tukaram Chavan was suspended by the Goa police along with one constable who was present at the video shoot venue, the water resources department (WRD) suspended six of its personnel posted at Chapoli dam for dereliction of duty, pending inquiry into the incident. WRD’s executive engineer Krishnakant Patil said the suspended staffers have been asked to report to the Margao works division during the suspension period. WRD chief engineer Shrikant Patil, has also written to Goa Human Resource Development Corporation to suspend all the seven security personnel who were posted at Chapoli dam and to replace them with new personnel with immediate effect. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said Pandey was traced at a starred resort in Sinquerim on Thursday and was served a notice under section 41A CrPC to appear before the Canacona police on Friday. “However, during investigation it was revealed that she had booked her ticket for Mumbai and was about to leave Goa on Thursday afternoon,” Singh said. A police team under the supervision of PI Cuncolim Therron D’Costa consequently detained Pandey and her husband at the hotel and brought the couple to the Canacona police station, Singh said. They have been arrested under sections 292 (taking obscene photos), 293 (circulating the obscene photos on social media), 294 (for obscene act) and 447(trespass), of the Indian Penal Code, sections 4 and 6 of The Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, and section 67-A of the IT Act. “Police investigation has revealed that the couple had sneaked into the dam during the early hours of October 31 and shot the objectionable clip,” Singh said. Further investigation is under way. Canacona police on Wednesday had registered an FIR against Pandey following complaints by angry citizens and the WRD on November 2 about the circulation of the obscene video without permission of the authorities . Irate villagers on Wednesday had marched to the office of the deputy collector, Canacona, demanding the suspension of the Canacona PI, whom they had accused of providing police protection to Pandey and the crew for the video shoot at the dam. They had threatened to call for a Canacona-wide bandh if the police failed to suspend Chavan by Thursday morning. Canacona locals, who had gathered at the mini-complex at Chaudi on Thursday morning, withdrew the bandh call on learning about Chavan’s suspension. Later, at a meeting held at the office of the deputy collector, in the presence of Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes and former MLA Ramesh Tawadkar, Quepem DySP Nelson Albuquerque told the locals that an inquiry into the incident was in progress. A strong posse of policemen was present in Canacona since early morning Thursday to tackle any law and order situation in case of a bandh. Six police buses were seen stationed along the road in the vicinity of the Canacona police station. Watch Goa court grants bail to Poonam Pandey and husband Sam Bombay in obscene video case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poonam-pandey-hubby-arrested-in-obscene-video-case-both-get-bail/articleshow/79071041.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Falling cases, protocols rein in Covid spread among doctors||Madurai: The declining number of Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu has come as a relief to doctors and healthcare providers, as the infection rate among them has come down considerably. Doctors also said that regular disinfection, sterilisation at vantage points of the hospitals, improved ventilation, availability of PPEs and N95 masks, and adhering to safety protocols have helped reduce the impact. Dean of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) in Chennai, Dr E Theranirajan said that now only one or two staff contract Covid-19. “We have ensured regular disinfection and sterilisation at around 17 points in the hospitals particularly where doctors and patients enter and exit. Further, Covid-19 duty for a doctor is not more than six hours. Mandatory quarantine is also enforced wherein doctors stay in hotels. A major reason could be that the crowding in wards is much less now and hence there is only limited aerosol released,” he said. State secretary of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr AK Ravikumar, said the relaxations in Covid-19 testing has also helped. “Earlier, only those with symptoms were tested. Now, any patient, especially those undergoing surgeries can be tested if doctors suspect them of having Covid-19. The IMA has also been providing safety guidelines for doctors and repeatedly insisting that they are followed,” he said. At the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, more than 40 doctors and nurses were infected within a week in August. However, there are very few cases now. “The hospital authorities acted as and when infection among staff spread to identify and rectify any flaws in safety protocol. Attenders have been restricted and ventilation improved,” said a senior doctor. In Coimbatore, the number of doctors getting infected has come down to less than 10 a month. “Repeated awareness camps, instructing them to wear PPE kits as much as possible, not removing their masks and washing hands before and after attending to every patient has reduced the incidences,” said Dr Krishna, joint director of health services. Senior health officials in Trichy said the exposure level of frontline workers in the district has come down due to the decline in the number of patients. “Healthcare workers at PHCs and on field were more vulnerable than those at the treatment centres because the latter were fully protected unlike the former who had no idea whether the patients were infected,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/falling-cases-protocols-rein-in-covid-spread-among-doctors/articleshow/79071241.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||Water pipeline, sewage work under Smart City project expected to be finished today||DEHRADUN: The water pipeline and sewerage work in Doon under the Smart City project is expected to get completed by Thursday night (November 5) after which the road stretch will be repaired within three days. The engineers from PWD along with contractors are mostly working the night shift to complete the work. As of now, the stretch between Buddha Chowk, Lansdowne Chowk and Darshan Lal Chowk is being repaired. District magistrate and CEO Smart City Ashish Kumar Srivastava is regularly inspecting the progress of the work. He had asked the officials from PWD to ensure minimum trouble to commuters. According to the officials from PWD, an 18-km water pipeline has been laid in the city while a 2.6 km stretch has been repaired. The remaining portion of the road will be repaired before Diwali. The traffic police officials have also organised meetings with departments like PWD, MDDA and Dehradun Municipal Corporation. The civic agencies have been asked not to start any new project during the festival season and only continue with the repairing work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/water-pipeline-sewage-work-under-smart-city-project-expected-to-be-finished-today/articleshow/79067826.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Include aided schools in 7.5% MBBS quota: TNPSTA||MADURAI: The Tamil Nadu Private School Teachers Association (TNPSTA) on Thursday demanded that government-aided school students be included in the 7.5% quota for medical seats allotted for government students on a preferential basis. The association is set to hold a state-wide protest on November 10 seeking the same. General secretary of TNPSTA, T Kanagaraj said that it is unfair to exclude aided school students, many of whom are from the economically weaker sections. “It is disappointing to see government aided schools getting left out when usually government and government aided schools usually go hand in hand for all welfare schemes. Since the free government NEET coaching classes involve aided school teachers and students, the government must include these students as well in the quota,” he added. The association also sought for the 7.5% quota to be increased to 10% and give reservation for all students who studied Tamil medium in the state. Other demands put forth by the association include incentives for teachers with higher educational qualifications and to increase the age limit for posting of teachers to 57.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/include-aided-schools-in-7-5-mbbs-quota-tnpsta/articleshow/79071243.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt sources onions from Nashik to control price, sells a kg for Rs 45||CHENNAI: Concerned at the skyrocketing price of onions in the city, retailing at Rs 100 a kg, the state horticulture department has begun selling the sought-after vegetable at Rs 45 a kg after sourcing it from Nashik in Maharsahtra. A senior horticulture department official said most of the 100 tonnes a day demand in the city was met by supplies from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. But, after rain affected the harvest in these states, the number of lorryloads arriving at the Koyambedu wholesale market daily, usually more than 100, fell drastically and the retail price soared, said the official. Now, 100 tonnes have been procured from traders in Nashik in Maharashtra. “These onions are being sold by the department at Semmozhipoonga, Madhavaram farm and its Tiruvanmiyur premises and also through mobile vans moving in the 15 zones of the city corporation,” the official said. The procurement of onion from Nasik began a fortnight ago and will continue till the demand goes down and the price stabilises, he said. The department has not stopped with procuring onions from Nasik and has also started distributing seeds of shallots (chinna vengayam) to farmers across the state in an effort to reduce the demand for onions. In Tamil Nadu, the demand for shallots is almost 90% in households whose demand for onions is a mere 10%. But, the demand for onions in hotels and restaurants is as much as 90% and that of shallots 10%. It is to exploit the demand for shallots among households that the department has distributed seeds to farmers, said the official. The fact that shallots can be raised more easily that onions is also a big draw for farmers, he added. They can be raised either using the vegetable itself or the seed. While shallots can be harvested in 60 to 75 days, onions take 110 to 130 days to harvest, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-sources-onions-from-nashik-to-control-price-sells-a-kg-for-rs-45/articleshow/79069020.cms||P Oppili
November 6, 2020||Vadodara||FIR filed for anti-France banners in old city areas||Vadodara: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Thursday registered an offence against unknown persons for installing banners ‘Boycott France’ in the old city areas. Crime branch sleuths said that they are also searching for the printing unit that printed the banners.“It was a deliberate act to spread enmity and incite minority community members. So we have registered an offence against unknown persons. We are now trying to find out who installed the banners,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The posters criticizing France and urging people to boycott French products had come up in Macchipith and Nawabwada area some days ago.The banners also urged people to boycott Israel. Posters of France president Emmanuel Macron too were pasted on the road in the old city areas. The police said that such posters would have caused disturbance in the minority community areas. The accused have also been booked for criminal conspiracy. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fir-filed-for-anti-france-banners-in-old-city-areas/articleshow/79067072.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Pune||As normalcy returns to urban areas, birders fear of losing winged visitors||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: Bird watchers and ornithologists fear that the unlock phase, marked by rising pollution of all kinds, may drive away the birds visiting the urban pockets during the quiet of the lockdown. The lockdown allowed sightings of many different species of birds that rarely visited the city areas, experts said on the first day of the bird week, an initiative of the state forest department, on Thursday. Ornithologist Satish Pande, founder of Ela Foundation, celebrated the start of the week by releasing a Small Button Quail, a rare bird of the grasslands, that was found lying on the road at Shivdarshan chowk by one Lokesh Bapat on Thursday. “An x-ray ruled out any bone injury. The quail weighed 45g. I fed him grain and water, after which it became alert and mobile. It was released by Ravi Wankhede, chief conservator of forests, during the inauguration of the 'Bird Week’’ at Van Bhavan, near Bhamburda Van Vihar,” Pande said. He said people needed to pay serious attention to birds as they rapidly reacted to changes in the environment. “We can hardly spot the black winged stilt or pied kingfisher in the city as the quality of fresh water in the rivers has deteriorated due to the rising pollution,” Pande said. Dharmaraj Patil, environmentalist and bird park preservation volunteer, said, “During the lockdown, there was minimal littering as people stayed indoors. But things are going back to how they were before the lockdown, which is showing on the birds as they are making nests with plastic. Due to late night traffic, the biological clock of the birds is getting disturbed. Sparrows are feeding at 2am and owls are hunting in daylight.” Birder Rafiq Somani urged people to desist from feeding pigeons and crows as they keep other smaller species, which help in pollination, away. The bird week has been planned to honour the work of prominent wildlife conservationist Maruti Chitampalli and the ‘Birdman of India’ ornithologist Salim Ali. The forest department aims at creating awareness and sensitivity towards the avian population of the state during the week, for which online and offline events will be held in Ahmednagar, Bhandara, Chandrapur, Jalgaon, Nagpur, Satara, Wardha, Pune and other cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/as-normalcy-returns-to-urban-areas-birders-fear-of-losing-winged-visitors/articleshow/79070738.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kanpur||POCSO court rejects criminal plea of rape accused citing risk of misuse of bail||KANPUR: The designated POCSO Act court of Kanpur Nagar on Thursday rejected the criminal appeal of accused Israel who had been charged for physical exploitation of a minor girl. On the complaint filed by the victim’s father, the Bidhnoo police had arrested accused Israel. The complainant in his report alleged that while his 16-year-old daughter was sleeping in a nearby cot, around 2 am, Israel forced his entry in the house along with two others and physically exploited the girl after shutting her mouth. After hearing her shrieks, her family members caught Israel while he was trying to escape. According to special public prosecutor Ganga Prasad Yadav, since the accused was a minor, his case was heard by the juvenile justice board where the accused preferred a bail application which was rejected on the basis of the reports filed by the police and the probation officer. Both had stated in their reports that there were all possibilities that the accused might fall in bad habit and be involved in other crimes. The prosecution, opposing the bail plea, argued that the reports of the probation officer and the police had given a correct opinion that there was no guarantee that the accused would not misuse the bail. “If there is no criminal history of the accused, it will not reduce the weight of crime. The object of justice will be defeated if he is released on bail” the prosecution pleaded. Judge Rajveer Singh observed in his order that the victim’s physical exploitation had been confirmed by her statement recorded under section 164 of the CrPC and the medical report. The accused had committed the offence with the help of two co-accused which showed that parents of the accused had no control over him and, therefore, there were all probabilities that he would be involved in other crimes if released on bail. Citing a ruling in which Allahabad high court had observed, “Rape of a young child is suggestive of mental depravity and propensity to commit acts of such nature. Under the circumstances, the longer the juvenile is kept in care, the better it is for the society as well as for him. This court is, therefore, of the view that releasing the accused//appellant on bail would defeat the end of justice” The judge further observed that on the basis of the finding that there was no legal error in the order passed by the juvenile justice board there was no need to interfere in its order. The appeal is liable to be rejected and the order passed by the juvenile justice board is being confirmed, the judge stated in the order. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pocso-court-rejects-criminal-plea-of-rape-accused-citing-risk-of-misuse-of-bail/articleshow/79068345.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kanpur||Girl dies mysteriously in Babupurwa||Kanpur:A 19-year-old girl, a resident of Dhaknapurwa area under the limits of Babupurwa police station of the city, died under mysterious circumstances here on Thursday. The girl, identified as Chitra, was found in an unconscious state in her bed in the morning and was taken to a private hospital, where she was declared brought dead. The girl, eldest in the family, who lived with her parents and two younger siblings in Dhaknapurwa locality, used to work at a catering firm in the city. Police said as per her brother Anuj, Chitra was unwell since the past two days. “On Wednesday, her two friends Warisa and Shifa, who stay in the same locality, had visited their house to inquire about her well-being. Thereafter, the two over the pretext of visiting a doctor took her along in an Innova vehicle. At around 4 pm, after returning from doctors clinic, Warisa and Shifa contacted her brother Anuj and asked him to take back Chitra. When Anuj visited Chitra’s friends’ place, he found her in an unstable condition,” said Inspector Babupurwa police station Janardan Pratap Singh. Anuj thereafter took his ailing sister to a doctor, who gave her some medicines, said the police official and added, “However, she did not wake up in the morning on Thursday and was found to be unconscious. Her family members immediately rushed her to a private hospital, but Chitra was declared brought dead.” Later, Anuj accused Warisa and Shifa of getting her wrong treatment, wherein they had approached some witch doctor, who performed exorcism on her following which her condition deteriorated and she died later. The girl’s family thereafter apprised the local police about the incident. A police team along with FSL members visited the girl’s house and after conducting preliminary investigations, shifted her body to morgue for autopsy. “Prima facie, it appears that the girl, who was unwell since the past couple of days, had died following some kind of illness. However, we are awaiting postmortem report, based on which action will be initiated in the case,” the Inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-dies-mysteriously-in-babupurwa/articleshow/79068363.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Most complaints to women’s panel were on domestic violence||CHENNAI: Domestic violence and dowry harassment topped complaints to the State Women's Commission during the lockdown months. More than 250 complaints were filed under the two heads followed by complaints of sexual harassment at the workplace and abuse of elderly women. A majority of the petitions were received from Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. The number of complaints, officials said, is around 20% higher than the corresponding months last year. During the initial weeks of the lockdown, the commission hardly received any complaints of abuse from women, following which they had directed the department of social welfare and other line departments to keep a close check on women who had reported domestic violence earlier. After April, more complaints began to come in. Between March 1 and September 30, the commission received 278 complaints of domestic violence, 252 of harassment for dowry, 36 of abuse of senior citizens, 22 on sexual harassment at the workplace. More than 260 were on other issues such as property disputes, ill-treatment or unhelpful attitude of police while handling grievances and troubles faced by migrant women due to the lockdown. Kannagi Packianathan, chairperson of the commission, said the number of domestic violence cases might still be underreported. “It is because women were all locked indoors during the lockdown. And it is not easy for them to call or come out and report abuse since their family members live in the same house,” she said. To ensure that more women can reach out without fear, Kannagi said they have been regularly holding meetings with the district social welfare officers and also women police to help sensitise them and identify more cases of abuse, without compromising the safety of the women. “They first need to create a separate protocol for reporting abuse or making a distress call during the pandemic. Most women find it difficult and do not know how to seek help from authorities,” said Sujata Mody, president of Penn Thozhilalargal Sangam. Due to the lack of protocol, Sujata said, many women suffering domestic abuse end up reaching out to their extended family or neighbours for support and the local police too often send them back to live with the abuser, without taking any action. “The cycle of abuse repeats. We need to come out with a suitable solution since the pandemic is going to be here for a while,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/most-plaints-to-womens-panel-were-on-domestic-violence/articleshow/79069028.cms||Aditi R
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Rains hit quality, transport of orange leaving growers in the lurch||Nagpur: A train full of Nagpur oranges may have chugged off to Bangladesh, bringing cheers and opening new avenues for growers. The overall scenario for them however is not so encouraging. A glut due to large quantity of the fruit remaining stuck up domestically as extended rains have hampered transport, has come as a dampener. Orange rates this season are nearly half of last year’s levels, leaving slender or no margin for the growers. A favourable season has led to bumper crop but excess rains have also hampered the quality. The rains that extended till October not only in Vidarbha but also other parts of the country impaired the transportation, leading to a glut in orange growing districts of Nagpur and Amravati. The drop in temperature has now further reduced the demand for oranges, as the fruit is preferred when the climate is slightly warmer, traders said. They said the current rates are in the range of Rs 8,000 to 15,000 a tonne. Last year the rates were Rs 20,000 to 25,000 a tonne. Not only the growers but even traders accept that the current rates are not enough for the farmers. Manoj Jawanjal, director of Mahaorange, a state government body engaged in creating new markets for the fruit, said good quality oranges were still fetching up to Rs 20,000 a tonne. However, the numbers are limited. Produce of a majority of the farmers is of a grade that is fetching not more than Rs 15,000 a tonne, he said. Jawanjal explained that a farmer incurred an expenditure of at least Rs 40,000 on an acre of plantation. The average yield is estimated at around 4 tonnes an acre. So if the farmers fetches Rs 15,000 a ton, with an average output of 4 tonnes the profit comes to Rs 20,000 an acre. It further goes down after peripheral expenses are deducted. This is too low for small and marginal growers. “Farmers need to get at least R 20,000 a tonne to get a decent profit,” he said. Omprakash Mainani, a trader at Kalamna, said the rains had held up supplies to other states. The fruits were also damaged due to rains during transit. “The current rates are just not enough for the farmers to make a profit. A farmer spends at least Rs 2,500 to 3,000 a tonne for bringing the produce to the market yard at Nagpur. Such low rates may hardly leave anything in their hands,” said Mainani. Mainani said rates were also low because of the poor quality of fruit too. The fruit could not get the required size and colour, due to unseasonal rains. Idayatuullah, another trader at Kalamna, said almost 70% of the supply was fetching only upto Rs 15,000. The better lot is getting Rs 16,000 to 20,000. He said the demand in other states had also come down due to colder weather setting in. The orange crop of winter season is called the Ambiya Bahar. Another round of fruiting happens in March, called the Mrug Bahar. Traders said the area under Mrug Bahar had come down to 20%. The rates are high at Rs 50,000 a tonne at present but only a handful of farmers are expected to have the crop. Even in this case, rains have played spoilsport, said traders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rains-hit-quality-transport-of-orange-leaving-growers-in-the-lurch/articleshow/79067848.cms||Shishir Arya
November 6, 2020||Kanpur||Nano grain-based ethanol unit opened at NSI||Kanpur: A nano grain-based ethanol unit, installed at the National Sugar Institute-Kanpur, was inaugurated by the vice-chancellor of the Harcourt Butler Technological University, Kanpur on Thursday. This unit is integrated with existing molasses-based ethanol unit and thus now the system would be ‘Multi Feed Stock Based Ethanol Unit’ capable of working on different qualities of molasses and various grains — rice, maize, millets and sorghum — the sugar institute stated in a statement. Congratulating the NSI, VC HBTU, Kanpur, Dr NB Singh lauding the efforts said, “The facilities shall be helpful in effective teaching and training and the students shall develop confidence once they work with their own hands and operate various units used in ethanol production.” Director, NSI, Kanpur Prof Narendra Mohan, while elaborating the importance of the unit, said, “With the growing demand of ethanol for ethanol blending in petrol which is estimated to be about 360 crore litres per annum at present at 10% blending, the conventional route of using molasses from sugar factories for ethanol production is not adequate and use of alternate feed stocks through which ethanol can be produced at reasonable rates is inevitable.” Thus, the deteriorated grains, rice and corn in particular, which are not fit for human consumption may be used for ethanol production without inviting a debate on ‘food vs fuel’. “This will do two goods: one, the ethanol availability will increase and distilleries will work for more days resulting in better capacity utilization; secondly, the farmers will get a new market for selling the produce at better prices. We have proposed this concept of setting of ‘Multi Feed Stock Based Ethanol Units or Smart Ethanol Units’ to the government,” Prof Mohan said. Thus, to showcase installation of such ethanol units to the industry and also to provide competent manpower to the industry, this unit has been commissioned with the help of M/s ISGEC Heavy Engineering limited at an expenditure of about Rs 75 lakhs,the NSI director said. NSI is the only sugar institute in the world to have such ‘Multi Feed Stock Based or Smart Ethanol Unit’ for teaching and training purposes. Once the working normalizes, we shall also conduct short duration training programmes added Prof. Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nano-grain-based-ethanol-unit-opened-at-nsi/articleshow/79068326.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kanpur||SP’s ‘Veeru’ climbs atop water tank to draw officials’ attention||Kanpur: Following the footsteps of ‘Veeru’ of Hindi film Sholay the Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA Amitabh Bajpai on Thursday, climbed over a water tank at UHM district hospital to stage a sit-in to draw the attention of the officials. The news forced the district officials to climb over the tank to receive a memorandum from the SP leader. The water tank, which is situated at the back side of the UHM district hospital is in a bad condition with its top damaged at some places. The SP leader claimed that the water tank used to supply water to judicial and district officials and also to the nearby densely populated localities. Earlier, he had requested the officials to get the roof of the tank repaired but they did not pay any heed. In order to draw the attention of the officials, he decided to climb over the tank to get his demand accepted. City magistrate Himanshu Gupta along with the jal kal department and jal nigam officials climbed over the tank and received the memorandum from the SP leader. They assured him to cover the water tank with a net and also get the roof top repaired soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sps-veeru-climbs-atop-water-tank-to-draw-officials-attention/articleshow/79068377.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Solo women train travellers to get police escort during journey||AURANGABAD: Women travelling alone in trains need not worry about personal safety as they will soon be escorted by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel throughout their journey. The South Central Railway (SCR) on Thursday launched the ‘Meri Saheli’ initiative with an aim to offer focused action for the security of women passengers. SCR chief public relations officer Ch Rakesh said the key initiative would cover eight trains including Nanded-Amritsar Sachkhand Express and Kinwat-CSMT Mumbai Nandigram Express that pass through Marathwada. It is a pilot launch. “The RPF team collects only the seat numbers of the passengers and the stoppages. The platform duty RPF personnel at the stations en-route keep unobtrusive watch over the coaches and berths and if need arises, interact with the women passengers. The onboard RPF personnel also cover all the identified berths during their duty period,” he said. If some distress call comes from any women passenger travelling in the train covered under ‘Meri Saheli’ initiative, the disposal of the call is monitored at the level of senior officers of the division concerned. Further, RPF teams will also collect the feedback from the identified passengers at the destination stations, railway authorities said. The formal launch of ‘Meri Saheli’ on Thursday also witnessed awareness campaigns about the new initiative and briefing to the target passengers about all the precautions to be taken during the journey, including accessing help by dialling 182 in case of any emergency. The initiative will also be available on Golconda Express (Secunderabad-Guntur-Secunderabad), Godavari Express (Hyderabad-Visakhapatnam), and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/solo-women-train-travellers-to-get-police-escort-during-journey/articleshow/79066608.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 6, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Debit card cloning fraud costs builder Rs 1.3 lakh||PUNE: A real estate developer (55) has registered a complaint with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police stating that some person/s withdrew over Rs1.29 lakh from his bank account by using a cloned debit card at ATMs in Pandharpur and Aurangabad between September 25 and 26, last year. The developer, Vilas Paline, had initially filed a complaint application with the Pune cyber police, who carried out a preliminary inquiry before transferring the matter to the Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Wednesday. Paline told TOI, “I did not receive any call nor had I shared my debit card number and one-time password (OTP) with anyone. My card was cloned and money was withdrawn from my account using various ATMs. I came to known about the incident after I started receiving text messages of the transactions done.” Paline said, ‘I got my card blocked and surrendered it to the nationalised bank at Ambegaon branch. I filled out a distress form for claiming refund of the money illegally transferred from my saving account as I had not shared card details and I was at my residence at Dhankawadi when the incident occurred. I lodged a police complaint after I failed to get back my money from the bank.” A police official associated with the investigations said, “The bank’s board of directors asked Pilane to register FIR as per the guidelines of Reserve Bank of India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-loses-over-rs-1-29-lakh-to-card-cloning-fraud/articleshow/79070753.cms||Asseem Shaikh
November 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman loses eye after man attacks her in field||PUNE: A 45-year-old woman lost her eye after a man attacked her late on Tuesday night when she objected to his presence while she was answering nature’s call in a field at Nhavare village in Shirur taluka, about 70km from the city. Additional superintendent of police (Pune rural) Milind Mohite told TOI, “The attack was so brutal that the woman lost her eye on the spot. Moreover, her other eye too is badly damaged. She has undergone an eye surgery at Sassoon Hospital in Pune but may lose the other eye too.” Mohite said an offence under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 307 (murder attempt) have been registered with the Shirur police. “We have sent out five teams to trace the suspect,” he said. The woman, a farm worker, stays in a shanty near Nhavare village with her family. Assistant inspector Birdev Kabugade of the Shirur police said she had gone to answer nature’s call near her house around 10pm when she noticed the man loitering nearby and told him to leave. “In the argument that followed, the man suddenly held the woman by her hair and banged her head on the ground. She lost one eye on the spot after the man hit her in the face with some object,” Kabugade said. When the woman did not return home, her family members began searching for her and found her lying on the ground. Mohite said the police have recorded the statement of the woman. “She has given us a description of the attacker. We are working on some clues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-loses-eye-after-man-attacks-her/articleshow/79070758.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: BJP worker succumbs to burns||HYDERABAD: A BJP activist who set himself ablaze at BJP headquarters on Sunday, succumbed on Thursday night while undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Twenty-five-year-old Srinivas who suffered 60 percent burns was declared dead by the private hospital authorities at 9 pm. On Sunday, he was first taken to OGH and later moved to a private hospital for better treatment. Srinivas, who is from Ranga Reddy district, set himself ablaze at the entrance of the BJP state head quarters in Nampally. The locals rushed to him and doused the fire by pouring water on him. Srinivas said he took the extreme step as he was upset that BJP state President Bandi Sanjay was arrested in Siddipet during Dubbak election. He raised slogans in support of Sanjay and BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-worker-succumbs-to-burns/articleshow/79069086.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt to ramp up bed capacity at govt hospitals||NEW DELHI: With the capital recording more than 6,700 new Covid-19 cases for three days in a row, Delhi government has decided to augment the bed capacity in hospitals, including ICU beds, increase testing at crowded places and take steps to lower the fatality rate. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday took a review meeting on the corona situation and the preparedness of the capital to deal with the surge in Covid cases, at a time when both pollution and the pandemic are adversely impacting Delhiites. A statement from the CM’s office said that the medical infrastructure will be ramped up in the city, with an increase in the number of oxygen and ICU beds for corona-positive patients in Delhi government hospitals. Kejriwal also said that Delhi government has filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court to lift the stay on the reservation of beds in private hospitals, keeping in view of the critical situation. The government’s decision to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients was stayed by Delhi High Court in September. The review meeting was attended by health minister Satyendar Jain, revenue minister Kailash Gehlot, chief secretary Anshu Prakash, health department officials, district magistrates, revenue officials, etc. “The meeting was held to review the preparedness for Covid treatment along with a need for advanced planning to deal with the pandemic. It was also decided in the meeting to augment the capacity of beds in Delhi government hospitals,” the statement said. Delhi government has also decided to increase targeted testing at crowded places across the city. Mobile testing vans will be deployed at markets and free testing will be available at these places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-ramp-up-bed-capacity-at-govt-hosps/articleshow/79071276.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kanpur||Man kills father in dispute over watching TV||KANPUR: A retired Army personnel allegedly shot dead his 80-year-old father following a fight over watching TV on Wednesday night in Kanpur Dehat district. According to the police, prima facie it seems a heated argument broke out between Ashok Katihar, a retired Army personnel, and his father Lala Ram as he wanted to turn off the TV. “Following an argument, Ashok pushed him and later opened fire from his licensed double-barrel gun,” said police further. The incident took place in Naseerpur village under the limits of Sikandara police station. “Ashok had retired from Army and live in Naseerpur village along with other family members including his elderly parents, besides other siblings. The preliminary investigation and scene of crime suggest that Ashok had asked his father Lala Ram, who along with his nephew Rishabh was watching some programme, to switch off the TV. It was when his father refused, he indulged into a heated argument with him and later shot him with his liceced double-barrel gun and escaped. His father sustained serious bullet wounds and succumbed later,” said additional superintendent of police Anup Kumar. As per family sources, Ashok is a habitual drinker, would frequently fight over petty issues, and on Wednesday night too he returned home in an inebriated state, the officer said. “An FIR under relevant sections of IPC including 302 was lodged in this regard,” the ASP said and added, “separate teams have been formed and dispatched to possible hideouts of the accused, who had been absconding along with his gun since the incident had taken place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-kills-father-in-dispute-over-watching-tv/articleshow/79068372.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Poor Bird Week planning in Aurangabad criticised||AURANGABAD: The state government may have declared November 5 to 12 as the maiden Bird Week, but the forest department in Aurangabad, till Thursday, had not shared its schedule of planned activities to mark the occasion. While many other forest departments have proactively organised a slew of online events, local authorities have once again been accused of showing apathy towards such public awareness initiatives. Notably, the Wildlife Week observed last month also saw lacklustre celebrations in Aurangabad district without any public participation. Shaikh Mohammad Naim, a senior birder from Aurangabad, said occasions like the Bird Week should not remain on only on paper. “Aurangabad and its outskirts, and the district as a whole, have a diverse and rich bird population. Occasions such as Bird Week can be utilised to spread awareness among the masses, especially the younger generation. Needless to say, awareness is the first step towards conservation,” said the retired government employee. When contacted, district forest officer Vijay Satpute said the detailed schedule of activities planned under the Bird Week would be made public by Friday. “We could not share the details in advance due to unavoidable issues. We have planned painting and photography competitions among other activities. The details would be released shortly,” he said. Himayat Bagh, the Salim Ali lake, the campus of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) and the Harsul lake are some of the popular birding spots in the city along with Sarola and other areas nestled in the mountain range in the fringe areas. Aurangabad district also has the Jayakwadi bird sanctuary in Paithan, which is a haven for migratory and resident birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/poor-bird-week-planning-in-aurangabad-criticised/articleshow/79066663.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||HC flags concern over LRS & BRS, cautions govt||HYDERABAD: Delivering a note of caution that indiscriminate regularisation of illegal layouts would lead to chaos, the high court on Thursday sought to know from the state how many times it would provide amnesty to the illegal layouts and builders. “You did it in 2015 and in 2020 in the name of BRS and LRS and this approach may result in unplanned growth of the concrete structures contrary to the state’s pronounced objective that it would streamline the area of illegal structures,” the bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said while hearing a batch of PILs challenging the state’s latest LRS scheme filed by M Padmanabha Reddy of Forum for good governance and Congress MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and others. Senior counsel S Satyam Reddy argued the case of the forum and said that there is no need for a separate scheme like LRS to streamline the constructions. The Panchayat Act prescribes three years of jail to those who raise illegal structures. Similarly the GHMC Act, the HMDA Act and the municipalities Act, every Act has provisions to punish errant builders, implement them, he said. Collecting fees from people in the name of LRS is also wrong, he said. Agreeing with Satyam Reddy that the state has hardly punished any officer for dereliction of duty in preventing illegal structures, the bench sought counters from the state in the pleas and posted the case to November 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-flags-concern-over-lrs-brs-cautions-govt/articleshow/79069079.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||Gen Naravane conferred honorary rank of Nepali Army chief; to meet PM Oli today for talks||DEHRADUN/KATHMANDU: Nepal president Bidya Devi Bhandari conferred the honorary rank of General of Nepali Army to Indian Army chief General MM Naravane at a special function held at the Sheetal Niwas, the presidential residence in Kathmandu, on Thursday. Naravane was also presented with a sword and scroll during the function. The ceremony was attended by prime minister KP Sharma Oli, Indian ambassador to Nepal Vinay M Kwatra and other senior officials of both the countries. Sources said Naravane is scheduled to meet prime minister Oli, who is holding the defence portfolio, on the final day of his visit on Friday. The talks would be eagerly watched as Naravane’s visit is believed to be largely aimed at resetting bilateral ties between the two countries that came under severe strain after Nepal registered protest against a border road inaugurated by defence minister Rajnath Singh earlier in the year and followed it up with issuing of a new map that showed the Lipulekh, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani areas in Uttarakhand as part of its territory. India's decision to send the Army chief to Nepal to reset the ties is seen by experts as part of a larger exercise by New Delhi to rejuvenate relations with Myanmar, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Afghanistan in the wake of greater efforts by China to expand its influence in the region. Following the ceremony on Thursday, Naravane discussed with the Nepalese president, measures to further enhance bilateral co-operation between the two countries, a statement issued by the Indian embassy in Kathmandu said. Earlier in the day, the Indian Army chief met his Nepalese counterpart, General Purna Chandra Thapa, who was also conferred the rank of honorary General of the Indian Army in New Delhi last year, at the Chief of Army Staff's office. "They exchanged views on issues of bilateral interests and discussed measures to further strengthen the existing bond of friendship and co-operation between the two armies,” said a press statement issued by the Nepali Army headquarters. Naravane also presented medical equipment for two field hospitals of Nepali Army which included X-ray machines, ICU ventilators, video endoscopy units, anaesthesia machines and ambulances. The equipment is intended to assist the Nepali Army in its fight against Covid-19, said a tweet posted by the Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) of the Indian Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gen-naravane-conferred-honorary-rank-of-nepali-army-chief-to-meet-pm-oli-today-for-talks/articleshow/79067924.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||World||India-born man with rags-to-riches story enters Michigan House||When India-born-and-bred entrepreneur Shri Thanedar’s first wife killed herself in America in 1996, their two children — Neil and Samir — were just four and eight years of age. Thanedar had risen from a life of poverty in Belgaum and struggle in Mumbai to become the owner of a pharmaceutical firm in Michigan and had been living the American Dream, but at that moment, he felt the world collapse around him. He survived the crisis and made his business successful and worth $200 million. Then came the 2008 economic slump: his company crashed and he even lost the dream home he built. He had to start all over again. Now, at 65, he’s made his third comeback. On Wednesday, the Maharashtrian who is proud of his roots was elected to the 110-member House of Representatives in Michigan with 93% votes. A Democrat, he will now represent District 3 in Detroit which, with a population of 1.5 lakh, represents some of that city’s most affluent parts and some of its poorest — a mixture of wealth and impoverishment that he is familiar with. One of six siblings, Thanedar had a tough childhood in Belgaum: his father retired from a government job at 55, and he had to do odd jobs at age 14. Soon he moved to Mumbai where, after completing college education, he joined the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre as a scientist. He left for the US when he was 24, got a doctorate in polymer chemistry and became a US citizen in 1988. Grateful for the benefits of government-sponsored school and university education that he received in India, Thanedar wants to focus on education in his constituency. “I also want children to get early-childhood education free, the way I got it in India,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/india-born-man-with-rags-to-riches-story-enters-michigan-house/articleshow/79072084.cms||Vaibhav Purandare
November 6, 2020||Bareilly||Villagers allege quack of killing man, storm DM’s residence at midnight||Rampur: Protesters stormed the residence of Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh at midnight on Wednesday, with the dead body of a 30-year-old man who had died after the village quack had allegedly injected some medicine into his body. The DM ordered police to register an FIR against the quack and sent the body for postmortem at Rampur district hospital. According to members of the 30-year-old patient’s family, Umesh died allegedly after being given a wrong injection by the quack in Manjara village of Tanda tehsil. Umesh’s brother Anil Kumar said, “My brother had cough and went to Javed, who owed him Rs 1 lakh. The quack gave him some poisonous injection, after which he died. When we went to the police station demanding action, we were beaten up by cops.” The victim’s family had earlier staged a protest outside the police station, citing inaction. Rampur DM Aunjaneya Singh said, “I’ve instructed cops to take strict action in the matter and have also directed the CMO to take appropriate action against quacks operating in villages here.” He added, “Protesters went on the rampage inside Tanda Kotwali police station and tried to attack the quack, who had been detained by police. I’ve directed Rampur SP Shaghun Gautam to take appropriate steps in the matter.” Tanda Kotwali SHO Mahindra Singh Bisht said,”Till now, we haven’t received any complaint from the family of the deceased. Once we get that, an FIR will be registered against the quack under appropriate IPC sections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/villagers-allege-quack-of-killing-man-storm-dms-residence-at-midnight/articleshow/79065720.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||1,500 fresh Covid cases & 5 deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday recorded 1,539 new Covid-19 positive cases and five deaths, even as 11 districts recorded up to 50 percent increase in cases over the last week. The coronavirus caseload rose to 2,45,682, while the death toll stands at 1,362. So far, a total of 2,25,664 patients in the state have recovered from the coronavirus infection and 18,656 patients are undergoing treatment. A total of 44,327 tests were conducted in the state on Thursday. With this, over 44.8 lakh samples have been tested so far in the state since the onset of the pandemic, taking the number of samples tested per million population to 1,20,477. Of the 44,327 samples tested, 41,377 were tested in government facilities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded 285 new cases- the highest among districts. This was followed by 123 cases in Ranga Reddy, 102 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri, 86 cases in Karimnagar, 82 cases in Bhadadri Kothagudem, 78 cases in Khammam and 52 cases in Suryapet. The remain districts recorded new cases as well. Apart from Yadadri Bhongir and Jagtiyal, other districts seeing a surge in cases during the week are Vikarabad, Bhadadri Kothagudem, Mancheriyal, Nirmal, Peddapalli, Rajanna Sircilla, Suryapet and Wanaparthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1500-fresh-covid-cases-5-deaths-in-t/articleshow/79069102.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt mulls change in Covid protocol, may discard PPE use||HYDERABAD: Eight months after treating over 2,45,000 coronavirus cases, the Telangana government is now reviewing protocols for Covid-19 and is even planning to cut down on PPE use inside hospitals and allowing relatives in Covid wards. “While we have been using PPE kits, now we know that a good quality N-95 mask, face shield, and gloves will take care of the safety requirements. In the coming days, we may not even require PPE kits in all areas. Now it is high time to relook into protocols with respect to safety measures,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director (public health) Telangana. “Being a new disease, it took us a little time to understand the virus and its transmission but now we know a lot more after undergoing eight months of the pandemic,” he added. Authorities are also rethinking allowing family members to attend to Covid-19 patients, apart from the usage of new drugs. While the pandemic has resulted in PPE kits being used by professionals other than health care professionals and even flight passengers, experts say that it is possible to ditch PPE kits in general circumstances. Explaining how during the previous Swine Flu pandemic in the year 2009, a similar pattern of safety protocol had emerged in protocols too, the official further said anticipating a second wave, the entire safety measures for health professionals and the public might change. “In fact, we may even allow public and family members to take care of patients after taking special measures. The department is studying protocols, including treatment protocols and a new set of protocols will be announced soon,” he added. Experts agreed on the need for protocol change due to better understanding as well as for better utilization of resources. “Protocols are designed and approved by safety and ethics committees and because now they understand how the virus spreads, it is possible to change the protocols. For trained professionals, it is possible to reduce the use of PPEs. It may happen now,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, director CSIR- Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, (CCMB), Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-mulls-change-in-covid-protocol-may-discard-ppe-use/articleshow/79069096.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 6, 2020||Meerut||Cane farmer on strike for five days dies of heart attack in UP's Baghpat||Meerut: Sauraj Singh, a 60-year-old farmer, who was staging a protest outside the office of district cane officer for a new cane weighing centre for the past five days, suddenly died of a heart attack in UP's Baghpat on Thursday.Singh's death led to a lot of tension in the area with hundreds of farmers assembling at the spot and accusing the authorities of "indifference towards their just demand". In this sugarcane belt, farmer's death by accident or suicide has always been a sensitive subject. As protests for a new cane weighing centre gathered steam, there was a deadlock between authorities and farmers for the past few days. And Singh was among the farmers demanding a new centre at their village in Baghpat. The incident took place a few days before the crushing season for the sugar mills."We have been demanding a new cane weighing centre for the village. This is a just demand. But authorities had been delaying the grant. Villagers approached MLAs, MPs, and even went to Lucknow, but to no avail," Pratap Gujjar, the district president of Bhartiya Kisan Union, said. After repeated requests, Gujjar added that they were left with no other option but to protest outside the district cane office, especially since the crushing season is about to start in the mills. "And Sauraj [Singh] died due to heart attack during the agitation," Gujjar said.It all started after a youth from the Jat community was allegedly killed at a village on August 3, apparently, following a clash between two communities. Notably, there are two dominant castes in the village - Brahmins and Jats. The Jats are predominantly a farming community in the area.After the death of the Jat youth, some villagers started raising the issue of a separate cane weighing centre. The present centre is located deep within a locality with a substantial Brahmin population. Hence, to avoid any further tension, they demanded a separate centre.Now, after Singh's death, district administration has reportedly agreed to the demand and given its nod for a new centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cane-farmer-on-strike-for-five-days-dies-of-heart-attack-in-ups-baghpat/articleshow/79066714.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 6, 2020||Vadodara||Activist objects to sale of plots with only one bidder||Vadodara: An activist has raised objections to selling of plots by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) at rates marginally higher than their minimum upset value in the auction earlier this week even when there was only one bidder for the plots.The civic body had put up 27 plots for auction, but only seven found takers. While there were more than one bidder for four plots, three plots saw only single bidders who were sold these plots.The auction on Tuesday led to the sale of seven plots at a price of Rs 77.36crore. Against this the upset value of these plots was Rs 65.36 crore. Activist Atul Gamechi on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the civic body stating that the VMC should not sell plots if only one bidder came forward during auction. He said that if competitive bidding takes place, higher prices can be received for these plots.Sources in the VMC, however, said that the VMC had not made any losses in the process. “The minimum upset value decided by valuation committee is actually slightly higher than the market rate. Also, the buyer has to pay us the entire amount within six months. In case of dealings in the real estate market, the payment has to be settled in two or three years,” said the official.The official pointed out that realtors in the city had already approached VMC functionaries with requests that the prices should be rationalised. They have also sought that more time should be given to settle the payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/activist-objects-to-sale-of-plots-with-only-one-bidder/articleshow/79067212.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Man impersonates RAW agent, held||Hyderabad: A 39-year-old man who duped a woman by claiming to be an undercover operative of Research Analysis Wing (RAW)was arrested by Narsingi police on Thursday. The accused, a resident of Malkajgiri, stole 50 tolas of gold from the woman and mortgaged it for a loan of Rs 8.5 lakh. He sent a mail impersonating a RAW officer, saying the accused was killed by some blackmailers. On realising that she was duped, she lodged a complaint. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-impersonates-raw-agent-held/articleshow/79069105.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Meerut||Rs 5 lakh bond imposed on cleric for nod to Chalisa recital at UP mosque||MEERUT: The decision to allow a Hanuman Chalisa recital inside a mosque has led to strong pushback from the mosque and the administration at a village in Baghpat. The cleric who had granted permission has been asked to go and both he and the person who played it have been challanned with Rs 5-lakh personal bonds each. The village, Vinaypur, is home to about 8,000. On Tuesday, Manu Pal Bansal played the Hanuman Chalisa inside the local mosque with permission from the cleric, Ali Hasan. Bansal is national vice-president of an organisation that has been seeking population control laws, Jansankhya Samadhan Foundation. He live-streamed the video, in which the Hanuman Chalisa is playing with just him in attendance at the mosque. The day he held the recital, neither police nor the local administration took any action. The mosque’s managing committee, too, did not approve but did not stop Bansal that day. Hasan said, “He came to me with a request to sit inside the mosque. How could I say no? Everyone is allowed to be in god’s presence.” It was the same day four men had been arrested for reciting the Hanuman Chalisa at a mosque in Mathura. On Monday, a day before that, founder of Delhi-based Khudai Khidmatgar Faisal Khan and three others had been booked for offering namaaz at a temple in Mathura. While the four men who were arrested had said their action was in response to that, the cleric of the Mathura mosque had not pressed charges. Then, on Wednesday, president of the Yogi Youth Brigade, Ajay Tomar, was arrested in Agra for reciting the Hanuman Chalisa at a mosque. Later that day, two others were arrested for defiling a mosque with saffron paint, also in Agra. In this case, no charges have been pressed because the cleric had granted permission, but they have each been challanned with a Rs 5-lakh ‘muchalka paaband’, or personal bond which they will have to pay if they “disturb the peace” again. “The whole thing was only meant to promote communal harmony,” Hasan said. Bansal had the same explanation: “Why the controversy? I got permission from Imam sahib. I went alone and played the Hanuman Chalisa.” After it drew attention, the mosque’s managing committee reportedly removed Hasan. A local source said he has already left the village. Baghpat SP Abhishek Singh told TOI, “Initially, the committee said they would remove him. Then, there was some talk of getting him back. But it’s their internal matter.” As to why a personal bond was imposed on Hasan and Bansal, additional district magistrate of Baghpat Amit Singh said, “While the act had been permitted by the cleric, the bond was meant to prevent any untoward incident." Watch Hanuman Chalisa in mosque: 5 lakh bond imposed on cleric in UP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rs-5-lakh-personal-bond-imposed-on-cleric-who-permitted-hanuman-chalisa-recital-at-up-mosque/articleshow/79066715.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 6, 2020||Meerut||Wear N95 mask to beat Meerut's 'severe' air pollution, say doctors||MEERUT: As Air Quality Index in Meerut registered ‘severe’ on Thursday, health authorities at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College started gearing up to receive patients with breathing issues and eye allergies. Doctors have been advised to maintain social distancing and wear N95 masks. Dr Dheeraj Baliyan, superintendent-in-chief, LLRM Medical College, said, “While a few patients with complaints of breathing problem and allergy in eyes have started coming in, the number will u increase in the coming days. As Diwali approaches and people burst crackers, air pollution will further increase, pushing up breathing issues and irritation in the eyes.” On Thursday, Meerut registered 453 AQI, which was higher than Delhi’s 450 AQI in the "severe" category. An AQI ranging between 0 and 50 is considered 'good' and 'satisfactory' if it falls between 51 and 100. Similarly, from 101 to 200 it will be 'moderate', 201 to 300 is considered 'poor', 301 to 400 is taken as 'very poor', and above 400 it is “severe”. Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer, said, “Locals need to practice social distancing and wear N95 masks not only as a safeguard against Covid-19 but also to ensure that they do not face any breathing problem due to polluted air.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/wear-n95-mask-to-beat-meeruts-severe-air-pollution-say-docs/articleshow/79066727.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 6, 2020||Meerut||Headless body of woman: Cops hit ‘dead end’ as leads go cold||MEERUT: Police are yet to land a breakthrough in the murder of a woman, whose headless and dismembered body was found stuffed in a sack near city graveyard in Lisari gate ten days ago. The investigating officers initially claimed to have found some leads, but all of them went cold. A team which has been skimming through CCTV footage in the area was hopeful of closing in on suspects after it picked up CCTV grab of two men carrying sacks on the back, similar to the one from which the body pieces were recovered. When rounded up, it turned out the men were carrying loads of blankets to be parceled to a client. Then a man from the Partapur area in the district approached the probe team claiming his wife was missing and could have been killed by the man she was allegedly in an illicit relationship with. Police matched the fingerprint record of the missing woman with the deceased and turned out to be of two different women. Circle officer of Kotwali, Arvind Kumar, said that teams are working on surveillance and missing person’s record to ascertain the identity of the deceased. The head is missing and there is no birth or identification mark on the remaining part of the body making it extremely difficult for police to ascertain the identity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/headless-body-of-woman-cops-hit-dead-end-as-leads-go-cold/articleshow/79066719.cms||Piyush Rai
November 6, 2020||Meerut||Minor in juvenile home for abetting murder, kin say he was ‘framed’||Muzaffarnagar: The family members of a minor youth, who was detained and sent to a correction centre for his alleged involvement in the murder of a clerk two months ago, have alleged that he has been “framed”, a charge denied by local police in Muzaffarnagar.“The youth’s father passed away several years ago. And his mother had also left him and married someone else,” his 80-year-old grandmother, with whom he lived, said. The octogenarian has been running from pillar to post to prove the “innocence” of the youth for the last two months. “My grandson is innocent. He was with me when police came to my house and took him for an inquiry. They kept him in a police station for 15 days and were demanding money for his release. When I couldn’t pay, they booked him. He was sent to a correction home in Noida,” the woman said. She has now hired a lawyer.Gyan Kumar, the lawyer, said, “Even in their statements, the two main accused, Shameem and Wajid, had not taken the name of the minor boy. And according to the minor’s grandmother, police first detained him and kept him in the lock-up for 15 days and later sent him to a juvenile centre. He is still there. And all this while the old woman kept visiting the police station but to no avail.”While the woman claimed that his grandson was just 12 years old, police contested and said he is actually 16.The murder for which the youth and two others were booked took place on August 20 in Purkazi town, Muzaffarnagar. Mayank Kumar was robbed and murdered and his body was found in a forest. After initial probe, police had arrested Shamim and Wajid for the murder. The minor youth’s name was added later, police said.“He was part of murder conspiracy. We have taken action into the matter on the basis of the evidence,” said station house officer of Purkazi police station, Jitendra Yadav.While deputy superintendent of police Kuldeep Kumar said, “He is not 12, but 16 years old. During a statement taken by police, he accepted that the accused gave him some money. He was told to keep an eye in the area when the accused were killing Mayank. He knew everything about the crime and therefore he was detained.”The lawyer, Kumar, has now filed a petition in the juvenile justice board. A complaint with the National Human Rights Commission has already been filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/minor-in-juvenile-home-for-abetting-murder-kin-say-he-was-framed/articleshow/79066726.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 6, 2020||Agra||Members of saffron outfit enter another Mathura mosque, chant Hanuman Chalisa, booked||Agra: Police in Mathura on Thursday booked three members of a saffron outfit after they allegedly barged into a mosque and read out Hanuman Chalisa in the district's Taroli village. A video clip of the event was also shared on social media platforms, prompting police to arrest the three men.Bharat Sisodiya, president of Rashtriya Maharana Pratap Yuva Sena and two others, Ashok Singh and Sonu Raghav, were booked under section 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of CrPC, said SP (rural) Shireesh Chandra.He added that police are keeping a close eye on such people.“Strict action will be taken against those trying to disrupt communal harmony,” said SSP Guarav Grover. He added that directions have been issued to all police stations in the district in this regard.This was the second such incident in the last 48-hour. On November 2, a group of four youths had recited Hanuman Chalisa in Govardhan’s Eidgah. They were also booked under the same section.ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/members-of-saffron-outfit-enter-another-mathura-mosque-chant-hanuman-chalisa-booked/articleshow/79066733.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Signs of recovery in Kolhapur after 2 months of Covid crisis||KOLHAPUR: After experiencing a sharp rise in the number of Covid patients and deaths for more than two months, Kolhapur district has been showing signs of recovery in the first four days of November. The district recorded 192 fresh cases, while 370 patients were discharged in the first four days of November. Kolhapur city registered just 55 new patients in November so far, as against more than 100 cases reported daily on average in October. Moreover, the city has not recorded a single death in the current month. The district, however, has had six Covid deaths in the past four days. Not a single death was reported on Monday (November 2), on November 1, only one death was reported while three and two deaths were registered on November 3 and 4, respectively. Of the six deaths, two were reported in Hatkanangale tehsils while the others were reported in Shahuwadi, Karveer, Kagal and Gadhinglaj. The number of active cases has also dropped drastically in the past four days as the number of patients being discharged has increased and the number of fresh cases reported has reduced. On November 1, the district had 982 active cases and on November 4, the number dropped to 785. The rural parts of Kolhapur district have been recording single-digit cases with a few exceptions. Ichalkaranji, which was once considered the worst-affected town in the district, has not recorded a single case in the past three days. On Wednesday night, Ichalkaranji had only 13 active patients and none of them is critical. According to the official data, almost half of Covid patients in Kolhapur district are in the age group of 21 to 50 years old. Of the 48,335 patients, 25,685 are from the said age group. As many as 13,841 patients in the age group of 51 to 70 years have tested positive for Covid and 3,495 patients are above the age of 71 years. According to the officials, 55 children below the age of 1 year have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/signs-of-recovery-in-kolhapur-after-2-months-of-covid-crisis/articleshow/79066760.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||Private hospitals in Kolkata struggle to reduce Covid patients’ ICU stay duration||KOLKATA: Private hospitals in Kolkata have seen a marginal rise in the stay duration of ICU patients since the pre-Puja period, making it even more difficult for critical patients to seek immediate admission. Some, however, have seen vacancies more frequently in general Covid ward. But a steady flow of critical patients, which, according to some hospitals, has gone up over the last fortnight, has blunted the benefit. ICU vacancies have been happening every 36 hours on an average across the leading hospitals while the waiting list has been growing longer. At Peerless Hospital, the average ICU stay has climbed to 10-12 days, while it has been even longer at around 15 days for those on ventilation. Majority of Covid patients seeking admission have been critical, necessitating ICU care straightaway, according Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. “Till the Pujas, the average ICU stay duration had been less than 10 days, leading to more frequent vacancies. Since the Pujas, we have received more critical patients who need oxygen support and can’t be treated at the ward. They are occupying ICU beds longer,” said Mitra. Peerless has 21 ITU and 129 Covid ward beds. Average ICU stay at AMRI Hospitals has climbed to 8-10 days. It had dropped to 5-6 days in early-October, said CEO Rupak Barua. “It has been 15 days or more for those needing ventilation and vacancies are getting rarer. We already have a waiting list of over 50 patients and almost all are critical patients who need immediate ICU care,” said Barua. Number of elderly patients turning critical after home treatment has risen significantly, according to Mitra. “Previously, even those with moderate symptoms would rush to hospitals. With the patient load rising, many are staying at home till their condition worsens. As a result, they are being brought at a stage when they need ICU admission,” added Mitra. The flip side of this ICU rush has seen slightly more non-ICU vacancies. At Peerless, for instance, 7-8 beds at Covid ward are getting vacant every day. They are being taken up by the evening, though. “We have a step-down unit ready to shift out ICU patients who get better. But with more severe patients getting admitted, that number has come down. We can’t extend our ITU any more,” said Mitra. Average duration of ICU stay has remained unchanged at around 5 days at Woodlands Hospital. But the ward stay has extended to 7-8 days now, according to CEO Rupali Basu. “Many require supplemental oxygen therapy for a longer duration primarily due to post-inflammatory changes in the lungs. To add to this, many families are creating set ups at homes with oxygen cylinders, nebulizers and BiPAP machines before taking discharge that is extending the stay period,” said CEO Rupali Basu. At some hospitals like RTIICS that have raised capacity, Covid bed vacancies have been happening more frequently, putting pressure on non-Covid capacity. “Since the number of non-Covid patients has increased, keeping the patients safe is now a challenge,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hospitals-struggle-to-reduce-covid-patients-icu-stay-duration/articleshow/79069192.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 6, 2020||Kolhapur||38 new cases take Kolhapur’s Covid count to 48,373||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district registered 38 new Covid-19 cases along with three deaths on Thursday. With this, the total number of cases in the district swelled to 48,373, of which, 760 are currently active. Five talukas in the district, including Ajara, Bhudargad, Gaganbawda, Karveer and Panhala, did not register any new case. Of the three recent casualties, one has been reported from Kolhapur city while one death each has been recorded from Chandgad and Ajra. Two of the three deceased were senior citizens. Except Kolhapur city, all talukas have recorded single digit patient. Kagal and Gadinglaj reported six and four cases respectively while Hatkanangle, Radhanagari and Shirol identified three fresh cases each. One case each was reported from Chandgad and Shahuwadi talukas. Meanwhile, Sangli district added 66 new patients, including 14 from the jurisdiction of Sangli Miraj Kupwad municipal corporation. The district reported three deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/38-new-cases-take-kolhapurs-covid-count-to-48373/articleshow/79066815.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Agra||No faith in CBI, agency trying to put blame on us: Hathras victim's kin||AGRA: Strongly denying any hand in the murder of his sister, the Hathras gang rape victim’s brother is learnt to have told the CBI that if he had done so, he wouldn’t have gone to the police station to lodge a complaint about it. He is also said to have told them if he had to kill his sister, he would have done it at home and not in open fields. The brother made the disclosures of his questioning by the CBI to a delegation of 11-member of People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) on Wednesday. When contacted, the victim’s younger brother told TOI that these rumours are "deliberately being generated by local residents in a bid to save the accused". “No altercation ever happened among us siblings,” he said. According to the victim’s elder brother, the CBI officials questioned him about the claims being made by local residents that he killed his own sister. “But what about the victim’s statement,” he asked. Seema Azad, a senior woman activist of PUCL who interacted with the victim’s women relatives, told TOI that the family has no faith in the CBI. She said that the victim’s kin feel the way the investigation agency is questioning the family indicates that their focus is on “honor killing”. The woman activist said that the family has objections over the line of investigations taken by the CBI. Azad said, “The family told us that the officials are questioning the relatives about the victim’s character. They approached the family of the victim’s sister-in-law and also her sisters’ in-laws to know about the girl’s character.” In fact, the victim’s relatives told the human rights organisation members that the officials are allegedly putting words that suit them into their mouth and are allegedly trying to pin the blame on them. PUCL’s secretary of Allahabad district, Manish Sinha, who was also part of the delegation said the victim’s kin had resented the CBI repeatedly questioning them in a way that they killed their daughter. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-victims-kin-no-faith-in-cbi-agency-trying-to-put-blame-on-us/articleshow/79068022.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||50 drivers jobless as NMC junks 25 Covid ambulances||Nagpur: Left unemployed after improvement in Covid situation in the city, Rakesh Bansod (name changed) travels 40km from his native place in Mouda tehsil to reach Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) headquarters in Civil Lines at 10am on all working days, with a hope to get some work or the pending dues. Rakesh is among 50 school van drivers — who were roped in by the civic body to ferry Covid patients — in the first week of September. All of them have suddenly been rendered unemployed as their contract was terminated on November 1 after they insisted on clearing the bills. Now, Rakesh and other drivers spend most part of the day chasing civic officials to get their dues, which have gone up to Rs23 lakh for 53 days of their service. “We had been promised four months work and payment after every 15 days. But till date, none of us has received a single paisa,” said Bansod. The NMC had on-boarded 25 school vans for round-the-clock service in each of its 10 zones. As no private ambulance service provider was willing to come forward, the school van drivers had agreed to bail out the NMC on the request of RTO, which had permitted them to modify their vans to convert the vehicles into ambulance. “Already, we had no work because schools are shut. There was tremendous risk to our health as PPE kits were not provided to us while we ferried Covid patients. Also, none of us was tested for the infection. Now, parents may not prefer our vans after knowing these vehicles have been used as Covid ambulances in case schools start. We are unable to take up other bookings also due to the same reason,” said Bansod. “We supported the NMC when it mattered most. But after Covid threat has reduced, they have forgotten our efforts. We too have families and expenses to meet. Some of us had Eid festival while others need money for Diwali which is only a few days away,” he said. The vans were hired at a flat rate of Rs1,600 per day, inclusive of fuel, drivers and other services. Each van had two drivers in two shifts. “We are being asked to contact assistant municipal commissioners, who are in-charge of each zone. They simply keep sending us from one desk to another,” he said. Civic officials didn’t respond to TOI’s calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/50-drivers-jobless-as-nmc-junks-25-covid-ambulances/articleshow/79068047.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 6, 2020||Agra||12 injured as bus rams into railing on Yamuna eway||Agra: Around 12 passengers were injured when the Volvo bus they were travelling in rammed into a railing after its tyre burst near milestone 114 on Yamuna expressway in Mathura on Thursday. The bus was carrying 36 passengers and was heading towards Auraiya from Delhi. According to police, the mishap took place around 2am when tyre of the speeding bus burst and the driver lost control over the vehicle on Yamuna expressway. The injured were rushed to the hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/12-injured-as-bus-rams-into-railing-on-yamuna-eway/articleshow/79064817.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||Pre-schools follow Calcutta HC directive, cut down on fees||KOLKATA: Play schools in the city have also started offering concession to fees, following the Calcutta High Court order, directing private schools in Bengal to waive 20% of tuition and session fees during the pandemic months. Though the administrations of preschools said that it was not clear whether the order was binding upon them or not, they still went ahead with the step, looking at the pandemic situation and the fact that high schools with nursery and pre-primary sections had announced the waivers. Among the pre-schools that have already cut down on fees are Little Laureates, Bubble Blue and I Play Learn. Given that the fee heads are different for different institutes, many have decided to offer the concessions on the total payouts. Little Laureates, which had already cut down on some amounts before the court order, has now re-worked the calculation and waived 50% of the total payables. “We hope we have been able to do more than what was legally expected,” said Tamal Mukherjee, CEO of the chain that has 10 branches in the city and 70 in Bengal. Nabanita Bose Mukherjee, who heads Bubble Blue, rued that over 50% parents had already withdrawn kids from her school. But she still gave 30% concession. The Early Childhood Association, an umbrella body of many pre-schools, pointed out that several of the institutes in Bengal had folded up business. “Most are run by women entrepreneurs and need to be protected,” said Suman Sood, spokesperson for the eastern region. At most high schools, parents have started paying the revised amounts or mailed their intent to pay. At South Point and MP Birla Foundation, only those parents who have opted for 80% of the tuition fees are paying now. Those who will not avail of the concession will pay after November 30 through the usual ECS. “Parents have started paying the revised fees and are sending us e-mails to confirm,” said Krishna Damani, spokesperson for the two schools. Birla High School and Sushila Birla Girls’ School have both started receiving revised fees, confirmed spokesperson Brigadier V N Chaturvedi. “We are accepting cheques, drafts, pay orders and are about to modify ECS. Each parent’s due is different. Calculations are complicated…” he said. An English-medium school on VIP Road has been sending out e-forms to parents, asking them whether they are willing to pay full fees or 80% of it. Paying full amounts would ensure continuation of the same online platform that the school had been using, the form said. Earlier, parents were reportedly told if they opted for 80% payment, they might have to shift to another portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pre-schools-follow-court-directive-cut-down-on-fees/articleshow/79069221.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal halls take Maharashtra cue, rethink closure plan||KOLKATA: The Maharashtra government’s order to allow cinemas to reopen from Thursday has led hall owners in Bengal to rethink their plan to down the shutters owing to low footfall and lack of content. Priya, which was supposed to close down from November 6, will now rerun Satyajit Ray’s ‘Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne’. Menoka and Asoka, too, have gone back on their decision to close the doors from this Friday. While Menoka will run one show of ‘Brahma Janen Gopon Kommoti’, Asoka is pinning hopes on ‘Dracula Sir’. Menoka owner Pranab Kumar Roy on Thursday had a word with Priya owner Arijit Dutta and convinced him to run at least one show. “Shutting halls in Kolkata when cinemas in Maharashtra are reopening will send out a bad signal. Though we are running in huge losses, we need to keep our halls open,” Roy said. ‘Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne’, the 1969 Ray classic was produced by Purnima Pictures, a company named after Dutta’s mother. “I have a 35 mm print of ‘Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne’. So no digital print is required. That way, I can also save money when I screen it from Saturday. On Friday, Priya is booked for the launch of an OTT platform,” Dutta said. Ajanta is relying on an Oriya film, ‘Kalira Atita’ to stay afloat. Exhibitor-distributor Satadeep Saha, co-owner of Ajanta, said, “Reopening of cinemas in Maharashtra is big news for us. But we still don’t know when big Hindi films will release.” The decision to reduce show times after Tollywood appealed to all governments to reopen cinemas has come as a surprise to many. An insider pointed out that every sector had been taking time for business to pick up and cinema could not be an exception, simply because they reopened ahead of Pujas. Questioning why “bad content” was being made responsible for drop in footfall, which was forcing hall owners to reduce shows, many believed now that big films were not releasing, it could have been a great time to bank on smaller films and give them good screening time. According to Saha, Bengal does an average business of Rs 20 lakh by releasing a Tamil/Telugu film. Had risks not been taken, nobody would know that Bengal had this market. A Korean film, ‘Break The Silence’, is currently running in nine theatres of Bengal and doing decent business. “Nobody can predict which movie will be a hit. If cinemas reduce shows, new voices in Bengali cinema will not get any space. Cinemas will again run with full capacity once big Hindi or Bengali movie releases. Then, there will again be no space for small films,” Saha said. Roy, too, accepted the problem. “If new Bengali films are given timings like 11am or 8pm, there will be little chance of getting audience. Earlier, these directors and producers would have sulked. But now, they will make content for OTT. Unless we take steps now, we will lose out in the long run,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-halls-take-maha-cue-rethink-closure-plan/articleshow/79069240.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Much more than exams on line||After spending many an anxious month in anticipation, Nagpur University final year students were in for another bumpy ride in the form of glitch-riddled, mobile app-based exams. Even as the university officials try to alleviate concerns and rectify flaws on the fly, panellists at this month’s TOI Debate — all NU students — relive the journeyNagpur: Many terms have acquired new implications ever since the ruthless coronavirus barged into our lives. Examinations now test the organizers more than examinees, and Nagpur University’s online exam rigmarole has clearly corroborated that. BBA student Prabhjyot Kaur Renu gave the university’s efforts an 8 on 10. “Technical difficulties notwithstanding, we were able to complete and submit the exams. NU’s efforts amid the pandemic have been commendable. It was, to my knowledge, the first university to come up with an application — a solution to the burgeoning exam problem,” said Prabhjyot. Echoing her views, BBA student Arihant Jain said the massive load on servers created complications. “The system was tested thoroughly, but with so many students logging in at once, technical issues like lagging cropped up. I would also rate the process as 8 out of 10,” he said. Since this entire scenario was new for everyone, chimed in Waidehi Swamy, another BBA student, challenges were bound to arise. “But while we faced several issues during our first paper, the remaining ones went off smoothly,” she said. Some panellists saw it differently. Sociology student Ajit Singh found the ubiquitous struggle with submitting data online a serious concern. “The implementation left a lot to be desired. None of the helpline numbers were working, and neither the controller of examinations nor the vice-chancellor responded to students’ queries,” he said. Even today, added Ajit, “The data of so many students is missing. But the university refuses to address that.” Another BBA student Kinjal Mehta felt these issues could have been foreseen and averted. “The mock tests, for instance, could have come with a time limit. This way, the exam management team would have been able to gauge the network speed and lag issues in advance and plan accordingly,” she said. Initially, many students did not receive the one-time password (OTP) needed to access the question papers on their mobile phones. This snag could also have been pre-empted, said BSc (IT) student Rohan Singh. “Promarc, the company that developed the NU exam app, has ample experience. It should have been able to tackle such issues much better,” he said. The telephonic troubleshooting was also not up to the mark, said Rohan. “I was asked to keep synching my exam data, hours after the paper ended. Several calls later, one of the personnel told me at 9.30pm this was just an audio-video issue, and that the paper is automatically submitted half an hour after the end time. If I was told this in my first call, it would have saved some distress,” he said. Endorsing Rohan’s point, Kinjal said people answering calls did not have the right information. “They were only repeating what they were told by the higher-ups. I was asked to close the app, but that was not too reassuring as there was no acknowledgement message on the screen,” she said. “But eventually the paper did get submitted,” interjected Arihant and added, “Directly or indirectly, the problem was solved.” The utility of conducting exams in this manner was also called to question. Mass communication student Manthan Patle wondered how many students would have sincerely studied. “What’s the point of an exam like this? Many candidates live in remote areas like Gadchiroli, where there’s no semblance of Internet connectivity. They had to face a lot of difficulties,” said Manthan. A few panellists suggested that multiple-choice questions (MCQs) were not the right format for courses like BCom and mass communication, to which Prabhjyot said that the incorporation of subjective-type questions into the app would have been far more challenging. Viva-voce examinations could still have been a better choice, Manthan responded. “This way at least the subject knowledge would have been suitably tested,” he said. Arihant added that his college did conduct vivas in October to evaluate students. Kinjal said the kind of discussion the panel was having could have been undertaken by the university. “It could have rolled out a feedback form for all courses. Who better than the department members to suggest the type and format of questions?” she said. The discussion veered towards the radical idea of doing away with exams altogether. Mass communication student Priyanka Dewase said while the importance of theoretical knowledge could not be discounted, practical knowledge was “more relevant in our everyday life”. As someone who is bearing the brunt of ‘marks’, BE student Santosh Gupta welcomed the idea. “I am not good at academics but am proficient with programming languages. Most companies I apply to for jobs disbar me due to their minimum marks criteria. I wish we were evaluated based on our skills. Then I would not be sitting at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/much-more-than-exams-on-line/articleshow/79068163.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kolhapur||235 people test +ve in Satara dist||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 235 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths due to the infection since late night on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 47,404. The death toll has now risen to 1,585. As any as 43,104 patients have recovered from the contagion and 2,715 people are undergoing treatment. Karad tehsil recorded 16 new cases including four from Karad town. Koregaon tehsil added 25 new patients. Patan tehsil reported 13 new cases, Phaltan registered 26 cases, 10 people tested positive in Mahabaleshwar tehsil, Khatav tehsil recorded 37 cases, 21 people tested positive in Maan tehsil and 14 cases were reported in Jawli tehsil among others.  Four deaths were recorded in Satara tehsil and one death was reported in Phaltan tehsil. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/235-people-test-ve-in-satara-dist/articleshow/79066847.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur rural reports 152 Covid cases||Kolhapur: Even as parts of Solapur rural have reported a drop in Covid cases, Pandharpur taluka continues to add new patients. Almost one third of new cases reported in Solapur district on Thursday are from Pandharpur. According to official information, Solapur rural recorded 152 new patients on Thursday, of which, 49 are from Pandharpur. So far, Pandharpur taluka has registered 6,341 cases with 190 deaths. It has also recorded the highest number of active cases — 503 in Solapur rural. Of the six Covid-related casualties reported on Thursday, Pandharpur and Malshiras recorded two deaths each. Two other deaths took place in Mohol and Sangola. Solapur rural has registered 31,727 cases so far. Of these, 1,789 are currently active. Solapur city reported 33 new patients along with one death on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-rural-reports-152-covid-cases/articleshow/79066834.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hubballi||AAP condemns shifting postal depot from Hubballi to Bengaluru||HUBBALLI: Members of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest in front of Mini Vidhana Soudha in the city on Thursday, condemning the government’s order of shifting postal store depot from Hubballi to Bengaluru. The protesters led by party’s district president Santosh Nargund submitted a memorandum addressed to Union telecom minister Ravishankar Prasad at the tahsildar’s office, urging him not to shift the postal store depot from Hubballi. The depot supplies postal materials to 14 districts of North Karnataka. “Just eight months ago, the lone post of gazetted senior postmaster was shifted to Bengaluru from North Karnataka. Immediately after this, the government is shifting the depot. This is unfortunate and against the spirit of administrative decentralisation,” said the protesters. Party leaders Shashikumar Sullad, Vikas Soppin, Revansiddappa Hubballi and others were present..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/aap-condemns-shifting-postal-depot-from-hubballi-to-bengaluru/articleshow/79066871.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Vadodara||Man gets 10 years’ jail for raping teen girl||VADODARA: Five years after a 23-year-old man raped and impregnated a teenage girl, a sessions court sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment of 10 years on Wednesday. The convict Rakesh Vasava, a native of Bharuch, had abducted the 17-year-old survivor in May 2015 by luring her with marriage and took her to Gondal from where they went to Pavagadh and then returned to Vadodara before going to Jhagadia in Bharuch. It was in Jhagadia that Vasava raped the girl after which she became pregnant. As the girl’s mother had lodged a complaint at Varnama police station against Vasava, police found the duo and brought them back to Vadodara. Vasava was arrested and the trial against him and four others who helped in abducting the girl began in June 2016. During the trial, medical evidence presented by additional public prosecutor P C Patel and the testimonies of witnesses were upheld by the court of additional sessions judge M K Chauhan. While Vasava was convicted, four other accused were acquitted. The court also fined Vasava Rs 20,000, of which Rs 10,000 will be given to the girl. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-gets-10-years-jail-for-raping-teen-girl/articleshow/79067244.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Land worth Rs2cr sold for Rs5 lakh, CP orders probe||Nagpur: City police chief Amitesh Kumar has ordered inquiry into mysterious registry of a land deal wherein a property in Wathoda worth Rs2 crore was transferred for mere Rs5 lakh in October. The office of the sub-registrar is now under the scanner of the economic offences wing (EoW) of the crime branch. The deal involves sale deed executed by one Prashant Sahare in favour of Ashok Khattar against consideration of Rs5 lakh, paid in cash, on October 27 while the property’s market value is nearly Rs2 crore and even the ready reckoner value puts a price tag of Rs1 crore. In the two-page order, the CP has also underlined the fact that this sale deed has taken place despite an ongoing dispute related to the property. In a recent press conference, Kumar had stated that persons purposefully creating a ‘third party interest’ in land or properties with an intention to commit fraud shall face stringent of action. Following Kumar’s directive, an offence has been registered at Wathoda police station against Sahare and Khattar, one of their aides Bagga and others. It’s learnt that Sahare and Bagga had inked similar “deals” in the past too. Economic offences wing DCP Vivek Masaal said all details regarding the deal would be sought from the sub-registrar’s office. “We will send a questionnaire to the sub-registrar’s office pertaining to the sale deed and depending on the reply, may ask for documents,” he said. Sahare, Khattar and Bagga had allegedly tried to usurp the land which was earlier sold to one Chhabrani family in 2014 for Rs53 lakh by one Sangeeta Rahate. Chhabrani family had already approached Wathoda police in the first week of October and the matter is under investigation. Despite the police complaint, yet another sale deed was registered involving the same property in the last week of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/land-worth-rs2cr-sold-for-rs5-lakh-cp-orders-probe/articleshow/79068064.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Treehouse installation at Lucknow University to depict Covid crisis||LUCKNOW: A treehouse depicting the tough Covid-19 crisis times, a glittering black and silver entrance gate and uniform signboards are among the striking features added in the campus makeover being done to mark 100 years of Lucknow University. The LU authorities are bedecking both old and the second campus for the grand centenary year celebrations. Enter from any gate, you will see ‘University of Lucknow’ written in silver on black, both in Hindi and English, to welcome you. And now, no new student or guest will find it difficult to locate departments or the administrative block as new shining stylish signboards have been put up at various spots. The special highlight of the makeover is the ‘treehouse’ in the faculty of fine arts, made by present and former students. Made from grass, broken and extra branches of trees, this treehouse in front of the sculpture department can accommodate 10 people. “With a height of around eight-foot, this house has two men, one on the treetop and the other sitting downstairs and talking to each other, depicts interaction among people in the Covid-19 period while maintaining social distancing with each other,” said former student Ajay Kumar, who is now a guest lecturer CSJM University, Kanpur. “The idea to make this installation was of Prof Dharmendra Kumar of the sculpture department. We took around 20 days to complete it and make our campus look beautiful in its centenary year. Arts College or the fine arts faculty is the only one in the state to have a treehouse now,” he added. The university is decorating the campus and to highlight its Indo-Saracenic architecture it is putting up LED lights on the freshly painted buildings. Among the features still coming up is the beautification of the pathways on the campus with live flowering plants instead of artificial decor. The green carpeting of the historical ‘Canning College’ by removing the non-functional broken basketball court is adding more life to the campus. The view of an organic farm with vegetables like turnip, spinach, and cabbages growing in it makes the campus even more special.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/treehouse-installation-at-lu-to-depict-covid-crisis/articleshow/79070945.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata rushes to Hills to beat Covid blues||KOLKATA: October witnessed a spike in the footfall of tourists visiting the Hills with some homestays registering over 60% occupation. Though hotels and homestays reopened in July this year after remaining shut for over five months due to the pandemic, the tourism business did not pick a pace before October that saw one of the highest footfalls in the Hills due to Durga Puja and school vacation. People in the Hills are expecting a second surge of tourists from the Kali Puja-Diwali weekend when many from Kolkata and other towns go there to avoid air and noise pollution. “The situation was not as good as previous years but there were still a lot of tourists. Almost the entire region depends on tourism and people were struggling to make ends meet. It was a huge relief to see tourists return. The situation may improve as we approach Christmas,” said Prasant Pradhan, general secretary of Himalayan Homestay Owners’ Association. Most tourists preferred to stay in homestays that ensure isolation from the crowds, a key aspect during the pandemic. Homestays on the outskirts of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong, Lava, Loleygaon, and Mirik were in demand. Abhishek Mazumdar, a resident of Chetla visited Mirik with his family and a friend’s family. “We were nine people in all and booked a homestay just outside Mirik. There were no other tourists around. We just stayed in Mirik and visited a couple of spots in the vicinity. It was like staying in your own property, which was important during the pandemic,” said Mazumdar, a businessman. “Many people are avoiding to stay in hotels, but we are taking all precautions in Covid times,” said Shyam Thapa, owner of a hotel in Darjeeling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-rushes-to-hills-to-beat-cov-blues/articleshow/79069270.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 6, 2020||Business||Air India One crew member clicks pic, suspended||MUMBAI: In the Air India team that ferried home India’s first-ever VVIP aircraft from Boeing facility in Texas last month was a senior cabin crew member who couldn’t resist the temptation to take photographs of the interiors of the spanking new aircraft cabin and share it with his relatives and friends to earn bragging rights. What he ended up earning though was a suspension. "After photographs of the highly secured aircraft made their way to social media, an investigation was initiated by the Prime Minister’s Office and the source of leak was traced. The said crew member along with the cabin supervisor of that flight has been suspended till further notice. The supervisor was suspended because it was her duty to ensure that such omissions don’t occur," said a source. The action against the errant lot doesn’t end there though. "One of the people whom the said crew sent the pictures was a relative of his. She is a retired Air India employee. Air India has suspended this retired employee’s free passage and medical benefits," the source adding some other Air India officials too might receive suspension orders. Air India spokesperson refused to comment. The said aircraft is the first of the two retrofitted Boeing 777-300 ER aircraft ordered by India. The aircraft, with the call sign "Air India One", will fly the President, Vice-President and Prime Minister on international state visits. The aircraft interiors include, among other details, two conference rooms, a press briefing room, a VVIP suite and a medical room. "It’s no secret that the security norms surrounding VVIP aircraft are stringent ones. The crew selected to operate such flights are generally briefed about the does and donts. It’s not clear why the crew member thought it was okay to take and share pictures," said an airline official. "The pictures put on social media show some of the layouts and seats inside the aircraft. Irrespective of how serious that security breach is, it’s not something that should have happened," said an official. The aircraft was earlier scheduled to be leave the Boeing facility in July, but the delivery was delayed due to the Covid pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ai-one-crew-member-clicks-pic-suspended/articleshow/79071475.cms||Manju V
November 6, 2020||Mumbai||Air India One crew member clicks pic, suspended||MUMBAI: In the Air India team that ferried home India’s first-ever VVIP aircraft from Boeing facility in Texas last month was a senior cabin crew member who couldn’t resist the temptation to take photographs of the interiors of the spanking new aircraft cabin and share it with his relatives and friends to earn bragging rights. What he ended up earning though was a suspension. "After photographs of the highly secured aircraft made their way to social media, an investigation was initiated by the Prime Minister’s Office and the source of leak was traced. The said crew member along with the cabin supervisor of that flight has been suspended till further notice. The supervisor was suspended because it was her duty to ensure that such omissions don’t occur," said a source. The action against the errant lot doesn’t end there though. "One of the people whom the said crew sent the pictures was a relative of his. She is a retired Air India employee. Air India has suspended this retired employee’s free passage and medical benefits," the source adding some other Air India officials too might receive suspension orders. Air India spokesperson refused to comment. The said aircraft is the first of the two retrofitted Boeing 777-300 ER aircraft ordered by India. The aircraft, with the call sign "Air India One", will fly the President, Vice-President and Prime Minister on international state visits. The aircraft interiors include, among other details, two conference rooms, a press briefing room, a VVIP suite and a medical room. "It’s no secret that the security norms surrounding VVIP aircraft are stringent ones. The crew selected to operate such flights are generally briefed about the does and donts. It’s not clear why the crew member thought it was okay to take and share pictures," said an airline official. "The pictures put on social media show some of the layouts and seats inside the aircraft. Irrespective of how serious that security breach is, it’s not something that should have happened," said an official. The aircraft was earlier scheduled to be leave the Boeing facility in July, but the delivery was delayed due to the Covid pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ai-one-crew-member-clicks-pic-suspended/articleshow/79073814.cms||Manju V
November 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Newborn found dead in water tank in Maharashtra, mother held||KOLHAPUR: Bhilwadi police in Sangli district have arrested a woman for allegedly killing her 13-day-old baby boy by drowning him in a water tank on the terrace of her parents’ house. The woman, Aishwarya Amitkumar Mali (22), a resident of Kawlapur in Miraj taluka of Sangli district, allegedly took the extreme step as she could not bear to see her child suffer following a major surgery the baby underwent hours after birth, said the police. Police said Mali delivered the baby in a private hospital last month and went with the child to her parents’ house at Malwadi after being discharged. “Mali allegedly put the baby in the water tank around 9.30am on Wednesday while the male members of her family had gone to the farm and women were washing clothes outside,” said the police. The mother told her family members that the baby had gone missing from the house, following which her parents lodged a police complaint. The family members, however, found the baby’s body in the water tank. Mali gave evasive replies to police during the preliminary investigation and her behaviour aroused their suspicion, following which she was detained and questioned. She soon confessed to the crime and was arrested on murder charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/newborn-found-dead-in-water-tank-mother-held/articleshow/79066860.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee to elect new chief on November 27||AMRITSAR: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will hold its annual general house session on November 27 to elect new office-bearers. The decision came at its executive committee meeting here on Thursday. The SGPC will elect its president, senior vice-president, junior vice-president, and executive members. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal told the media about the executive body’s resolution to condemn Pakistan’s transferring the management of Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib to a new department and appealed the foreign government to rethink. The executive committee also approved the plan to celebrate the SGPC’s centenary. “The Akand Path will begin at the Akal Takht on Novmber 15, while the bhog will be on November 17,” said Longowal. The SGPC will also release a document on its history of formation, besides holding a picture exhibition and workshop from November 13 to 17. Asked about the missing saroops of Guru Granth Shaib, Longowal said the executive committee had decided to make a review committee to study the circumstances of the case, even though the SGPC had punished its indicted employees already.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sgpc-to-elect-new-chief-on-nov-27/articleshow/79070956.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Guv hails role of pvt medical colleges in tackling coronavirus||Lucknow: Governor Anandiben Patel on Thursday felicitated three private medical colleges designated as Covid hospitals in the city for their commendable service in treatment of novel coronavirus infected patients. Era’s Lucknow Medical College (ELMC), TS Mishra Medical College and Integral Institute of Medical Sciences (IIMS) had been designated as Covid hospitals for providing treatment to patients when there was a huge surge in cases. Praising private medical colleges in a meeting at Raj Bhawan, Patel said these institutions supported the government healthcare system superbly in the time of crisis and helped in keeping Covid-19 casualty rate low. She also complimented their faculty and doctors for putting their lives at stake while treating patients of a disease about which not much was known. ELMC also announced that it will provide the computer aided revision and evaluation application developed by it for making revision of topics for medical students easy to Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University for free. “The computer aided application developed by ELMC has novelties like medical games, animation care and medico skills. We will provide our technology-driven study material for free to benefit all students in UP,” said ELMC principal Dr MMA Faridi. The Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University will further connect other medical colleges with the app. The Governor also asked for pending dues of IIMS be paid to it and urged Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences to make appointments on all faculty posts and begin teaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/guv-hails-role-of-pvt-medical-colleges-in-tackling-coronavirus/articleshow/79070973.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Only 2 Vid districts with over 1k Covid patients under treatment||Nagpur: Only two districts, Nagpur and Chandrapur, in Vidarbha are having over 1,000 Covid-19 patients under treatment. On Thursday, active cases in all other districts came below 1,000, with lowest 198 being in Akola, which used to be the worst-hit district during April-May. The number of patients under treatment in the region is 11421, which is less than 6% of total cases. Akola reported 10 new cases on Thursday. Neighbouring Washim district reported three new cases, lowest for any district in Vidarbha in the last two months. In yet another respite for the region, the number of patients recovered in a day (1,155) was more than the number of new patients (943) on Thursday. The number of new cases was higher than recoveries on last two consecutive days. Now, out of 2.03 lakh cases of Covid-19 in the region, 1.86 lakh have recovered. This means, recovery rate is nearing 92%, which is the national average. Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha increased on Thursday as compared to Wednesday. Chandrapur reported seven deaths, while eight patients died in Nagpur district. With Gadchiroli (2), Amravati (2), Bhandara (1), Gondia (1), Buldhana (1), Vidarbha’s toll reached 5597. The case fatality rate is still 2.75%, which is higher than state and national average. Cases on Thursday came from Nagpur (301), Chandrapur (174), Gadchiroli (92), Bhandara (84), Gondia (77), Buldhana (62), Wardha (52), Amravati (44), Yavatmal (44), Akola (10), and Washim (3). Nagpur reported 331 recoveries, Chandrapur (269), Gondia (100), Bhandara (88), Gadchiroli (88), Buldhana (76), Amravati (73), Yavatmal (57), Wardha (32), Washim (27), and Akola (14), for a total of 1,155 . Chandrapur: With detection of 174 cases, the district’s count jumped to 13,573 on Thursday. Seven deaths during the day raised the toll to 249. The day also saw discharge to 269 patients, taking the recoveries to 13,573. Now, there are 2,681 active cases. Yavatmal: No death was reported on Thursday. The caseload reached 10402 after addition of 44 new patients. Now, 335 patients are under treatment after 9,242 recoveries, including 54 on Thursday. Amravati: Two Covid deaths on Thursday took the district’s toll to 367 while 44 new cases took the caseload to 16,562. With discharge to 73 patients, recoveries surpassed reached 15,679. The recovery rate is 94.7%. Now, 511 patients are under treatment, including 298 in home isolation, a civil surgeon office report said. Wardha: The district saw 52 new cases and 32 recoveries on Thursday, taking the caseload to 6,546, After 5,984 recoveries, 350 patients are under treatment. New cases were reported from Wardha (19), Hinganghat (14), Deoli (10), Selu (6), Karanja (2) and Arvi (1). No death was reported on Thursday, keeping the toll at 211. Bhandara: A patient died during treatment in Bhandara, taking the toll to 224. On Thursday, 84 new patients were detected while 88 patients recovered. Now, Bhandara has reported 8,868 cases and 7,843 recoveries. Total 801 patients are under treatment in the district. Gondia: A 65-year-old patient died during treatment in Gondia, taking the toll of district to 132. Total 77 new patients were detected while 100 patients recovered in a day. The caseload reached 10,154 and recoveries 9,287. Gondia’s recovery rate surged above 90% mark on Thursday. The district now has 735 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: Two men, 23 and 70, from Armori died during treatment in Gadchiroli on Thursday. The district has reported 92 new patients and 88 recoveries in a day, while the toll reached 62. Out of the 6,324 cases, 5,345 have recovered. Now, 917 patients are under treatment. Akola: The district reported 10 new patients on Thursday, taking the caseload to 8,945. No death was reported and 14 patients recovered in a day. Now, 8,015 out of 8,495 patients have recovered. The district has 198 patients under treatment which is the lowest in Vidarbha. Washim: With three new cases, the district’s tally reached 5,739. Recoveries reached 5,240 after discharge to 27 patients. No death was reported on Thursday. Now, 355 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported 62 fresh cases, taking the caseload to 9,727. With 76 patients discharge on Thursday, the number of recoveries reached 9,139. A patient died on Thursday, taking the toll to 129. Now, 459 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-2-vid-districts-with-over-1k-covid-patients-under-treatment/articleshow/79068097.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata bars seek clarity on ‘govt order’ banning musical performances||KOLKATA: A verbal order by the government to stop all live musical performances in bars within a month of allowing such performances for one hour every evening has created confusion among the owners. Some bar owners said they were yet to receive even the verbal orders from police to discontinue live musical performances. Many bars had even started decorating their façade in the run up to Diwali expecting better footfalls. The owners said the sudden decision to discontinue live singing will impact the livelihoods of those associated with the trade. TimesViewMost establishments have said they are yet to get any written order. This may be behind the confusion. A widely circulated written order can give clarity.“There is no clarity over the order as we have received nothing in writing. There are rumours that there is a verbal order that will be conveyed by the local cops. This has given rise to confusion among owners on whether to continue with the live singing,” said the owner of a bar in central Kolkata. Most singing bars located in the central business district were shut down when the total lockdown started in March. Though bars were allowed to serve liquor in the beginning of September, live singing was not allowed. Few days before Durga Puja, these bars received permission for live singing for only one hour with several restrictions. Many singers, musicians and bouncers who had taken other jobs to sustain themselves had returned to the bars. At Mbar in Park Street, music was stopped from Wednesday evening itself, within minutes after receiving the verbal order asking all bars, clubs and pubs to stop all live as well as recorded music citing a spurt in Covid cases in the city. “Since we were given permission to reopen the bar, we have never played live music. Only channel music was being played, and we used to maintain all prescribed norms inside the bar. People could shake a leg but only sitting on their chairs beside their respective tables. But we have stopped even that after receiving the order on Wednesday,” said Biswajit Das, the bar manager. Incidentally, the state had allowed bars to reopen from September 1 following unlock guidelines. The live performance in bars was allowed from October ahead of the festive season for one hour from 7 pm to 8 pm. “Our industry has already been badly hit. This directive to stop any form of music at the clubs and pubs will throw many of us out of work again,” said DJ Akash, who plays for multiple city clubs. The bars and restaurants did good business during Durga Puja specially in the last three days. “We haven’t got any written order either from the police or excise department. But considering the loss during the pandemic, we don’t want to go in for any confrontation at this moment and stopped channel music from Thursday,” said Md Shamim of Refinery 091 at Sector V.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-bars-seek-clarity-on-govt-order-banning-musical-performances/articleshow/79069299.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Will penalise 11 schools for collecting fees’||HYDERABAD: The government said action is being initiated against 11 private schools for collecting various fees along with tuition fees from students in violation a government order issued in April this year. A Sri Devasena, director of school education, informed Telangana HC that 11 schools have clubbed other fees into tution fees to circumvent the spirit of GO No. 46. School education officials made an inspecton of private schools and found many of them have shown no respect towards order of the overnment that asked schools to collect only tuition fee during pandemic in view of job losses suffered by parents. “As far as violations found in central schools, the violations will be brought to the notice of their respective boards, CBSE, ICSE,” school education director said in her affidavit filed in tune with direction issued by a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy which was hearing a PIL filed by Hyderabad School Parents Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-penalise-11-schools-for-collecting-fees/articleshow/79069282.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Webinar series begins on Indo-French shared cultures||Lucknow: Alliance Francaise de Lucknow (AFL), a non-profit association located on La Martiniere Girls’ College campus, Lucknow, is organising a webinar series on ‘Indo-French shared cultures’. Conceptualised by Zohra Chatterji, president, Alliance Francaise executive committee, the first talk in the series was delivered on Thursday on ‘Jean-Baptiste Gentil and Awadh’ by Prof Dhir Sarangi of JNU. Counsellor for cooperation and cultural affairs and country director, IFI, Monsieur Emmanuel Lebrun Damiens, inaugurated the series. AFL, that aims at promoting study of French language and creating awareness about French culture and civilisation, has brought many cultural programmes to Lucknow, including a jazz band and a collaboration with Sanatkada on the theme of Awadhi Francisi Talluqaat. The webinar was attended by principal secretary Mukesh Meshram and secretary and director general, tourism, Ravi Kumar NG, . Director Meeta Ghosh said the next webinar will be a cook-along session with chef Joseph Laurent, which will be held next month. She urged Lucknowites to become members of AFL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/webinar-series-begins-on-indo-french-shared-cultures/articleshow/79070997.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Two-week Puja break for govt staff next year||KOLKATA: State government employees will have a two-week-long Puja vacation in 2021. The list of next year’s holidays, which was released on Thursday, however, showed they would miss out on some holidays, like Netaji’s birth anniversary (January 23), May Day, Independence Day and Gandhiji’s birth anniversary and Christmas as they would fall on weekends. Next year, Durga Puja Panchami is on October 10. The Puja break will start from October 11, a Monday, and end on October 15, a Friday, but given the two weekends at the beginning and end, and Fateha-Dwaz-Daham on October 19, state employees will enjoy a two-week vacation, as the holiday will extend to Lakshmi Puja on October 20. With the government calling it holidays on October 21 and 22, the employees will have to resume work only on October 25. They will also get an off for Mahalaya on October 6 There will be another extended weekend in November as Kali Puja is on November 4 (Thursday) and government offices will be shut on Friday as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-week-puja-break-for-govt-staff-next-year/articleshow/79069321.cms||Debasish Konar
November 6, 2020||Meerut||Notice to 13 hospitals for not informing health authorities about patients with Covid-like symptoms||MEERUT: A notice was issued to 13 hospitals for not informing health authorities about patients with influenza-like symptoms and for continuing to treat them without getting them tested for Covid-19. An inquiry was also ordered against a Covid-19 patient, who despite being in home isolation attended a wedding in another city. “The hospitals have been warned that their licence will be cancelled if they do not explain their side,” said P Guru Prasad, nodal officer, Meerut. An order has also been issued to cancel the licences of four ayurvedic doctors who kept on treating patients despite their having Covid-like symptoms and died later, said Prasad. Meanwhile, instructions were given to ensure that patients with comorbidities are admitted to hospitals without fail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/notice-to-13-hosps-for-not-informing-health-authorities-about-patients-with-covid-like-symptoms/articleshow/79066907.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 6, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Sikh bodies seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention||AMRITSAR: The Sikh political as well as religious leaders have sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention for restoration of the gurdwara management to PSGPC. Sikhs’ single largest body SGPC has also shot off a letter to the Pakistan high commissioner, asking to give back the administrative control of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib to PSGPC. “Earlier, Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, was under the administrative control of PSGPC and functioning according to the Sikh code of conduct and Sikh rituals. But now, the gurdwara has come directly under the administrative control of ETPB, which may affect the daily rituals performed according to the Sikh code of conduct,” said SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal. Calling for the PM’s intervention, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday tweeted, “I request PM @narendramodi ji to ask @GovtofPakistan to revert the management of Sri Kartapur Sahib to PSGPC and take back its order to hand it over to a non-Sikh project management unit. Pak should be told to desist discriminating against Sikhs and violating maryada associated with managing shrines.” His wife and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has also asked the PM to take up the issue with Pakistan PM Imran Khan. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa has also written to external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Quoting his conversation with ETPB officials, SAD (Delhi) president and former president of DSGMC Paramjit Singh Sarna said he has been informed that PMU Kartapur Sahib has been set up only for the development of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartapur Sahib. “But it would have been better if they had included Sikhs in its management,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sikh-bodies-seek-pms-intervention/articleshow/79070996.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||High court notice to state, Centre on toll plaza violations||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Thursday sought to know from the state, the Centre and national highways authorities as to what steps are being taken to make the toll plazas safe and if they are equipped with CCTV cameras. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy issued notices to the state, the National Highways Authority of India and the Hyderabad Growth Corridor Ltd, asking them to respond to the allegations made in a writ petition complaining that there is large-scale non-compliance of norms by the toll plazas on the national highways. Jasvin Jairath, a social activist, and Swapna Sundar, an advocate from Chennai, filed the writ petition pointing out how the Disha rape case could have been avoided had provisions of manual of specifications and standards on highways been complied with. “The intent of placing closed-circuit television cameras is to enable monitoring all the time. Failure to monitor makes placing of the CCTV cameras useless,” the petitioners contended. “The CCTV recording should have been continuously monitored to avoid a tragedy like Disha,” the petitioners said. According to the petitioners, the toll plaza managed by Eagle Infra had failed to provide a safe parking place and accordingly had failed to protect Disha. “This is also in violation of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013,” they said. The bench granted four weeks’ time for the authorities to file their replies. As per the petitioners, the toll plaza managed by Eagle Infra had failed to provide a safe parking place and accordingly had failed to protect Disha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-court-notice-to-state-centre-on-toll-plaza-violations/articleshow/79069327.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 6, 2020||Chandigarh||India condemns Pak decision to transfer Kartarpur gurdwara management to non-Sikh body||New Delhi/Islamabad: India on Thursday strongly condemned Pakistan’s decision to transfer the management and maintenance of Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara to a non-Sikh body. The government said Pakistan’s move was against the spirit of Kartarpur corridor, as also the religious sentiments of the Sikh community. Pakistan was reported to have transferred the management and maintenance of the shrine from the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbhandhak Committee (PSGPC), a body run by the minority Sikh community, to the administrative control of the Evacuee Trust Property Board, a non-Sikh body, on Wednesday. India called upon Pakistan to reverse its arbitrary decision to deprive the Sikh minority community of its right to manage affairs of the gurdwara. “This unilateral decision by Pakistan is highly condemnable and runs against the spirit of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor as also the religious sentiments of the Sikh community at large. We have received representations from the Sikh community expressing grave concern at this decision by Pakistan targeting the rights of the minority Sikh community in Pakistan,” the MEA said in a statement. It added that such actions only exposed the reality of the Pakistani government and its leadership’s tall claims of preserving and protecting the rights and welfare of religious minority communities. Pakistan though described the Indian statement as baseless and fallacious propaganda by New Delhi. “The malicious propaganda by the Indian government is simply an attempt to malign the ‘peace corridor’ initiative by casting mischievous aspersions against the interests of the Sikh community and to detract attention from India’s own reprehensible human rights violations of minorities in India,” a statement issued by the foreign office said. The PSGPC remained responsible for carrying out rituals in Gurdwara Sahiban, including Kartarpur as per Sikh Rehat Maryada, the statement said, adding the project management unit under the Evacuee Trust Property Board had simply been created to facilitate the PSGPC in this regard. “Any insinuations regarding ‘transferring’ the affairs of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib Kartarpur from the PSGPC to the PMU (Project Management Unit) are not only contrary to the facts but also aimed at creating religious disharmony by the Hindutva-driven BJP government in India,” the foreign office said. Sources said the Pakistan government has set up the PMU Kartaprur Sahib owing to its strategic location, which is close to the India border and in proximity to villages known to be launch pads for pushing terrorists into India. They said the Pakistani terrorists, who had attacked the Dinanagar police station in Gurdaspur in July 2015, had camped at Masroor Bara Bai village close to the international border in Narowal district. Kartarpur Sahib is also in Narowal district, about 35 km from Masroor Bara Bai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/india-condemns-pak-decision-to-transfer-kartarpur-gurdwara-management-to-non-sikh-body/articleshow/79070984.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Not just fines, remove fancy plates, tinted film before reclaiming vehicle from cops||Nagpur: Vehicle owners with fancy number plates and dark tinted glasses would face stricter action now, as city police chief Amitesh Kumar has instructed cops to ensure the violations are rectified before the vehicles are released. Apart from regular traffic cops, several special flying squads too are now being deployed. On October 4, traffic cops penalized 49 vehicles with fancy number plates and another 22 for dark films under supervision of DCP, traffic, Sarang Awad. Since October 10, the traffic cops have pulled up around 2,519 vehicles with fancy number plates and another 1,001 with black films on their windows. CP Kumar, in a recent press conference, had said vehicles would be seized and not released just by paying fines. “The owners would be asked to bring some mechanics to rectify their number plates and also remove the dark tinted film from the windows before the vehicles are released after paying fines,” he said. Kumar also said the Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras would soon be functional across the city and also at the exit and entry points of the city. “The ANPR cameras would capture wrong number plates and challans would be issued accordingly too,” he said. The top cop also indicated that a dedicated drive against traffic violations would also be initiated. “We have already deployed flying squads to remove abandoned vehicles from roads,” he said. Following Kumar’s orders, 799 abandoned vehicles were spotted by the flying squads. Of these, 788 abandoned vehicles have been removed from the roads since October 9. Around 11 owners have been booked for abandoning vehicles on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/not-just-fines-remove-fancy-plates-tinted-film-before-reclaiming-vehicle-from-cops/articleshow/79068115.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Education department consults stakeholders for reopening of schools||HYDERABAD: The Telangana school education department is in the process of consulting with all the stakeholders on reopening of schools for the academic year 2020-21. Alarmed by the situation in Andhra Pradesh d 575 students have tested positive for the novel coronavirus within three days of reopening of schools, neither teachers nor parents want the schools to be reopened post-Diwali in Telangana. “The numbers in Andhra Pradesh are alarming and we don’t want to risk the lives of our children, even if the government decides to reopen schools. At a time when the number of Covid-19 cases are not showing any fall, the government should just maintain status quo and continue online classes,” said Thota Padmaja, a parent. Officials in the school education department recently held a meeting with the private teachers association and are now planning to hold similar meetings with parents, school managements etc. “While the decision will be finally at the discretion of the chief minister, our proposals will be based on consensus. We don’t intend to propose anything that may affect the safety of children as they can be carriers of the virus back home. Many have elderly parents, grandparents at home, who can be susceptible,” said an official. After holding consultation meetings with all the stakeholders, the school education department will then submit a report to Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who will make a decision in this regard. After holding consultation meetings with stakeholders, the school education department will then submit a report to CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, who will make a decision in this regard||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/edu-dept-consults-stakeholders-for-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/79069315.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||HT power lines: Consider Serene residents’ plea, HC tells Transco||Hyderabad: Justice A Abhishek Reddy of the Telangana high court on Thursday sought to know from Hyderabad Growth Corridor and TS Transco officials why they cannot consider the plea of residents of Serene County Owners’ Welfare Association, Gachibowli, and conceal high tension power lines in their colony, by taking them underground.  The county’s counsel Prasad Rao Vemulapalli said they were not opposed to laying HT power lines to the growth corridor. “What we are saying is that let the authorities lay them through underground cables. In any case, they have been laying such underground cables at many places. Our area is not more than 150 metres and it is not difficult for them to conceal these dangerous lines beneath the earth to this limited extent,” he said. The high court had earlier recorded the contention of Transco’s counsel Vinod Reddy that following resistance from the residents, the task of laying power lines in the county area was stopped. “Let that order continue for some more time, in the meantime, we will respond to the contentions raised in the counter filed by Transco,” the petitioner’s counsel said. In any case, the task of laying power lines would take more than six months, he added. The judge too asked the Transco counsel as to why they cannot consider the feasibility of laying the underground cable in the county area in tune with the plea of the residents. Vinod Reddy said the task of laying power lines was almost over and it was not correct to say that it would takes six months to complete the task. The judge wanted the Transco counsel to find out whether the authorities could accommodate the residents’ request and posted the case ten days later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ht-power-lines-consider-serene-residents-plea-hc-tells-transco/articleshow/79069350.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Indian, Pak activists say quest for peace vital for progress||Bathinda: Going ahead with its campaign for peace process to continue through people to people contacts between the masses from India and Pakistan, peace organisation Pakistan India Peoples’ Forum for Peace and Democracy (PIPFPD) held the third virtual edition of ‘Guftagu band na ho’ (let talks not stop) on late Saturday evening. The campaign had started on September 28 on the 113th birth anniversary of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and in the next two editions discussed how to take forward the revolutionary legacy of South Asia through conversations and cultural expressions. Talks were held on diverse subcontinental progressive communities to understand the relevance of the revolutionary ideals and framework of Bhagat Singh and associates and to bring together multiple political views of young socio-cultural-political activists to ensure that the conversations do not stop. It was felt that vested national interests might stop them from speaking, but digitally and in spirit they are together and efforts for progress on the count should never be allowed to die. The speakers said it is important to remember that the borders have killed, separated and continue to perpetuate violence, so the quest for peace is vital. Peace activist Naghma Iqtidar said, “Continuous attempts are on to stifle progressive voices, so Bhagat Singh’s voice should be used in times when people want us to fight in our countries where more money is spent on defence than on education.” “We want to share cultures across the borders, we share these already. Open the trade routes and let us thrive. We do not want to smuggle. Unleash us from these colonial shackles,” said another peace activist. Hussain Haidry, one of the voices at protests against CAA, said, “We must keep speaking or we end up being mute spectators.” Writer and civil rights activist Banojyotsna Lahiri said during protests against CAA, it was felt that the voices from margins and oppressed are emerging and they are getting courageous. Voices from linguistic minorities are also coming out, which is necessary, she said. Documentary maker Azhar Shan performed on peace, cooperation, love and a shared sense of togetherness across the borders in India and Pakistan. Activist Madhuresh Kumar spoke about the lineage of post-colonial and liberal development, which has eroded the collective strength of the working classes in Pakistan and elsewhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/indian-pak-activists-say-quest-for-peace-vital-for-progress/articleshow/79071001.cms||Neel Kamal
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||LDA silence over encroachment near PGI irks HC||Lucknow: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Wednesday expressed serious concern on the encroachment near SGPGI, causing obstruction in smooth movement of vehicles, especially ambulances. A bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Saurabh Lavania said, “We are surprised at the silence of district magistrate and vice-chairman of Lucknow Development Authority in such an important matter in taking action for removal of encroachment in an area near the main entrance of SGPGI.” The bench, however, clarified that this order would not mean to authorize LDA to demolish any construction without following due law. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by P S Pandey in 2018 for removal of encroachment near the main entrance of SGPGI. On an order of the bench, an eight-member team was constituted for submitting a report with regard to the action being taken against encroachers, but as the report was not submitted and the encroachment not removed, the court on December 6, 2019, granted a week to the DM and LDA for compliance of the earlier order and submitting the report. “In pursuance of the said order, it appears that the team has submitted a report on December 12, 2019, pointing out about specific permanent encroachment and other encroachment, but we find that no action whatsoever has been taken so far,” the bench observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-silence-over-encroachment-near-pgi-irks-hc/articleshow/79071003.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Mumbai||Make wife of man who ended life a party to case, Bombay HC tells Arnab Goswami||MUMBAI: Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, had to spend his second night in custody as the Bombay high court on Thursday granted him no relief but posted his urgent plea for interim release to 3pm on Friday. Goswami, arrested on Wednesday by the Alibaug police, was remanded that night by a magistrate in 14 days’ judicial custody in a May 2018 case against him for abetment to suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik who had worked on his office-studio in Mumbai. On Thursday, his lawyers invoked the wide plenary power of the HC to do justice against an “illegal arrest” in a case which was closed in April 2019. The HC bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik made it clear it would first be hearing “all parties” and asked him to make the informant, Naik’s widow Akshata, a party to his petition. Read AlsoAnway Naik suicide case: Arnab Goswami gave statement in Mumbai, says Maharashtra ministerMUMBAI: The intervention of a senior cabinet member in the previous government made it possible for Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami to record his statement in the suicide abetment case in Mumbai instead of Raigad, said state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Goswami’s statement in the caseThe HC said, “We do not want to make the same mistake that you said the magistrate made of no notice to informant. We cannot ignore the rights of the victim... Let us see what happens tomorrow.” Read AlsoArnab Goswami case: Revival of probe forms crux of high court caseA case closed by police and legal issues pertaining to its reopening will be the crux of the arguments before the Bombay high court when it hears the interim bail plea of Arnab Goswami on Friday.Senior counsel Harish Salve and Aabad Ponda for Goswami said his liberty was at stake and sought his release on urgent “interim bail.” “Police cannot suo motu resurrect a dead case” when a magistrate had last April accepted a closure report, submitted Ponda. Read AlsoArnab Goswami arrest: 'Anvay Naik a son of the soil, cops following law'MUMBAI: Shiv Sena on Thursday slammed BJP for supporting Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and calling his arrest in a 2018 abetment to suicide case an “Emergency-like situation” and “an attack on the freedom of the press.” An editorial in its mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ said the FadnavisGoswami had on Wednesday filed a ‘habeas corpus’ petition and sought to have the 2018 Alibaug FIR quashed and the probe stayed. Ponda appealed to the judges’ “judicial conscience” to give “interim bail.” “Even a second of such illegal custody cannot be countenanced,” said Ponda, pleading urgency as Friday was the last working day before Diwali vacation. Read AlsoMumbai: Magistrate told Arnab Goswami to ‘maintain decorum’The chief magistrate of the Alibaug court on Wednesday evening told Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami to maintain decorum, “behave like an accused” and not interrupt the proceedings.Ponda also submitted that since “no date was given for bail application before the Alibaug magistrate,” he withdrew Goswami’s bail plea there. He also said the Alibaug court expressed doubt whether it could hear the bail plea since the offence is “sessions triable.” The magistrate’s court is subordinate to sessions court. There needs to be an order, either from the same or a superior court, to reopen the case, Ponda said citing judgments. “Here is a case where order of accepting A-summary (closure report where police say crime is true but undetected) is passed, and to remove it they must move some court.” Read AlsoArnab Goswami arrest: Maharashtra home dept set up 40-member team to carry out ‘Operation Arnab’The state home department led by NCP’s Anil Deshmukh drafted a high-level 40-member team led by Kokan range inspector general Sanjay Mohite to arrest Arnab Goswami in the 2018 suicide abetment case.Ponda submitted that in a letter dated October 15, 2020 by the police, there was an intimation to the court but “it does not tell the court” that the magistrate has accepted the closure report on April 16, 2019. He said, “Rightly or wrongly or otherwise, the case was closed without notice to the informant.” Ponda said, “Can this error be rectified by the police without going to some court of law? Can police review a final order passed under provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure?” The order continues to remain and the legal provision is that police ought to have invoked a private complaint under Section 156(3) of CrPC and got an order of the magistrate for a probe. “Merely saying we are informing you under provisions of 173(8) for further probe” will not suffice, he submitted. The October document, said Ponda, states “Seen and filed” but that is “not an order of the magistrate.” The HC asked if Goswami had made the original informant a party and since he had not, asked him to. Senior counsel Amit Desai, appearing for the state in Goswami’s challenge to his arrest, will make his submissions on Friday when the plea for interim relief will be heard. Nitesh Sarda, the other accused arrested on Wednesday in the abetment to suicide case, also petitioned the HC, and his counsel Vijay Aggarwal with Karan Kadam said Naik has been made a party in his petition which also challenged the arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/make-wife-of-man-who-ended-life-a-party-to-case-hc-tells-goswami/articleshow/79071486.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Car rams into median on Durgam Cheruvu cable bridge, 2 injured||Hyderabad: A car overturned on Durgam Cheruvu cable-stayed bridge on Thursday. Two occupants suffered minor injuries in the mishap. According to police, a sedan, driven by Mahbub Iqbal, 20, a student from Asif Nagar, overturned after hitting the median on Durgam Cheruvu bridge on Thursday afternoon. “The mishap occurred around 2.30pm due to negligent driving. When Iqbal was driving from Jubilee Hills to Madhapur, the car hit the median resulting in tyre burst. As a result, the car overturned. Iqbal and his friend, who was travelling with him, sustained minor injuries,” Madhapur inspector P Ravindra Prasad said. Traffic came to a halt for a while due to the mishap and later moved slowly for about an hour till police removed the car. Madhapur police said the driver had a valid license and was not under the influence of alcohol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/car-rams-into-median-on-durgam-cheruvu-cable-bridge-2-injured/articleshow/79069363.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||SOP for reopening schools, colleges in 2-3 days: Gujarat minister||GANDHINAGAR: State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said on Thursday that a standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening of schools and colleges will be announced in two or three days. During a function in Ahmedabad on Thursday morning, Chudasama said the government is planning to “physically open schools and colleges in coming days”. He said this after consultations with senior officers of the education and health departments, along with representatives of other stakeholders like management associations of schools and colleges. “Today we had a discussion with stakeholders like university vice-chancellors. All have opined in favour of opening up of schools and colleges. Once the SOP for schools and colleges is ready, further discussion with chief minister and deputy chief minister will be held to finalize the plan,’‘ the minister said. As of now, the state government is planning to open schools from classes 9 to 12, colleges as well as universities, though a final decision on the issue is pending, he told reporters in Gandhinagar. “Once SOPs are prepared, CM Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, in consultation with education and health departments, will take a final decision. They will also decide on opening schools for standards 1 to 8,” said Chudasama. Schools and colleges in Gujarat have been shut since March-end in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sop-for-reopening-schools-colleges-in-2-3-days-chudasama/articleshow/79069403.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Passenger hides gold in secret pocket, caught at RGIA||Hyderabad: Customs sleuths intercepted a passenger trying to smuggle in gold at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) in Shamshabad on Thursday and seized 71.4 grams of the yellow metal from his possession. While screening all passengers who arrived from Dubai by an Air India flight (IX 1948) during the early hours of Thursday, customs officials intercepted a male passenger. “During screening, we found suspicious material in the trousers of a passenger. He was pulled aside and subjected to thorough inspection. We found that he was trying to smuggle in gold by concealing it in the secret pocket of his jeans,” a customs official said. The 12 small pieces of gold weighing 71.47 grams were concealed in the gap between two layers of the zip fliers of his trousers. The 12 small pieces of gold weighing 71.47 grams were concealed in the gap between two layers of the zip fliers of his trousers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/passenger-hides-gold-in-secret-pocket-caught-at-rgia/articleshow/79069357.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Vadodara||Cops take custody of rape accused Prashant Upadhyay||Vadodara: The Gotri police on Thursday took custody of godman Prashant Upadhyay who has been accused of rape by a 21-year-old girl. This is the second case of rape against Upadhyay who is better known as Baglamukhi jyotish. The police said that Upadhyay will be taken for medical examination in the next couple of days.“We will question him about the offence registered against him and the role of his accomplices. We are looking for two other women who are co-accused in the case. We will question Upadhyay to ascertain the whereabouts of these women,” said S V Chaudhary, Gotri police station. The police said that Upadhyay has been suspected of duping many people in the past.He used to lure women by promising to solve their problems. And the three women, of whom one has already arrested, have been accused of helping him in committing crimes. A 21-year-old girl had in her complaint alleged that Upadhyay raped her several times when she stayed at his ashram in Gotri five years ago.The rape survivor used to go to congregations held by the godman along with her father when she was just 16. The police said that the girl went to Prashant’s ashram in Gotri and stayed there for 15 to 20 days. He fed her something and then raped her multiple times. In March this year, a married woman had accused Upadhyay of raping her several times. The woman told the cops that her husband was a follower of Upadhyay.She used to discuss her problems with him following which Upadhyay asked her to make some sacrifices to attain the form of ‘devi’. In 2016, he called her to his home and raped her. The spiritual guru has also been accused of duping a businessman and a couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-take-custody-of-rape-accused-prashant-upadhyay/articleshow/79067387.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Mukhtar kin’s house built on govt property||LUCKNOW: UP revenue department has reconfirmed to the Lucknow Development Authority that the 8,000sq metre land in Jiamau, on which jailed gangster Mukhtar Ansari’s sister-in-law Farhat has constructed a house, is a Nishkrant Sampatti (evacuee property that belongs to government). LDA secretary Ritu Suhas said a reconfirmation was sought from the revenue department to be doubly sure about the land’s status before filing a reply in the high court, which recently stayed LDA decision to demolish the house. Farhat, who is wife of BSP MP Afzal Ansari, had constructed the house on the land in 2007 after getting the map approved from the LDA. However, land ownership came under scanner in August this year when LDA received a list of evacuee properties from the revenue department that mentioned Farhat’s property as well. Lucknow Development Authority had then sought an explanation from Farhat. Suhas said that Farhat could not submit any document to prove that the land is not an evacuee property. The development authority then cancelled the map approved earlier and decided to demolish the house. However, Farhat challenged the decision in the high court, which while granting a stay, asked LDA to submit a reply to the petition, Suhas added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mukhtar-kins-house-built-on-govt-property/articleshow/79071012.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP 112 cops being trained for better policing in Covid times||Lucknow: More than 32,000 cops deployed with UP 112 across the state would be given special training to not only make arrests but also to search and patrol during Covid-19 times. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has laid special emphasis on the need for better training to improve policing and ensuring fast action. Acting on the directions, special training has been started for cops deployed in police response vehicles of UP 112. Home officials said that many challenges had cropped up in front of the police during novel coronavirus crisis for which special training and acclimatisation were needed to ensure better policing. To overcome challenges of the future, 3,174 police personnel of UP 112 had been trained so far in 72 districts and others will be trained soon. “Modern methods of search and patrolling suitable during Covid-19 times are being taught to police personnel. For example, if the accused has to be arrested in the present environment, what precautions ought to be taken. About 29,000 cops will be trained in batches and by next year, we will be able to cover the entire strength,” said ADG UP 112 Asim Arun. He added that Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government had been taken care of during the training. “Batches of 30 personnel were created to ensure that social distancing is followed. During training, masks are being distributed,” he said. Police personnel are also being taught how to protect themselves from novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-112-cops-being-trained-for-better-policing-in-covid-times/articleshow/79071014.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Two burglars held; gold, cash recovered||Hyderabad: Task Force police arrested a notorious burglar along with his associate and recovered Rs 35 tola worth Rs 17.05 lakh and Rs 1.25 lakh cash from their possession. Acting on specific information, East Zone Task force team arrested Nenavath Vinod Kumar alias Akhilesh Kumar, a car driver from Balaji Nagar in Balapur, and his associate K Rajesh, an auto driver from Singareni Colony in Saidabad. Another gang member Shakeel from Moghulpura is absconding. During the interrogation, the accused confessed to have committed eight burglaries at Charminar, Adibhatla, Meerpet, LB Nagar and Balapur in the last 10 months. Hyderabad police commissiner Anjani Kumar said Vinod Kumar was involved in 42 property offences between 2014 and 2019. “Vinod is a native of Amangal and he discontinued B Tech. Between 2015 and 2019, he was detained thrice under the PD Act by Hyderabad and Rachakonda police,” Anjani Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-burglars-held-gold-cash-recovered/articleshow/79069372.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Won’t be accountable for infection’||AHMEDABAD: School managements, who are engaged in consultations with the state government to chalk out guidelines for reopening of schools and educational institutions later this month, have reiterated that while they are in favour of reopening schools, they should not be held accountable if students get infected by Covid-19. School managements contend that students come to schools in autorickshaws and other modes of transport, and schools cannot be responsible for their safety while travelling to school and back to their respective homes. Schools also say that checking the body temperature of every student will not only be a time consuming exercise, it will also mean that schools will have to employ more manpower for these tasks. “We will follow the SOP. Most importantly, schools cannot be held responsible if students get infected, as schools have no control over the movement of students once they leave schools,” said Manan Choksi, president of Ahmedabad Progressive Schools Management Association. He added that a staggering approach should be adopted while reopening schools. Jatin Bharad, vice-president, Self-Financed School Management Association said that when cinema theatres are not held responsible if movie watchers get infected with Covd-19, how can schools be held responsible for students. “The state government, while drafting the SOP, should also look at instances in other states where schools have reopened, and what their experiences are,” said Bhasker Patel, president of Gujarat Rajya Shala Sanchalak Mahamandal. All Gujarat Vali Mandal, an association of parents of schoolchildren demanded that the government should include parents and associations of teachers and principals in the consultations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wont-be-accountable-for-infection/articleshow/79069386.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||T'puram to get four more e-vehicle charging stations||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Giving more confidence to electric vehicle owners and those mulling over shifting to electric vehicles, the city will be getting four more e-vehicle charging stations. The new charging stations will be inaugurated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday. Out of the four e-vehicle charging stations, three are being set up by Agency for Non-conventional Energy and Rural Technology (ANERT) and one by Kerala state electricity board (KSEB). The works in this regard are being carried out in association with Energy Efficiency Services Ltd under the Union government. The charging stations by ANERT are coming up outside ANERT headquarters at PMG here, Thycaud Government Guest House and Shangumugham Beach Road. The charging station by KSEB is coming up at Nemom. ANERT officials said that out of the three charging stations they are setting up, the one outside ANERT headquarters is a solar-powered one. They have plans to convert the stations at Shangumugham and Thycaud too into solar-powered stations in the future. ANERT stations have two types of charging units, a 15KW charging point and a combo charging point with two 60KW charging points and a 22 KW charging point. “Electric cars that are currently available in the market can be charged from these charging points. Cars such as Tata Tigor and Mahindra E Verito can be charged from the 15KW charging point and bigger cars like Hyundai Kona, Tata Nexon and MG ZS can be charged from the combo charging point,” said an official of ANERT. The charging stations have the power to charge the batteries of vehicles up to 80% within 20 minutes. The official also said that the charging station outside ANERT headquarters can also be used to charge e-rickshaws. None of the charging stations have the option to charge electric two-wheelers.  The government has already announced that the service of these EV charging stations will be free for the first three months. CM Pinarayi Vijayan will be inaugurating the EV charging stations on Saturday at 3pm. Besides the EV charging stations in the capital city, similar stations at Kochi Marine Drive, Olayil, Palarivattom, Viyyur, Nallalam and Chovvawilla will also be inaugurated on Saturday. While the EV charging station at Kochi Marine Drive is also being set up by ANERT, the others are installed by KSEB. A fleet of 50 new EVs for government will also be flagged off during the occasion. Finance minister Thomas Issac will inaugurate the distribution of LED bulbs under ‘Filament-Free Kerala’ initiative. Ports minister Kadannappally Ramachandran will launch the solar subsidy scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/capital-to-get-four-more-e-vehicle-charging-stations/articleshow/79072233.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Lovers commit suicide in Vikarabad||Hyderabad: Upset after their parents refused to get them married, a man and his minor girlfriend committed suicide by consuming poison in Thandur, Vikarabad district, on Wednesday. Balraj, a school dropout, was in love with the minor girl, who recently cleared 10th grade. The couple was found dead in the agriculture field belonging to Balraj’s family. Police suspect that couple might have resorted to extreme step as their parents were against their proposal to get married. Police registered a case under section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPc. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lovers-commit-suicide-in-vikarabad/articleshow/79069396.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Survey finds 3,453 ILI & SARI patients in Aurangabad district||AURANGABAD: The ongoing health survey in Aurangabad district as part of ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign of the state government has identified as many as 3,453 cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) among surveyed citizens. Besides, the survey, which is being conducted in the city limits and rural areas, has also come across 46,687 citizens having comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and lung ailments among other diseases. Aurangabad district health officer Sudhakar Shelke said that the identified citizens are vulnerable to get infected with Covid-19 and would be monitored continuously. “We have been reaching out to each and every family under ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign in order to minimize the risk of Covid-19 infection. Our health teams would be in constant touch with the citizens having ILI and SARI along with the listed comorbidities in order to protect them for the menace of Covid-19,” he said. While the citizens with Covid-like symptoms have been referred to health facilities for necessary testing, health authorities have appealed to the citizens to co-operate with the teams arriving at their doorstep for health check up as a part of My Family My Responsibility’ campaign. “We have come across some pockets, including those from minority areas, where citizens choose not to co-operate with ground-level health staffers. Either they did not allow our teams to enter their localities or refused to share any details about health of family members. Such non-cooperation increases the risk of Covid spread,” Shelke said. As per official data, over 1.23 lakh families from the municipal limits and over 5.3 lakh from rural areas have been covered under ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign in Aurangabad district. At the state level, over 2.41 crore families have been covered under the campaign, helping the health authorities to identify over 1.62 lakh patients of ILI and SARI and another 19.74 lakh with co-morbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-3-4k-ili-sari-patients-in-aurangabad-survey/articleshow/79071013.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: All schools have NOCs says AMC, board says 44%||AHMEDABAD: City schools are very safe so far as fires are concerned, if the civic body is to be believed. However, the education department has a contrasting picture. While the AMC claimed that only 4-5 schools and colleges in the city do not have valid fire department no-objection certificates (NOCs), data from the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board reveals that 54% of city schools lack these NOCs. The board’s recent communiqué to education officials raised a question about the authenticity of Ahmedabad chief fire officer M F Dastoor’s statement before the Gujarat high court in September with regard to educational institutions having valid fire NOCs. Dastoor had to file an affidavit in response to a PIL seeking action in the Shrey Hospital fire case and demanding proper implementation of fire safety laws. On September 28, Dastoor swore the affidavit in which he stated, “It is submitted that there are about 1,200 government and private schools and colleges within the city limits of Ahmedabad and barring 4 to 5, all schools and colleges have fire NOCs issued by the Fire Department of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation.” This statement was made twice on the affidavit filed in the high court by Dastoor as a representative of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). During proceedings on this PIL, the high court sought details about fire NOCs across the state to map how many buildings have adequate fire safety equipment.  The education department gathered details too. The board’s secretary on Wednesday shared details of schools which still do not have fire NOCs and instructed district education officers to help such schools get fire NOCs from the fire department concerned. Data furnished by the board shows that as many as 542 of the 1,003 schools in the city of Ahmedabad do not have valid fire NOCs. It reveals that only 461 schools in Ahmedabad have fire NOCs and there is not a single school which has initiated the process to either get an NOC or to get it renewed. In his September 28 affidavit, Dastoor claimed that all 60 multiplexes, all 300 firecracker shops, all 80 petrol pumps and all 50 temporary structures in the city had valid fire NOCs. He also claimed that nearly 2,200 of the 2,385 tuition classes in the city have valid fire NOCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-schools-have-nocs-says-amc-board-says-44/articleshow/79069407.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Aurangabad||2,248 undergo Covid testing||Aurangabad: A total of 2,248 citizens from rural areas of Aurangabad district have undergone testing for Covid-19 as a part of My Family, My Responsibility campaign. It includes 1,679 rapid antigen tests and remaining 579 RT-PCR tests, official data shows. Also, a total of 177 citizens from Aurangabad district have been re-tested using the RT-PCR test even after their rapid antigen tests came out negative. The related data for the municipal limits has not been made available yet. A senior health official said all symptomatic negative cases of rapid antigen tests are strictly asked to get an RT-PCR test as per official protocol. “The rapid antigen tests are known for having considerable degree of false negative and the Centre has laid down a protocol to deal with it. Accordingly, two specific categories of cases must undergo a retest through RT-PCR. It includes all symptomatic negative cases of rapid antigen test and asymptomatic negative cases the rapid antigen test that develop symptoms within two to three days days of being tested negative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2248-undergo-covid-testing/articleshow/79071015.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Agra||Two ex-students of AMU among 27 ‘externed’ from Aligarh for 6 months||Agra: Aligarh district administration has identified 27 individuals, including two former Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) students, as “goondas” or criminals and "externed" them from the district for six months for their alleged involvement in crimes in the area.The two ex-students of AMU were identified as Zaid Shervani and Sarjeel Usmani. Usmani was lodged in Aligarh district prison in July in connection with anti-CAA protests in the university and was released after a district court granted him bail two months ago. Usmani is the son of a senior faculty member of the varsity.The order read, “Usmani is dangerous for society. People are living in fear due to his criminal activities. People don’t provide evidence against him due to his terror. He is a dangerous 'goonda'. Peoples' lives are at risk due to his acts.” Usmani said that the Goonda Act was usually slapped on repeat offenders involved in criminal activities. “Four cases were registered against me in a short span from December 6 to 15, 2019. And I have been declared a 'goonda' by district authorities,” he said, adding that he belongs to a reputed family and had never threatened anyone.“No disciplinary action was ever taken against me by the AMU,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-ex-students-of-amu-among-27-externed-from-aligarh-for-6-months/articleshow/79066970.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Covid plus winter: 250 extra shelters to be set up in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Winter has started setting in and, this year, Delhi’s homeless people will not only have to battle the biting cold but also the spectre of Covid-19 along with deteriorating air quality, which is likely to complicate health issues more. Keeping these challenges in mind, Delhi government is going to set up 250 additional temporary shelters in the next fortnight, a nearly four-fold increase as against previous years. This has been necessitated by the need to ensure social distancing inside these shelters, said an official. Urban development minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday convened a coordination meeting at the secretariat with various departments and authorities, including Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) that manages these facilities, Delhi Jal Board, health, revenue, public works department, power, social welfare, women and child development, Delhi Police, Delhi Development Authority, municipal corporations and New Delhi Municipal Council, Delhi Metro and Delhi Fire Services, to review the steps to be taken to provide proper facilities, DUSIB stated. All officials were sensitised for extending full cooperation, keeping in mind that the Covid-19 guidelines are also to be followed, the statement added. The revenue department has been asked to instruct the district magistrates to take all precautionary steps. The health department will carry out regular inspections of these shelters and extend health facilities to the homeless inmates. DUSIB will start Winter Action Plan 2020-21 for the homeless people from November 20 and it will continue till March 15, 2021. In comparison to 60-70 pagoda tents being set up following regular practices, about 250 fire retardant and waterproof pagoda tents will also be installed as temporary winter shelters to ensure social distancing. The tents will have beds and mattresses and will be set up at locations of homeless concentration. Even before the action plan is launched, DUSIB will start providing three meals, including breakfast, daily at all shelters in place of usual two meals, the board stated. DUSIB board member Bipin Rai said that this year it would have to ensure that a six-foot distance was maintained between every two individuals to avoid the spread of Covid-19, Rai added. He also urged people “to download DUSIB’s ‘Rain Basera’ mobile application, on which they can upload photos of any area with homeless people”. DUSIB’s 16 rescue teams will bring homeless people to the shelters, Rai said, adding that a helpline number will also remain operational 24x7 in the winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-plus-winter-250-extra-shelters-to-be-set-up/articleshow/79069453.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Man booked for selling onion seeds||AURANGABAD: CIDCO police have registered an offence of alleged illegal sale of onion seeds at Aurangabad city’s local market and have booked Kaleem Salim Patel (45) in connection with the incident. Patel is a resident of Deolai area, said police, adding that the suspect did not have any valid license for selling onion seeds. “As per law, no person can carry out the business of selling, exporting or importing seeds at any place except under and in accordance with the terms and conditions of licence granted to him. Such sale of seeds without any license is detrimental to the interest of farmers,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-booked-for-selling-onion-seeds/articleshow/79071017.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: NGT issues notices suo motu to authorities, chemical unit||AHMEDABAD: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Thursday issued notice to concerned authorities and the owner of the chemical processing unit after 12 persons lost their lives and nine others sustained injuries in multiple explosions that took place on Wednesday in the unit in Ganeshnagar on the Piplaj-Pirana Road. The tribunal has taken suo motu cognizance of the accident on basis of newspaper report and issued notices to the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Ahmedabad collector, director of industrial safety and Shahil Enterprises Chemical Boiler Factory. All of them have been asked to remain present before the tribunal on November 11 through video conferencing for the hearing with regard to the casualties that took place in blasts on Wednesday. All who were killed due to the blasts were working at a neighbouring garments packaging unit, which shares a common wall with Shahil Enterprises. Locals said that they heard six blasts from the chemical unit. The fire brigade officials who had rushed to the spot were clueless about the composition of the chemical that caused the explosions. Later in the day of explosion, the state government announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh for the victims’ kin and it instituted a committee to probe the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ngt-issues-notices-suo-motu-to-authorities-chemical-unit/articleshow/79069468.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Blanket of smog shrouds capital||LUCKNOW: The city witnessed the highest air pollution levels post-monsoon this year on Thursday due to a thick dense smog — a mix of mist/fog and pollutants — that enveloped the city since morning. As per the data released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Lucknow’s Air Quality Index (AQI) was 349. This means the air quality of Lucknow was in the ‘very poor’ category which is harmful to lungs. The city skyline remained wrapped in a thick haze since morning, giving the appearance of an overcast sky and leading to drop in the visibility below 500 metres. TimesViewThe high air pollution levels can also cause severe breathing issues and ailments, hence, wearing a mask now has double benefit. It will act as a barrier for both the novel coronavirus and polluted air. Besides, authorities must step up the campaign to check activities that cause air pollution. People can also contribute to it by not burning garbage in the open and stopping others from doing so. Further, venture out of home only when necessary. This will reduce vehicular load on roads and also prevent you from getting exposed to the virus.According to weather experts, the smog created by clubbing of mist and pollutants remained suspended in the air for a longer period because wind velocity was also low. The drop in night temperatures by 3-4 degrees in the past few days condensed moisture in the air, leading to formation of the mist. On the other hand, the concentration of ultrafine pollutants (PM 10 and PM 2.5) spiked because of the rise in fuel emissions due to increase in vehicular load on roads owing to festival rush. The stubble burning in many parts of the state also made a significant contribution in the increase of PM 10 and 2.5 levels in the atmosphere. Adding to it was the pollution caused by the bursting of firecrackers on Karva Chauth on Wednesday. Environmentalist Prof Venkatesh Dutta warned that the pollution levels will increase further in coming days. “As winters are approaching, decline in temperatures will continue and there will be more vehicles on the road due to festivals,” he added. He also said that since weather conditions cannot be changed, the effort should be to reduce emission of pollutants by strictly enforcing a ban on stubble burning, putting checks on construction activities as per guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/blanket-of-smog-shrouds-capital/articleshow/79071031.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 6, 2020||Agra||Members of saffron outfit enter another Mathura mosque, chant Hanuman Chalisa, booked||Agra: Police in Mathura on Thursday booked three members of a saffron outfit after they allegedly barged into a mosque and read out Hanuman Chalisa in the district's Taroli village. A video clip of the event was also shared on social media platforms, prompting police to arrest the three men. Bharat Sisodiya, president of Rashtriya Maharana Pratap Yuva Sena and two others, Ashok Singh and Sonu Raghav, were booked under section 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of CrPC, said SP (rural) Shireesh Chandra. He added that police are keeping a close eye on such people. “Strict action will be taken against those trying to disrupt communal harmony,” said SSP Guarav Grover. He added that directions have been issued to all police stations in the district in this regard. This was the second such incident in the last 48-hour. On November 2, a group of four youths had recited Hanuman Chalisa in Govardhan’s Eidgah. They were also booked under the same section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/members-of-saffron-outfit-enter-another-mathura-mosque-chant-hanuman-chalisa-booked/articleshow/79066999.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||19 candidates already for Amravati’s Teachers’ constituency||Amravati: 19 candidates took nomination forms on day one for election to one seat to Maharashtra Legislative Council from Amravati division’s Teacher’s constituency. The candidates included Anil Madhukar Kale, Pravin alias Pandurang Nanaji Vidhale, Sangita Sachindra Shinde (Bonde), Rajkumar Shriram Bonkile, Rajendra Tulsiram Gujre, Ramesh Dattuji Chandekar, Narendra Kaur, Shekhar alias Chandrashekhar Manohar Bhoyar, Sanjay Wasudeorao Asole, Sunil Narayanrao Jaisinghpure, Dilip Anandrao Nimbhorkar, Abhijit Murlidhar Deshmukh, Ganesh K Sanap, Sharadchandra Krushnarav Hinge, Vikas Bhaskarrao Sawarkar, Adv. Ram Burange, Dr Sanjay Delivery, Dr Nilesh Deshmukh and Ravindra Lakhode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/19-candidates-already-for-amravatis-teachers-constituency/articleshow/79069456.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Criminal cases against owners for pilfering water||HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board has decided to register criminal cases and impose penalties against property owners who are using illegal electric motors to draw water from main pipeline.  HMWS&SB managing director, M Dana Kishore instructed the vigilance wing to implement orders regarding penalties and registration of criminal cases. “A penalty of Rs 5,000 will be imposed for a first-time offence. Subsequently, if the offence is committed again, Rs 10,000 fine will be imposed and if the offence is repeated for the third time, water connection will be disconnected and a criminal case will be booked,” said a vigilance official from HMWS&SB. The water board has already registered FIRs against erring property owners. “Recently in Allwyn Colony and KPHB areas, the wing seized 13 illegal electrical motors which were used to suck water directly from water board’s main pipeline,” says a release issued by HMWS&SB on Thursday. A penalty of Rs 5,000 will be imposed for a first-time offence. If the offence is committed again, Rs 10,000 fine will be imposed and if the offence is repeated, water connection will be disconnected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/criminal-cases-against-owners-for-pilfering-water/articleshow/79069442.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Even concrete barricades could not stop flooding||HYDERABAD: A repeat victim of heavy monsoon showers, residents of Kodandaram Nagar – not too far away from the Saroornagar Lake – had erected concrete barricades at the entrance of their homes, to stop the water from flooding their properties. But in the recent October rains, even these got washed away. “Many people in our locality raised these one-foot-tall walls with cement to save our lives and properties. But they couldn’t protect us this time,” said T Pranay, a resident of the area. Around 6,000 houses around the Saroornagar Lake were left adversely impacted in the October showers as water gushed into their homes, damaging their valuables – electronics, furniture and even vehicles. Overnight, people had to abandon their houses and move to temporary shelters. A ground report, weeks later, revealed that aging pipelines were at the root of this crisis. As per the original design, water from Saroornagar Lake was supposed to flow in to Musi through natural water channels that are around 40 feet wide. These natural water channels run through Kodandaram Nagar, Kamala Nagar, P&T Colony, Netaji Nagar and New Gaddiannaram. Over a period of time though, these channels were converted into artificial drains by constructing pipelines. Right now, water is discharged into Musi through these pipelines. The concern: width of these pipelines, which is hardly 10 feet and not capable of bearing excess load. As a result, the rain water is now flowing out of manholes located in residential localities. To add to that, locals say the pipelines have not been cleaned for years. Worse, even the 40-feet channels have been encroached upon after pipe lines were laid, allowing commercial establishments, apartments to come up on nalas. Result: local flooding Residents said they were able to overcome the recent disaster only due to humanity and relief camps. “People supplied food and water to the ones whose houses were inundated, while some of them provided accommodation to people. Relief camps by the government were also helpful,” said Kandikanti Premnath Goud, resident of Kondandaram Nagar. GHMC corporator from Gaddiannaram, Bhavani Praveen Kumar said that a request to divert the upstream water has already been placed. “We have requested the government to divert the upstream water flowing into Saroornagar Lake to Musi and reduce the load on Saroornagar Lake. Plans are underway to execute the project,” said the TRS leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/even-concrete-barricades-could-not-stop-flooding/articleshow/79069443.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Questions remain over Kerala govt’s new system for organ donation||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The health department’s decision to bring all organ donations under state control has come out of the long-pending demand to root out illegal trade but there are apprehensions on how the new system will work in the case of live organ donations. Ever since the government launched a system for cadaver transplantation, demand has picked up from various quarters to bring live organ donations too under it. “This has also been a long-standing demand. Our aim is to make live organ donations too hassle-free like cadaver transplantation, for which a system will be evolved. Plans are afoot to develop a software so that donors and recipients can be registered, thereby preventing illegal trade. Our goal is to avoid procedural delays for live organ donations through such a system. We can find out matching donors since there will be a registry,” said Dr Noble Gracious, nodal officer of Kerala Network of Organ Sharing (KNOS) under which the Mrithasanjeevani is functioning. However, several concerns have been raised over such a system. There are apprehensions that it would be easy to influence people overseeing the system for live organ donations. Hence, there is a view that live organ donations should be restricted while cadaver transplantation should be promoted. The move to bring all organ donations under the state control is a welcome decision, said Dr N Sulphi, vice-president of Indian Medical Association. But he added that it could be seen as only a temporary mechanism. It will be easy to influence the people who control the mechanism. Hence, the focus should be on restricting live organ donation only among relatives or close friends. We should promote cadaver transplantation more and bring down live organ donations, he added. “The willingness for live organ donation should come out of humanitarian concerns. But if you are trying to create a registry then the people who are willing to get registered will be those who are in need of money. The consent of the family is also essential if an individual is willing to become a donor. How are you going to ensure this if you are creating a registry,” asked Fr Davis Chiramel, founder of Kidney Federation of India. He too agreed with the view that the government should promote cadaver transplant more and limit live organ donations within the family. If anyone is in need of a kidney then family members should be first approached. We should create such a kind of awareness, said Fr Chiramel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/questions-remain-over-govts-new-system-for-organ-donation/articleshow/79068216.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Shangumugham beach closed again due to adverse weather||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: District administration, on Thursday, imposed restrictions on public from entering Shangumugham beach owing to adverse weather conditions. Collector Navjot Khosa issued an order in this regard stating restrictions will be in effect up to 100m from the shoreline owing to high tides. The conditions at the beach has become very dangerous once again owing to rough sea. Police have been directed to install barricades along the beach to ensure that people do not venture into the danger zone. There are restrictions for commercial establishments, including food court and shops located near the danger zone from functioning until further notice. Sale of fish on the beach is also restricted. Shangumugham beach, the favourite hangout place of majority of city residents, have been lying closed ever since the lockdown induced by Covid-19 pandemic came in force. Despite the commencement of unlock phase, the beach area remained closed as it suffered severe infrastructure damages in the heavy rain during monsoon. After a long wait, district administration, on November 1, issued an order allowing visitors to Shangumugham beach as well as other beach spots in the city. Ever since, the Shangumugham has been witnessing high turn-out of visitors. Following the latest development, vendors in beach area, who were hoping to return to normal life are again pushed into uncertainty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/beach-closed-again-due-to-adverse-weather/articleshow/79072241.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Three persons held for explosions that killed 12 in Ganeshnagar||AHMEDABAD: One day after 12 persons including five women lost their lives in a high-intensity blast followed by a fire at an industrial unit in the Ganeshnagar locality in Narol, city police on Thursday held three men under charges of culpable homicide and other sections of the Indian Penal Code after an FIR was lodged against them. The complaint was filed by Ashish Christian, the son of one of the deceased, Ragini Christian, a resident of Narol, against three person including Nanu Bharwad, the owner of Nanu Kaka industrial shed and a resident of Vasna, Pradeep alias Boota Bharwad, the owner of Boota Bhai estate, and Hetal Sutaria, the owner of Sahil Enterprises. On Wednesday morning, chemical reaction took place in Sahil enterprises in Boota Bhai estate during which 12 labourers working in garment packaging unit in Nanu Kaka estate lost their lives. Ashish stated in the FIR that his mother had been working at the garment packaging unit for 10 years and had gone to her workplace on Wednesday morning. At around 11am, his sister got a call and was informed that their mother was trapped under debris after a blast took place at the packaging unit. He said that when he reached there, he saw fire personnel and cops working at the damaged industrial units where concrete pillars, slabs and human organs were strewn around. After a while, his mother was found and was rushed to LG Hospital where she was declared brought dead by doctors at 1pm on Wednesday. Ashish said negligence and mischievous acts by Sutaria, Nanu and Pradeep had caused the fatal blast . Narol police booked the three under IPC Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 284 (negligent conduct with respect to poisonous substance), 285 (negligent or rash act with respect to fire or any combustible matter which may endanger human life) and 286 (negligent act with respect to explosive substance which may endanger human life).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-persons-held-for-explosions-that-killed-12-in-ganeshnagar/articleshow/79069467.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Coimbatore||NDC: Badagas not immigrants from K’taka, rectify error||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiri Documentation Centre (NDC), which has been researching the history of the hill retreat for nearly four decades, has requested chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to rectify a 200-year-old British colonial blunder of labelling the Badaga community as immigrants from Karnataka. Dharmalingam Venugopal, director, NDC, said the modern research had established that the colonial view of the Badagas was unfounded, biased and questionable. He said there was no archaeological or historical records to suggest Badagas were immigrants. “Badagas have been misrepresented in the literature with a migrant identity. Grammatical homogeneity of Badagu and the language of Kotas, Kurumbas and Todas might indicate they have always resided in the Nilgiri hills. Also, genetic studies show Badagas share similarities with other indigenous people of Nilgiris. In summary, separation of Badagas from other people based on history and migration seems unfounded,” they said quoting the book ‘Quality of Life and Well-Being in an Indian Ethnic Community: The Case of Badagas’ by Prof Gareth Davey. “Thus, there is no strong evidence for a migration, and also too much reliance on folklore and the rough observations of British colonial officials, even though it has been taken for granted by previous writers,” the letter further quoted the author. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ndc-badagas-not-immigrants-from-ktaka-rectify-error/articleshow/79069466.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||ASI prez bags Sri Lankan surgeons fellowship||Hyderabad: President of the Association of Surgeons of India (ASI) and director, KIMS-Ushalakshmi Centre for Breast Diseases, Dr P Raghu Ram was conferred with the honorary fellowship from College of Surgeons of Sri Lanka during a virtual inaugural ceremony of the 49th Annual Sri Lanka Surgical Congress on Thursday.  Dr Raghu Ram delivered a keynote address on ‘The art andscience of oncoplastic breast conserving surgery’. The honorary fellowship conferred is the highest recognition bestowed by Sri Lankan Surgical College to a select few surgeons. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asi-prez-bags-sri-lankan-surgeons-fellowship/articleshow/79069445.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Blasts may have been due to H2O2, MEK||AHMEDABAD: A team of experts from the state Forensic Sciences Laboratory (FSL) visited the spot of the blast in Ganeshnagar on Thursday. Senior city police officials associated with the investigation said that the FSL experts have pointed at possible presence of hydrogen peroxide and methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) along with other chemicals. “The unit, where the blast took place, was making intermediary chemicals for various nearby industries on demand. The owner used to get chemicals in bulk and get it mixed by his chemist at the site. The unit was functional at this site for past three years and had a turnover of about Rs 7-10 lakh monthly,” said an investigator. “FSL officials have pointed at the possibility of three blasts as result of a chemical chain reaction in various storage canisters.” The unit was primarily supplying chemicals to plastic manufacturing units, added officials. FSL officials carried out impact analysis at the site and also got the main electric supply box to ascertain what triggered the blast. Meanwhile, industrial safety experts have raised issues of primary safety. “Did the unit have required licences for the chemicals? How many times was it inspected? Was the road approachable for fire brigade? Will the local trade organizations take cognizance of the fact that such unorganized units can create a major hazard? Such questions must be addressed during the investigation,” said a city-based expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/blasts-may-have-been-due-to-h2o2-mek/articleshow/79069465.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||6 UP cities most polluted in country||Lucknow: Six UP cities were the most polluted cities in the country on Thursday. Worse, the the pollution level or the Air Quality Index (AQI) crossed the ‘hazardous’ 450-mark in these cities. Moradabad was the most polluted city on the day with AQI 489, as per the Central Pollution Control Board. Moradabad was followed by cities adjacent to Delhi — Bulandshahr AQI 469, Baghpat and Ghaziabad AQI 464, Greater Noida AQI 457 and Meerut AQI 453. This was the highest pollution level in UP in this post-monsoon season. Weather experts attributed the severe pollution levels to drop in temperatures, increase in traffic due to the festive season and stubble burning. Bahadurgarh in Haryana with AQI 452 was the seventh most polluted followed by Noida and Delhi AQI 450. “Drop in temperatures has further made conditions favourable for the rise in air pollution as low temperatures and wind speed do not allow pollutants to disperse in the atmosphere,” said environmentalist Venkatesh Dutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/6-up-cities-most-polluted-in-country/articleshow/79071035.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||South Central Railway launches ‘Operation Meri Saheli’ for women’s safety||HYDERABAD: In a bid to provide better security to women passengers, South Central Railway on Thursday launched “Operation Meri Saheli” for a focused action to ensure safety to women, especially those travelling alone. SCR identified eight important trains plying over the jurisdiction and organised this campaign to increase safety awareness amongst women passengers. “Security of the women passengers shall be given utmost priority. The strategy of this operation is to interact with lady passengers by a team of women Railway Protection Force (RPF), sub-inspectors/staff at the originating station. During the specially organised campaigns, the women passengers will be briefed about all precautions to be taken during the journey and are advised to dial 182 in case of any emergency,” said SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya. As part of the campaign, the RPF team will collect the seat numbers of the women passengers and inform them about the stoppages en-route. The platform duty RPF personnel at the stopping stations en-route will keep unobtrusive watch over the concerned coaches and berths and if the need arises, the officials will interact with the passengers. Onboard RPF/RPSF escort will also cover all the coaches/identified berths during their duty period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-launches-operation-meri-saheli-for-womens-safety/articleshow/79069464.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC asked to take action against illegal warehouses||Ahmedabad: The labour and employment department in a letter to all municipal commissioners in the state asked them to identify unauthorized warehouses and places where hazardous chemicals might be stored or processed.Vipul Mittra the additional chief secretary, labour and employment, who has been handed over the inquiry into the incident along with the chairman of Gujarat Pollution Control Board has in a letter to the AMC asked the latter to form teams with officials from AMC, GPCB and Ahmedabad Police Commissionerate, and identify unauthorized warehouses storing hazardous chemicals without valid NOCs. The ACS has sent separate letters to other municipal commissioners and police commissioners to take up similar drives in their areas to prevent such incidents. He has stated that action taken reports have to be submitted on or before November 13.Mittra said that the the labour department has asked AMC and and the city police commissioner to immediately begin survey of all warehouses falling within municipal limits. Multi-departmental teams should be pressed into action without delay to survey all warehouses falling within municipal limits, and if any unauthorized warehouses where hazardous chemicals might be stored or processed are found, stringent action should be taken. The direction also makes it mandatory for the AMC to appoint a DyMC to supervise areas surveyed and action taken.Mittra said that the inquiry in the Pirana fire incident is going on and investigation by police and technical inquiry by other concerned authorities are under way. But in order to prevent any more such incidents it was necessary to identify other unauthorized warehouses where hazardous chemicals are being stored without valid NOCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-asked-to-take-action-against-illegal-warehouses/articleshow/79069461.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||New postings for 5 IPS officers||Hyderabad: Five IPS officers have been given new postings. ASP, Bhadrachalam, M Rajesh Chandra has been posted as ASP (operations), Adilabad. Vineeth, has been posted as ASP, Bhadrachalam. Shabarish is posted as ASP, Manugur in existing vacancy and Gaush Alam is posted as ASP of Eturunagaram. Sharat Chandra Pawar is additional deputy commissioner of Ramagundam commissionerate. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-postings-for-5-ips-officers/articleshow/79069470.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR’s federal front idea may take shape after Bihar result||HYDERABAD: Even as the ruling TRS is closely watching the developments of Bihar polls, senior party leaders hinted that KCR would take a call on the federal front based on the results. “If the NDA loses in Bihar, all the non-BJP forces may come together and put up a united front against the NDA government at the Centre. As far as the federal front is concerned, our party supremo KCR will take a call on the strategy to be adopted on the new front,” TRS secretary general K Keshava Rao told TOI on Thursday. That the TRS got a piece of land in Delhi on Wednesday for its new office could not have come at a better time as its chief is looking to play a bigger role in national politics, analysts said. While two phases of polling in Bihar are over, the third phase will be held on November 7 and results will be declared on November 10. On the same day, Dubbak assembly by-poll result will also be announced. The TRS is confident of winning Dubbak with a huge majority. TRS leaders said KCR has already made up his mind to play a decisive role in national politics, especially mobilising support of the regional parties, and cobble up a non-BJP, non-Congress front. A senior TRS functionary said if the JD(U)-BJP alliance wins in Bihar, the front may be delayed. “But, our party chief believes both the NDA and Congress have failed the country on various counts, The way forward is a forum of regional parties. Our chief is waiting for the right time to revive his plans to become active in national politics,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcrs-federal-front-idea-may-take-shape-after-bihar-result/articleshow/79069486.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 6, 2020||Agra||68 new Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 7,512||AGRA: At least 68 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 7,512. These included two staffers of the SN Medical College and a staffer of the district hospital. Also, a 58-year-old man passed away while undergoing treatment at a private hospital. The Trans-Yamuna locality resident was suffering from diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other medical conditions. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 148 deaths of Covid-19 patients have been reported in Agra district. The current Covid-19 sample positivity rate in Agra district is 2.6% and the fatality rate is 1.9%. Moreover, 24 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 7,512 cases reported in the district, 6,913 [92%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district increased from 408 on Wednesday to 451 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/68-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-7512/articleshow/79067020.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||17 tigers, 18 leopards electrocuted in five years in Maharashtra's Vidarbha||NAGPUR: If the organized gangs of tiger poachers belonging to the Baheliya community from Katni in MP are at bay, electrocution is turning out to be the biggest threat to big cats in the region. Data from Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), an NGO working for wildlife law enforcement, shows that in the last five years, from 2016-2020, 17 tigers and 18 leopards have been electrocuted in farm fences. All the tigers have died in the Vidarbha landscape, mostly in Chandrapur district. The figure includes the latest case of tiger poaching at Ratnapur in Sindewahi forest range in Bramhapuri, where two persons were nabbed with two canines and 10 tiger nails on Wednesday. The tiger electrocution case has come to fore 10 days after a tigress nicknamed Mayuri went missing from the buffer zone of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). One of her cubs has died while two are recuperating in a treatment centre. Bramhapuri deputy conservator Dipesh Malhotra says the tiger, whose body parts were seized, was electrocuted in a farm six months ago when the lockdown was in force. “We are investigating all possible angles. The accused seem to be using electric power fence regularly and more people seem to be involved. The accused showed four spots but the tiger carcass was not found in any of the places,” said Malhotra. Electrocution has emerged the biggest threat to tigers in the region but the forest department seems to have not learnt any lessons. A four-member working group to tackle electrocution had been constituted in June 2017 under the state’s chief wildlife warden but it has become defunct. The group consists of Wildlife Institute of India (WII) scientist Bilal Habib, WPSI Central India director Nitin Desai and regional director of MSEDCL. However, in the last three years, the group has met only four times. Desai said, “We need to get our act together and revive all measures taken in 2017 and 2018. The joint action taken by MSEDCL and the forest department in 2017 had resulted in the number of electrocution deaths going down. We need to revisit the decisions and action plan of the electrocution group to curb such deaths.” Kishor Rithe, an expert member of the state wildlife board committee on linear projects, said, “Transmission lines in sensitive areas need to be shifted underground. Secondly, solar pumps should be given to new applicants for power connections. In Pench buffer, solar pumps are being promoted. Besides, old power connections should also be converted into solar phase-wise.” “The situation is bad as animals are disappearing. The trend is high in Gadchiroli district. If officials claim that tigers are dispersing to Gadchiroli from Bramhapuri, barring small pockets of Wadsa division, where are these animals going?” ask conservationists. State wildlife board member Bandu Dhotre said, “Solar fencing is the best solution. During my recent tour of Bramhapuri, farmers told me they want solar fences around farms. They are fed up of the tedious process and hassle of availing crop damage compensation.” “Farmers are using an electric power fence by using 440-volt low tension current to scare away herbivores. But this current is enough to kill soft-footed animals like leopard and tigers which are behind these herbivores in search of prey. Hence, unless the forest department reaches them, electrocution will be here to stay,” said Dhotre. On the contrary, honorary wildlife warden Jaydeep Das says, “The Sindewahi incident is just the tip of the iceberg. Of the 17 tiger deaths, most were exposed due to radio-collars. There is a long list of tigers that were sighted regularly but are missing now. We never talk about them. The latest example is Tadoba tigress Mayuri.” “There are 3,000 tigers in the country but officially only 100-115 deaths are detected and reported. If the average life of a tiger in wild is considered to be 12 years, then the number may be more, but that is not the case. One should not deny that many deaths go undetected,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/17-tigers-18-leopards-electrocuted-in-5-years-in-vid/articleshow/79069474.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: All major projects under Smart City scheme tendered||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Smart CityThiruvananthapuram limited (SCTL) has crossed a major milestone by achieving 100% tendering of all its major projects. Thirty eight projects to the tune of Rs.1,135 crore have been tendered in past eight months. Work order has also been issued for 33 projects worth Rs.493.7 crore. SCTL has also retendered smart road project to be implemented in stretches under KRFB and PWD in different phases after the initial tender could not be finalised. Smart city project had a shaky start in the city with changes at the helm and issues regarding project management consultancy. However, in a year, all detailed project reports were completed and SCTL has been able to tender all projects irrespective of unforeseen hurdles posed by Covid-19. P Balakiran, SCLT CEO said the achievement of 100% tender is due to the complete team effort within SCTL which was ably assisted by project management consultancy (PMC) — IPE Global. “We have got wonderful support from the corporation and government as well. We have planned meticulously about each project and set strict timelines to ensure deadlines are met. Now, the priority is to ensure that the mega projects hit the ground running quickly and are completed in time,” said Balakiran. Meanwhile, smart road project for stretches under PWD and KRFB has been retendered owing to tender excess quoted by bidders in initial tender. The project envisages development of urban roads as smart roads. It will have features like pedestrian footpath/safe pathways, junction improvements, storm water drains, utility conduits and underground ducts for electrical, KWA and communication lines. The project covers 36.94km of smart roads within Thiruvananthapuram ABD (area based development). Twenty-one roads under KRFB measuring 15km, 37 stretches under PWD measuring 20.4km and three roads under PWD-NH will be developed as smart roads. Initially SCTL had planned to award the entire work to a single firm, however, the participating firms had quoted excess amount during bidding. Now, the project will be awarded as three packages as work will be done for separate stretches. With the work being split into three, SCTL expects that the bid amount will be reasonable. The work also commenced for four major projects of smart city scheme on Thursday. Traffic and security command control centre, Chalai ware house project, redevelopment of ‘manaveeyam veedhi’ and heritage way project were kicked off on Thursday. Phase 2 of smart bus shelters and another component of smart road project will be tendered after the completion of smart road scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/all-major-projects-under-smart-city-scheme-tendered/articleshow/79072248.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 6, 2020||Mysuru||Madikeri: Man opens fire at daughter-in-law||MADIKERI: A man shot his daughter-in-law over a property dispute at Bettadakoppa village in Somwarpet taluk on Thursday. Aiyappa, opened fire at Theertha, wife of his son BA Poovaiah, causing serious injuries. She has been shifted from the district hospital here to a Mysuru hospital for treatment. Aiyappa has a son and two daughters. The daughters and their families are living in Aiyappa’s house in Bettadakoppa. Aiyappa and Poovaiah were often quarrelling over property disputes and complaints from both sides are pending in the Somwarpet police station. On Thursday, Theertha was on her way to bring back cattle that had gone for grazing when Aiyappa opened fire at her. A severely injured Theertha fainted and she was rushed to the Somwarpet hospital for first aid. Meanwhile, Aiyappa fled from the spot along with his wife and daughters. Poovaiah has complained to Somwarpet police against his father and police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-opens-fire-at-daughter-in-law/articleshow/79068108.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Third eye to make bus ride safer for women in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Travelling by buses is going to become safer for women from next month as all Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses are getting CCTV cameras, GPS devices and panic buttons. A new command and control centre is also being set up by the Delhi government at Kashmere Gate to monitor ‘panic alerts’ and act on them. While all new buses come equipped with state-of-the-art IP-based CCTV surveillance cameras, GPS devices, video recorders and panic buttons, the government has decided to retrofit the same in old DTC and cluster buses as well. As these buses criss-cross the capital, all panic alerts will be filtered at the new command and control centre and depending on the emergency, Delhi Police, Delhi Fire Services or ambulance services will be pressed into action. “We expect the control centre, which has been created especially with women safety in mind, to be up and running by mid-December. The centre has come up at the Kashmere Gate ISBT building, and the final layout and furniture is ready,” a Delhi government official said. “A large screen that would display real-time position of buses, thanks to GPS, has already been installed and computer screens at desks that will be manned by operators are going to come up soon,” he said. He added, “While all our new buses come fitted with CCTV cameras, GPS devices and panic buttons, the work of retrofitting the older fleet is going on at full swing. Every depot has a roster of buses that have to be retrofitted, and one maintenance and repair bay at every depot has been designated only for this. There are fixed hours for carrying out the wiring and other work.” The retrofitting work is being carried out by a public sector telecommunication enterprise and the project is expected to be completed by next month. All DTC and cluster buses will simultaneously be fitted with three Internet Protocol cameras, which can send image data via an IP network, a video recorder (mNVR) integrated with the GPS device, 10 panic buttons, one display screen for the driver, hooter, strobe and two-way audio communication devices, one each for driver and conductor. In case of any emergency, a passenger, driver or conductor can press the panic button. The alert will automatically be sent to the command and control centre immediately. The operator at the centre will filter the alerts and forward them to respective stakeholders for quick response. The GPS coordinates of the bus will also be shared so that the bus can be located easily and swiftly. “Various alert scenarios have been defined in the standard operating procedures and the operators have been trained to react in any emergency,” the official said. SMS and email alerts will also be sent to the authorities concerned at the time of the emergency, in synchronisation with panic alerts. The Delhi government has also deployed more than 11,000 marshals in all buses to ensure safety of commuters, especially women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/third-eye-to-make-bus-ride-safer-for-women/articleshow/79069565.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vellar crafts village beckons visitors||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Aranmula mirror, Balaramapuram handloom and Nettoor boxes now come under the same roof at Vellar Arts and Crafts Village as the first phase of the project has been completed. The project aims to revitalize the handicrafts of the state and to ensure a decent livelihood for the artisans. The Crafts Village has launched programmes to introduce heritage products of Kerala in the global market . In the first phase, the village features about 50 crafts prepared in 28 studios. Each studio gives the customer an option to see the making of the handicraft first hand and buy them. It has paintings, pottery, cane products, jewellery, home decor, home and office equipment, clothing, statues, curios, souvenirs, exhibits and tools made of wood, palm and palm fronds, bamboo, reeds, coir and cloth. Handicrafts like ‘pattachitra’ (cloth-based scroll paintings) from Bengal and Odisha, murals of Kerala, colourful paper quilting of ancient Egypt, centuries-old Nettoor boxes, glass-stone ornaments, etc. can be seen in the studios. The studio also showcases the finest handicrafts inside and outside the country, including curios, dry flowers, handicrafts made from paper to metals, ivory creations, Pooram crafts and hammocks. The woodwork category includes teak, rosewood and whitewood with products ranging from home appliances to toys. Aranmula Kannadi, Peruvampu musical instruments, Balaramapuram handloom, Muttathara wood carvings and Thazhava textile products are also exhibited here. The Crafts Village employs about 750 artisans including Padmashree Gopi Master and Shilpaguru award winner K S R Mohanan apart from other artisans who are national and state award winners. There are also plans to organize a world-class art and craft biennale and workshops every year based on a specific theme, including painting, terracotta, handlooms, sculptures and bamboo and reed products. The paintings of the selected artists will be exhibited at the Craft Village Art Gallery. The Emporium Village will be home to an innovative market for world-class crafts and paintings from other states too. The spice garden, herb garden, vegetable garden and evolution garden will be an added attraction. Performances of traditional art and dance forms of Kerala like Theyyam, Kathakali, Kolkali, Thiruvathira, Margamkali, Pavakoothu and Kalaripayat will be held to introduce the heritage and culture of the state to visitors from other countries. Initially, the performances will be held on Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays. The game zone includes adventure sports such as archery, shooting and rock climbing. Future plans include collaborating with leading interior designers, fashion designers and architects to make this as a marketing venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vellar-crafts-village-beckons-visitors/articleshow/79072252.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||After TOI report, revenue dept cracks whip on encroachers||Hyderabad: After Telangana High Court took note of a Times of India’s report -- ‘6 years on, fixing FTL of lakes remains on paper’ -- a couple of weeks ago and converted it into a PIL, the revenue department on Thursday launched a special drive to demolish encroachments on lake beds and nalas. Rajendranagar revenue division officials removed unauthorised structures on lake beds and nalas at Osmansagar nala in Khanapur village, Bachukunta at Chandanagar village and Sunnam Cheruvu buffer zone. “We will continue our demolition drive on illegal structures that have come up on buffer zones and FTLs of lakes,” K Chandrakala, RDO, Rajendranagar, told TOI. Since the high court asked the government to submit an action taken report on encroachments at various lakes, the drive is likely to start in all the districts in Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) jurisdiction. Municipal administration department director N Satyanarayana instructed municipal commissioners to pull down encroachments on nalas and construction of houses in FTL areas causing obstruction to the flow of water. “After Appa Cheruvu in Gaganpahad breached, we conducted an inquiry which revealed that some portion of the tank was encroached upon by constructing a commercial building. We sought police protection for removing the encroachment. A joint inspection will be conducted by irrigation, revenue, panchayat raj and GHMC officials to identify encroachments on all lakes and tanks in Rajendranagar,” Chandrakala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-toi-report-revenue-dept-cracks-whip-on-encroachers/articleshow/79069504.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Vadodara||I-T sleuths raid 35 business, private entities in Gujarat's Godhra||VADODARA: In an unprecedented action, income tax department swooped down upon around 35 premises in Godhra in a major survey operation. The operation was conducted on different business entities and individuals simultaneously. Sources said that the entities whose details were being examined include an oil trader, a business house involved in the steel business, an automobiles dealer, stamp vendors and those dabbling with real estate. Officials from different locations in the state were involved in the operation that took place in Godhra as well as adjoining Vejalpur. According to sources, the teams came in vehicles that had printouts stating ‘Gujarat Covid Task Force’ or ‘Election Duty’ on them. The vehicles used by the teams were registered at different places. They arrived at various locations in the town early in the morning leading to a lot of speculation. It became clear only later that a major I-T operation was underway. Officials remained tight-lipped about the details of the major operation that many believe has not been heard of in Godhra in the past. At several places, work was expected to continue even on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/i-t-sleuths-raid-35-business-private-entities-in-godhra/articleshow/79067453.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Smog to stay as weather is conducive to situation||LUCKNOW: The weather is expected to remain conducive to smog in the coming days as it was seen on Thursday. Track the pollution level in your cityMercury levels, both during the day and night, are expected to remain below normal along with low wind velocity. This would make conditions favourable for formation of the mist and gradual increase in the ‘chill’ in the atmosphere, said state Met director JP Gupta. He also said that the weather will remain dry over the next few days, with 2-3 degrees fluctuation in day and night temperatures. However, he added, the density of the smog will depend on the concentration of the moisture in the mist. Meanwhile, the smog that enveloped the city on Thursday gave the impression of an overcast sky. The thick layer remained suspended from the ground to 500 metres in the atmosphere, acting as a barrier for sunrays. As a result, the rise of the maximum temperature was restricted to 28 degrees Celsius, three units degree below normal. On the other hand, the dry northwesterly winds which are dominating the atmosphere at present increased the cold in the night. This led to a drop in minimum temperature to 13.2 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. Explaining the ‘cyclical phenomenon’, the Met director said the drop in night temperatures leads to formation of mist/fog, which combines with pollutants to form smog, and the thick haze thus formed in turn keeps temperatures below normal during the day-time. This phenomenon is common in winters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/smog-to-stay-as-weather-is-conducive-to-situation/articleshow/79071039.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Chennai||Shift in power dynamics: AIADMK, BJP walk the political tightrope||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 protocols may be the ostensible reason. But the Edappadi K Palaniswami government denying ally the BJP permission for its month-long ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ from Tiruttani to Tiruchendur, to whip up religious fervour and stir up anti-DMK sentiments, has political reasons too. Read the entire story on TOI+Why BJP's loyal ally in TN is asserting itself now||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shift-in-power-dynamics-aiadmk-bjp-walk-the-political-tightrope/articleshow/79069497.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Speed Post counter set up||Hyderabad: The postal department on Thursday inaugurated a 24X7 speed post booking counter at Parcel Processing Centre in Auto Nagar. Colonel Sagar Hanuman Singh, postmaster general, Hyderabad headquarters region inaugurated it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/speed-post-counter-set-up/articleshow/79069563.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Daily new infections rise for a second day in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: For the second consecutive day, the state reported an increase in daily new Covid-19 infections. The state reported 1,810 virus cases on Thursday, bringing the state’s overall tally to 2,05,800. Since October 2, daily new infections had steadily fallen, but in the last two days, the state reported an increase in new infections. Two days ago on November 3, the state saw the lowest daily new infections in 52 days. Over the next two days, such cases rose to 1,770 and 1,810. Among the districts which reported new cases on Thursday are Jaipur (333), Jodhpur (206), Bikaner (203), Ajmer (110), Alwar (102), Sikar (102), Jalore (61), Nagaur (58), Pali (55), Srigangangar (55), Kota (53), Barmer (45), Churu (45), Bharatpur (43), Udaipur (39), Jhunjhunu (39), Dausa (36), Bhilwara (28), Chittorgarh (27), Hanumangarh (22) and Dholpur (20). Among the other districts which reported new cases on Thursday Tonk (20), Sirohi (17), Rajsamand (15), Jhalawar (14), Baran (14), Dungarpur (11), Sawai Madhopur (11), Jaisalmer (10), Banswara (7), Karauli (7) and Pratapgarh (2). The state has also been consistently reporting between 9 to 11 deaths over the past few days. On Thursday, 10 more died from Covid. Jaipur reported its 379th Covid death, Jodhpur 189th, Bikaner 143rd, Ajmer 145th, Udaipur 75th, Sikar 61st, Alwar 60th, Jalore 39th, Jhunjhunu 29th and Churu reported its 26th fatality. Meanwhile, active cases, which had taken a significant dip from October 13 to 31 (coming down from the peak of 21,924 to 15,102), have started increasing again and touched 16,301 on Thursday. Health department officials said that they were taking measures to prevent the spread of the virus. “We have extended Jan Andolan campaign up to November 30 and people are being told about the importance of wearing masks. Othdr than this, ‘No Mask, No Entry’ campaign has also become successful as not only government offices, but private ones, shops, commercial establishments and others are following it and people are not being allowed to enter withot wearing a mask,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/daily-new-infections-risefor-a-second-day-in-state/articleshow/79071046.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Udaipur||Daily new infections rise for a second day in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: For the second consecutive day, the state reported an increase in daily new Covid-19 infections. The state reported 1,810 virus cases on Thursday, bringing the state’s overall tally to 2,05,800. Since October 2, daily new infections had steadily fallen, but in the last two days, the state reported an increase in new infections. Two days ago on November 3, the state saw the lowest daily new infections in 52 days. Over the next two days, such cases rose to 1,770 and 1,810. Among the districts which reported new cases on Thursday are Jaipur (333), Jodhpur (206), Bikaner (203), Ajmer (110), Alwar (102), Sikar (102), Jalore (61), Nagaur (58), Pali (55), Srigangangar (55), Kota (53), Barmer (45), Churu (45), Bharatpur (43), Udaipur (39), Jhunjhunu (39), Dausa (36), Bhilwara (28), Chittorgarh (27), Hanumangarh (22) and Dholpur (20). Among the other districts which reported new cases on Thursday Tonk (20), Sirohi (17), Rajsamand (15), Jhalawar (14), Baran (14), Dungarpur (11), Sawai Madhopur (11), Jaisalmer (10), Banswara (7), Karauli (7) and Pratapgarh (2). The state has also been consistently reporting between 9 to 11 deaths over the past few days. On Thursday, 10 more died from Covid. Jaipur reported its 379th Covid death, Jodhpur 189th, Bikaner 143rd, Ajmer 145th, Udaipur 75th, Sikar 61st, Alwar 60th, Jalore 39th, Jhunjhunu 29th and Churu reported its 26th fatality. Meanwhile, active cases, which had taken a significant dip from October 13 to 31 (coming down from the peak of 21,924 to 15,102), have started increasing again and touched 16,301 on Thursday. Health department officials said that they were taking measures to prevent the spread of the virus. “We have extended Jan Andolan campaign up to November 30 and people are being told about the importance of wearing masks. Othdr than this, ‘No Mask, No Entry’ campaign has also become successful as not only government offices, but private ones, shops, commercial establishments and others are following it and people are not being allowed to enter withot wearing a mask,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/daily-new-infections-risefor-a-second-day-in-state/articleshow/79072474.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kochi||Youth accused of raping minor found dead in Idukki jail||IDUKKI: A youth, accused of raping a minor girl who later committed suicide, was found dead inside the district prison on Thursday. Remand prisoner Manu Manoj, 24, was found hanging inside the Idukki district jail at Muttom around 3:45pm. Sources said the man was found hanging in the area where the prisoners used to dry their clothes. Prison officials rushed him to the taluk hospital, where the death was confirmed. Police arrested Manoj on October 24 based on a complaint after the girl’s parents lodged a complaint with the deputy superintendent of police, Kattappana. The girl, aged 16, reportedly set herself on fire in her house on October 22. She died while undergoing treatment for 65% burns at the medical college hospital in Thiruvananthapuram on October 31. Manoj, formerly a DYFI member, was expelled from the organization following the case. He was booked under Pocso Act and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/youth-accused-of-raping-minor-found-dead-in-idukki-jail/articleshow/79068268.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||‘Psychological and social problems of students bigger than technical glitches’||Q. Was the experiment of conducting online exams on mobile phone successful? A. Online exam was a collective decision of chancellor office, government and university authorities. We were successful because we planned to ensure no student suffers. I asked the technical team to make such a software that even an Apple user or an ordinary phone user is able to appear. Our software worked even on 2G network in remote areas of Gadchiroli district. Q. Can online mode be adopted in normal times too? A. Already it has begun in online format. Many national competitive and even NET-JRF are being held online. This is part of the system and we can’t avoid it any further. It is inevitable. Q. There were very few student complaints from both KKSU and Gondwana University. How did you manage it? A. Number of students in our universities were pretty less. But if we were to serve one lakh students, we would have been able to handle them. Initially, we also faced same problems like other institutions at Gondwana University, despite lots of preparation. Immediately, I sat with the technical team and took crucial decisions. One was removing the agency. Q. Did quick decision making help? A. Technical issue is one part of the problem. Social and psychological problems are huge. For social problems, I engaged with the teaching community and principals of all affiliated colleges. Then, I spoke to all students leaders. I told them their participation is important. I told them ‘anyway other universities are failing and nobody cares if Gondwana too goes the same way. But if we succeed everybody will look at us in admiration’. Despite poor connectivity, they participated and exams were held smoothly. I credit the students for this success as they helped themselves. Q. Bright students complained the online format is unfair? A. We have to study the complaints. Results are out and we can see if bright students are deprived of their merit. But I would like to know if someone is bright and meritorious, how can he or she be affected? At Kavikulguru Kalidas Sanskrit University (KKSU), as examinee numbers were less, we made it a rule that if someone is crossing the usual topper’s score, we will have a third check. But, we didn’t need third evaluation. Q. Could there have been better assessment, evaluation and marking scheme for online exam? A. Definitely, we should have a better system. But I didn’t see anything wrong in this evaluation. Even colleges might have given full marks in internal assessment, but that is not in our control. It was an automated system. Q. How can merit and toppers be decided in this format? A. As far as KKSU and Gondwana University are concerned, previous performance was also considered. This format can’t be considered accurate. That is a problem. Yet it doesn’t affect meritorious students. We are not giving lesser marks to them, though someone else may get more marks, but can’t cross the meritorious student’s score. We have analysed the results and no problems were noticed. Q. Even students getting zero marks passed. All are at one level. A. This is followed in entire state. One thing must be understood, Covid situation has made students uncomfortable. But they must get some relief. You can bring quality in classroom and not in the examination. Q. What is take home message from Gondwana University? A. The narrative was that this area (Gadchiroli) has nothing and online examinations can’t be held. Today same students and teachers are proud and happy. It is their success. The narrative has changed. For me, this was not another online examination like Pune or Mumbai. For me, it was an exercise of ‘I can do it’ in tribal students. It has boosted their confidence and mental state has changed. (Shrinivasa Varakhedi is vice-chancellor of KKSU. He is holding charge of Gondwana University too)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/psychological-and-social-problems-of-students-bigger-than-technical-glitches/articleshow/79068332.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 6, 2020||Jodhpur||Daily new infections rise for a second day in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: For the second consecutive day, the state reported an increase in daily new Covid-19 infections. The state reported 1,810 virus cases on Thursday, bringing the state’s overall tally to 2,05,800. Since October 2, daily new infections had steadily fallen, but in the last two days, the state reported an increase in new infections. Two days ago on November 3, the state saw the lowest daily new infections in 52 days. Over the next two days, such cases rose to 1,770 and 1,810. Among the districts which reported new cases on Thursday are Jaipur (333), Jodhpur (206), Bikaner (203), Ajmer (110), Alwar (102), Sikar (102), Jalore (61), Nagaur (58), Pali (55), Srigangangar (55), Kota (53), Barmer (45), Churu (45), Bharatpur (43), Udaipur (39), Jhunjhunu (39), Dausa (36), Bhilwara (28), Chittorgarh (27), Hanumangarh (22) and Dholpur (20). Among the other districts which reported new cases on Thursday Tonk (20), Sirohi (17), Rajsamand (15), Jhalawar (14), Baran (14), Dungarpur (11), Sawai Madhopur (11), Jaisalmer (10), Banswara (7), Karauli (7) and Pratapgarh (2). The state has also been consistently reporting between 9 to 11 deaths over the past few days. On Thursday, 10 more died from Covid. Jaipur reported its 379th Covid death, Jodhpur 189th, Bikaner 143rd, Ajmer 145th, Udaipur 75th, Sikar 61st, Alwar 60th, Jalore 39th, Jhunjhunu 29th and Churu reported its 26th fatality. Meanwhile, active cases, which had taken a significant dip from October 13 to 31 (coming down from the peak of 21,924 to 15,102), have started increasing again and touched 16,301 on Thursday. Health department officials said that they were taking measures to prevent the spread of the virus. “We have extended Jan Andolan campaign up to November 30 and people are being told about the importance of wearing masks. Othdr than this, ‘No Mask, No Entry’ campaign has also become successful as not only government offices, but private ones, shops, commercial establishments and others are following it and people are not being allowed to enter withot wearing a mask,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/daily-new-infections-risefor-a-second-day-in-state/articleshow/79072475.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||T'puram records 756 new Covid cases||T’PURAM: The district reported 756 Covid-19 cases on Thursday. As many as 596 people acquired infection through contact of which 14 are health workers. As many as 622 people recovered from the disease on Thursday. A total of 8,342 people are presently under treatment for Covid-19 in the district. As many as 1,797 people were brought under observation in the district on Thursday. A total of 25,223 people are under observation in houses and 207 people are in institutional quarantine in the district. As many as 2,145 people completed observation period without showing symptoms on Thursday. The sectoral officers deployed by district administration to ensure compliance with Covid-19 prevention protocol took action against 322 people on Thursday. Police levied fine from 40 people and 237 people were warned, said collector Navjot Khosa. A total of 20,395 people have been penalized till now for violating Covid protocol in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dist-records-756-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79072255.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ajmer||Daily new infections rise for a second day in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: For the second consecutive day, the state reported an increase in daily new Covid-19 infections. The state reported 1,810 virus cases on Thursday, bringing the state’s overall tally to 2,05,800. Since October 2, daily new infections had steadily fallen, but in the last two days, the state reported an increase in new infections. Two days ago on November 3, the state saw the lowest daily new infections in 52 days. Over the next two days, such cases rose to 1,770 and 1,810. Among the districts which reported new cases on Thursday are Jaipur (333), Jodhpur (206), Bikaner (203), Ajmer (110), Alwar (102), Sikar (102), Jalore (61), Nagaur (58), Pali (55), Srigangangar (55), Kota (53), Barmer (45), Churu (45), Bharatpur (43), Udaipur (39), Jhunjhunu (39), Dausa (36), Bhilwara (28), Chittorgarh (27), Hanumangarh (22) and Dholpur (20). Among the other districts which reported new cases on Thursday Tonk (20), Sirohi (17), Rajsamand (15), Jhalawar (14), Baran (14), Dungarpur (11), Sawai Madhopur (11), Jaisalmer (10), Banswara (7), Karauli (7) and Pratapgarh (2). The state has also been consistently reporting between 9 to 11 deaths over the past few days. On Thursday, 10 more died from Covid. Jaipur reported its 379th Covid death, Jodhpur 189th, Bikaner 143rd, Ajmer 145th, Udaipur 75th, Sikar 61st, Alwar 60th, Jalore 39th, Jhunjhunu 29th and Churu reported its 26th fatality. Meanwhile, active cases, which had taken a significant dip from October 13 to 31 (coming down from the peak of 21,924 to 15,102), have started increasing again and touched 16,301 on Thursday. Health department officials said that they were taking measures to prevent the spread of the virus. “We have extended Jan Andolan campaign up to November 30 and people are being told about the importance of wearing masks. Othdr than this, ‘No Mask, No Entry’ campaign has also become successful as not only government offices, but private ones, shops, commercial establishments and others are following it and people are not being allowed to enter withot wearing a mask,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/daily-new-infections-risefor-a-second-day-in-state/articleshow/79072476.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Wellness centres in UP to host yoga classes twice a week||LUCKNOW: Health and wellness centres coming up in the state will work to spread awareness on lifestyle diseases, including diabetes, besides working to promote preventive health care practices among rural folks. Reviewing progress of the project that entails upgrading sub-centres, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said that the centres will host yoga classes twice a week to augment the mind and body health of people in the state. In an official statement, UP government said that in first phase, 97 health and wellness centres would be started, eventually all UP districts will have evolved sub-centres. “A sum of Rs 7 lakh per sub-centre is being spent to start these centres. Each centre has been allocated a sum of Rs 7 lakh for this purpose,” it said, adding that centre will also work towards prevention of lifestyle diseases and spread awareness on all kinds of vector borne diseases. Officials at NHM said wellness centres will have facilities to diagnose 12 types of non-communicable diseases and they would be then treated. Once identified, patients would be referred to the larger centres for management. The larger plan includes appointment of community health officers as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wellness-centres-to-host-yoga-classes-twice-a-week/articleshow/79071043.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: 575 students positive since schools reopened in AP||VIJAYAWADA: Despite following strict Covid-19 guidelines, 575 students have tested positive since schools reopened in Andhra Pradesh on November 2. As of now only students of classes 9-12 are attending school with 16 children per section and one in each bench. Students of classes 6-8 are scheduled to start face-to-face instruction from November 23. Primary sections are scheduled to start their classes from December 14. While the 575 positive cases amount to 0.6% of the 95,736 symptomatic students tested, parents are still a worried lot. “We are scared of sending our children to schools. Though the positivity rate is low among students, poor immunity in children may expose them to the infection. The government should think of an alternative for class work and go online,” said K Revathi, a parent from Gollapudi. Earlier, even before schools began, state government had begun testing teachers as a precautionary measure. Of these, 879 teachers tested positive and they were told not to attend duties once schools reopened on November 2. Health officials had tested 70,790 teachers and of them 1.17% tested positive for Covid-19. “We are focussed on the safety of students. All teachers working in government schools underwent Covid-19 tests. Teachers who tested positive are under treatment now. They didn’t attend class work. There is no chance of spread of the virus to students and other teachers through them,” said Krishna district DEO Rajya Lakshmi. Teachers’ associations, however, expressed concern over the incidents in Chittoor and Prakasam districts where the number of positive cases are high. “Around 150 teachers in Chittoor district tested positive. Prakasam has around 80 cases. Testing teachers is a great move and it helped in identifying the disease early,” said APTF state president G Hrudaya Raju even as he pressed for conducting classes in online mode as attendance of students was less than 40%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/575-students-ve-since-schools-reopened-in-ap/articleshow/79071707.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||HC pulls up DIOS, slaps Rs 50k fine for not clearing dues||Lucknow: Pulling up the district inspector of schools (DIOS ), Lucknow, Mukesh Kumar Singh for dilly-dallying in making payment to a government employee for two years despite its directions, the high court has imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 upon him and directed that the amount would be paid to the employee. The court said, “It is open for the state to recover the cost from the officials who have been guilty and not having complied with the final judgment of this court, particularly when no stay has been granted in the special appeal or in the review petition which has been filed by the state itself.” A bench of Justice Abdul Moin passed the order on the contempt petition moved by Reetika Puruswani. On her writ petition, the court on November 1, 2018, directed the DIOS, Lucknow to ensure the payment of salary to the petitioner month by month regularly and arrears of salary with effect from December 2013 till the date of passing of the judgment. The time specified for compliance was indicated as two months in the order. When the order was not complied with, the petitioner filed a contempt petition. In contempt proceedings, the court over and again granted time to the DIOS to comply with the order, but nothing was done on pretext of pendency of appeal or revision. However, when the appeal and revision were dismissed, the payment was still not being made on pretext that SLP was moved to the SC. The court found that the SLP was filed too late after the legal opinion was tendered by the law department. Imposing the cost, the court once again granted time to DIOS to comply with the order passed on November 1, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-pulls-up-dios-slaps-rs-50k-fine-for-not-clearing-dues/articleshow/79071049.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Local court pulls up Pratap Nagar cops for seizing Ravan effigy||JAIPUR: Pratap Nagar police, who seized an effigy of Ravan during Dussehra celebrations in the city, got into a legal tangle on Thursday. The cops had banned mass functions and effigy burning during festivities. The station house officer (SHO) of Pratap Nagar police station had then seized the effigy when a group of seven people were spotted planning to burn it. Following this, members of the Pratap Nagar Resident Welfare Association approached the court and sought its intervention. Now, a local court has asked Pratap Nagar police to explain under what law they had seized the effigy. It has asked the SHO to appear before it on Friday. While the police maintained that there were seven people as per the programme and were planning to take action against the organisers under the Disaster Management Act, advocate Vikas Somani, the organiser of the event, refuted the charges. “Police found only four to five people on the spot. So, there is no violation of the law. If the police have confiscated the effigy, under what law was it taken by them,” he asked. Hearing the case, Mahanagar Court No.5 asked the police for clarification and under which law they confiscated the effigy from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/local-court-pulls-up-pratap-nagar-cops-for-seizing-ravan-effigy/articleshow/79071063.cms||Ashish Mehta
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Crores being spent to fix manholes, drains, says Arvind Kumar||Principal secretary of MAUD, Arvind Kumar, answers queries of TOI readers on measures being taken by government to bring Hyderabad back on its feet, after the recent floods Q. Has the government taken any decision to widen nalas as a permanent solution to flooding? —P Mallareddy Occupying areas in the buffer and FTL (Full Tank Level) is not something new and is a result of decades of encroachments. Fifteen teams of engineers visited all 185 lakes in and around Hyderabad post rains and have submitted their report on what needs to be done. Further, MAUD minister K T Rama Rao has directed to set up a dedicated ‘Strategic Nala Development Programme’ to concentrate on all drains/nala/storm water drains to ensure that another flood is avoided in the future. The SNDP will study all major drains and take up measures for unhindered flow of water. The minister is also coordinating with the irrigation department to come up with a strategy to manage lakes within ORR on lines of SNDP. Modalities are being finalised and it will be announced soon. Q. Drainage/water supply manholes are either below or above road level in the city and pose serious threat especially during rains. Why is GHMC not bringing them to road level? —Prasad Rao Ch Buried or raised sewer manholes do pose a threat in terms of safety. While the road is looked after by GHMC, manholes are within the domain of HMWSSB. There are a total of 2,74,000 manholes in the city. HMWSSB constantly takes up a drive aimed at “at-grade flushing” of manholes i.e maintaining the height in sync with road height. A total of 25,000 manholes were taken up for at-grade flushing last year at the cost of Rs 21 crore and another 19,000 manholes are proposed to be taken up now at the cost of Rs 18 crore. As a permanent solution, we propose to synchronise the road laying activity by GHMC wherein the height of manholes is adjusted automatically by the same agency. We also plan to shift the water and sewer lines to the right of way, margins whenever road widening is proposed. Q. Please bring back to life the lake/ tank in R K Puram, Malkajigiri with proper inlets and outlets. Also, please initiate desilting and removal of encroachments from Safilguda lake.—Shekar Reddy There are no major encroachments in inlets and outlets to the lake though there are some encroachments towards Bhagath Singh Nagar and Bank Colony. The lake restoration is taken up under Mission Kakatiya Phase-IV with an estimated cost of Rs 11.80 crore. The de-siltation of the lake has been completed. To prevent further encroachments, the ring bund has been formed around the lake. Removal of water hyacinth is being taken up periodically to improve the lake’s ecosystem. Further, the recently constituted SNDP has been mandated to study the R K Puram lake and suggest measures to ensure it has proper inlets from the catchment area. Improvements will be seen before next monsoon. Q. What is the solution to Hyderabad’s drainage issues? —Ajith Nair With a capacity of 772 MLD, HMWSSB treats about 37% of drinking water in Hyderabad which is among the highest in the country. It has a network of 25 Sewerage Treatment Plants across the city. To augment its capacity, Shaha Technical Consultants have prepared a comprehensive Sewerage Master Plan for Hyderabad which envisages construction of 63 STPs and laying of 8,500 km of sewerage network. In order to have a comprehensive Drain Management Network, a committee of three chief engineers has prepared a report proposing a drain network of about 45 kms at a cost of Rs 600 crore. The SNDP shall ensure free flow of water in nalas duly undertaking removal of encroachments and relief and rehabilitation wherever required. Q. The SCB has completely failed to maintain stormwater and drainage lines in the area or provide sufficient drinking water to people. Why is the state not merging SCB with GHMC for betterment of people? —Malla Surender Kumar SCB is one of the 62 cantonment boards in India and is governed by the Cantonments Act, 2006. It has a democratically elected body which manages the civic issues. Further, the state government allots finances from the Finance Commission Grants to SCB to undertake civic infrastructure. The merger of SEB with GHMC may not be feasible since the Cantonment area is under the purview of the Ministry of Defence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crores-being-spent-to-fix-manholes-drains/articleshow/79069569.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops arrest two directors of Amrapali group in cheating cases||NEW DELHI: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police on Thursday said it has arrested two directors of Amrapali Group in two more cases of cheating. According to police, the first case in which the two directors — 56-year-old Anil Kumar Sharma, a resident of Maharani Bagh, and Shiv Priya, 46, from Noida — were arrested was registered last year on the complaint of Ashok Gupta, who alleged that he had booked two flats in a project of Amrapali Centurian Park Pvt Ltd, a company of Amrapali Group, in Techzone-IV, Greater Noida, but was not given possession even after making full payment. Joint commissioner of police (EOW) OP Mishra said during inquiry, 168 more complaints with similar allegations were received against the alleged persons. “In the second case, that was registered in 2018, another complainant alleged that Amrapali Smart City Developers Pvt Ltd had launched its project Amrapali Golf Homes in Greater Noida and possession was expected in 2014, which was not goven even after payment of Rs 17.47 lakh,” Mishra said. He said, the two accused are, at present, already lodged in jail in another case registered against them. “After obtaining permission from court, our team interrogated and formally arrested the accused both Sharma and Priya in these two cases also,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cops-arrest-two-directors-of-amrapali-group-in-cheating-cases/articleshow/79069635.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Metro phase II & EBRTS expansion plans on track||HYDERABAD: Expansion plans of Metro phase II and Elevated Bus Rapid Transit System (EBRTS) appear to be on track as a team of officials will soon be inspecting the proposed corridors. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar, during the Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) and Hyderabad Airport Metro Limited (HAML) Board meeting recently, instructed a team of senior officials, including principal secretaries of MA&UD, Roads and Buildings, IT&C, Finance and HMRL MD to jointly inspect all the important traffic corridors of the city to develop a comprehensive traffic and transportation plan. The chief secretary, who is the chairman of HMRL and HAML, wanted the team to make recommendations and submit the plan to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. This will facilitate in the CM deciding the prioritization of corridors. HMRL managing director NVS Reddy said, “The Elevated BRTS from KPHB to Financial district, the two proposed Metro Phase II corridors, 18 kms EBRTS Corridors, ORR, Musi River project, the internal ring road on the eastern side of the city etc will be inspected and the report will be submitted to the state government.” The Phase II plans include operating Metro on BHEL-Miyapur corridor, Hafeezpet, Kondapur, Gachibowli, Rethibowli, Mehdipatnam, Masab Tank and Lakdikapul covering 31 kms. Towards the airport, a corridor is being planned from Raidurg to the airport via Nanakramguda, covering 31 kms. The authorities also reviewed metro rail operations after resumption of services post Covid-19 restrictions were lifted. The HMRL Board also approved appointment of AECOM India Private Limited and AECOM Singapore Private Limited as the independent engineer for reviewing and monitoring the Metro rail operations for the next five years with a contract value of Rs 6.94 crore. Meanwhile, the metro rail patronage increased from 30,000 to 1,30,000 within two months after the services resumed post Covid-19 restrictions were lifted in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/metro-phase-ii-ebrts-expansion-plans-on-track/articleshow/79069654.cms||Moulika.KV
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||45,000 gram sabhas in UP to be linked with high-speed Internet||LUCKNOW: To assist students living in far flung areas, with little or no access to the internet because of which they have been facing major difficulties in online education necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic, UP government has announced that it will connect 45,000 gram sabhas with high speed internet over the next five months. Not only will students finally get access to online classrooms, they will also be able to benefit from the digital library started by the UP government and will be able to download content easily, said an official. UP has 16 state universities, 27 private universities and one deemed university. Other than this, there are 7,183 colleges, including 170 of the governments. There are 41,83,992 students studying in these. With 70% of India’s population living in villages, at least 60% of students can be presumed to be staying in villages and will be benefited hugely from the internet services. In the first phase of the National Broadband Mission, the government will provide high speed internet to 45,000 gram panchayats in 620 blocks by March 2021. Vice Chancellor of UP Technical Education, Professor Vinay Kumar Pathak said that about 65% of students enrolled in his university are from rural areas. The broadband scheme will remove the problems which students are currently facing in accessing online content. The scheme will also help in accessing UP government’s online library, started recently by deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma. This library has content provided by about 1,700 teachers from 23 state universities on science, commerce and other subjects. More than 53,000 documents are available on it and can be downloaded for free by students. However, due to low speed internet of the absence of it from various parts of the state, several students had not been able to take advantage of the resources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/45000-gram-sabhas-in-state-to-be-linked-with-high-speed-internet/articleshow/79071064.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Visitors to popular tourist attractions in Rajasthan up 50% in October||JAIPUR: The number of tourists visiting museums and monuments in Jaipur has risen 50% in October compared to September. But the growth in footfalls at tourist landmarks in the rest of Rajasthan has only increased marginally. According to senior tourist officials, most of the visitors were local people and footfalls were higher compared to other locations as Jaipur is the most happening place in the state. In October, eight monuments in Pink City, including the most popular Amber Fort, Jantar Mantar, Hawa Mahal, Albert Hall and Nahargarh, received 85,390 tourists against 56,931 in September, higher by 28,459 visitors. Since these eight tourist spots opened on June 1 after the lockdown was lifted, they have received 2.11 lakh visitors, collectively and cumulatively. Mugdha Sinha, secretary (art and culture), said, “Our footfalls are increasing month-on-month even in these difficult times as monuments continue to serve as a safe option for unwinding.” “A visit to these places can always refresh, entertain and heal people,” Sinha added. On the other hand, 28 state monuments, museums, other locations of tourist interest in Rajasthan, excluding Jaipur, have received only 29,378 visitors in October, an increase of 1,474 tourists compared to 27,904 in September. Collectively, all of them have been visited by 82,343 people since June 1. Commenting on the higher number of visitors at Jaipur’s monuments and museums, Pankaj Dharendra, superintendent of Amber Fort, said the activity levels in Jaipur were higher than any other city in the state. “First, the monuments in Jaipur are very popular. Also, it’s a city which has a lot of floating population and is keen to go to these spots. Being the capital of the state, it has certain advantages which other locations don’t have,” he said. Of the total 2.93 lakh tourists since June 1, most of them were local. Senior officials at other monuments said that the pick up in domestic tourism would give a boost to these numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/visitors-to-popular-tourist-attractions-up-50-in-oct/articleshow/79071065.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Maoists were planning attack on Aralam police station: Cops||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: While debate rages over the genuineness of the alleged circumstances in which the Maoist encounter in Wayanad took place, it has come to the fore that two weeks ago, the police had received an intelligence alert on an attack by Maoists on Aralam police station in Kannur on the first anniversary of the encounter in Attappadi, in which three Maoists were killed. Aralam police station is close to Wayanad and to the forests near Karnataka border, where several Maoist sightings have been reported in the past. On receiving the intelligence input, the police station was fortified with multiple sentry posts, surveillance cameras and more than 10 members of the anti-Naxal force. In addition, another team of commandos have been watching over the Aralam farm in frequent intervals. Though Aralam is around 80km away from Padinjarathara in Wayanad, where Tuesday’s encounter took place, the distance is much shorter through the forest. According to police, Velmurugan, the Maoist who was shot dead in Padinjarethara encounter, was a senior member of the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA), which is operating in the forests bordering Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. As per information compiled on Velmurugan alias Azad by the special task force, Sathyamangalam, Erode, he was engaged in arms training and recruiting tribespeople. He was pursuing bachelor’s degree in Law at a college in Madurai, but discontinued his education in 2007 during the second year of the course. As per the details shared by Tamil Nadu to the state, his associates include Vikram Gowda, John alias Jeyanna, Soman, C P Moideen, Sundari Santhosh, Sreemathi, Unnimaya and Chandhu. He was first named in an arms extortion case registered in Odisha. There are several cases registered against Velmurugan in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The state police have registered as many as 15 cases against Velmurugan in the state, including seven in Wayanad and two each in Kannur, Kozhikode, Palakkad and Malappuram districts. The thunderbolt team and the ANF from the state police have intensified combing operations in the Kerala side of the forests near Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, especially in the wake of upcoming local body elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/maoists-were-planning-attack-on-aralam-police-station-cops/articleshow/79068275.cms||KP Saikiran
November 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Six-year-old girl raped in Kozhikode||KOZHIKODE: A six-year-old girl was allegedly raped at Ekarool in Unnikulam panchayat late Wednesday night. The girl, who was initially admitted to the Thamarassery taluk hospital following profuse bleeding, was later shifted to the Kozhikode Government Medical College. Police said that the girl who was subjected to a surgery on Thursday was now stable. The girl’s parents hail from Nepal and have been working in a quarry in the area and lived in a rented house where the incident occurred. Balussery police said that a case has been registered under section IPC 376 and relevant sections of the Pocso Act in connection with the incident. Police said that the incident took place at around 10pm on Wednesday night when the girl’s parents were not present in the house. According to the police, the girl’s mother had gone to a nearby house in the night and the father had gone out to fetch her back, leaving the girl and her two younger brothers, one aged three-and-half years and the other one-and-half years old, in the house. According to the father’s statement to the police, when he came back home he saw the children crying, and the girl was taken to the hospital. Thamarassery DSP E P Pritviraj said that investigation was on and no arrest has been made so far. District police chief (Kozhikode rural) B Srinivas visited the area as part of the probe. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/six-year-old-girl-raped-in-koz/articleshow/79068306.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Bareilly||Class X boy, 14, found murdered with his throat slit, blood-stained knife found 200 metres away||Bareilly: A 14-year-old Class X boy was found murdered with his throat slit in a desolated field in Jalalpur village under Kundarki police station in Moradabad on Thursday morning. Police said they recovered a blood-stained knife 200 metres away from the body. After spotting the body, locals alerted police, who along with a forensic team and a dog squad rushed to the spot and launched an investigation. Later, police sent the body for a postmortem examination. Police said the victim, Sher Mohammad, a resident of Dhakiya, had gone missing on Wednesday. Moradabad SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary said, “It appears the boy was murdered due to personal enmity.” Moradabad’s Kundarki police station SHO Prem Pal Singh told TOI, “Locals informed police about the body, following which police rushed to the spot and found the boy’s body lying in a pool of blood with his throat slit. During the investigation, a blood-stained knife was found around 200 metres away from the body.” “After the boy went missing on Wednesday, his family was looking for him. We are gathering details on the family’s rivalry/dispute with anyone. Meanwhile, an FIR was registered against unidentified accused under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC," added the SHO. The victim’s father, Mustaqeem, a labourer, said his son was learning repairing electronics objects and had been working at a television repair shop in Kundarki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/class-x-boy-14-found-murdered-with-his-throat-slit-blood-stained-knife-found-200-metres-away/articleshow/79064168.cms||Maria Khan
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||With parties’ efforts, more voters enrol for graduates’ MLC election||Hyderabad: The number of people registered to vote in the MLC graduate constituency elections has increased this time around, according to officials. With only a day to go for voter registrations to end, all political parties have stepped up their efforts for getting people to enrol. Nearly 3.9 lakh voters have registered so far in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Mahbubnagar constituency, as against to 2.7 lakh registrations last time. The trend is similar in Warangal, Nalgonda, Khammam constituency too, with 4.2 lakh voters having registered. The last time, 3 lakh people had registered for voting. “We are anticipating that another 50,000 people will register on Friday. This has been possible this time because online registration has been facilitated,” said N Ramachander Rao, BJP candidate for Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Mahbubnagar. All the political parties had taken up detailed social media campaigns, encouraging graduates to enroll themselves as voters. TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy had taken to Twitter to appeal to the graduates. The increased number of registrations has also been attributed to the fact that many aspirants contesting the polls have also taken a keen interest in it. Along with the three main parties TRS, BJP and Congress TJS, CPI, CPM, TDP, Yuva Telangana Party and other individuals like professor Nageswar are likely to test their luck in the polls. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-parties-efforts-more-voters-enrol-for-graduates-mlc-election/articleshow/79069672.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 6, 2020||Business||‘Vaccine development got delayed by 4 months’||Hyderabad: Even as vaccine makers around the world are racing the clock to build a safe Covid-19 vaccine, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Krishna Ella said the vaccine development work in India got delayed by three to four months due to the delay caused by Chinese players in disclosing the virus-related data. “.. the only thing is we got delayed during the pandemic because the Chinese disclosed the sequence data of Covid-19 very late and by the time they announced it, all the transportation and logistics was shut down and we could not get any reagents and supplies from anywhere in the world… so that delayed (the work) by three to four months,” Ella said during a panel discussion during the HYSEA Annual Summit. He also added that during the lockdown, the transportation of employees also turned out to be a major challenge for pharma players. He pointed out that Indian vaccine players are going to play a crucial role in manufacturing as there are a limited number of vaccine manufacturers in US and Europe. “In India, we have three or four players…We have highly focussed developing and manufacturing companies in India and far ahead of any other country, even the US and Europe,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vaccine-development-got-delayed-by-4-months/articleshow/79069668.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Min: Divide Sectt project into 6 parts||Hyderabad: Roads and Buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy, in a review meeting on Thursday, instructed officials and agencies concerned to divide the secretariat construction project into six parts to complete it within 12 months. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-divide-sectt-project-into-6-parts/articleshow/79069693.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CPI condemns Maoist encounter at Wayanad||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CPI state council condemned the killing of Maoist Velmurugan by thunderbolt commandos in Wayanad on Tuesday. “The killing of a man in the guise of encounter is not a suitable act in a developed society,” stated a resolution passed by the CPI council. CPI had taken a similar stand during the previous three encounter killings of Maoists that happened after the LDF government assumed office in 2016. It expressed doubts over the functioning of Thunderbolt division and said activities of the elite force amounted to gross violation of human rights. “It is a known fact that there is no major threat from Maoists in Kerala. The camping of Thunderbolt commandos in our forest and their serial murders can’t be recognized. It is extreme injustice and gross human rights violation to maintain Thunderbolt division to deal with Maoists while Kerala police have a well-built system to identify and deal with law and order issues,” the resolution noted. CPI asked the government to order a magisterial probe in the Wayanad incident and submit a report in a time-bound manner. “The practice is that magisterial probes in such encounters aren’t conducted seriously. It is improper that investigation reports of previous probes aren’t published even after months and years,” said the resolution. Explaining that CPI doesn’t approve the style adopted by Maoists, the resolution said the Naxalite movement in Kerala was rooted out not because of police action. It happened as people detested their ways. Reacting to the CPI resolution, CM Pinarayi Vijayan said the government didn’t think that Maoists must be killed. “What happened in Wayanad was an encounter between Maoists and Thunderbolt commandos who were on a routine inspection. The commandos fired in self-defence. The deceased Maoist is an accused in a police station attack case in Odisha and another arms training case in Tamil Nadu. A 0.303 rifle was also found near his body,” Vijayan said, adding that surveillance was beefed up in northern districts following an intelligence report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpi-condemns-maoist-encounter-at-wayanad/articleshow/79068298.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Tribal woman raped & killed; 3 arrested||Hyderabad: A 30-year-old tribal woman was gang-raped and she subsequently died in a room in an agricultural field in Kollur in Sangareddy district. Though the incident happened late on Tuesday night, it came to light on Thursday with the arrest of three persons for their alleged role in the gang-rape and murder of the woman, a widow. According to the police, the woman died because she was made to drink excessive amounts of liquor and also because she was raped repeatedly. Police are questioning the accused — a security guard and two real estate agents — after the body of the woman was found at the agricultural field. The victim and the accused all hail from Kollur. The security guard was an acquaintance of the woman. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim’s mother, police registered a case for kidnap, gang-rape and murder against the three arrested persons. The trio picked up the victim from her mother’s house at Miyapur on Tuesday. “Though the accused had no intention to kill her, she died after the incident. All three accused were drunk when the incident occurred,’’ a cop said. “On Tuesday night, the victim was taken by the trio and made to consume liquor. When she was in an inebriated condition, they raped her and that led to her death. There were no external injuries. The accused left the victim at the room after she fell unconscious,’’ RC Puram inspector P Jagadeesh said. The post-mortem was done on Wednesday. On the basis of the information given by the victim’s family and with the help of CCTV footage, police arrested the trio from Kollur on Thursday. RC Puram police might produce the accused before a magistrate on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribal-woman-raped-killed-3-arrested/articleshow/79071834.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||1st phase of upgraded elephant centre in Kottur to be commissioned in February||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The first phase of the upgraded elephant rehabilitation centre at Kottur will be commissioned in February next year. The project is being implemented at a cost of Rs 108 crore with funding from KIIFB. Once fully upgraded, it will become the largest care and cure centre for elephants in the world. The centre has facilities to accommodate 50 elephants including the existing 16 elephants. The existing centre is being upgraded to international standards as part of the government’s special consideration for the protection and conservation of elephants. A fund of Rs 71.9 crore was spent on the construction work of the first phase of the project that began in 2019. As many as 50 elephant habitats (enclosures), specially enclosed by steel poles and steel nets, to house elephants in their natural habitat on 176 hectares of forest land in the Kottur forest area, will be built in the centre. Out of these, 35 will be completed in the first phase and the rest in the second phase. The project, built by the Housing Board, will also include the construction of various reservoirs and check dams at the Neyyar Dam and also special facilities for the care of elephant calves. The aim of the new centre is to give the elephants that are brought to the rehabilitation centre a natural ecosystem just like in the forest. The centre will also have an elephant museum, a veterinary hospital with super speciality facilities, a study and research centre for nature lovers and students, a training centre for mahouts, an entrance plaza, an administrative office, parking for visitors, a cafeteria, cottages, a toilet block and a special elephant viewing facility. A post-mortem facility and a cemetery are also being set up as part of the project. A large kitchen for cooking food for the elephants, a spacious area for feeding them and a facility for the public to view the elephants at a safe distance are being set up. The project envisages a large convention centre and an amphitheatre at Kottur. A unit for making paper from elephant dung and a system for producing biogas from waste will be set up here. Special facilities will be provided for collection and disposal of solid waste, including non-recyclable plastics. A liquid waste treatment plant is also part of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/1st-phase-of-upgraded-elephant-centre-to-be-commissioned-in-feb/articleshow/79072257.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Largescale mulberry plantation to boost silk production in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: To increase silk production in Uttar Pradesh, chief secretary RK Tiwari has directed officials to take up mulberry (shahtoot) plantation. During a review of GI products in the state, especially Varanasi’s silk and its export, he said that there was a need to increase silk production in UP for which mulberry plantation should be taken up at a large scale in collaboration with the forest department and MNREGS. The plantation should be started in districts with high silk production. He also said that a calendar should be drawn up for training and skill development in GI products. “A raw material bank should be set up to ensure that artisans and workers get access to good quality raw material,” he added. Stressing on the need for branding of GI products in the light of a rise in their demand in international market, Tiwari said “government departments concerned should coordinate with organisations like EPCH and FICCI to organise ODOP exhibitions. Tiwari instructed the Varanasi divisional commissioner to prepare a proposal to provide subsidy to handloom weavers, as is being provided to powerloom weavers. Additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said that divisional level committees had been set up for branding and marketing of GI products. Another empowered committee has been set up under the chairpersonship of the export commissioner to review GI products and about 28 crafts and products have been listed in the GI registry. He added that training of artisans was being done and after November 15 training would start for glass beads, wooden lacquer wear and soft stone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/largescale-mulberry-plantation-to-boost-silk-production-in-state/articleshow/79071069.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Bank field officer among 3 booked for forgery||PILIBHIT: Three people, including the field officer of Canara Bank’s Pilibhit city branch and its security guard, were booked on Wednesday evening for their alleged involvement in withdrawing Rs 2 lakh from an overdraft account that had been closed. The trio was booked on the orders of the chief judicial magistrate. According to complainant Saraswati Devi of Purwa Bhoora village, under Neuria police station, she had two accounts with Canara Bank-- a KCC (Kisan credit card) limit account and the other, Kisan overdraft limit account. On September 1, she had deposited a sum of Rs 1.81 lakh to her overdraft account as full and final payment of what she owed and asked bank officials to close her overdraft account, said Saraswati Devi. The bank officials made her sign a number of documents, saying it was the required process. To her surprise, she received a message on her mobile phone on September 2, "confirming" the withdrawal of Rs 2 lakh from the overdraft account she had closed the previous day, she said. She filed a written complaint at Pilibhit Kotwali police station in addition to one with the superintendent of police, but to no avail. Then she moved court. A Canara Bank official, Shailendra Singh, said the overdraft account of Saraswati Devi was renewed on her request. However, he could not explain why a customer would close an account and renew it the next day. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said the field officer, the security guard and one more unidentified person were booked under IPC section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing the delivery of property), and 406 (criminal breach of trust).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bank-field-officer-among-3-booked-for-forgery/articleshow/79065031.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Former MP lashes out at govt’s failure to tackle pandemic||MYSURU: Former Chamarajanagar MP R Dhruvanarayan, also the president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee’s ‘Arogya Harsha’ - an outreach programme launched by the state Congress – on Thursday lashed out at the BJP government for failing to check the spread of the pandemic. “The inaction by various departments of the state government – health and family welfare, medical education among others – in controlling the transmission of the novel coronavirus is deplorable. Consequently, the number of Covid-19 cases is spiralling upwards,” said Dhruvanarayana, who distributed Arogya Hasta bonds to party workers in the Varuna assembly constituency. The former Chamarajanagar MP charged the government with indulging in corruption. “The government did not do enough to protect the life of the residents. Nearly Rs 2,000 crore has been swindled in the government’s battle against the pandemic,” he said. Dhruvanarayana also urged the government to defer reopening of schools till January, pointing to the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in countries where most restrictions had been lifted. “Winter has set in and it is highly probable that cases may surge here too. It would be better for the government to direct the schools to reopen in January 2021,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/former-mp-lashes-out-at-govts-failure-to-tackle-pandemic/articleshow/79067719.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Stubble burning: Over 1,100 FIRs lodged, 2k booked in UP||LUCKNOW: UP Police has initiated strict measures to curb air pollution and lodged 1,165 FIRs for stubble burning against over 2,000 people this season. As the air quality has been deteriorating sharply, 144 FIRs were lodged in different districts in the last 24 hours for stubble burning. DGP HC Awasthy has given strict directions to district police chiefs to stop air pollution, by spreading awareness against stubble burning and for proper disposal of crop residue by involving village committees and gram pradhans. “Lack of information on the perils of garbage burning is also causing air pollution for which awareness must be spread in coordination with other departments and those not violating rules must be booked,” DGP said. In the last 24 hours, police lodged 15 FIRs in Balrampur, eight in Bahraich and Kushinagar, seven each in Aligarh, Basti, and Hardoi, and six each in Rampur, Shahjahanpur, Sidharthnagar among others. On Tuesday, six persons were arrested in Saharanpur for burning stubble. Senior officials at UP DGP headquarters said additional chief secretary agriculture had informed the DGP that in spite of repeated instructions stubble burning cases are not coming down. ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar said the SC is monitoring the situation and district police chiefs have been asked to ensure guidelines of curbing stubble burning are followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stubble-burning-over-1100-firs-lodged-2k-booked/articleshow/79071079.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Vadodara||Three fake cops dupe woman of her gold bangles||VADODARA: An elderly woman lost her gold bangles worth Rs 1.8 lakh to three men posing as cops in Dabhoi town on Wednesday. As per case details, one of the three imposters stopped 72-year-old Shakuntala Shah while she was returning home from a bank. The man told Shah that his senior officer has called her to the main road and when she went, the other man posing as the senior officer, told her to remove her gold bangles and keep it in her bag. The duo introduced themselves as cops in civil dress. Shah removed two bangles and kept it in her bag but could not remove two other bangles. The third accused took her bag to apply an oily substance on her wrist and removed the other two bangles as well. However, he didn’t return Shah her bag, but gave her a packet. As Shah became suspicious, she opened the packet in front of them and found two bangles that were not hers. When the three accused realized that their bluff was called, two of them fled from there on a bike while the third one disappeared in the crowd. Shah shouted to catch hold of them, but the trio had escaped by then. She lodged a complaint of cheating at Dabhoi police station on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-fake-cops-dupe-woman-of-her-gold-bangles/articleshow/79067779.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sree Narayana Guru open university to start offering courses from March||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The newly-set up Sree Narayana Guru open university is gearing up to start offering courses from March 2021. The university authorities have submitted to the University Grants Commission (UGC) the mandatory application as per the 2F provision in the UGC regulations for enlisting Sree Narayana Guru Open University as one among the state universities. “Course registration in open universities in the country takes place twice a year. State government has the authority for setting up and operationalize a university and the approvals of other bodies such as UGC can be obtained only after it starts functioning. Registration of courses in the open university would start next March,” Narayana Guru open university authorities said. The university had run into trouble soon after its formation: first over selection of candidates to key posts and then over fears that government’s decision to begin university operations without adequate facilities, preparations and UGC approvals, would affect students’ prospects. The matter was hauled to the high court, forcing state government to give tacit approval to Kerala University and Calicut University to offer distance education courses. KU invited applications for admission for distance education courses, but CU is yet to get nod from UGC to offer distance education courses this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sn-open-university-to-start-offering-courses-from-march/articleshow/79047926.cms||B S Anilkumar
November 6, 2020||Patna||Trader’s son shot dead in Bhagalpur, Rs 25 lakh looted||PATNA: Criminals shot dead a fertiliser trader’s minor son and looted Rs 25 lakh from him near Bhawnathpur Bagicha under the Akbar Nagar police station area in Bhagalpur on Thursday. DSP (law and order) Neshar Ahmed Shah said the victim was identified as Shivam Kumar (17), a resident of Khaira village under the Akbar Nagar police station area. His father Anuj Deo Singh owns a wholesale fertiliser shop. Shah said four motorcycle-borne criminals intercepted Shivam when he was on way to a Canara Bank branch to deposit the cash around 1pm. “Shivam was riding a bike with another fertiliser trader, Aman Kumar, when the incident occurred. The boy put up a strong resistance when the criminals intercepted him. He threw the bag containing cash to a roadside ditch and got involved in a scuffle with the criminals. The criminals then shot him and fled with the money,” the DSP said. He added a loaded magazine of a country-made pistol was recovered from the spot. “A bundle containing Rs 50,000 was also recovered from the ditch. Aman, who was riding pillion to Shivam, escaped unhurt,” he said. The DSP said police have registered an FIR against unknown criminals on the basis of the statement of Shivam’s father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/traders-son-shot-dead-in-bhagalpur-rs-25-lakh-looted/articleshow/79070629.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: LBS invites application for nursing course||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: LBS Centre for science and technology has invited applications for admissions to post basic diploma in speciality nursing courses offered in Kottayam and Kannur government nursing colleges. For admission to the course, desirous candidates may submit online applications to LBS Centre director through www.lbscentre.kerala.gov.in from November 6 to 24. Application fee for general category is Rs 800 and Rs 400 for SC/ST candidates. Fees can be remitted online or through any Federal Bank branch. Applicants should have studied physics, chemistry and biology for Plus Two course. Age limit for admission is 45. Entrance test for admission to the course would be held on November 28 at the LBS headquarters at Palayam here. For more details, contact 0471-2560363, 364. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lbs-invites-application-for-nursing-course/articleshow/79068350.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Special Pocso court opens in Gadwal||Hyderabad: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court to try cases of crimes against women and children was set up in Jogulamba Gadwal district on Thursday. The court was inaugurated at the Revenue Divisional Office (RDO) premises by High Court Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan through digital mode. Speaking on the occasion, the chief justice said Pocso fast track courts, which were set up, had speeded up the justice system to punish the guilty. As many as 6,500 cases were pending in the country on such matters and 97 in Jogulamba Gadwal district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/special-pocso-court-opens-in-gadwal/articleshow/79069716.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 6, 2020||Hubballi||Kannada Kavyotsava: Non-inclusion of Mulsim writers in lit event triggers row||HUBBALLI: As part of Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations, Kannada Sahitya Academy (KSA, Bengaluru) is holding a monthlong Kannada Kavyotsava programme from November 1 to 30, and the same is being streamed on Facebook and YouTube. KSA has invited around 30 writers to speak on Kannada poets of yore. However, the alleged non-inclusion of Muslim writers in the programme has upset many Muslim Kannada writers and non-Muslim progressive writers. Kaleem Basha, writer and a retired Kannada subject inspector in the education department, said he had approached a KSA executive member over the same. “We were told that the lecture series is on ancient Kannada poets, a topic in which Muslim writers are hardly thorough. We argued that there are many Muslim writers who are capable of giving lectures on any ancient poet. Then he suggested that we contact the academy president,” he said, adding the non-inclusion of Muslim writers in mainstream literary activities is deliberate. Senior poetess Dr K Sharifa said that academies run on public exchequer, which is enriched by the people of all religions and castes. “We wonder why a particular community is being kept out of the academy’s programmes and activities,” she asked. Panditaradhya Maisuru, former Kannada professor at the University of Mysore, regretted the development, saying literature and culture are being politicised of late. “Efforts to suppress other religions and opinions have become a new normal,” he rued. Academy president B V Vasanth Kumar said there has been no discrimination between Muslim and non-Muslim writers. “All are Kannada writers, and we want to organise programmes by inviting scholars who are an authority over Kannada works. We have not come across any objection by Muslim or non-Muslim writers over Kavyotsava. We welcome constructive suggestions from one and all. Opposing anything for the heck of it will not improve the health of any academy or organisation."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kannada-kavyotsava-non-inclusion-of-mulsim-writers-in-lit-event-triggers-row/articleshow/79067692.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Trains display map of proposed Metro lines, move draws ridicule online||BENGALURU: Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) on Thursday faced embarrassment on social media after it displayed a map of yet-to-be operational corridors, including one which is still on the drawing board, inside trains. Normally, Metro operators paste the static route map of only operational lines in coaches. However, BMRCL, which is known for missing deadlines and construction delays, put up a map of several upcoming corridors in many trains running on Green Line (Nagasandra-Yelachenahalli). The map included the proposed 30km JP Nagar-Hebbal corridor (Orange Line), the DPR for which is not even ready. In 2020-21, chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced that Outer Ring Road-West Metro (JP Nagar-Hebbal) will be built under public-private partnership. The Metro Rail Guy, a blogger who keeps track of Metro projects across the country, tweeted: “This is bizarre since operations (of Orange Line) are at least 7+ years away from starting...This will be highly confusing to both existing and new riders...The Metro line is easily 7+ years, if not 10+ years away from becoming commercially operational and prior to that it has many hoops to jump through before construction on it can even start.” “Perhaps, BMRCL is trying to future-proof their trains to save some money? Or perhaps they’re trying to generate rider interest/buzz? If the latter is the case, then I would have preferred displaying a large future network map at key stations, just like how the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has done in the past,” he added. The map also had five stations which is set to open soon — Konanakunte Cross, Doddakallasandra, Vajarahalli, Talghattapura and Anjanapura — on the 6.2km Yelachenahalli-Anjanapura section. This corridor missed the November 1 deadline and is likely to be operational by this month-end. It included the 3.7km Nagasandra-Madavara (BIEC) section with three stations (Manjunathanagar, Chikkabidarakallu and Madavara), which is likely to be operational in January 2022. The 18.8km RV Road-Bommasandra line, which will be operational in March 2022, was also displayed. BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth said: “Only the lines under construction will be shown. Orange Line hasn’t been approved yet, so it should not be in any display.” Asked about the Orange Line display, Seth said: “It was a mistake.” The ORR-West Metro corridor from Central Silk Board will cover almost the entire ORR and pass through JP Nagar via Kempapura and Hebbal West. BMRCL is yet to get the Centre’s approval for Silk Board-KR Puram-Kempegowda International Airport line. Hanamantagoud wrote on Twitter: “Yes this is hilarious. We dont know whether we will see ORR line in our lifetime. But definitely we will see it on the map. BMRCL is not awarding the contract for ORR line, but waiting for MoHUA permission (sic).” “Hey...whatz wrong in dreaming?? Everyone has a right to dream. BTW, can they include aeroplane pics to show airport metro also (sic)?” read another wisecrack on Twitter. The map also mentioned interchange stations along Green Line like Goraguntepalya (Green and Orange lines), Majestic (Purple and Green lines), RV Road (Green and yellow lines) and JP Nagar (Green and Orange lines).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/trains-display-map-of-proposed-metro-lines-move-draws-ridicule-online/articleshow/79067865.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Amid pandemic, Bangalore University sees higher pass percentage in BCom, BBA||BENGALURU: Amid worries of reach and effectiveness of online classes during the pandemic, Bangalore University (BU) undergraduate results have improved substantially in arts and commerce streams. The exams for final-year students were held in the midst of the raging pandemic during September and October. This is the last batch of undergraduate students of undivided BU, which had over 700 affiliate colleges in five districts. The results were announced over the past week. According to details shared by the varsity, BCom, which has the largest number of students, saw a pass percentage of 82.4%, a 10% jump from last year’s 72.5%. While 40,950 students took the exams this year, 37,000 appeared in 2019. In bachelor of business administration (BBA), the figure witnessed a 6% jump from 2019 to touch 80% this time. In BA, the pass percentage is around 88%, an increase from 84% last year. On the other hand, BSc and BCA results dipped. In BSc, the fall is around 7 percentage points, with 64% students clearing the exam. In BCA, the decline is marginal. Two students couldn’t clear bachelor of vocational education (B Voc), while all had passed last year. Interestingly, more students took the exams this year in all streams except arts. “This proves online classes have been effective and can be considered as a medium to teach in the coming days too. Students had more time to study as they stayed at home and could focus better. There were concerns of rural-urban divide, connectivity and low bandwidth. Yet, we overcame all the challenges and students performed well. In BCom, this could be one of the best results the university has had in recent years,” said BU vice-chancellor KR Venugopal. But many college lecturers said the question papers were not challenging and valuation was liberal. “We noticed very high marks among students. Even average students bagged centums and distinctions. This was strange and could be because the valuators were not strict and were considerate about the circumstances in which the students studied. The question papers were easier when compared to previous years. Either way, it turned out to be for beneficial for students as they may get better opportunities for higher education and job prospects,” said the principal of a college in Bengaluru. However, the VC denied that any such instructions on valuation were given to lecturers. “It’s all about students’ efforts. They were serious about exams and classes. The digital evaluation process also brought in transparency,” he said. “Science is generally tough. There could be other reasons why the results dipped for science and need to be looked into,” he added. The pass percentage in 2019 is much lower when all the even-semester students are considered. For instance, for BCom, it was only 56%. “That’s because first and second-year students are not as serious as final-year students. It’s mostly the first and second-year students who pull down the pass percentage,” said the VC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/amid-pandemic-bu-sees-higher-pass-percentage-in-bcom-bba/articleshow/79067815.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
November 6, 2020||Delhi||14-year-old stabbed to death by man for refusing to get snacks in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 14-year-old boy was stabbed to death by a man in Madanpur Khadar on Wednesday night for allegedly refusing to get him snacks while he was consuming alcohol along with friends. The man has been arrested. Police received a call around 4.52pm about a boy being taken to the Apollo hospital and a team from Kalindi Kunj police station left for it. Soon, the hospital also called to inform the cops that a boy named Alkas had been brought dead. The body was preserved in the hospital mortuary and a medical examination revealed multiple stab wounds. A senior officer said an eyewitness had told the cops that the boy, the son of a daily wage labourer, was assaulted by one Shadab alias Pulsar. “It was revealed that the boy was walking by when Shadab, who was consuming alcohol with a few of his friends, had stopped and asked him to bring some snacks for them. When the boy refused, Shadab slapped him. When the boy cried for help, the man stabbed him multiple times,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) R P Meena said a murder case had been registered. “The accused has been arrested following a raid,” Meena said. Police are checking CCTV camera footage to determine if more people were involved. Following the murder, family members and relatives of the boy staged protests in the neighborhood on Thursday and additional forces were deployed in the area to avoid any law and order problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/14-year-old-stabbed-to-death-by-man-for-refusing-to-get-snacks/articleshow/79069707.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu caucus gains ground in US polls||HYDERABAD: It has been a mixed bag for American-Telugus in the US polls this year. Irrespective of the results, the foray of Telugus into politics, community leaders say, heralds a new beginning with people unafraid to contest, campaign and fund-raise so that they are better represented. Candidates with a Telugu link, who made an attempt to the Congress this year included Sri Kulkarni, Hiral Tipirneni and Manga Anantatmula. Kulkarni (Democrat) from Texas and Anantatmula (Republican) from Virginia lost. Tipirneni – whose husband is Telugu – still stands a chance of victory in the Arizona congressional race. Meanwhile, Hyderabad-origin Padma Kuppa was re-elected to the Michigan House of Representatives. “A hotly-contested battle that we were looking at was that of Sara Gideon – whose father is Telugu — for the Senate from Maine,” said Jayanth Challa, a democratic supporter and community leader. Gideon lost to Susan Collins from the Republican party.  “Whether they are directly contesting, fund-raising or just raising awareness, they are definitely more involved,” Challa says, adding that the younger generation is the driving force behind this change. Challa himself has been very active during this election raising funds for the Democratic candidates. Not just Congress, several Telugus are part of or have tried to be part of state governments such as Aruna Miller, Kuppa, Usha Reddi (who is the mayor of Manhattan in Kansas), and Kishan Putta. “In this cycle, approximately 70 Indian Americans are running for various public offices nationwide.” said Vinay Thummalapally, former diplomat. Predicting more Telugus becoming active in government, Adapa Prasad, who has been politically active for the past 30 years, said, “Telugu American community has participated more than ever in 2020 elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-caucus-gains-ground-in-us-polls/articleshow/79069711.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Bareilly||4 Indian softshelled turtles rescued from 3 poachers in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Four Indian softshelled turtles (Nilssonia gangetica), were rescued from three poachers at Nagaria Colony village under Pilibhit's Amaria police station on Wednesday evening by a team of forest and wildlife division. This species of turtle is listed as "vulnerable" and protected under schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Its meat is considered a delicacy and is highly priced. Following a tip-off, the team, headed by sub divisional forest officer (SDO Hemant Kumar Seth, raided a house at the village, rescued the turtles and arrested the poachers. The turtles were released in river Mala in the core Mala forest range of Pilibhit tiger reserve after obtaining permission from the chief judicial magistrate, said Seth.A case has been registered and the poachers have been remanded for 14 days.Pilibhit's wetlands have as many as 12 identified species of turtles, including seven listed in schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act.Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO said the district accounts for a high incidence of poaching and illegal trading of turtles in UP.Seth said the softshelled turtles were caught from a local pond and had been kept in a container. They were to be sold later. “During preliminary interrogation, the poachers divulged some important information about a big turtle trading racket," the SDO added.DFO Kumar said the poachers were booked under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act. The poachers were identified as Vishwanath Bala, Abhishek Bala and Suar Bala, all residents of Nagaria Colony village, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/4-indian-softshelled-turtles-rescued-from-3-poachers-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79065051.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Lawyer brothers jailed after threat to strip SP of his uniform||BALRAMPUR: In a piquant tussle between lawyers and law keepers in Balrampur, replete with conspiracy theories, violent threats and casteist slurs, a district police chief registered an FIR against two lawyer brothers and got them arrested on Thursday. Three days after the lawyer duo publicly threatened to strip Balrampur superintendent of police Dev Ranjan Varma of his uniform outside sadar tehsil office gate, the police officer lodged an FIR against them for plotting to implicate him for murder and defaming him in public. A 2011 batch IPS officer, Varma stated in his FIR lodged at Kotwali Dehat police station that lawyers Mrigendra and Dipendra Upadhyay insulted him in public, incited people to attack him after conspiring to trap him in a fake attempt to murder case at a public meeting on November 2 near the main gate of Balrampur Sadar Tahsil. Talking to TOI, Varma said, “Upadhyay threatened to strip me of my uniform in court and posted these comments on social media platforms, including WhatsApp and YouTube that caused immense trauma and humiliation. Both Upadhyay brothers have been arrested and sent to jail. The FIR was registered under 12 different Sections of IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lawyer-bros-jailed-after-threat-to-strip-sp-of-his-uniform/articleshow/79071089.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 6, 2020||Kochi||M Sivasankar shared govt information with Swapna Suresh: ED||KOCHI: Enforcement directorate (ED), probing the money laundering aspect in the gold smuggling case, on Thursday submitted in court that the WhatsApp chats between Swapna Suresh (A2) and M Sivasankar (A5) –extracted from seized mobiles – showed that he was sharing confidential government information, pertaining to Life Mission and K-FON projects, with her. The report said information was shared with her for the purpose of sharing it with Unitac Builders and Developers Pvt Ltd, which has admitted to having paid huge amounts as kickbacks to Swapna and others. The submission was made in the report, filed at the special court for PMLA cases, seeking custody extension of M Sivasankar, the former principal secretary to the chief minister. ED got the custody of Sivasankar for 6 more days. Sivasankar will be produced in court on next Wednesday and his bail petition will be heard that day. During Thursday’s proceedings, court asked ED how issues related to Life Mission was connected to the gold smuggling case. ED prosecutor submitted that there were monetary connections in both cases. “The way Sivasankar shared confidential information pertaining to government projects indicates that he is part of the shady deal. On the basis of WhatsApp chats, this directorate conducted searches in office and residence premises of the CMD of Pennar Industries Ltd, Hyderabad on 04-11-2020 and recovered incriminating material that needs to be confronted with this accused in Cochin,” said the report. ED said in the document: “Sivasankar, being the principal secretary to the chief minister, was overseeing the execution of many important projects which, inter-alia, include Smart City project, K-FON and Life Mission projects. Investigation showed that Swapna was associated in some way or the other in all three projects and documentary evidence are there to this effect.” ED told the court that this needs to be investigated as a huge amount was passed on by Unitac Builders and Sane Ventures to Swapna and other accused with the active knowledge of Sivasankar. Sources said, ED suspects if there were plans to involve Unitac in K-FON project. Meanwhile, ED also said that Sivasankar, being an experienced senior administrative officer, was using all tactics to mislead the investigation. “Another person Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry – finance head of UAE Consulate and major beneficiary of the kickback received from Unitac Builders –was known to Sivasankar. He tried to mislead the investigation by denying his acquaintance with Khaled. Later, he admitted to have known Khalid. This too must be investigated,” ED said. Meanwhile, the additional chief judicial magistrate court (economic offences) deferred the hearing on an application by Customs to arraign Khaled, a holder of Egyptian passport, as an accused in the case related to illegal export of currency. Court will consider the case on Monday to verify if Khaled was not covered under the immunity provided by Vienna Convention. The court will verify if a non-bailable warrant can be issued in the name of a foreigner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-shared-govt-info-with-swapna-ed/articleshow/79068351.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Delhi||SC reserves ruling on pleas against Central Vista project||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its verdict on a batch of petitions challenging the Centre's decision to construct a new Parliament building, central secretariat as well as office premises for ministries under the Central Vista Plan. On conclusion of the hearing, a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna asked all the parties to file written notes by November 16. The Central Vista Redevelopment Plan involves demolition of around 10 buildings, including Shastri Bhavan, Udyog Bhavan, Krishi Bhavan, Vigyan Bhavan, Vice-President’s House and Lok Nayak Bhavan. It is planned that a common central secretariat complex and a new Parliament building would be constructed. It envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, expected to be constructed by August 2022 when the country will celebrate 75 years of Independence. The common Central Secretariat is likely to be built by 2024.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-reserves-ruling-on-pleas-against-central-vista-project/articleshow/79069740.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Warangal killer googled for sleeping pills||HYDERABAD: Sanjay Kumar Yadav, the man who had drugged and killed nine persons in Warangal earlier this year, had searched for sleeping pills on Google on his phone just before committing the crime. Forensic experts also extracted a screenshot of Ativan 2mg sleeping tablets from the man’s mobile phone. This evidence played a crucial in Sanjay being sentenced to death by a local court last month, a reading of the verdict shows. The killer had in all killed 10 people. He had first killed his live-in partner in March. The rest of the nine killings were committed on May 20 to cover up the first murder and included six members of the live-in partner’s family. He had drugged his victims and thrown them in a well while they were still alive. The forensic team also extracted from the phone photos of a woman victim’s private parts, clicked when she was unconscious. This was apart from a video of Sanjay raping a 16-year-old girl found on his phone. Though witnesses gave statements in the court that Sanjay was well acquainted with the victims, technical and forensic evidence played a key role in proving his guilt, a copy of the verdict that TOI accessed shows. Discovery of the screenshots of Ativan sleeping pills was important as investigators had seized the medication from Sanjay when he was caught. Also, a medical store in Warangal had confirmed that he had purchased four strips of the tablet on May 16 and 18 just before the killings. Analysis of the victims’ viscera samples confirmed that lorazepam drug in Benzodiazepine group of medication, which are used in Ativan, were found in their bodies. The cell phone forensics also extracted the screenshot of “where is my train” app from Sanjay’s phone showing the location near Tadepalligudem in Andhra Pradesh, where he pushed his live-in partner to her death from the moving train. The verdict says that the post-mortem examination report confirmed that the cause of death of the nine victims was asphyxia resulting from ante-mortem drowning associated with ante-mortem Benzodiazepine group of sedative drug poisoning, clearly indicating that the victims were alive when they were pushed into the well by the accused on May 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-killer-googled-for-sleeping-pills/articleshow/79069734.cms||Mahesh Buddi
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress to go all out in GHMC polls to reclaim lost glory||HYDERABAD: Having been reduced to a single digit in GHMC elections in 2016 after having won just two of the total 150 wards and BJP making fresh inroads to emerge as the main opposition party, Congress has decided to take the fight to the enemy in the forthcoming polls to Greater Hyderabad. For starters, the party is going all out to re-establish its connect with the voters. Its decision to give 50% of total seats to BCs is aimed at winning the hearts of the community which comprises 50% of the total population in the city. The party core committee has also decided to approach court seeking enhancement of reservations to BCs from the present 33% to 42% in the GHMC elections. At a meeting, the party decided to launch a legal and political battle for the cause of BCs. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said BCs deserve at least 42% reservation in GHMC polls. “CM KCR is anti-BC. The SC and ST population is less in Greater Hyderabad due to which the total quota of both the communities put together comes to 8% only. In such a case, BC quota can be enhanced up to 42%, including BC-E quota, keeping the overall quota well within the 50% fixed by the Supreme Court,” he said. Uttam called upon the party cadre to immediately get into the election mode. “Tell the voters that KCR has destroyed Greater Hyderabad. His claims of transforming Hyderabad on a par with Dallas and Istanbul fell flat with most of the colonies remaining inundated in rain water for several days and thousands of families being rendered homeless,” Uttam said. Big ticket projects like Metro Rail, international airport, express highway, outer ring road and IT corridor were either brought or developed by previous Congress governments, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-to-go-all-out-in-ghmc-polls-to-reclaim-lost-glory/articleshow/79069727.cms||Roushan Ali
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Govt quietly preparing for power tariff hike: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said that purchase of electronic power meters in Uttar Pradesh involves the biggest scam of the present regime in the state. He said the state government is preparing to increase the power tariff any time after Diwali. In the last three years the government has purchased electronic meters worth Rs 2,000 crore and another 12 lakh smart meters worth Rs 500 crore. There has been a major scam in the two purchases, the SP chief said. He added that the government is quietly preparing to increase the power tariff after Diwali and described power minister Shrikant Sharma’s recent announcement that he would peddle his way to office everyday on a bicycle as a gimmick to distract people from real issues. Lambasting the ruling BJP for the arrest of farmers for stubble burning, Akhilesh said: “Those who are sending poor farmers to jail in the name of stubble burning in the garb of controlling pollution should also tell everyone when will those who are polluting politics will be sent behind bars.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-quietly-preparing-for-power-tariff-hike-akhilesh/articleshow/79071097.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Owaisi reacts to Surjewala’s remark||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday lashed out at Congress after the party general secretary Randeep Surjewala said Owaisi is BJP’s parrot and B- team. Owaisi, in tweet, said: “In Madhya Pradesh 26 Congress MLA’s joined hands with BJP. In Karnataka too there are politicians who took our vote and joined BJP. (sic)” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owaisi-reacts-to-surjewalas-remark/articleshow/79069752.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rs 600 crore sanctioned for 2BHK units in urban areas||HYDERABAD: In a crucial move ahead of GHMC elections, the state government on Thursday gave administrative sanction for Rs 600 crore for the double bedroom housing scheme in urban areas. The latest allocation made by the government includes the Greater Hyderabad area also. This move assumes significance as the ruling TRS has been receiving flak from Congress and BJP for failing to deliver the promise of 2BHK houses in the city. Sources said the allocation could not have come at a better time as the ruling party prepares for the GHMC elections, which are likely to be held in mid January. In the state budget for 2020-21, the government had allotted Rs 3,750 crore for the housing scheme and released Rs 150 crore so far. The fresh budget release order (BRO) of Rs 600 crore takes the total release of funds to Rs 750 crore. The directives issued by the housing department had also mentioned that Telangana State Housing Corporation Limited had requested the state government to release a BRO of Rs 2,850 crore. The BJP has been charging the state government with not sending the list of beneficiaries to the Centre to release its share, while the TRS government alleges that the central government has not released any funds to the state. Recently, minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka were involved in a verbal duel on the number of houses constructed in the city. Later, Vikramarka was taken around some of the houses for the poor by the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-600-crore-sanctioned-for-2bhk-units-in-urban-areas/articleshow/79069746.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Oppn criticizes rights panel’s ‘enthusiasm’||Thiruvananthapuram: KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran criticized the move by child rights commission to rush to the residence of Bineesh Kodiyeri, the son of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, where an enforcement directorate (ED) raid was in progress. “The commission that instantly reached the residence of Bineesh Kodiyeri did not visit Walayar and Palathayi, where children were molested,” he said. Ramachandran alleged that the protest by Bineesh’s family members before his residence was a scripted drama. He said that while it should be probed if there was a human rights violation during ED search, the instant intervention by police and the commission in the case of Balakrishnan’s son was surprising. He claimed there was a move to glorify Bineesh. BJP state president K Surendran said the police move to stop ED officials amounted to challenging the law. In his statement, Surendran said that trying to interfere in the functioning of central agencies, using child rights commission and the police, is nothing but anti-democratic and a violation of federal principles. It is laughable that the commission that had not intervened when several instances of denial of justice happened in the state, he said referring to the case of two minor girls in Walayar, arrived instantly to block the crucial raid at the house of Bineesh. Surendran said that even today (Thursday), there was an instance of a six-year-old child being molested in Kozhikode. In state, there are repeated instances of children being molested. The commission that had not responded in any of these instances, has now come to the rescue when the son of CPM state secretary ended up in a drug case, he added. He claimed that the chief minister is misusing all government machinery to sabotage the probe by central agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/oppn-criticizes-rights-panels-enthusiasm/articleshow/79068369.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Ex-mayor Teegala likely to join BJP||Hyderabad: After the speculation about actress Vijayashanti rejoining the BJP, the latest name doing the rounds is that of TRS leader and former mayor Teegala Krishna Reddy likely to join the saffron party. A senior BJP leader on condition of anonymity said, “It won’t be a surprise if Krishna Reddy joins us. He is a former TDP leader and many from Telangana TDP have joined our party in the recent times,” he said. Sources said after he lost the assembly election in 2018, he was expecting an MLC seat. But, with his rival from the Maheshwaram constituency Sabitha Indra Reddy joining the TRS and later becoming a minister, he lost all hopes. With the TRS leadership not giving him any role, Krishna Reddy was ill at ease in the TRS. There are speculations that he wants to contest the Chevella Lok Sabha seat on a BJP ticket in 2024. A few days ago, state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar said Vijayashanti was ignored by various parties after she worked hard for statehood of Telangana. Though he did not say when she will join the party, speculation is still on about her going back to the saffron party. AICC secretaru in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore met her recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-mayor-teegala-likely-to-join-bjp/articleshow/79069832.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 6, 2020||Chennai||MNM is third front in Tamil Nadu, says Kamal Haasan||CHENNAI: The two-year-old Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) has emerged as the third front in the Dravidian land, its president Kamal Haasan, claimed on Thursday. Pointing out that he would seek the support of his good friend and actor Rajinikanth, the actor-turned-politician said this would be only if the 71-year-old actor did not launch his own party. Asserting that the MNM would be a serious contender in the 2021 polls, vice-president R Mahendran announced that Kamal would kick-start the election campaign on November 26 and 27 in Trichy and Madurai districts and would travel to Coimbatore and Salem districts on December 13 and 14. “The party’s top priority is to weed out corruption,” Kamal Haasan said. “We will invite upright people (politicians) to be part of the party,” he said, adding that he got a lot of positive inputs from functionaries during a recent three-day meeting. The party infrastructure has been strengthened and functionaries in 68,000-odd booths digitally connected. The party is in the process of selecting candidates, he said, asserting that “the voice of MNM” would be heard in the assembly after the polls. He would also be in the fray, he said. Welcoming TN’s decision on the BJP’s Vel Yatra, Kamal said “Vellai (employment) is important now, not Vel”. Despite repeated questions, he refused to be drawn into the row over Manusmriti, saying, “It is not in practice now. So, it's not apt to talk about it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mnm-is-third-front-in-tn-says-kamal-haasan/articleshow/79069736.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: KSRTC to induct 100 more buses, including 8 AC sleepers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As part of reviving the debt-ridden state road transport corporation, the government would infuse Rs 50 crore into KSRTC, exclusively for inducting more modern buses into its fleet. Transport minister A K Saseendran said the infusion of funds, part of the second phase of revival plan, would be used to purchase buses of three different classes and categories. Eyeing interstate travellers, eight sleeper AC buses would be purchased with Rs 10.4crore. KSRTC would be using these vehicles for services between Thiruvananthapuram and Bangalore. Presently, KSRTC doesn’t have own buses on the route. More sleeper buses would be purchased if the services prove to be profitable. Saseendran said 20 premium AC buses would be also purchased with Rs 10.8crore. These buses can also be pressed into interstate service targeting middle class travellers. The corporation also has plans to purchase 72 conventional air suspension buses with Rs 28.8crore, said the minister. Vehicles in this category would be used for express services. More luggage space, GPS tracking system and mobile charging facilities would be ensured in the new buses. Social distancing would be followed in sleeper buses. While Rs 50 crore allocated to KSRTC from the plan fund would be used for this set of purchase, the board had earlier announced its decision to purchase 50 electric buses and 310 CNG buses using KIIFB funding. It has plans to convert 400 conventional buses into CNG engines. VSSC hires KSRTC’s Scania buses As part of state RTC’s efforts to enhance non-ticket revenues, it would rent out four Scania buses to VSSC for taking their staff to Sreeharikota in Andhra Pradesh. VSSC has availed the service of four buses in connection with the launch of satellite PSLVC 49 from Sreeharikota on November 7. KSRTC authorities said the multi-axle buses can be booked by private companies or individuals, including for marriage trips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-to-induct-100-more-buses-including-8-ac-sleepers/articleshow/79068376.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, 35, hacked to death by brother of her late husband after she marries again||Bareilly: A 35-year-old woman was allegedly hacked to death by the brother of her late husband after she married again. Dharamwati was married to Sitaram, who died last year. She recently got married to one Deepak Maurya, but Sitaram’s younger brother Mohanlal was unhappy over the marriage. In the ensuing argument on Wednesday night, Mohanlal hacked Dharamwati a spade, and she died on the spot. Police arrested Mohanlal and booked him for murder. Bareilly SP (crime) Susheel Kumar said, “Apart from the remarriage, there was a dispute over money which led to the incident. The body was handed over to her husband after autopsy. The accused will be sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-35-hacked-to-death-by-brother-of-her-late-husband-after-she-marries-again/articleshow/79065071.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Provide free two-wheeler to woman given HIV +ve blood: Madras high court||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Thursday directed the state government to provide a free two-wheeler to the Sattur woman, who was transfused with HIV positive blood. The court was hearing a batch of petitions which sought to monitor government and private blood banks in the state to ensure safe blood transfusions and to provide proper relief to the woman. Additional advocate general (AAG) K Chellapandian submitted that pursuant to an order of the court, a separate water connection and a separate borewell have been set up at the house, allotted for the victim. He submitted that the construction of the toilet was under way and it would be completed soon. He also stated that counselling was given by medical experts to the neighbours and the woman’s husband, who had stigmatised her. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi also inquired with the woman who was present before the court through video conference, about the works undertaken by the government. The judges appreciated the government for complying with the earlier order and directed to complete the construction of the additional toilet at the house soon. Since the woman who was given a government job at Sattur government hospital was travelling by bus to work, the judges directed the government to provide the two-wheeler under the Amma two-wheeler scheme. The judges also directed the state not to collect any money from her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/provide-free-two-wheeler-to-woman-given-hiv-ve-blood-hc/articleshow/79071096.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Ooty records 33 new Covid cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris logged 33 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 6,833, of which 279 are active cases. The number of recovered patients rose to 6,514 on the day with 35 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. The recovery rate now stands at 95.3%. The Covid-19 toll, meanwhile, rose by one to 40. The deceased was a 34-year-old man from Bharathi Nagar. He had comorbidities.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-records-33-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79069793.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Skill univ will prepare future entrepreneurs: Delhi minister||NEW DELHI: Delhi Institute Of Tool Engineering, GB Pant Engineering College and centres of ITI and skill training will be part of the new skill and entrepreneurship university, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced on Thursday. He asked the directorate of education to expedite the process of setting up the university. Sisodia was reviewing the vision of the university at a meeting in which the recently appointed vice-chancellor, Neharika Vohra, was also present. GB Pant Engineering College will get a status of constituent college and Rs 526 crore will be spent on building the infrastructure. “The courses will be modernised by bringing in the Tool Engineering College, GB Pant Engineering College, ITI and skill training centres under the gambit of this university. The courses at the varsity will fulfil and upgrade the needs of the market by identifying future-centric jobs and subsequently training the students,” said Sisodia. “The purpose of establishing this university is to fix the existing gaps by upskilling students and readying future-entrepreneurs of this country. We will set up a competent solution-based research team, which will work to fill the gaps between existing and future jobs by diligently carrying out market research for job creation. In an era of global economy, online marketing and work-from-home setups, we must upskill our children to face future challenges,” said the state education minister. Once set up, the university may be able to enrol about 1.2 lakh students every year. Short-term, long-term, diploma, degree and PhD courses will be offered. “An industry tie-up unit will be formed. It will act as a support framework to facilitate internships, placements, and offer entrepreneurship and start-up opportunities to the students,” said Sisodia. Meanwhile, for students of entrepreneurship curriculum in schools, a talk was held with PC Mustafa, CEO and co-founder of ID Fresh Food, on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/skill-univ-will-prepare-future-entrepreneurs/articleshow/79069823.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||2 traffic cops lauded for honesty, heroic act||Hyderabad: A traffic home guard and a traffic constable were lauded for their selfless efforts and making the city traffic police proud by going beyond the call of their duties on Thursday. Traffic DCP Vijaya Kumar lauded Cyberabad traffic home guard Mallesh, who had picked up a five tola gold chain found on the road at Kothaguda and handed it over to Gachibowli police and later the chain’s pwber. Meanwhile, city police commissioner Anjani Kumar lauded Abids traffic constable Babji for running 2 km to clear the traffic for an ambulance at GPO.  On October 28, Mallesh found a gold chain on the road at Kondapur. He took the chain to Gachibowli police station, following which the police publicised it through social media and asked the owner to approach them. After verifying the details, they handed over the chain to one Mamatha, who had lost the chain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-traffic-cops-lauded-for-honesty-heroic-act/articleshow/79069783.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Four of chaddi gang convicted||Hyderabad: Four persons, who were members of the chaddi gang from Gujarat, were convicted by a local court in LB Nagar in two different burglary cases on Thursday. The court directed them to undergo imprisonment for three years. Rachakonda police said that Rama Badhiya, Kishan Badhiya, Ravoji Badhiya and Khaju Mavoji were convicted. Around 400 grams of gold ornaments and 1.5 kg of silver ornaments were seized.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-of-chaddi-gang-convicted/articleshow/79069797.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Can’t comment on ED raid without facts: Kerala CM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan adopted a cautious approach on Thursday when he was asked if the enforcement directorate raid at the house of Bineesh Kodiyeri was politically motivated. He said the raid was part of the investigation by the agency and he was not in a position to comment without knowing the facts. “CPM has already made its stand clear. If you are asking government’s stand, the case is against an individual and the raid is part of this investigation. Government cannot comment on an investigation where facts are not known,” he said. The raid was carried out at the house of an individual and if the family has issues regarding the raid, then they are free to take legal steps against the same. On the summoning of his additional private secretary CM Raveendran by ED for questioning in the gold smuggling case on Friday, Vijayan said just because he was called by the investigating agency, no one should make him an accused in the case. “I have known him for years and so does the party. We trust him. The agency called him as part of the investigation. There is nothing wrong in this,” he said. Party stance: Meanwhile, the CM’s response was in tune with the decision of CPM state leadership. CPM’s available secretariat meeting, which was attended by Vijayan and state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, discussed the day’s developments, including the raid. Though there was a general consensus that ED had shown over enthusiasm in the raid and tried to put pressure on relatives of Bineesh, the party decided not to oppose the probe in public at this juncture. Sources said the available records of money transfer between Bineesh and Anoop Mohammed justified ED’s further probe and opposing that will weaken the party’s position. CPM secretariat will meet on Friday, followed by state committee meeting on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cant-comment-on-ed-raid-without-facts-cm/articleshow/79068392.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Mangaluru||B S Yediyurappa: Special focus will be given to improve fisheries||MANGALURU: Chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said the state government will lay special emphasis on developing the fisheries and allied sector in Karnataka. This is in line with the state government’s policy to perk up internal security of the state by involving fishermen while formulating schemes that will help them benefit for the same. Plans include harnessing tidal energy for power generation and optimal utilisation of marine resources. Laying out this development vision for the coastal district, Yediyurappa who inaugurated the special executive committee meeting of BJP here said the government will also focus on tourism in Karnataka. “The government has already released funds and work has started,” the CM said adding the changes will be visible in the next six months. State BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel summing up the proceedings of daylong meeting said the core committee of the party has discussed the criterion for a candidate that Karnataka will send to the Rajya Sabha to replace Ashok Gasti, who succumbed to Covid-19 recently. The party has also started the process of identifying candidates for the Maski and Basavakalyan assembly and Belagavi Lok Sabha constituencies for which by-polls are to be held. Defending the central election committee’s choice of Gasti and Eranna Kadadi to the upper house of the parliament in June, Nalin said while Gasti was an accomplished lawyer, Kadadi has come up the party ranks from the panchayati raj system. “The state unit will also consider names of achievers from other areas to the Rajya Sabha,” Nalin said, adding party has to balance between rewarding its cadre and achievers in making these selections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bsy-special-focus-will-be-given-to-improve-fisheries/articleshow/79067168.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Madurai||HC: Send Kodumanal artefact samples to US for testing||Madurai: Madras high court on Thursday directed the state government to send 12 samples which were excavated from Kodumanal archeological site for testing at Miami in the US. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigations on carrying out excavation at various archeological sites.ASI superintending archeologist P S Sriraman, who appeared through video conferencing, submitted that 350 Tamil Brahmi letters were found in the pot sherds excavated from Kodimanal. An interesting artefact is that they had found four Tamil Brahmi alphabets in a row in a pot sherd for the very first time. A few of the samples were sent to the Inter-University Accelerator Centre at New Delhi for testing, he added.Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi directed the state government to bear the cost of sending 12 samples excavated from Kodumanal to Beta Analytic, a laboratory at Miami, Florida.Additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that there were 94 protected archaeological monuments in the state and they had sent a proposal to announce 54 more new sites as protected monuments. The state government is also considering increasing the salary of the caretakers, he said even as the judges said that since the salary is only Rs 5,000 they would not show any interest in the job. Hence the judges directed the government to consider providing salary to caretakers equivalent to that of last grade government servants. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-send-kodumanal-artefact-samples-to-us-for-testing/articleshow/79071101.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Film shoot hobbles residents’ movement||Hyderabad: Residents of a high-end apartment complex in Khajaguda are upset over a film shoot at their premises during the ongoing pandemic. While the production house has received permission for the shoot, residents argue that their access to several common areas has been restricted, turning them into prisoners’ in their own homes. The builder had allegedly given permission for using two of their apartments. However the shoot has taken over the entire common space, with the play area for kids also barricaded. Confirming that a complaint had been made, SHO Raidurgam PS S Ravinder said that the shoot had police permission. “We will monitor the shoot and if any Covid guidelines are not being followed, cancel the permission immediately,” he said. Phone calls and messages to the builder did not elicit any response even after a day. Residents who confronted production staff were told that they were following all precautions. Attempts to get a response from the production house were unsuccessful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/film-shoot-hobbles-residents-movement/articleshow/79069829.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Madurai||HC to hear plea to extend 7.5% quota to aided school students||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday agreed to hear a plea which sought to extend the benefit of the GO passed by the state government providing 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students who had cleared NEET for admission in medical courses, to the students of government aided schools as well.On Thursday morning, an advocate I Pinaygash made the mention before the court to hear a petition filed in this regard. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi said that they would take up the petition for hearing on November 9, Monday.The petitioner V Preethi, a resident of Tirunelveli district, stated that she had passed Class XII from a government aided school and had appeared for NEET exam. She stated that most students studying in government aided schools are also from humble backgrounds aspiring to get into medical education. Hence, the petitioner sought to quash the GO as it had excluded the aided school students in the 7.5% reservation and consequently sought to extend the benefit to aided students as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-to-hear-plea-to-extend-7-5-quota-to-aided-school-students/articleshow/79071103.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Bursting of crackers allowed only for 2 hours on Diwali day, says minister||Erode: The state government has decided to continue the restrictions on bursting crackers during Diwali this year too. As per the rules, public will be allowed to set off fireworks for only two hours on Diwali day. State environment minister K C Karupannan told reporters in Erode on Thursday that the time slots imposed two years back for bursting crackers – 6am to 7am and 7pm to 8pm – would continue this year too. Karupannan said that the state was following the Supreme Court guidelines on the cracker timings. Talking to reporters after participating in an event to give away welfare measures to public at Ammapettai in Erode, Karupannan appealed the public to celebrate a pollution free Diwali. The restrictions were brought two years back after the apex court fixed two hours on the day for bursting crackers in the wake of complaints of severe air pollution. The court had set the 8pm to 10pm time slot for bursting crackers. But Tamil Nadu approached the court seeking flexible time slot after there were demands from the public that crackers need to be set off in the morning as per tradition. The court took into consideration the plea and allowed the government to fix one-hour time slot in the morning and another hour in the evening. However, the order was not imposed strictly and there were widespread violations as people went about setting off fireworks throughout the day. The state government had filed scores of cases on violators and arrested several people accused of bursting crackers beyond the permitted timing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bursting-of-crackers-allowed-only-for-2-hours-on-diwali-day-says-minister/articleshow/79069818.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||CCS arrests land grabber||Hyderabad: The central crime station (CCS) police on Thursday arrested a member of a land mafia for trying to claim ownership of government land in Banjara Hills. The accused, Md Ali, was arrested by CCS sleuths for producing forged documents of various government departments in the court claiming ownership of crores of rupees worth government land on Road No. 14, Banjara Hills. Ali was booked based on a complaint lodged by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) inspector Sk Ghouse Azad. Ali was sent to judicial remand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ccs-arrests-land-grabber/articleshow/79069808.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC panel nod to 9 proposals||Hyderabad: The GHMC standing committee approved nine proposals on Thursday. Three of the proposals pertain to laying of new roads. A 30-feet road from Ram Reddy Nagar industrial area to Fox Sagar lake, an 18 metres wide road from Road No. 82, Jubilee Hills to Durgah Junction via Narne Road in Jubilee Hills, and an 18 metres wide road from MLA Colony, Road No. 12, Banjara Hills to Hakeempet Junction were approved. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-panel-nod-to-9-proposals/articleshow/79069820.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Rajkot||Road rage: Private firm manager killed in Gujarat's Rajula||RAJKOT: A project manager with a Mumbai-based pipeline construction firm contracted by Gujarat State Petronet Ltd (GSPL) was stabbed to death in a residential society after a fight over overspeeding took an ugly turn in Rajula town of Amreli district on Wednesday night. The victim, Shubhodeep Bhadra, a native of Kolkata, was declared dead on admission at the Rajula Civil Hospital while his colleagues - Ankit Sanodiya and Shabdar Khan Nizamuddin -who also suffered stab wounds are under treatment. The assailant, Pradyumansinh Gohil, suffered a minor fracture on the finger and will be arrested immediately after discharge from Mahuva Civil Hospital. KJ Chaudhary, deputy superintendent of police, Savarkundla told TOI that Gohil suddenly got furious when Bhadra’s friends - Ankit Sanodiya and Shabdar Khan Nizamuddin- drove past him on the road at around 10pm. Gohil was merely standing there when the duo took a turn and entered Dev Residency on Chhatadia Road where they lived on rent with Bhadra and other employees. Sanodia and Nizamuddin were returning after dropping Bhadra’s guest at a near-by hotel. When they reached home, Bhadra was having dinner. At around 10:15pm, Gohil came to their house and called Bhadra outside. After a brief talk, he left but returned after 15 minutes with another person and again called out Bhadra. He started hurling abuses at him asking as to why they were driving in such a speed. During the argument, he started repeatedly stabbing Bhadra, states the FIR lodged with Rajula police station by his subordinate Anshuman Ghosh. When his colleagues rushed to rescue him, Gohil allegedly stabbed Sanodiya in the neck and face while Shabdar suffered knife injuries in the hand, the FIR stated. Sanodia was rushed to Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital, around 160 km away from Rajula, and his condition is said to be stable. “Gohil’s condition is absolutely fine and we will arrest him as soon he gets discharged from the hospital,” Chaudhary said, adding that he has been booked for murder. Bhadra’s family lives in his native Beleghata locality of Kolkata and he was staying in Rajula for the last one-and-a-half-year for the project. They lived Dev Residency on Chhatadia Road. They were all working on a pipeline project in Kovaya close to Pipavav Port.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fight-over-speeding-car-ends-in-project-managers-murder/articleshow/79067186.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala CM launches CoE for vegetables, flowers||KOZHIKODE: In a bid to bring hi-tech Dutch technologies in floriculture and horticulture to the state, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the Centre of Excellence for Vegetables and Flowers set up at Ambalavayal in Wayanad with technical assistance from the Netherlands government on Thursday. The facility being set up at a cost of Rs 13 crore at the Regional Agriculture Research Station (RARS) campus at Ambalavayal will showcase and enable adoption of hi-tech polyhouse farming and open precision farming technologies for cultivation of vegetables and flowers. The centre has been set up under the Indo-Dutch joint action plan. Inaugurating the centre through a video conclave which was attended by top dignitaries from the governments of India and the Netherlands, Pinarayi Vijayan said that the centre will provide a hi-tech boost to the farming sector of the state especially at a time when the state government is moving ahead with projects like Subhiksha Keralam aimed at achieving self-reliance in agricultural production. “The Netherlands is a world leader in greenhouse technology and per unit area productivity. The government aims to make available advanced Dutch technologies in floriculture and horticulture to our farmers and the centre will provide a boost to the entire agriculture sector to the state,” the chief minister said. He added that hi-tech cultivation of tomato, cucumber, capsicum and flowers —chrysanthemum and gerbera— will be undertaken at the centre in poly houses in the first phase,” he said The polyhouse nurseries at the centre will produce one crore virus-free vegetable transplants for distribution annually. Open precision farming plots of cabbage, cauliflower, brinjal, chilli and tomato have been set up. The tissue culture lab at the centre aims at importing exotic varieties of flowers and vegetables and aims to distribute 1 lakh tissue culture plants annually. Union minister for Agriculture, Narendra Singh Tomar presided over the function. Minister for agriculture V S Sunil Kumar said that steps are underway to set up a farmer producer organization comprising farmers in the state who are engaged in export of flowers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cm-launches-coe-for-vegetables-flowers/articleshow/79068405.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Coimbatore||City institute to have high-value forest||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) will set up a high-value forest that will have teak, sandal and red sanders trees on 15 acres within its Forest College and Research Institute campus here. Additional principal chief conservator of forests and director of Tamil Nadu Forest Academy I Anwardeen, along with TNAU vice-chancellor N Kumar, kickstarted the works for the forest by planting red sanders saplings on Thursday. The high-value forest is expected to yield sustainable revenue to the institute after 15 to 20 years. The project is supported by the World Bank through the National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP). The initiative will also help to create self-reliance in raw material security besides protecting and conserving natural forest resources, TNAU authorities said. One of the key objectives of the Forest College and Research Institute was to establish forests and agroforestry plantation to augment productivity as well as to increase green cover. The pioneer attempt to establish high-value forests was taken up in order to attain the goal and increase the economic sustainability of the institute, said a statement from TNAU. Kumar and Anwardeen also launched one lakh seed ball sowing programme, incorporating indigenous tree species like poovarasu, sandal, soap nut, neem, pungam, vagai and tamarind. It will help to enrich restoration process of native vegetation and augment the ecosystem services of the locality. Besides, a research and development nursery, a wood seasoning and preservation lab and a value-addition workshop was also opened. The facilities will help in research and outreach activities of the institute, even as they provide significant entrepreneurship development avenues to the pupil. During the occasion, Kumar and Anwardeen also launched forest products like honey and immunity booster developed by the institute’s incubator in the presence of district forest officer D Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-institute-to-have-high-value-forest/articleshow/79069834.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar needs Nitish Kumar for its growth: PM Modi to voters||PATNA: On the last day of campaigning for the assembly polls, PM Narendra Modi on Thursday wrote an open letter to the people of the state saying he needed the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government for the development of the state. “I am assured of Bihar’s development. That is why I need the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar so that projects and schemes ‘atken nahin, bhatken nahin’ (don’t get stuck or get distracted),” Modi stated. “I have faith that the double engine government will take Bihar to new heights in the new decade,” he said, concluding his four-page letter that was also released on social media. Modi underscored in his letter the kind of political transformation that had come about in the state. “Today voting is taking place not on caste but development, not on false promises but on a strong commitment to work, not on ‘kushashan (bad governance)’ but on good governance, not on corruption but honesty, and not on opportunism but the ‘atmnirbhar’ vision,” Modi noted. PM Modi also described the broad plan on which the NDA government at the Centre has been working. He stressed the “connectivity projects would get the top priority” of the NDA government and also spelt out its components like “good airports, water ports and improved roads” as they will “give ease of living to the poor, farmers, youths and middle class.” “Bihar is entering the phase of the gas-based economy under PM Ganga Urja Yojana. There will be CNG-based traffic and inland waterways,” PM Modi also noted. He said the state will have “no atmosphere of fear”, and it will be backed by the introduction of property card. In his letter, Modi pointed out that the NDA government has already attended to fulfilling the basic needs of the people of the state. “The new decade is for fulfilling new aspirations. Bihar has moved forward from the state of ‘abhaav’ to new aspirations, which in itself is a big achievement,” Modi said, pointing out that the NDA government has done a credible job. “Reconstruction is always difficult in an atmosphere of disorder and anarchy. The atmosphere changed in the state after 2005. Both infrastructure and rule of law are necessary for economic well-being. The NDA can give the two aspects which are necessary for the state,” he also said, adding the NDA’s credo has been a belief in “dignified human living for every citizen.” Noting that earlier developmental exercises done under the previous governments were “flawed”, Modi said, “It had created artificial barriers that led to the shrinkage of opportunities for youths, women and farmers, but the things are changing with the efforts being made by the NDA.” “I want to tell you that you continue reposing faith in Bihar’s development, in the NDA for its development, and development in the NDA’s resolution,” Modi said in his appeal to the people of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-needs-nitish-for-its-growth-pm-to-voters/articleshow/79070573.cms||Abhay Singh
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops bust racket that duped 27,000 govt job aspirants; five arrested||NEW DELHI: With the arrest of five men, Delhi Police claimed to have busted a major fake job racket that duped at least 27,000 people on the pretext of providing government jobs in the ministry of health and family welfare. The accused had created a fake website of a fictitious entity — Swasthya Avm Jan Kalyan Sansthan (SAJKS) — and duped their targets of more than Rs 1 crore since October 1 this year. The mastermind of the Hisar-based gang, Ramdhari (50), also runs an online examination centre for conducting government recruitment tests. He used data of the job aspirants appearing at his centre to dupe them. Apart from Ramdhari, his associates Aman Khatkar (27), Surender Singh (50), Sandeep (32) and Joginder Singh (35) were arrested. A bank account with Rs 49 lakh was seized and three laptops and seven mobile phones were recovered from the accused. The forgery came to fore when Delhi Police’s Cyber Cell received a complaint from a job aspirant that he had been cheated by a fake website. Deputy commissioner of police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy said an investigation revealed that the fraudsters were using multiple bogus accounts and digital identities. “Further probe revealed that the accused were siphoning out the money from ATMs in Hisar. Accordingly, a trap was laid and one of the gang members, Khatkar, was caught red-handed while withdrawing money from an ATM from the bank account linked with the website. Other four accused were then arrested from various parts of Haryana and Delhi,” Roy said. The accused told police that they had hatched the conspiracy in August 2020 to cheat gullible job seekers. “Joginder and Sandeep, both software professionals, designed the website,” the DCP said. They offered more than 13,000 jobs, including that of an accountant, upper and lower division clerks, a lab attendant and an ambulance driver. “The gang had sent more than 15 lakh SMSs to their victims. Ramdhari and Vishnu had funded the whole scheme. Vishnu is yet to be traced,” Roy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-bust-racket-that-duped-27k-govt-job-aspirants-five-arrested/articleshow/79069917.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Three arrested for murder of 75-year-old man||MYSURU: Chamarajanagara police on Thursday said that they have solved the case of the murder of a 75-year-old man at Chandakavadi village by arresting three persons one month after the reporting of the crime. ASP Anita B H Haddannavar told TOI that they have arrested three persons — Kalla Mahadeva of Budipadaga village, Muniya of Kalikamba Colony and Irfan of Chandakavadi village. Police are yet to trace three more accused, including two sons of Kalla Mahadeva. Shivabasappa was murdered around midnight on October 5 when he was sleeping in the veranda. The accused killed Shivabasappa after locking the main door to stop the other inmates from coming out to rescue him. After strangulating him using a towel, the miscreants tried to cut down a tree in the backyard. But when the inmates of the house made noise after hearing the tree-cutting sound, the miscreants fled the place. Following a complaint, a team of police officials led by Anita was formed to nab the accused. A dog squad was also pressed into service. Elephants tramples man to death A 50-year-old man was trampled to death by an elephant at Hongalawadi village in Chamarajanagar taluk on Wednesday night. The deceased is Guruswamy of the village. The incident took place when he went in search of his cattle which were grazing near a forest. Chamarajanagar East police and K Gudi Forest range officials rushed to the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-arrested-for-murder-of-75-year-old-man/articleshow/79067919.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Surat||Surat: Man entombed in house exhumed after four years||SURAT: In a shocking incident, skeleton of a 20-year-old man who was entombed inside a cavity under the staircase of an under construction house in 2016, was exhumed by the police from Pandesara area on Thursday. The incident came to light after a bootlegger Rajiv Singh alias Raju alias Rajesh Rajput (36), who was nabbed for jumping parole in 2019, confessed to murdering of Shivam alias Kishan Munshi Chauhan (20) with help of five others in February 2016. Police said that Rajput confessed to killing Chauhan during interrogation and also informed them that he and his aides had entombed body of the deceased in the cavity under the staircase of his under construction house at Ashapuri Society 3 in Pandesara. The accused then escaped to his native place in Bihar with other accused which include Vipul alias Vipul Bhaiyo Patil, Ajay alias Anchal Raju Pradha, Shailendra alias Guddu Langdo Sharma, Mittu Mama and Bhagwan Maliya, said police. “For identification of the deceased, we have sent the skeleton for DNA testing. The DNA will be matched with parents of Chauhan. We will also get forensic post mortem of the skeleton done to find the exact cause of death,” said a police officer of Pandesara police station. According to police, Rajput and his friends allegedly killed Chauhan as they suspected that the latter had tipped off police about his liquor consignment in February 2016. Police said that though Chauhan was missing since February 2016, none of his family members had lodged a missing person complain with the police. It was during probing Rajput’s case, that police got a tip-off that he could be involved in the disappearance of Chauhan. City crime branch’s team tracing absconding accused had begun tracing Rajput as he had jumped parole in 2019. Rajput was inside jail in connection with another murder case which he had allegedly committed in 2018. During questioning about his movements while out on parole, cops got information about his involvement in the murder of Chauhan. Rajput confessed the crime and informed police that he entombed the body at his residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-entombed-in-house-exhumed-after-four-years/articleshow/79067206.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 6, 2020||---||Bihar needs Nitish Kumar for its growth: PM Modi to voters||PATNA: On the last day of campaigning for the assembly polls, PM Narendra Modi on Thursday wrote an open letter to the people of the state saying he needed the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government for the development of the state. “I am assured of Bihar’s development. That is why I need the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar so that projects and schemes ‘atken nahin, bhatken nahin’ (don’t get stuck or get distracted),” Modi stated. “I have faith that the double engine government will take Bihar to new heights in the new decade,” he said, concluding his four-page letter that was also released on social media. Modi underscored in his letter the kind of political transformation that had come about in the state. “Today voting is taking place not on caste but development, not on false promises but on a strong commitment to work, not on ‘kushashan (bad governance)’ but on good governance, not on corruption but honesty, and not on opportunism but the ‘atmnirbhar’ vision,” Modi noted. PM Modi also described the broad plan on which the NDA government at the Centre has been working. He stressed the “connectivity projects would get the top priority” of the NDA government and also spelt out its components like “good airports, water ports and improved roads” as they will “give ease of living to the poor, farmers, youths and middle class.” “Bihar is entering the phase of the gas-based economy under PM Ganga Urja Yojana. There will be CNG-based traffic and inland waterways,” PM Modi also noted. He said the state will have “no atmosphere of fear”, and it will be backed by the introduction of property card. In his letter, Modi pointed out that the NDA government has already attended to fulfilling the basic needs of the people of the state. “The new decade is for fulfilling new aspirations. Bihar has moved forward from the state of ‘abhaav’ to new aspirations, which in itself is a big achievement,” Modi said, pointing out that the NDA government has done a credible job. “Reconstruction is always difficult in an atmosphere of disorder and anarchy. The atmosphere changed in the state after 2005. Both infrastructure and rule of law are necessary for economic well-being. The NDA can give the two aspects which are necessary for the state,” he also said, adding the NDA’s credo has been a belief in “dignified human living for every citizen.” Noting that earlier developmental exercises done under the previous governments were “flawed”, Modi said, “It had created artificial barriers that led to the shrinkage of opportunities for youths, women and farmers, but the things are changing with the efforts being made by the NDA.” “I want to tell you that you continue reposing faith in Bihar’s development, in the NDA for its development, and development in the NDA’s resolution,” Modi said in his appeal to the people of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-needs-nitish-for-its-growth-pm-to-voters/articleshow/79073100.cms||Abhay Singh
November 6, 2020||India||Arnab gave statement in Mumbai, says Maharashtra minister||MUMBAI: The intervention of a senior cabinet member in the previous government made it possible for Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami to record his statement in the suicide abetment case in Mumbai instead of Raigad, said state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Goswami’s statement in the case should have been recorded in Raigad where Anway Naik committed suicide in 2018 and where the case was filed. But this senior leader ensured that investigating officer Anil Paraskar took the statement in the office of the joint commissioner of police in the Mumbai police commissionerate, said Deshmukh. “Goswami’s statement was recorded on May 30, 2018, while instructions were given to Paraskar on May 26,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arnab-gave-statement-in-mumbai-says-maharashtra-minister/articleshow/79072272.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Cattle herders stage protest on highway||Hyderabad: Herders who have been taking their cattle for grazing into the Amrabad tiger reserve have got into a tussle with forest officials. The cattle herders have been told that they are not allowed to enter the forest, which is home to at least 20 tigers and other wild animals. Due to this, the annoyed herders resorted to a protest on the Hyderabad-Srisailam highway with their cattle blocking the flow of traffic on the busy highway on November 4. “We will not allow them. The forest has to be protected and preserved. It is not some individual local families trying to graze their cattle in the forest. It is being done as a business and for commercial purposes for some other people who own the cattle and sell them,” Kista Goud Gunnala, deputy conservator of forests and district forest officer, Nagarkurnool, told TOI. When the herders asked where they could graze the cattle if not in the forest, the officials directed them to the fringe of the forest area near Mannanur village. Forest officials have been clearing bushes and developing grasslands in the forest. In many cases, it has also been noticed that the herders are leaving the cattle inside the forest for five or six days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cattle-herders-stage-protest-on-highway/articleshow/79069904.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 6, 2020||Chennai||Rainwater diverted to temple tanks in Chennai, roads dry||CHENNAI: Excess rainwater that stagnates on the road or gets drained to Buckingham canal, Adyar or Cooum river and eventually to the sea is now being collected in temple tanks in the city. Greater Chennai Corporation has devised a way to keep streets dry and also recharge groundwater through 20 temple ponds in the city. It has plans to expand the project if the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department permits. Ekambareswarar temple in Mylapore is full of rainwater diverted from the streetsVadapalani Murugan temple and Chitrakulam of the Adikesava Perumal temple in Mylapore are the latest to harvest rainwater diverted from the streets. Sannathi Street in Vadapalani would frequently get flooded with rainwater as there was no way out for the drains. “Earlier, there was a connection to the temple tank, but since water was getting mixed with sewage, it was blocked,” said L Nandakumar, chief engineer (general) said. However, corporation officials brought in the echo chamber and filtration technique, a German technology, by which rainwater on the streets is quickly drained and filtered before it enters the temple tank. This is a simpler structure to maintain and clean, Nandakumar said. “The excess rainwater from Jawaharlal Nehru Road, that would flood Sannathi Street, is also diverted through this drain to the temple tank,” he said. The structure can bear a weight up to 40 tonnes given the heavy traffic movement on this road, Nandakumar said. The same arrangement has been done at the Mylapore temple. Earlier, the corporation had conducted a similar exercise by utilising Rs 2.27 crore from the pool allotted to Chennai Smart City Limited. Seventeen temple tanks across the city, including the Kalyana Varadaraja Perumal temple tank in Tiruvottiyur, the Ekambareswarar temple tank in Royapuram and Virupacheeswarar temple tank in Teynampet zone have been totally restored. Excess rainwater from the roads or the rooftop of nearby houses is now diverted through chambers to the temple tanks after proper filtration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rainwater-diverted-to-temple-tanks-roads-dry/articleshow/79068422.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, book PWD rest houses online||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Online reservation facility has been launched for booking rooms at PWD rest houses in the state. Government employees and other citizens can book rooms using the online facility. PWD minister G Sudhakaran launched the online reservation system here on Thursday. Till now, the rest house bookings were through telephone calls and e-mails. Since there was no information available on any public platform regarding the availability or non-availability of rooms, the rooms remained unoccupied most days. Such mechanism with less transparency also created confusion and last-minute cancellations and non-registration of bookings. The online reservation would smoothen the boking process and could help the rest houses to earn more revenues, said the minister. Rooms can be booked by making online payment in advance. The online booking facility developed by C-DIT has district-wise listing of rest houses. The availability of rooms on realtime basis could be known through the online system. Bookings can be done by logging on to www.resthouse.prd.kerala.gov.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-book-pwd-rest-houses-online/articleshow/79068450.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Madurai||DVAC conducts search in sub-registrar office, seizes Rs 1L||Madurai: Sleuths from directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) conducted a surprise check at the sub-registrar office in Bodinayakkanur in Theni district on Wednesday and seized Rs 1 lakh cash from the office. A team led by DVAC inspector R Geetha conducted a search into the office located at Munnar Road based on the information that cash was being received by officials for registration of documents. Sources from DVAC said that petty cash was seized from document writers on the suspicion that they had kept it to be given away to the sub-registrar and other officials. Cash bundles kept along with documents and tables were also seized. The seized cash accounted to Rs 1,00,870. The search and inquiry was carried out till midnight. A case was registered under prevention of corruption Act against sub-registrar in-charges C Mageshraja, assistants P Murugan, B Sudha, K Ganesan and document writers A Karthick, R Murugan, S Sivasankaran, K Shankar and P Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dvac-conducts-search-in-sub-registrar-office-seizes-rs-1l/articleshow/79071106.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Madurai||HC: Send Kodumanal artefact samples to US for testing||Madurai: Madras high court on Thursday directed the state government to send 12 samples which were excavated from Kodumanal archeological site for testing at Miami in the US. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigations on carrying out excavation at various archeological sites.ASI superintending archeologist P S Sriraman, who appeared through video conferencing, submitted that 350 Tamil Brahmi letters were found in the pot sherds excavated from Kodimanal. An interesting artefact is that they had found four Tamil Brahmi alphabets in a row in a pot sherd for the very first time. A few of the samples were sent to the Inter-University Accelerator Centre at New Delhi for testing, he added.Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi directed the state government to bear the cost of sending 12 samples excavated from Kodumanal to Beta Analytic, a laboratory at Miami, Florida.Additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that there were 94 protected archaeological monuments in the state and they had sent a proposal to announce 54 more new sites as protected monuments. The state government is also considering increasing the salary of the caretakers, he said even as the judges said that since the salary is only Rs 5,000 they would not show any interest in the job. Hence the judges directed the government to consider providing salary to caretakers equivalent to that of last grade government servants. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-send-kodumanal-artefact-samples-to-us-for-testing/articleshow/79071105.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Surat||Surat: Man harassing for Rs 5 crore dowry arrested||SURAT: Police arrested 37-year-old man from Pandesara area on Wednesday who allegedly demanded Rs 5 crore as dowry from his wife. Sujan Jeldi, a native of Suryapet in Telangana, into pet breeding and training was nabbed from his home in Pandesara area from where he operated his business too. Jeldi was earlier booked by Umra police on Monday following a complaint lodged by his wife. The accused has been booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including, 498(A)(cruelty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and Dowry Prevention Act. The 38-year-old complainant told the police that she got married to Jeldi after a brief affair in 2008. During courtship days, he told her that he was working in Hyderabad film industry and soon after their marriage, the duo event went to stay there. Since Jeldi, who was unemployed and had no place to stay in Hyderabad, the complainant alleged she had to take up a flat for them to stay in Nalgonda of Telangana district for a few months. She added that somehow she managed to make him to come and stay in Surat and also convinced her father to help Jeldi set up a spa business. However, after a few months the accused suffered losses and discontinued his interest in the business and started living on his wife’s money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-harassing-for-rs-5cr-dowry-arrested/articleshow/79067240.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Heavy rain throws life out of gear, damages paddy||Tirupur: Rainwater entered a residential area and adjoining agricultural land near Dharapuram in Tirupur district in the early hours of Thursday, following the heavy rain at night. However, the residents heaved a sigh of relief as water receded during the day. According to them, what started as a mild drizzle around 10pm on Wednesday in Dharapuram and surrounding areas ended in downpour, which lasted for more than three hours. Subsequently, waterlogging was reported at Shankar Nagar, Alangiyam and adjoining localities. Water entered the houses located on the low-lying streets. In the morning, the residents had a tough time draining away the water that had entered their houses. At Arasamaram, an irrigation canal breached in the heavy flow of rainwater. The canal water gushed into agricultural fields, inundating paddy crops. Local AIADMK functionaries visited the affected places and assured support from the state government. The farmers said the paddy crops were totally damaged. Other areas such as Avinashi and Udumalpet also received heavy rainfall and reported waterlogging. At Madathukulam, rainwater stagnated in the bus stand, posing difficulty for the transport staff and public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/heavy-rain-throws-life-out-of-gear-damages-paddy/articleshow/79069936.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Bareilly||4 Indian softshelled turtles rescued from 3 poachers in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Four Indian softshelled turtles (Nilssonia gangetica), were rescued from three poachers at Nagaria Colony village under Pilibhit's Amaria police station on Wednesday evening by a team of forest and wildlife division. This species of turtle is listed as "vulnerable" and protected under schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Its meat is considered a delicacy and is highly priced. Following a tip-off, the team, headed by sub divisional forest officer (SDO Hemant Kumar Seth, raided a house at the village, rescued the turtles and arrested the poachers. The turtles were released in river Mala in the core Mala forest range of Pilibhit tiger reserve after obtaining permission from the chief judicial magistrate, said Seth.A case has been registered and the poachers have been remanded for 14 days.Pilibhit's wetlands have as many as 12 identified species of turtles, including seven listed in schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act.Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO said the district accounts for a high incidence of poaching and illegal trading of turtles in UP.Seth said the softshelled turtles were caught from a local pond and had been kept in a container. They were to be sold later. “During preliminary interrogation, the poachers divulged some important information about a big turtle trading racket," the SDO added.DFO Kumar said the poachers were booked under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act. The poachers were identified as Vishwanath Bala, Abhishek Bala and Suar Bala, all residents of Nagaria Colony village, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/4-indian-softshelled-turtles-rescued-from-3-poachers-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79065157.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||AP sees 2.7k new cases, 13 deaths||Visakhapatnam: The Covid-19 positive tally in Andhra Pradesh increased to 8,35,953 with the addition of 2,745 new cases on Thursday, while the toll rose to 6,757 with 13 more people succumbing to the disease. On a positive note, the overall infection positivity rate has dropped to 9.92%. The latest Covid-19 report said 2,292 patients recovered from the virus on Thursday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-sees-2-7k-new-cases-13-deaths/articleshow/79069968.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Edappadi K Palaniswami writes to Odisha, Rajasthan CMs to revoke cracker ban||MADURAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has written to his counterparts in Odisha and Rajasthan, Naveen Patnaik and Ashok Gehlot respectively, urging them to reconsider their decision banning sale and bursting of fireworks for Diwali. The letter came even as Delhi government became the latest to join the bandwagon of states which have banned fireworks and Kolkata high court confirmed the ban in West Bengal on Thursday. Palaniswami said Tamil Nadu is a major cracker manufacturing state using raw materials with reduced emission and low decibel levels. “Ban on bursting crackers in your state can have a direct bearing on the livelihood of over 8 lakh workers in the state of Tamil Nadu and another equal number of people engaged in its sale. Their livelihood solely depends on the sale of crackers during Diwali season,” Palaniswami said. The state produces green crackers and “therefore the question of environmental pollution does not arise,” he said adding that there is no empirical or validated data to prove that cracker bursting has effect on Covid patients. “I would like to inform you that in Tamil Nadu, in tune with the Supreme Court directions, we have restricted the bursting of green crackers to one hour in the morning and one hour in the evening,” the CM added. The Delhi government had earlier announced that only sale and use of green fireworks will be allowed in the national capital. “Sivakasi is the fireworks production hub and Delhi is the market hub for fireworks,” Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association (Tanfama) president P Ganesan told TOI. Delhi used to account for 30% of the fireworks turnover in the country. “Fireworks to Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Assam are despatched from Delhi,” he added. Meanwhile, the National Green Tribunal has completed arguments on the matter and said that orders will be uploaded at 10.30 am on Monday (November 9). Indian Fireworks Manufacturers Association (TIFMA) vice-president A S Rajendra Raja was sceptical of the outcome in the NGT. “We are clueless on how we are going to pay bonus and wages for our employees. If the verdict is in support of the ban we will be left with no other option but to abide by the direction,” he added. Tamil Maanila Congress (M) president and Rajya Sabha MP G K Vasan has also urged governments that banned fireworks to revoke it considering the livelihood of lakhs employed in the industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eps-writes-to-odisha-raj-cms-to-revoke-cracker-ban/articleshow/79071108.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||How much time needed to finish Hathras probe?: Allahabad HC to CBI||LUCKNOW: A Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to apprise it on November 25 as to how much time it would take to complete the probe in the alleged gang rape and murder case in Hathras. It also asked the CRPF to file an affidavit indicating that it provided security to the victim’s family members. A bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Rajan Roy had heard the matter on November 2 and kept the file for dictation of the order in its chamber. The bench’s order was uploaded on the high court website on Thursday. In its order, the bench recorded the proceedings that took place on November 2 when it asked state government’s lawyer S. Raju whether it was fair and reasonable to allow DM Pravin Kumar Laxkar to continue in Hathras during pendency of the investigation. “Would it not be appropriate to shift him elsewhere during pendency of these proceedings without there being any stigma attached to such an action only to ensure fairness and transparency in the matter,” the bench further asked Raju. At this, Raju assured the bench that he would convey the concern of the court to the state government and come back to it on this issue by the next date. In its order, the bench asked CBI lawyer Anurag Singh to file status report with regard to the ongoing investigation in the matter. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-to-cbi-how-much-time-needed-to-finish-hathras-probe/articleshow/79071109.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
November 6, 2020||Surat||Diamantaires seek removal of 2% tax on e-comm sales||Surat: At a time when the diamantaires have taken to the online platform to source rough diamonds due to the restrictions on international flights, 2% equalisation levy (EL) imposed by the central government on all the overseas e-commerce transaction from India has pushed up prices of rough diamonds. The diamond traders have asked the central government to remove the EL.Diamantaires stated that though the world’s largest diamond trading hub Antwerp is under lockdown due to increase in the Covid-19 cases till December 13, they have been ordering the roughs online through the e-commerce portal and facing an additional tax burden of 2% EL.The prices of rough diamonds have already appreciated 15% in secondary markets of Surat and Mumbai due to the suspension of international flights. The import of rough diamonds declined 56% to $2.5 billion between April-September compared to $5.8 billion during the same period previous year. Chairman of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), Colin Shah told TOI, “Due to Covid-19, the diamond trade happens over e-commerce portals. However, due to EL, there will be additional taxation burden on the trade fraternity.” Shah added, “The industry is facing heavy loss in exports already and now this additional 2% EL tax is unfair to the industry. In our last meeting with union finance minister, we had urged government to remove the EL clause. We are hopeful that we will see amendment soon.”Kirti Shah, importer of rough diamonds told TOI, “Since the lockdown, the orders for rough diamonds are placed online for the supply by the companies. The EL is making a huge difference to our production cost when the margins in diamond processing is already very low.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamantaires-seek-removal-of-2-tax-on-e-comm-sales/articleshow/79067286.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: To hell with the toll on OMR||CHENNAI: Travelling to work at an IT Park on OMR involves strategic planning for A Nived. The Iyyappanthangal resident has to factor in the Thoraipakkam-Pallavaram Radial Road toll plaza or the 4km detour he can take to avoid it. If he takes the plaza, he pays Rs 50 and waits more than 10 minutes. Instead of being gateways to better maintained roads, the booths take a toll on road users. A 2015 study in the International Journal for Scientific Research and Development says vehicle flow at Kelambakkam, where there are no toll gates, is more than at Sholinganallur and Thiruvanmiyur which have them. Passing a toll takes 2 or more minutes, delaying the overall journey by 10 minutes or more. Several subsequent studies concluded that toll plazas definitely worsened traffic delays. What starts as a knot at Perungudi and Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Link Road spirals into bottlenecks at SRP Tools and Tidel Park, especially on weekdays. Poor traffic management compounds the woes. “What can be covered in 5 minutes takes 15 or longer due to partial one-way traffic at Sholinganallur signal,” says R Ramaswamy, a retired banker. Traffic hassles and poor management by the Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation Limited (TNRDC) have meant that the toll plazas — the contract signed nearly 13 years ago lasts till 2037 — have been largely ineffective. The IT corridor project was initiated to improve the sparsely populated stretch and to establish TN’s industry-friendly image. But the expanded city now includes Siruseri and having a toll within a city is unfair, feel many, saying tolls act as virtual borders. National Highways Fee (Determination of Fee Rates & Collection) Rules, 2008 don’t allow toll gates within 10km of a municipality or town, but there is no clarity on whether they apply to OMR, built and maintained by a state agency. The TNRDC has adopted some of the NHAI's rules pertaining to Fastags, and road safety, but has its own rules to fix toll fees and issue free passes for local residents. Highways secretary A Karthick refused to comment, but S Narasimha Rao, an independent TNRDC director, said that while the agency was ready to discuss the issue the final call was the government’s. A TNRDC official said the toll collected was put to effective use in terms of relaying roads regularly, constructing bridges to avoid accidents and reduce traffic, upgrading facilities at toll plazas and beautifying roads, particularly medians. Almost half of the Rs 55 crore annual toll collected goes for maintenance and the rest spent on infra development, salaries and interest on loans. Nearly one-third of more than Rs 100 crore borrowed for the Rs 380 crore project (the rest is government funding) has been repaid, according to official data. “If we stop collecting tolls, how can we repay loans and what happens to the company’s future,” the TNRDC official asked. Under the IT Expressway Toll Road concessionaire, the project involved building a three-lane carriageway, service roads, foot over-bridges (FoBs) and pedestrian paths, but OMR residents say most of the promised amenities including dormitories, wide bus bays and emergency helplines are hardly in place. Except for the foot over-bridge in front of TIDEL park, steps in other FoBs are steep, forcing pedestrians to jump across road medians, they say. OMR has the highest number of pedestrian deaths in the city (22 killed in 122 accidents last year). TNRDC officials blame police for lack of coordination and increase in private vehicle use on the stretch. After IT Expressway Limited, a TNRDC subsidiary developing the IT corridor, proposed five flyovers at key junctions including at Perungudi and Sholinganallur, hoping to reduce traffic congestion by at least 10%, Rs 500 crore was sanctioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/to-hell-with-the-toll-on-omr/articleshow/79068457.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 6, 2020||Bareilly||22 lakh bees die after stubble fire spreads in UP village, keeper presses charges||BAREILLY: In a matter of hours, 22 lakh bees Dharmendra Kumar had been rearing for three years at Bamroli village in UP’s Shahjahanpur were charred to death when stubble fire from a field next to his spread. While the Supreme Court has asked UP, Haryana and Punjab to crack down on stubble burning to control air pollution, this was not a fallout that had been accounted for earlier. “I have suffered a loss of nearly Rs 2 lakh. I am devastated,” the 25-year-old farmer from Jalalabad told TOI. He has filed a complaint, on the basis of which a non-cognizable report was registered by the police. After finishing postgraduate studies, Dharmendra had signed up for beekeeping training in Pipraula village. In 2017, he secured a loan of Rs 2.5 lakh under the Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme and started his apiary with 50 hive boxes. Each hive box cost Rs 4,500. He was rearing honey bees, the production had been good and his business created a buzz. “I wanted to start a trend in these parts.” So, he scaled things up and got 60 more boxes. “Each hive produced nearly 25kg honey.” Besides honey production, bees play an important role as pollinators in crop production. Last Sunday, the owner of a farm next to his, Manoj Singh, set fire to the stubble. The fire spread by accident and all his hive boxes were charred. “All I could recover were ashes. Instead of flying away, worker bees try and save the queen bee — it’s how they behave.” Singh refused to compensate for his losses. “I have moved whatever little was left of the hive boxes. I am waiting for the police to help. I had a word with the Khadi and Village Industries Commission too, but they said no aid could be claimed because beekeeping is classified as ‘movable work’,” he said. The body has, however, been involved in promoting apiculture across the country for years now. SHO of Kaanth police station Bahadur Singh told TOI, “We have registered an NCR under Section 427 of the IPC (mischief causing damage). The FIR for stubble burning is registered on the basis of the complaint of a lekhpal. We are waiting for an official complaint for that. Because it is a non-cognizable offence so far, the accused cannot be arrested right now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/22-lakh-bees-die-after-stubble-fire-spreads-in-up-village-keeper-presses-charges/articleshow/79066184.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers block highways in Mohali, commuters hassled||MOHALI: Farmers protesting against the three farm laws blocked highways at six points in Mohali, causing inconvenience to the commuters on Thursday. BKU (Sidhupur), BKU (Lakhowal) and Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, Mohali, blocked highways at Lalru, Zirakpur, near Banur, at Amb Sahib Gurdwara in Sohana, Kharar bus stand and Landran Road at Badala T-point in Kharar. No untoward incident was reported and the protest remained peaceful, said the deputy commissioner. Farmers had earlier announced blocking of highways on November 5 as a state-wide protest. They have blocked railway tracks at 40 places in Punjab. People travelling from Delhi to Chandigarh had to face a tough time as most of them were caught unawares near Lalru blockade. Charanjit Singh, a resident of Delhi, said, “We had left Delhi early in the morning, but got stuck in a traffic jam when we reached near Lalru. There were long queues of trucks and their drivers refused to move their vehicles. After a tussle of nearly two hours, we managed to turn our vehicle and went back to Ambala, from where we took an alternative route via Panchkula to reach Chandigarh.” People coming from Jalandhar were asked to divert via Kurali-Mullanpur to reach Chandigarh. Local commuters were able to find alternative routes, but those coming from other states were at their wits’ end. Farmers also blocked the Airport Road near Amb Sahib Gurdwara for six hours. On-duty SDM Jagdeep Saigal said, “They were sitting peacefully and lifted the dharna by 4pm.” There were traffic jams on Banur-Kharar and Kharar-Landran highways and also on Ambala-Chandigarh highway near Lalru. The Mohali traffic police diverted the traffic to alternative routes. The BKU unions led 50 to 80 protesters, who were supported by Davinder Singh Dehkalan, district president of BKU (Lakhowal), Ravinder Singh Dehkalan, district president of BKU (Sidhupur), Gian Singh Dhadak, general secretary of BKU (Sidhupur), Azaib Singh Ghaduan, vice-president of BKU (Sidhupur), Balbir Singh Musafir, president of Mohali Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, and Kuldeep Singh, president of Mohali Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU). They blocked road at Kharar bus stand for two hours. They also burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Naib tehsildar Puneet Bansal, DSP Manjeet Singh and DSP Rupinderjit Kaur managed the protesters. The farmers demanded that all the three laws should be translated into Punjabi and distributed all over the state so that people know their meaning and impact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-block-highways-in-mohali-commuters-hassled/articleshow/79068487.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore logs 238 fresh cases, 1 death||Coimbatore: The district recorded 238 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 44,449. Despite the drastic fall in numbers, Coimbatore continues to report the second highest number of fresh and total number of cases in the state. 270 patients also got discharged on the day, pushing active cases down further to 1,009. The total number of people recovered rose to 42,871, taking the recovery rate to 96.44%. The district recorded one death due to the virus taking the toll to 569. The death was a 43-year-old diabetic man admitted on October 29 at 9.05 am in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital with breathing difficulty. He was diagnosed with respiratory distress and bilateral bronchopneumonia. The patient died on November 2 at 3.55pm. A day after TOI reported that the reagent for the CLIA analyzer installed last week was yet to be functional, the health department said the antibody reagent arrived from Chennai on Thursday morning. The health department also ran the 240 pending sero samples from the region the same day. As active cases fell below 1,000-mark, compared to a time when patients had to run from pillar to post to find a vacant hospital bed, especially if they required oxygen, many Covid-19 treating hospitals are beginning to see beds emptying out. While ESI Hospital has more than 200 vacant beds, many private multi-specialty hospitals are also seeing 40% to 50% of their Covid-19 vacant beds become vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coimbatore-logs-238-fresh-cases-1-death/articleshow/79069969.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Covid cases fluctuating in south, central TN||Madurai/Trichy: The southern and central regions of the state saw the number of fresh cases fluctuating in the past few days and the ten southern districts reported 206 fresh Covid-19 cases and the central region 225 cases on Thursday. In both regions fresh cases have dipped from the previous day. In the south, the number was 264, while it was 246 in the central districts on Wednesday. The southern districts recorded two deaths, which include a 28-year-old patient from Tuticorin without comorbid conditions who died at a private hospital in Madurai. Admitted with complaints of chronic pancreatitis on October 29, he tested positive the next day. The other death was recorded in Madurai. No district recorded more than 50 fresh cases. Madurai (45) recorded the highest number of fresh cases on Thursday, followed by Kanyakumari (39) and Tuticorin (28). The seven other districts recorded less than 20 fresh cases with Tenkasi (6) recording the lowest. It is followed by Sivagangai (12), Ramanathapuram (13), Theni (14), Tirunelveli (15), Virudhunagar (16) and Dindigul (18). In the central region, the total count of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 66,612 on Thursday, while the number of recovery is 63,992. None of the districts recorded more than 50 fresh cases. Thanjavur reported 48 cases, the highest in the region, followed by Tiruvarur (40) and Trichy (30). The region also recorded three deaths, in Pudukottai (2) and Tiruvarur taking the toll to 875. Perambalur reported nine cases, the lowest number, while Ariyalur reported 10 cases. The number of active cases also increased to 1,745 on Thursday from 1,719 on Wednesday. The public health department officials have raised apprehensions that the number of cases may increase in the run-up to the Diwali festival due to the movement of crowds in the congested bazaars and shops. It advised the festival shoppers to follow safety measures strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-cases-fluctuating-in-south-central-tn/articleshow/79071129.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Another arrest in cop attack case||PANCHAKULA: One more person was arrested on Thursday for attacking 16 cops, making a total of 14 arrests so far in the case. As per the cops, the accused has been identified as Balwinder Singh of Maheshpur, Sector 21. His involvement was stated by the already arrested five accused. He was produced in a local court that has sent him to 14-day judicial custody. On Tuesday, a total of 16 policemen, including three woman cops, were injured when they were trying to stop the villagers from protesting against legal mining by blocking the road in Rattewali village. The villagers allegedly pelted stones and bricks on the cops when they arrested some villagers for protesting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-arrest-in-cop-attack-case/articleshow/79068491.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala HC dismisses plea for local poll postponement||KOCHI: A high court division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by PC George MLA seeking to postpone local government elections scheduled to be completed by December 31. The court held that the State Election Commission’s decision to complete the election process by December 31 cannot be held to be arbitrary, warranting interference. Merely because there is a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases reported, particularly between October 1 and October 31, it cannot be contended that the State Election Commission has not considered its gravity and impact. True, there is no indication by any authorities as to when Covid-19 would end. But that alone cannot be a ground either to declare that the decision of the State Election Commission to hold the elections, mandated as per the Constitutional provisions, as invalid or to issue any direction to postpone the elections, the court said in the judgment. When the Constitution of India mandates the State Election Commission to conduct elections, courts, which are enjoined with a duty to abide by the Constitution and the laws, are bound to adhere to the Constitution, the bench said. Election Commission’s counsel Murali Purushothaman had told the high court that all the preparations for the local government elections in the state have been completed. The court was also told that the election commission went ahead with the preparations after holding a discussion with the director of health department and after convening an all-party meeting. The MLA had demanded that the elections should be postponed as Covid cases are rapidly rising in the state. It was contended by the election commission that the election should not be postponed indefinitely. Detailed guidelines have been issued regarding conducting elections during the time of COVID-19, the commission informed the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-dismisses-plea-for-local-poll-postponement/articleshow/79068473.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kochi||Panel seeks explanation from ED||Thiruvananthapuram: The assembly ethics committee has sought an explanation from the enforcement directorate (ED) for asking the files pertaining to the Life Mission project. The committee has asked the ED to give an explanation within seven days. The decision was taken by the ethics committee based on a complaint filed by CPM MLA James Mathew. In his complaint given to Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, the MLA said the ED had committed a breach of privilege by asking the files of the state-owned project. Mathew said the Life Mission project has been implemented across the state and the allegation has come only against the Wadakkanchery project. However, the move by the ED would paralyze the implementation of the project in the entire state. The ED has summoned the project officials and sought details of all the projects being implemented in the state. It is for the first time that the committee has sought an explanation from a central agency. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, meanwhile, flayed the Speaker’s decision to seek an explanation from the ED. Condemning the decision, Chennithala said the Speaker was trying to obstruct the ED investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/panel-seeks-explanation-from-ed/articleshow/79068493.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Now, life certificates to be delivered at doorstep by postmen in villages in UP||LUCKNOW: After allowing pensioners to submit their life certificates online, chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked for a further simplification of the process and said that in rural parts of the state, the certificates could be made by postmen who are providing doorstep banking services. The CM also pushed for the online system to be rolled out immediately across the state, adding that this would help pensioners upload their details either from home or through common service centres and not have to visit government offices unnecessarily. A government spokesperson said that the facility for life certificate/digital life certificate was being provided to pensioners by the India Post Payments Bank by the postal department. Under this, postmen and rural mailmen were providing banking facilities to consumers through smart phones and biometric devices. In the same light, the spokesperson said, rural mailmen have also been authorised to make life certificates for pensioners at their doorsteps. The only condition for this is that the authority approving their digital life certificates should be capable of doing so. He added that using this facility, pensioners can now easily and conveniently get their life certificates made from postmen and rural mailmen, eliminating the need for them to visit banks or other offices, especially during the current Covid-19 pandemic. In October, the government had allowed pensioners to submit their life certificates online. The decision was likely to benefit 6.5 lakh former government employees and several lakh more private citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-life-certs-to-be-delivered-at-doorstep-by-postmen-in-villages/articleshow/79071126.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Bhopal||30 hours on, struggle to rescue kid continues in Niwadi||BHOPAL: It has been over 30 hours since a frantic rescue mission is on to rescue a three-year-old boy who fell into a newly drilled 200-ft-deep open borewell in Niwadi district of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. Over 80 personnel from National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Sational Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and others have been digging vertically round the clock. At around 6pm on Thursday, 10 feet more was left to be dug to reach the kid — who has been stuck since Wednesday morning. A parallel trench is being dug to reach the borewell and oxygen is being pumped into it. A team of rescue workers on Thursday left for Bina town to get some equipment for horizontal digging. Hundreds of onlookers assembled at the site and a police force was deployed to keep them away. Officials are trying to monitor his movement with the help of a camera lowered into the well. The boy had been responding to the calls of the family till Thursday afternoon. While the rescue operation was underway, villagers were praying for the well-being of the child. Some villagers had reached Ramraja temple of Orchha, about 20km away from Saitpura village. The bore was dug recently by his father Harikishan Kushwah, a farmer for his personal use, and further work was on to make it operational. It is believed to be covered with an iron pan, used at construction sites and a heavy boulder was placed over it, the kid’s family said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/30-hrs-on-struggle-to-rescue-kid-continues/articleshow/79069997.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Madurai||History-sheeter on the run nabbed at gunpoint||Tuticorin: ‘Ennore’ Dhanasekaran, a history-sheeter, who was on the run without appearing before the court and was on the search list by the Chennai police on a court order, was nabbed at gunpoint in a lodge at Kovilpatti here on Wednesday night. The 39-year-old criminal has many cases against him including murder in Chennai, Madurai and Tirunelveli. On Wednesday, the Kovilpatti west police searched a lodge near the fire station based on a tip-off received by the superintendent of police (SP) of Tuticorin district. S Jayakumar. The team led by Kovilpatti DSP P Kalaikathiravan nabbed Dhanasekaran and two others. Two machetes and knife were seized in the room while his car was also seized. The Kovilpatti police handed over Dhanasekaran and one person identified as Madhankumar to the Chennai police early on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/history-sheeter-on-the-run-nabbed-at-gunpoint/articleshow/79071131.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP launches two mobile service centres||Coimbatore: BJP on Thursday inaugurated two mobile service buses to facilitate people to obtain various government documents like community certificate, ration card, voter ID card and help people apply for government welfare schemes. The buses named ‘Modi Mobile Service Center” were donated by president of BJP Coimbatore south district K Vasanth Rajan, said a statement. The buses are equipped with Wi-Fi, printer, computer systems, TV screen displaying the schemes of the central government and a staff to assist the common public. Public can approach the staff and get help in applying for various government documents and central government schemes. A statement from BJP said public should bring address proof, ID proof, photo, bank passbook and old ration card to facilitate the applications. The two mobile service centers will tour the towns and villages in Kinathukadavu area before moving to other areas in Coimbatore south district. Interested people who want to utilize the services can contact 9790112390.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-launches-two-mobile-service-centres/articleshow/79070009.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Ludhiana||CTET exam deferred to Jan||Ludhiana: The 14th edition of the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET), which was scheduled to be held on November 8 in 112 cities all over the country, has been postponed due to administrative reasons. The said examination will now be held on January, 31, 2021. Keeping in mind social distancing and other safety measures, the said examination will now be conducted in 135 cities. The new examination cities are Lakhimpur, Nagaon, Begusarai, Gopalganj, Purnia, Rohtas, Saharsa, Saran, Bhilai/Durg, Bilaspur, Hazaribagh, Jamshedpur, Ludhiana, Ambedkar Nagar, Bijnor, Bulanshahar, Deoria, Gonda, Mainpuri, Pratapgarh, Shahjahanpur, Sitapur and Udham Singh Nagar. A list of these cities is available on CTET website www.ctet.nic.in. A large number of requests have been received from the candidates for change of option for their examination city as they have shifted to their native place due to Covid-19. Keeping in view the difficulty faced by candidates due to Covid-19, the Central Board of Secondary Education has decided to give one time chance to the candidates for corrections in their option of city from which they want to appear in the CTET examination. The candidates who wish to change their examination city can make online corrections from November 7 to 16 up to 11.59pm. Every effort will be made to accommodate the candidates in the cities opted by them, but if the situation arises, they can be allotted any city other than the four cities opted by the candidates. All registered candidates may also visit CTET website www.ctet.nic.in for further details, if any.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ctet-exam-deferred-to-jan/articleshow/79068496.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Coimbatore||3.5 tonnes of banned tobacco products seized, 4 arrested||Coimbatore: In one of the biggest seizures of banned tobacco products in Tirupur district, the Tirupur rural police seized the products worth Rs 22 lakh and arrested four people on Thursday. The arrested people were identified as S Aravindraj, 24 and J Vaikundaraman, 38, of Palladam, P Muthukrishnan, 35, of Tirupur and C Saji Prasath, 43, of Coimbatore. Mangalam police inspector K Neeladevi had received a tip-off about a godown at Mangalam near Palladam, where banned tobacco products were stored. A police team led by the inspector raided the godown around 3.45am and found tobacco products weighing about 3,456.35 kilograms. Police also seized a car and two goods carriers. The arrested people were booked under Section 273 (sale of noxious food or drink) of the Indian Penal Code and a few sections of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003. They were remanded in judicial custody. The accused used to smuggle the banned products from Karnataka to Tirupur, police sources said. “As there is no ban on tobacco products in Karnataka, the smugglers used to visit the state to procure them in large quantities at a very cheap price. They were selling a packet for about Rs 20,” a police officer said. The accused are first-time offenders, district superintendent of police Disha Mittal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-5-tonnes-of-banned-tobacco-products-seized-4-arrested/articleshow/79070037.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Testing times for kids & teachers||BHOPAL: Undeniably, the Covid-19 pandemic has given a big push to online classes, computer-based tests (CBT) and e-assessments, but technical glitches, network issues and other complexities are making things tougher for both students and teachers. The stress soars during exams for students and teachers alike. As if exam nerves weren’t enough, kids have to fret over WiFi, patchy network and power cuts. Teachers suffer the same agony, plus the burden of framing questions that aren’t easy to answer if someone just picks up the book. “Earlier, we used to take classes after diligently preparing the subject. Now, we prepare for online classes and at the same time we prepare our subjects, too,” said Neha Dwivedi, a teacher at Gyan Ganga International Academy. “Taking online classes is even tougher as electricity, network are beyond our control. Many a times, we end up wasting our energy fixing network errors,” she added. Maintaining discipline in the class has turned into a major stress for teachers. “During online exams few students’ cameras went off. It was a genuine problem as they faced technical glitch. But, a few students deliberately do it. Now, when a teacher asks students to switch on their cameras, many do not follow instructions,” said another teacher Aruna Tayade. “There is a network problem at my home, so my child has to go to a neighbour’s house. You can imagine how it is if he has to go there daily. Often, the nighbours aren’t at home,” said Praneet Khare, father of a class 5 student. The biggest problem is with kids in junior classes. “During last online exam, my laptop stopped functioning. I could not complete the test as the problem was with the machine not me. When I told my school about it, they said exams were over. I could not write answers that ended in poor results for me,” said Vivek Gaur, a class 7 student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/testing-times-for-kids-teachers/articleshow/79070036.cms||Ramendra Singh
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||HC seeks clarity on voter list||Hyderabad: Responding to allegations that no publicity was given for graduates to enrol as voters for graduate MLC elections, the high court on Thursday gave a day’s time to the Election Commission to ascertain whether it will extend the November 6 deadline till December 7. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy told EC counsel Avinash Desai that in view of the pandemic situation, the election body should not stick to its normal procedure. “Tell us whether it would give time till the end of December to enable the graduates to vote in the elections,” the bench said. There would be two vacancies of graduate MLCs by March 2021 and the EC is preparing electoral rolls for that purpose. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-clarity-on-voter-list/articleshow/79070042.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Youth loots phone shop||Ajmer: A youth who came to offer prayers at the Ajmer dargah from Mumbai robbed a mobile phone shop in Ajmer.Ajmer police on Thursday arrested the accused Abdul Idrish, 38, from Mumbai, with the help of CCTV footage.According to Kotwali police, Idrish came to Ajmer in the last week of October from Mumbai to offer prayers. He stayed in the city for six days. On October 28, he broke into a shop in Amar Plaza complex near Agra Gate and made away with mobiles, laptops and other equipment worth Rs 5 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-loots-phone-shop/articleshow/79069977.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||South African firm to invest Rs 20 crore in defence corridor in UP||LUCKNOW: The Rs 300 crore South African defence company Milkor on Thursday signed an MoU with the UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) for investment in the UP Defence Industrial Corridor (UPDIC). “I am happy to announce that the global brand Milkor, already working in more than 50 countries, has chosen to land in India at UPDIC’s Aligarh node”, said UPEIDA chief executive officer Awaneesh Awasthi after signing the MoU. Awasthi said that the company intended to produce defence weapons and transportation boats in Aligarh and has committed to investing Rs 20 crore.  The defence corridor would provide jobs and other economic activities in the six districts where it is being established, he said Awasthi said that the land allotment for Aligarh node has already been completed and 21 companies have signed up with the UPEIDA promising to invest Rs 1,041 crore. Media adviser of UPEIDA, Durgesh Upadhya told TOI that the UPDIC project was drawing attention of global companies and adequate availability of subsidized land and skilled manpower was giving another advantage to the project as compared to land banks in Noida, Greater Noida, UPSIDA and along the Yamuna Expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sa-firm-to-invest-rs-20cr-in-def-corridor/articleshow/79071136.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man uses ex-girlfriend’s name with obscene pictures, held||RAJKOT: A 40-year-old factory owner was detained for allegedly using obscene photographs as his WhatsApp status and using his ex-girlfriend’s name as text in Rajkot on Thursday. Police said the accused, Hitesh Pitroda (40), was nabbed from his residence in Saurashtra Kala Kendra after his former girlfriend lodged a complaint against him. “After his girlfriend broke up with him six years ago, Pitroda decided to take revenge on her. Pitroda allegedly threatened her with dire consequences, if she did not restore her relationship with him,” said C G Joshi, inspector with Rajkot A division police station. “He started harassing her by uploading the obscene photographs on WhatsApp,” he added. Pitroda is the owner of a factory in Bhaktinagar. He has been booked under sections 354 (A) (D), 504, 506 (2) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) dealing with stalking, intentionally insulting a person and issuing threats and under the Information Technology Act. Pitroda has been detained at present. He will be formally arrested once he undergoes the mandatory Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-uses-ex-girlfriends-name-with-obscene-pictures-held/articleshow/79067314.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Online education a savior, offline woes persist||BHOPAL: A plethora of issues related to the difference in schooling experience and online education during the pandemic is making both kids and parents feel overwhelmed. “There should be quality interpersonal communication between family members and beyond. Covid-19 is an unprecedented situation. Mechanisms should be developed to allow for hidden interests in a person. For instance, some like music, dance or other things which could not be pursued due to lack of time. The pandemic has given people time to explore these interests,” said JP hospital’s clinical physiologist, Rahul Sharma. The pandemic has changed people’s lifestyle. Indiscipline in daily behaviour needs to be in check. Too much consumption of social media needs to be curtailed. Cognitive exercises lead to mental alertness. “Adaptation is the key to success. There is economic disparity which has come to the fore in this situation. Some parents cannot afford separate peripherals (digital learning devices) for individual kids. There are positive gains too wherein kids learn to share and help,” said psychiatrist Dr Satyakant Trivedi. Online education is here to stay. An environment needs to be created where students feel the house is a classroom. “Independence without vigilance over kids is not the way forward,” he added. “Impact on their health includes strain on eyes due to increased screen time,” said Dr Rajiv Singh. According to some case studies, real time learning loss in school environment will lead to skill loss and the skills people have related to their productivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/online-edu-here-to-stay-adaptation-is-key-to-success-experts/articleshow/79070081.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rural polls: 132 candidates file nominations on Day 2||Jaipur: On the second day of filing nominations, 132 candidates filed 142 nominations for the posts of panchayat samiti members and 39 nomination papers were filed for the posts of zila parishad members. In all, 143 candidates have filed nominations for the posts of panchayat samiti members and 38 candidates have filed papers for the psosts of Zila Parishad members. The elections to zila parishad and panchayat samiti members will be held in 21 districts.State election commissioner P S Mehra on Thursday to reviewed the preparations for the elections, which are to be held in four phases. He said keeping the Covid situation in mind, necessary guidelines will be issued by the Commission regarding counting of votes.In 21 districts, there are 4,371 constituencies for panchayat samiti members and 636 constituencies for zila parishad members.The process of filling nomination for elections to zila parishad and panchayat samiti members in 21 districts began on Wednesday. Eleven candidates filed 11 nominations for the posts of panchayat samiti members and three candidates filed pazpers for the posts of zila parishad members on the first day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rural-polls-132-candidates-file-nominations-on-day-2/articleshow/79070028.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Salem||Untreated effluent: TNPCB officials inspect Cauvery||Namakkal: The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board officials inspected river Cauvery on Thursday after reports of illegal dyeing units letting out untreated effluent into the river near Kumarapalayam and Pallipalayam in Namakkal district.TOI on November 2 published a report with photographs of untreated effluent entering into Cauvery and Bhavani rivers in these towns. District environment engineer M Selvakumar, one of the inspecting officers, said colour of water might look murky due to sediments that accumulated in the water pathways for several years, but not due to untreated effluent in the river. However, he warned of severe action against dyeing units, if any were found guilty. The officer said 25 illegal dyeing units were sealed in the district in the past three months. We are carrying out regular inspection in these areas, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/untreated-effluent-tnpcb-officials-inspect-cauvery/articleshow/79070065.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Patna||My last election, says Nitish Kumar in final hours of campaign||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday dropped a bombshell announcing that this would be his last election, while addressing a rally on the closing day of campaigning for the third phase of assembly polls to be held on November 7. “Today is the last day of electioneering (for 2020 assembly polls). Polling for the last phase will be held on the day after tomorrow. And, this is my last election,” an emotional Nitish said concluding his speech in Purnia district’s Dhamdaha constituency. “Ant Bhala Toh Sab Bhala’ (All's well that ends well),” he added, making an emotional appeal to electors to cast their votes in favour of JD(U) candidate Lesie Singh, who is seeking to make a hat-trick at her home turf. Being the second longest-serving chief minister of Bihar after the state’s first CM Shri Krishna Singh, who served from April 1946 to January 1961, Nitish will turn 70 on March 1. His main rival and the Mahagathbandhan’s CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is just 30 years old and he will turn 31 after four days. Nitish has so far served as CM for 14 years and two months in three different tenures. “This is the first time that Nitish spoke about his retirement from electoral politics,” a JD(U) leader said. A former minister in Nitish’s previous cabinet, Lesie Singh won Dhamdaha in 2000 and February 2005 election but lost to Dilip Kumar Yadav of RJD in the November 2005 election. She again won the seat in 2010 and repeated her victory in the 2015 election. The opposition RJD has fielded its two-term former MLA Dilip Kumar Yadav against her. Nitish on Wednesday addressed a total of five rallies for NDA candidates, four of JD(U) and one of BJP. Before Dhamdaha, he addressed election meetings in Katihar, Manihari, Barari (all three in Katihar district) and Rupauli in Purnia where cabinet minister Bima Bharti is seeking re-election. Speaking at all five rallies, Nitish focused on women voters and urged them “with folded hands” that he did a lot of work and took many important decisions including enforcing total prohibition, at their request. “Hence, it is now the turn of woman voters to come forward and support their cause by casting their valuable votes in favour of the NDA candidates,” Nitish said. CM asked women to ensure “Pahle Matdaan, Phir Jaal-Paan’ in their families by going early to vote and only then prepare food. “Strictly ask all male members in your family to first go for voting. Tell them they will get breakfast only after they cast their votes,” Nitish told the women members attending his rallies. Speaking at Manihari in Katihar, Nitish said, “We started the ‘Jeevika’ livelihood programme with 10 lakh women with a loan from the World Bank. Now we have added 1.2 crore rural women in the self-help groups and increased their family income.” “We are implementing new industrial policy, this will help in setting up new industries in the state itself and everyone will get employment over here only,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/my-last-election-says-nitish-in-final-hours-of-campaign/articleshow/79070653.cms||Madan Kumar
November 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Food testing lab to be set up at Panchkula cowshed||PANCHKULA: A food testing laboratory will be set up at Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham within a week for examining fodder, fruits, vegetables and water donated for cows. The development comes about 10 days after 71 cows died at the gaudham purportedly due to food poisoning. The cowshed management said the laboratory would check the fodder before it was served to the cows. Donors would not be allowed to give fodder to the cows directly or go near the sheds, as per the new guidelines issued by the deputy commissioner. Even as the reason for the recent deaths of cows in Haryana was stated to be chemicals used to grow fruits, vegetables and fodder faster, animal husbandry department deputy director Dr Anil Kumar said food poisoning might be the cause of the cattle deaths at the Panchkula gaudham. “Reports from Madhuban laboratory are awaited. We have received the reports from Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Health Sciences. These will be shared with the media after a detailed study.” During his visit to the gaudham, Animal Welfare Board member Mohan Singh Ahluwalia had sought details of firms from which the fodder was purchased and checked the procedure of serving it. On October 27 night, 100 cows had collapsed and 71 of them died. Of the seven sheds in the gaudham, the cows of two were affected. A three-member SIT was formed to investigate the case and standard operating procedures were made for cowsheds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/food-testing-lab-to-be-set-up-at-pkl-cowshed/articleshow/79068512.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
November 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sweepers again threaten to hold protest from November 26||CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation sweeper union on Thursday decided to again hold a protest from November 26 to browbeat the political parties as well as the civic body into accepting their demand of withdrawing GPS-enabled watch order. The union took the decision after holding consultations with leaders and representatives of related organisations. “After a meeting with the members of prominent federations, employee unions, door-to-door garbage collectors and other associations of the city, we have decided to start a protest again against the GPS watches if our demands are not considered soon. We will step up the strike this time,” said Krishan Chadha, president of the sweeper union. “For the past 15 days, we are holding a dharna outside the medical office of health in Sector 17. Around 100 employees are participating in it daily. We are hopeful that as promised, both the Congress and the BJP will support our demands,” he added. Sources said, “As the union knows that the protest will not have the impact, it wants other federations to join forces with it.” The MC will soon constitute a committee to discuss the issue of GPS-enabled watches. “The committee will have members of the ruling as well as the opposition parties. Their names will be decided shortly,” sources added. The union said they would consider supporting in the upcoming municipal elections the party that stood by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sweepers-again-threaten-to-hold-protest-from-nov-26/articleshow/79068520.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan proposes up to seven-year jail term for food adulteration||JAIPUR: The state government has prepared the draft of the bill to amend the IPC (Indian Penal Code) provisions for adulteration of food or drink and drugs, which guarantees more stringent punishment, up to seven years of imprisonment, for manufacturing and selling food items and drugs that are hazardous to life. Moreover, the offences will now be categorized as “non-bailable and cognizable” offence. Meanwhile, the state government had started a campaign to fight adulteration of food items on October 26. “The bill is ready but could not be introduced in the last assembly session as it was very short. It will be tabled in the next session. The provisions of sections 272 to 276 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) have been made more stringent now. Earlier, the offences were bailable and non-cognizable. Now, these will be categorized as non-bailable and cognizable offences,” said an informed source in the government. “The sentence has also been divided into two categories: i) 1 to 3 years of imprisonment (for selling toxic and harmful food items and drugs) and ii) up to seven years of imprisonment (for heinous crime – selling food items which are hazardous to life). Even though police takes action in various cases, the culprits usually escape as the provisions are not strict enough under the existing law. The penalties have also been increased for adulteration of food items,” said the official. The official further said, following the passage of the bill, the President of India has to give assent to the amended law. “Five to six states have already done it. The existing law will become more stringent now,” the official added. Section 272 of the IPC deals with adulteration of food or drink intended for sale; Section 273 deals with sale of noxious food or drink; Section 274 deals with adulteration of drugs, Section 275 deals with sale of adulterated drugs and Section 276 deals with sale of drug as a different drug or preparation. Cognizable offence is an offence in which a police officer can arrest a person without a warrant and can start the probe without the permission of the court. Meanwhile, as a part of “Suddh Ke Liye Yudhh” campaign, the district administration on Wednesday night destroyed 700kg of adulterated paneer and 50 kgs of cream which was seized from a pick-up vehicle at Malviya Nagar police station area. The number of the vehicle is RJ14 GL-0796. The adulterated paneer was purchased from Alwar by a person named Mahaveer Garg for supply to shopkeepers in Jaipur, informed ADM-IV Ashok Kumar. 500 kgs of rotten almonds were also destroyed at M/S Jasoria Trading Company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-proposes-up-to-seven-year-jail-term-for-food-adulteration/articleshow/79070006.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
November 6, 2020||Ludhiana||PCTE college students face problems during online exam||Ludhiana: Students from PCTE College, which is affiliated to PTU, faced issues while taking the re-appear exams online on Thursday. Students were unaware that the question paper would be visible to them for 15 minutes and was to be downloaded within this time frame. Also, some were not able to log in as it demanded a change of password. Several students took more than 30 minutes to log in due to technical glitches. One of the students, Shubham Sharma, appearing for radio production, semester IV exam, said, “The exam was to start at 1.30pm and we had to log in 15 minutes prior to it. At 1.10pm, even after repeated attempts, I was not able to log in, but managed to do so at 1.40pm, almost 10 minutes late for the exam. I contacted the authorities of the college and university. They told me to keep trying to log in but did not caution that I have limited time to download the question paper and if I did not download it, then I would not be able to submit my answersheet.” “So, I missed the time of downloading the question paper and asked one of my friends to share the same. I attempted it in an hour but still was not able to submit it,” he complained. Later, when he rushed to the college and met professors and the director of the college, Shubham said, “College authorities tried to help him but they themselves were not too clear. I am worried as I have to re-appear for the exam and pay Rs 1,100 as fee. Not only this, I have to wait for another semester to re-appear for the exam. I really want the authorities to do something and mention the guidelines properly.” Another student of the same college who faced a similar issue said, “I immediately mailed to the university but I received the reply that I have to appear in the next semester for the exam. My whole year will be wasted as first I have to appear for an exam and then wait for the result.” KNS Kang, director of PCTE, said, “The university has allowed an online book system but the rule is that students have to download the question paper and one cannot submit the sheets without downloading it. In this case, the student has visited my office but if the student does not download the question paper, then it is not possible for him to submit the answersheets. In fact, there were no technical glitches from the university side as other students too have appeared for the exam. However, students had poor internet connections. The particular student was not officially logged in but there were other students who attempted the exam.” Principal of a PTU affiliated college Dr Harpreet from GGNIMT said, “These are common problems but we resolved them. The students of our college have faced the same issues but the head of examination committee resolved the issues by providing the alternate email for downloading the question paper and submitting the answersheet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pcte-college-students-face-problems-during-online-exam/articleshow/79068524.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Body of Maoist Velmurugan cremated in Theni district||Madurai: The body of Maoist A Velmurugan, who was shot dead by a thunderbolt squad in Kerala recently, was cremated in his native place in Periyakulam in Theni district early on Thursday morning.Velmurugan’s body was brought to his native place E Pudukkottai at around 2am. His elder brother and advocate from Madurai A Murugan and mother A Kannammal accompanied the body. The final rites, which started at around 4am, were completed by 6.10am amid tight security at the Periyakulam municipality cremation ground. Around 200 police personnel led by a deputy superintendent of police officer were deployed to prevent any untoward incident. A Thunderbolt team spotted Maoists consisting of five - six people in Padinjarathara in Wayanad and opened fire killing Velmurugan on the spot. Velmurugan was arrested in 2007 in connection with arms training in Muruga Malai and procurement of arms. He went underground a few months after he came out of prison. The Tamil Nadu Q branch police and police in other states were searching for him in connection with various cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/body-of-maoist-velmurugan-cremated-in-theni-district/articleshow/79071138.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Civil services aspirant ‘sells’ IAS coaching videos, held||NEW DELHI: A 22-year-old civil services aspirant has been arrested for allegedly reselling tutorial videos of an IAS coaching institute after enrolling in it. The youth “sold” these videos at discounted rates through a popular chat app and even uploaded these on his channel on an online video platform. #Delhi: A 22-year-old civil services aspirant arrested for reselling tutorial videos of an IAS coaching institute a… https://t.co/q0Har1erIM— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1604634637000The accused has been identified as Priyadarshan Tiwari, and four phones and a laptop were seized from him. According to police, the coaching centre, The Study — an Institute for IAS, has filed a complaint alleging that due to the Covid lockdown, it had started a mobile application, The Study by Manikant Singh, for providing video tutorials to its students. The complainant said that on May 21 and in October, he came to know that a video platform channel has uploaded the same videos. On contacting its owner, the complainant was given a message app ID and an email address for further contact. He was offered tutorial videos at discounted rates and provided links of more such videos. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said that through the bank accounts associated with the payment links, the suspect was initially identified as Rana Pratap Singh. But through a mobile phone number, police finally identified Tiwari, he said. Tiwari told police that after completing schooling from a reputed institute, he had been pursuing a master’s degree in political science. He said he was a civil services aspirant and also wanted to start a coaching centre, the DCP said. The accused got to know about various groups providing tutorial videos on the message group. He subscribed to The Study by Manikant Singh in the fake name of Virat Tiwari and shared the user ID and the password on the chat group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civil-services-aspirant-sells-ias-coaching-videos-held/articleshow/79070099.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Goa||Mapusa ryots write to civil aviation over Mopa growers’ rehab||SALIGAO: The Bodgeshwar Farmers’ Association from Mapusa has written to the state’s directorate of civil aviation to take necessary steps for the rehabilitation of farmers at Mopa whose houses will soon be demolished after the process of land acquisition for the proposed airport is complete. While pointing out to the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013 as stated in the official gazette, the president of the farmers’ association, Sanjay Barde, has stated in the letter that “the cumulative outcome of compulsory acquisitions should be that the affected persons also become partners in the development leading to an improvement in their present social and economic status.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-ryots-write-to-civil-aviation-over-mopa-growers-rehab/articleshow/79070087.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Surat||Bharuch police nab man with 7kg ganja||SURAT: Acting on a tip off, sleuths of Special Operation Group (SOG) of Bharuch nabbed a person with nearly eight kilos of ganja (cannabis) from Piludra village in Jambusar taluka of Bharuch district on Thursday. Cops also seized a weighing machine and mobile phone from 52-year-old accused Shiva Parmar, a resident of Piludra village, and arrested him under under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic substances Act. “We received specific information that Parmar has 7.96 kg ganja with him and is engaged in illegal activities. We carried out a raid on his residence and recovered the substance,” said an SOG official. Bharuch police said they will probe to know from where he procured the contraband and his other links.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bharuch-police-nab-man-with-7kg-ganja/articleshow/79067363.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Finding no buyers, LIT panel to find ways of earning from building||Ludhiana: A multi-storey building on Rani Jhansi road has become a major cause of concern for the Ludhiana Improvement Trust officials as despite organising the e-auction for this property twice, they could not get a buyer for the same. Now, the local bodies department has formed a state-level committee to verify the facts about the building and reach a conclusion on what can be done to generate revenue from this building. The LIT chairman, Raman Balasubramanium, said that despite a cut in the reserve price, no one turned up to take part in the auction. Initially, the reserve price of this building was fixed at Rs 197 crore but as the auctions could not bring the desired results, the price was brought down to around Rs 157 crore, but to no avail. When Raman Balasubramanium had joined he also had claimed of utilising the building for setting up different types of establishments and he had even proposed to shift the LIT office to this building. The renovation cost of this building was estimated at Rs 3-4 crore, but the local bodies department did not give approval for the same as there was no assurance that even after renovation it would attract buyers. The chairman of LIT said, “We did not get response for this building in two auctions, so now a state-level committee has been formed that will take an appropriate decision. The idea is to generate revenue by selling this building, but seeing the past experience it does not looks that we will be able to sell it off like this.” He said the committee members would visit the place and then they will take a decision about it. The building has a double basement and total 77 units, including restaurants, banks, showrooms, shops and pent houses but failure of the authorities concerned to sell it off has turned it into a deserted place. The window panes and glasses are broken and in the evening vendors sell their eatables to people while parking their vehicles outside this building. Some of the past plans The chairman LIT, Raman Balasubramanium, had proposed to develop a parking for Ghumar Mandi in the basement of this building, but it could not materialise till date. In April 2018, the deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal, who was having additional charge of chairman of LIT, had mooted a plan to develop a jewellery market in the building. In 2013, the income tax department was offered to establish their office at this site. Similarly, a few years ago former deputy CM, Sukhbir Badal, had proposed a downtown project at the site. Then the office of Powercom was also proposed to be shifted to this building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/finding-no-buyers-lit-panel-to-find-ways-of-earning-from-building/articleshow/79068560.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ludhiana||MC officials given time till Nov 15 for making compost pits||Ludhiana: The municipal corporation officials have been given time till November 15 to complete the task of creating compost pits in public parks. This is in accordance with the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) as well as Swachh Bharat Mission, under which officials have been told to solve the problem of horticulture waste in public parks. The horticulture waste that is produced from pubic parks or from sides of the roads during pruning of trees was earlier going to garbage dumps as there was no solution with the civic body, but since they started developing these pits the waste was being converted into manure. As of now over 300 parks are covered even as there are 922 total parks, but the deadline set by the NGT will end in November and after that penalty will be imposed. Now, to avoid the penalty officials from other branches have also been told to pitch in and create pits in the parks. In some of the parks the residents had objected to the pits while saying that it would spoil beauty of the park and also there would be foul smell all around. So, now in those parks where pits cannot be created, the officials will install iron cages and horticulture waste will be stored in the case. Later, MC officials will lift that waste from the parks. Meanwhile, junior engineer of horticulture branch Kirpal Singh said the idea was to settle the waste being generated at public parks at the same spot only, so these compost pits were being created. He said under the Swachh Bharat Mission and as per the NGT directions they had to settle the waste at the spot, whether it was horticulture or domestic waste, so now they were trying to meet the target. These pits were created first of all in the Rose Garden and other big parks of the MC and from there already manure was being generated for the plants. MC house meeting preponed The MC general house meeting will be held on November 10 instead of November 11 as announced by mayor Balkar Sandhu and venue can be Rose Garden for ensuring social distancing at the time of meeting. The mayor has asked the officials to prepare the agenda for the house meeting so that it could take place on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-officials-given-time-till-nov-15-for-making-compost-pits/articleshow/79068545.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Salem||Dalits face ordeal of crossing canal on foot to bury their dead||Namakkal: With no burial ground in their village, around 150 dalit villagers of Veerappampalayam near Kumarapalayam in the district have to cross a canal in hip-deep water and tread through a battered road to bury their dead ones in an adjacent village close to the Pallipalayam municipality. “We have to walk in the hip-deep water for nearly one kilometer in the canal to reach the burial ground," R Vijayakumar, one of the villagers, told TOI. The villagers demanded a bridge across the canal to reach the burial ground.Dalits had settled in the village for more than four generations.Initially, they had buried the dead bodies in one corner of the village. But, the government officials strictly warned them not to bury the dead bodies in the open ground. “After the warning, we started to bury the bodies in the nearby burial ground,” Vijayakumar added.More than 15 villagers died of various health ailments in the last six months. On Wednesday, villagers carried the body of Ponnuthayee, 63, who died of age-related ailments on Tuesday, in a hearse and crossed the canal to bury him in the nearby village. People who have land near the canal do not allow dalits to carry the mortal remains of the dead through their land.Another villager K Rajukumar said they met electricity minister P Thangamani two weeks ago and submitted a petition demanding a proper approach road to reach the burial ground. “If they don’t have land to lay the road, then the government has to set up a burial ground in our village,” they demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/dalits-face-ordeal-of-crossing-canal-on-foot-to-bury-their-dead/articleshow/79070104.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||RERC’s tariff guidelines will affect third party and captive solar plants||Jaipur: Rajasthan Energy Regulatory Commission’s decision not to extend 50% exemption on transmission and wheeling charges to captive and third party renewable energy projects as offered in the solar and wind policy of 2019 is set to have an immediate impact on projects over 300 MW capacity.Based on the exemption in the Rajasthan Solar Energy Policy, a clutch of renewable energy developers had registered with Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd (RRECL) for projects with 305 MW capacity. But sources in RRECL said after RERC withdrew the incentives in its recent tariff orders, developers have started showing unwillingness to go ahead with the projects.“Solar tariffs are already very competitive. The government had offered the incentive to attract new investments. Several developers had registered with RRECL to put up projects with 305 MW capacity. Since the incentive is not there now, they are calling us to de-register,” said an official preferring anonymity.Similarly, in the solar policy, the government had waived the cross-subsidy surcharge on projects for captive use and third party sale. But in the new tariff order, RERC imposed cross-subsidy surcharge and additional surcharge on these projects.The solar policy had allowed banking of renewable energy both for captive consumption and third party sale on yearly basis. But as per the RERC order, the banking facility for third-party projects has been removed, while the captive plants can only bank 25% of their total energy generation.A developer said that investors trust government policies and accordingly make investment decisions. “If the policy is subjected to such drastic changes, the investors start losing their trust in government. This will impact the solar programme of the state,” he said.However, RERC’s tariff order had offered some relief to power developers by allowing them to pay wheeling charges on actual power transmission than contractual capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rercs-tariff-guidelines-will-affect-third-party-and-captive-solar-plants/articleshow/79070050.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Tagore questions Kishan’s silence||Hyderabad: Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) in-charge Manickam Tagore on Thursday sought to know why Union minister for home affairs G Kishan Reddy is silent on the alleged corruption during the TRS regime. Speaking during a signature collection campaign against farm laws in Chevella, he accused TRS of cheating people. “The CM and his family is involved in irregularities but the Union minister is keeping mum about it,” said Tagore. He also demanded for BJP to withdraw the farm laws. He said that Congress will collect signature of farmers and send it to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan as well as President Ram Nath Kovind. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tagore-questions-kishans-silence/articleshow/79070334.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Vijayawada||YSRC plans mass contact events to mark YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s padayatra||AMARAVATI: The YSRC leadership is organising rallies and events in all constituencies starting Friday to celebrate YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s near year-long Praja Sankalpa Yatra (padayatra) and mark its contribution to the party’s victory in the 2019 assembly elections. Senior party leaders are closely monitoring arrangements to make it a mass-contact programme, in the hopes that it will help consolidate the party’s base. “YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has become synonymous with keeping his word, which is rare in public life. He has fulfilled nearly 90 per cent of his padayatra promises within 16 months of coming to power and is moving towards reaching the 100 per cent mark even before crossing half of the five-year rule,” said YSRC general secretary and state government advisor (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy. The chief minister had launched his Praja Sankalpa Yatra on November 6, 2017 and logged 3,648 km in a span of 341 days, covering 134 assembly constituencies. “It was not mere padayatra, it was a straight walk into the hearts of the people as he touched every heart during the long padayatra,” said Sajjala, adding that people reposed their faith in the young leader to the extent that YSRC bagged 151 out of 175 assembly seats. The party believes the spirit of the Padayatra has brought revolutionary changes in education, agriculture, medicare and political empowerment to weaker sections. “The entire public delivery system has been changed by setting up village and ward secretariats where services are being delivered directly to the doorsteps of the people,” said Lella Appireddy, YSRC general secretary. Dr LSN Prasad, a retired economics professor, said the public delivery system has changed with the chief minister’s emphasis on welfare schemes. “From providing quality seeds and other inputs to marketing of agriculture produce, Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) were set up to take care of the needs of farmers. Rs 13,500 per family is being disbursed through Rythu Bharosa scheme,” said agriculture minister K Kannababu. He said the farmer comes first for the chief minister, who has announced MSP fpr all crops besides setting up a market stabilisation fund of Rs 3,000 crore. “Moved by dilapidated hospitals and schools, the CM has brought in the Nadu-Nedu scheme. All schools and hospitals are being revamped,” said Sajjala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ruling-party-plans-mass-contact-events-to-mark-cms-padayatra/articleshow/79068535.cms||Samdani MN
November 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambulances stuck in jam in Ambala||AMBALA: Traffic was affected and ambulances got stuck in a 2km-long jam on National Highway-152 in Baldev Nagar on Thursday as the farmers blocked roads. Despite a flyover on NH-152 at Baldev Nagar, the police did not even allow ambulances moving towards Chandigarh to pass through it and these were forced to wade through the jam. Several ambulances got stuck in the jam at Baldev Nagar with patients inside and the drivers looking helpless. An ambulance (HR-65-3219), which was carrying a patient of septic shock from MMU Hospital, Mullana, to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, got stuck at the spot where the NH-152 Baldev Nagar flyover starts. The ambulance driver said, “The police have put up barricades at the entry of the flyover towards Chandigarh. The on-duty officials did not allow me to take the flyover and forced me to drive through the jam. The patient with me had suffered a septic shock. No one cooperated with us and the police said they would not allow us through the flyover. Some more ambulances were stuck in the jam.” With the help of local residents, the ambulance drove through Ram Nagar (Baldev Nagar) streets to by-pass the jam. Baldev Nagar SHO inspector Hamir Singh said, “We stopped the movement from above the flyover as there was a road blockade on the other (Punjab) side. We diverted the traffic towards Barwala for Chandigarh and Panchkula from underneath the flyover at Naraingarh Chowk. No incident of an ambulance getting stuck in the jam under the flyover came to my notice. We allowed ambulances and emergency services towards Chandigarh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambulances-stuck-in-jam-in-ambala/articleshow/79068531.cms||Jaskaran Singh
November 6, 2020||Salem||1,740kg of artificially ripened bananas seized in Salem||SALEM: The Tamil Nadu food safety and drug administrative department officials seized about 1,740kg of artificially ripened bananas worth about Rs 1 lakh from three fruit shops in the Chinna Kadai Veethi area in the past two days. District officer of the department K Suruli said they inspected the shops in the area after receiving a tip. “Three traders had been spraying ethylene for ripening fruits for several months,” he said. Ethylene, a colorless flammable gas, is a natural plant hormone which is often used in forced ripening of fruits. Intake of such fruits sometimes leads to health complications. The officer said criminal action will be initiated against the shopowners. He also warned other shopowners against resorting to such illegal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/1740kg-of-artificially-ripened-bananas-seized-in-salem/articleshow/79070151.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Min says repeated agitations dent image of community, invites Bainsla for dialogue||Jaipur: Stating that all demands of the Gujjars have been accepted, sports minister Ashok Chandna on Thursday again urged convener of Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti Kirori Singh Bainsla and other members of the group to call off the agitation, which has “put the state in difficulty and common man in pain”.He also invited them for a dialogue with the government. Chandna further said, “Repeated agitations damage the image of the whole community.”The minister said police cases filed during agitations becomes an obstacle for youths in finding jobs later, which is “painful”.Meanwhile, during a meeting at the railway track in Bayana (Bharatpur) on Thursday, Bainsla announced that henceforth the agitation will be led by his son Vijay Bainsla.“The state government has accepted all the demands of Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti that are legally tenable. Still, if any demand, which is legally feasible, is due at the state government level, Bainsla and other members of Samiti should come to table for a dialogue instead of putting the state in difficulties arising out of the agitation,” said Chandna in a statement.“In a democracy, solution to any problem is possible only through dialogue,” he added.Chandna further said, “Despite accepting all the demands, it is not appropriate to continue the agitation. Common people are facing lots of trouble due to this. The patients, examination candidates, students and people carrying out essential services have to go through a lot of pain. The time they have lost can’t be compensated ever.”As on Thursday, the fifth day of agitation, 37 trains have been diverted and around 200 buses in Gujjar-dominated areas across the state have been affected. Meanwhile, police headquarters have asked the candidates for police constable examination, scheduled on Friday, to use alternate vehicles to reach the exam centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/min-says-repeated-agitations-dent-image-of-community-invites-bainsla-for-dialogue/articleshow/79070121.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt announces 30-day bonus for 15 lakh employees||LUCKNOW: Ahead of Diwali, the state government announced a bonus for Grade C and D employees. Around 15 lakh employees, including non-gazetted employees, teachers of assisted colleges, teachers and staff of technical education institutes, employees of local bodies and daily wagers working for the government, will benefit from this decision taken by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday. The order states that the bonus will be equivalent to 30 days of pay, not to exceed Rs 7,000. As per calculations, the maximum bonus that an employee will be entitled to is Rs 6,908. Out of this 75% will be deposited in the employees’ provident fund account while the remaining 25% will be handed over in cash. Those employees who do not have a PF account will be given the bonus in national saving certificates. An official said that 14,82,187 employees will benefitted and the government will bear an additional expense of Rs 1,022.7 crore on this. The order also states that employees who retired on March 31, 2020, or will retire on April 30, 2021, will get their entire bonus in cash. The beneficiaries include 8,80,187 non-gazetted employees, 6,00,000 workers in government aided institutes and 2,000 daily wagers. Finance minister Suresh Khanna had said on Wednesday that with the state's economy back on track with its revenue exceeding the previous year's for the third successive month, it might announce a bonus for the state employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-announces-30-day-bonus-for-15-lakh-employees/articleshow/79071148.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||CJM suspended for beating up kin, abusing neighbours in drunken fit||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday suspended the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) of Uttarkashi for allegedly beating up his family members and abusing neighbours in a drunken fit. The suspension order was issued after the employees of the district collectorate and residents of the Collectorate Colony lodged a complaint before the HC alleging that the official, Neeraj Kumar, would often assault his family members and even abuse the neighbours in an inebriated condition. The complainants alleged that Kumar got drunk on the night of October 29 and beat up his family members apart from damaging several vehicles in the area including that of the sub-divisional magistrate and tehsildar. An office memorandum issued by the HC and signed by registrar general Hira Singh Bonal said that that a drunk Kumar had parked his official vehicle in the middle of the road and kept honking continuously. “He plied the official vehicle allotted to him to the parking area of the colony and damaged the other government vehicles there,” the memorandum read. The HC noted that the CJM’s conduct was in violation of the Uttarakhand Government Servants’ Conduct Rules, 2002 and amounted to misconduct. Hence, the court suspended him with immediate effect and attached him to the district judge’s headquarters in Bageshwar along with the direction that he should seek prior permission to leave the station. Also, the official would receive only half of his salary and dearness allowance (DA) while under suspension, the HC decided. Meanwhile, Vikasnagar civil judge (senior division), Madan Ram, was transferred to Uttarkashi to serve as the new CJM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cjm-suspended-for-beating-up-kin-abusing-neighbours-in-drunken-fit/articleshow/79067379.cms||Prashant Jha
November 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Nine, including two juveniles, held for property offences||Visakhapatnam: Vizag police on Thursday arrested seven persons and took two juveniles into custody in separate incidents for a number of property offences. In the first instance, the accused had committed a series of offences, including a bike theft on November 4. Five persons—Koyya Manoj, V Mohan Kumar (19), P Vamsi (19), D Sai (20) and E Satish—were arrested and one juvenile was taken into custody, for allegedly threatening a group of persons and robbing their cell phones and other valuables. In another instance, two persons identified as E Vinay Kumar (23) and P Nihar Reddy (20) were arrested and a juvenile taken into custody. Police said Vinay has a history sheet in One Town police station, while Nihar has a suspect sheet in Two Town police station. The accused had stolen a bike at Velampeta and a mobile phone near Poorna market. Near Cinepolis Multiplex theatre, the trio robbed a boy of his mobile phone at knifepoint.They also noticed a woman out on a morning walk and allegedly assaulted her and robbed her of mobile phone. The woman was threatened at knifepoint not to reveal the incident. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nine-including-two-juveniles-held-for-property-offences/articleshow/79068557.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ludhiana||People given MC properties on lease to get notices||Ludhiana: Municipal corporation officials have been told to serve notices to people who have been given MC properties on lease basis and collect the agreement documents from them. First of all, five properties will get the notices for which revision of lease amount was proposed almost a year ago. Apart from this, now records of all properties have been demanded which have been given on lease, so that the authorities concerned could revise rates in one go. This decision was taken in a meeting of committee members meant for revision of rates of properties on lease. These properties include Arya college, KVM School, Krishna Charitable Hospital, Khalsa Education College and Dharam Seva Trust, Jawahar Nagar. These were given these properties at very nominal rates and which now needed revision. Above all, at some locations commercial activities were being undertaken. The committee members asked the officials to serve notices to the occupants of these properties and collect the required records. The secretary of MC, JS Sekhon, said, “The officials will serve the notices to these properties for checking whether shops have been opened under any agreement or if these are without permission, then rent should come to MC and there are chances of sealing the shops as well.” He said revision of other lease properties would also take place shortly. Congress councillor Gagandeep Bhalla said there was a need for revenue generation so they had to come out with such an idea. He said they would revise the lease amount as some properties were at prime locations but lease amount was very nominal. Meanwhile, the senior Congress councillor Jaiparkash said they had to take a decision regarding certain disputed properties as well but the tehsildar was not available, so for that they would meet again on Monday. He said for finding the records of the leased out properties too one week had been given.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/people-given-mc-properties-on-lease-to-get-notices/articleshow/79068579.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||All schools, anganwadi centres to get piped water connection by December-end: Govt||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday instructed the officials to ensure piped water connection to all the schools and anganwadi centres by the December-end. During a review meeting of Jal Jeevan Mission, Rawat termed it an “important project”, and asked the concerned district magistrates to keep a regular watch on the development. He also asked the officials of Jal Sansthan and Jal Nigam to set daily targets for the project. “To ensure pure drinking water supply to each household in the state, all the departments concerned need to work in coordination and prepare daily targets,” the CM said. Under the Jal Jeevan Mission, a total of 14.26 lakh piped water connection is to be provided to the rural areas. However, so far only 3.53 lakh connections have been made. In the last six months, the Uttarakhand government has made piped water connections available to 1.36 lakh houses in the remote areas. This year, the state government has set a target to provide piped water connection in all households of Chamoli, Dehradun and Bageshwar district. Chief Secretary Om Prakash said the distribution network of the new connections would be increased. “To meet the per person water demand, the authorities were asked to ensure the rejuvenation of water sources. The officials were asked to speed up the work and if required, increase the number of contractors to complete the projects within the stipulated time,” Prakash said. He said Udham Singh Nagar and Haridwar districts were posing a tough challenge to successfully implement the project but added that more staff would be deployed to complete the work in these two districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/all-schools-anganwadi-centres-to-get-piped-water-connection-by-december-end-govt/articleshow/79067368.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Parents who paid fees urge schools to resume online classes||Jaipur: As the private schools in the city have discontinued online classes, parents who have already paid the fees are suffering due to it.Due to non-payment of fees, majority of the private schools in the city have stopped online classes from Thursday. The matter is pending in Rajasthan High Court due to which most of the parents have not paid fees.Private schools claimed that they were incurring financial losses and therefore stopped online classes.Anjali Gadia, a parent who had deposited school fees, said the decision has affected me badly. “I understand that schools are suffering losses, but at least parents who have paid the fees should be getting benefit of online classes. The government should resolve the issue sooner as it will hamper academic year of lakhs of students,” said Gadia.Another parent Vipul Goyal (name changed) whose children are studying in Class X and XI said that without online classes it will be difficult for his kids to study. “From Class I to VIII, under RTE students have to be promoted, but in board examination, it is important to have regular classes. At least for parents like us schools must resume online classes,” said Goyal.President of Parent Association Rajasthan Sunil Yadav said, “Schools always claim that they are doing a noble cause, but by stopping these online classes, it’s very clear they are the commercial business houses. They do not care about the academic loss of students.”Private school authorities organised a protest in front of Collectorate circle in Jaipur on Thursday.Sandeep Bakshi, an educationist and owner of Seedling Public School, said, “Schools have been forced to take this step under difficult circumstances after months of struggle. I request chief minister Ashok Gehlot to personally look into the issue and provide schools a breath of relief.”Anil Sharma, president of School Shiksha Parivar, said the government’s attitude towards private schools is totally unfavorable in the matter of school fees as reflected in the order issued on October 28, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-who-paid-fees-urge-schools-to-resume-online-classes/articleshow/79070112.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Madurai||MP urges Prez to facilitate release of Rajiv case convicts||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has written to President Ram Nath Kovind to facilitate the release of the seven convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. In a letter on Thursday, he said that the convicts are languishing in jail for three decades.Venkatesan termed the delay in releasing them “an assault on the Indian system of justice” as the seven are in jail even after serving more than two terms of life imprisonment, which is according to the norm generally followed in the country’s judicial system.The MP pointed out that major political parties, prominent human rights activists and several organisations in Tamil Nadu have been demanding their release for a long time. He added that this demand has wider consent among the masses too.Recalling the recent Supreme Court’s observation that the governor of Tamil Nadu can decide on the issue, the MP requested the President to prevail upon the former to not prolong the issue further and facilitate the immediate release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-urges-prez-to-facilitate-release-of-rajiv-case-convicts/articleshow/79071151.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Now brace for June-like Covid-19 horror in December||AHMEDABAD: The horrors of a June like situation when Covid virus pockmarked every portion of the city like chicken pox, now stares at us with even more certainty, reveals the latest Aarogya Setu tracing app data. By late November or by early December, Ahmedabad city may face a second wave if citizens continue to disregard basic hygiene measures and wearing masks. Areas like Ambawadi, Bopal, Bodakdev, Sarkhej and Subhash bridge have now been emerging as the Covid hotspots since the lockdown eased in September.  To give an idea of how Covid-19 virus puts people at risk, the Aarogya Setu data is worth noticing. In the north west zone for instance on June 1, areas like Bodakdev, Thaltej, Ghatlodiya, Chandlodiya and Gota collectively reported 13,755 people who either had come in contact with Covid infected persons or had reported symptoms. Within 15 days, the number of those who had come in contact with Covid-19 positive people jumped to 1.90 lakh people, turning the whole area “dark pink”. In the following 15 days, this number dropped a little to 1.06 lakh by the first week of July. Till September 3, the number of people under Covid risk hovered between 71,000 and 73,000. Between 13 September and 29 September, these areas saw a 86% jump in the cases. Contrary to this, the central zone saw 3.61 lakh people who had come in contact with Covid-19 positive persons by June 15. However, due to the stringent measures, this number dropped to 47,000. “Between September and mid-October nearly 50% of the Covid cases were reported from the western parts of the city. These include Paldi, Vasna, Naranpura, Vadaj, Chandlodiya, Gota, Bopal, Naranpura, Ghatlodiya , Bodakdev, Sarkhej and Maktampura,” claimed a senior health official from the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. Aarogya Setu relays information of users only when one of the owners of the registered devices tests Covid-19 positive. The app then traces all “at risk” registered devices that had come in contact with the positive persons in the last 60 days. “The data pertaining to the registered mobile users within the reach of 150 meters around every mobile tower was sought, which helped us pin point societies and offices which were at risk. Accordingly, colour codes like blue for less severe, amber for moderately severe and pink for very severe were assigned,” explained the health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-brace-for-june-like-covid-19-horror-in-december/articleshow/79070131.cms||Paul John
November 6, 2020||Goa||Goa Forward Party: Why different onion rates at ration, horticulture stores||MARGAO: The women’s wing of the Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Thursday flayed the government for failing to provide 3kg onions at Rs 32 per kg as promised by it. Ashma Sayed, president of the women’s wing of GFP, addressing media persons, pointed out that while the civil supplies department would be selling onions at the rate of 34.50 per kg, the horticulture department was selling them at Rs 66 per kg through its various concerns. “How does one account for the difference in rates? Sayed asked. Sayed also pointed out to the mismatch between the assurance given by chief minister of providing 3 kg onions at Rs 32 per kg and what was being provided by the civil supplies department – just one kilo at Rs 34.50, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-why-different-onion-rates-at-ration-horti-stores/articleshow/79070097.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Goa||Jeweller murder: Six booked under arms act in Goa||PANAJI: The crime branch of Goa Police has registered an FIR against six persons, including main accused Mustafa Shaikh after the recovery of another gun at his house. The gun was discovered during the ongoing investigation in the Margao jeweller Swapnil Walke case. The six persons booked are Shaikh, his mother, three accused who have been arrested in Bihar and Evander Rodrigues. Crime branch SP Shobhit Saksena told TOI that during the interrogation of the three accused from Bihar, it was revealed that not one but two firearms were purchased in Bihar. “The crime branch team led by PI CL Patil immediately carried out a fresh search of the house of the prime accused Mustafa and recovered one more firearm in a rusted condition from the roof of the house. A fresh case under the Arms Act has been registered with the crime branch,” Sakesna said. On October 22, the crime branch had arrested three persons from Bihar who had sold the firearm to the accused for Rs70,000. Police said that two of the accused, Rodrigues and Shaikh had travelled to Bihar to purchase the gun and they travelled by train back to Goa. Another accused Omkar Patil met the duo on their return at the Margao railway station. In September Swapnil Walke was stabbed at his shop in the heart of Margao, and died before he could be taken to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jeweller-murder-6-booked-under-arms-act/articleshow/79070116.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||More flights operate, but passenger footfalls stay low||AHMEDABAD: Even though the number of flights operating from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad has risen, with more domestic and international routes opening, passenger footfalls at the airport have remained low. Aircraft capacity continues to be underutilized, according to data from the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Some 2.74 lakh passengers used SVPI airport in Ahmedabad in September 2020, against 9.21 lakh in September 2019. This means passenger footfalls declined by 70%. Travel agents said footfalls have declined due to widespread apprehensions among people about travel due to the pandemic. “Airport passenger movement has improved marginally in September, but with restrictions on international travel and limited leisure travel, the number of travellers is really low,” said a city-based tour operator. Corporate travel has also been affected as several entities have imposed travel restrictions on employees. This segment contributed about 40% of all travellers. Only people who have to address emergencies are travelling, tour operators in the city said. The four major airports in the state — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot — saw passenger footfalls decline by an average of 78% this August, against the same month last year. Things are likely to improve marginally in October and November due to the festival season, sources said. “Holiday inquiries for the festive season are good. Even though most people are reluctant to travel by air, inquiries for certain destinations are coming in and this will improve passenger footfalls,” said Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI), Gujarat. The travel and tourism business has taken a major hit and many players have turned to alternative businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-flights-operate-but-passenger-footfalls-stay-low/articleshow/79070165.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Erode||Rural police seek NGO Uyir’s help to install CCTV cams||Coimbatore: Inspector general of police K Periaiah has sought the help of NGO Uyir to install automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) cameras in rural areas. The NGO, formed by industrialists, has been spending Rs 5 crore every year to make the city accident-free. The west zone, comprising eight districts, has 52,888 CCTV cameras in public places. While there are 10,883 cameras in rural areas of Namakkal, those in Erode has 12,037 cameras, Krishnagiri 9,135 and rural Coimbatore has 7,916 cameras. The Nilgiris has only 240 cameras. “We have requested industries, educational institutions and private firms in rural areas to install more CCTV cameras in public places as a corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. This would help to prevent crimes,” said Periaiah. “Uyir had spent money to install CCTV cameras, maintain traffic signals and develop software to generate automatic challan for traffic violations. I approached the managing committee and trustees of Uyir to extend their support to rural police also. We plan to install ANPR cameras in the entry and exit point of Coimbatore district to monitor vehicle movement,” he said. The Coimbatore city police had cracked several cases by monitoring footage from the 25,000 CCTV cameras here, Periaiah said. “In rural areas, traders are hesitating to invest on CCTV cameras. However, we are trying to convince them. While the cameras will provide us with valuable information, they will also keep their premises safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/rural-police-seek-ngo-uyirs-help-to-install-cctv-cams/articleshow/79078200.cms||A Subburaj
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||Foundation day celebrations: Minister in-charge to attend event in district||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday announced the names of the minister in-charge and parliamentarians to attend the foundation day functions in the state in their respective areas and districts as chief guests.In a letter to all district magistrates, secretary Amit Negi has mentioned that Satpal Maharaj will attend the function as chief guest in Haridwar on November 9, Madan Kaushik in Nainital, Harak Singh Rawat in Almora, Yashpal Arya in Dehradun, Subodh Uniyal in Pauri, Arvind Pandey in Champawat, Rekha Arya in Bageshwar and Dhan Singh Rawat in Tehri. MP Mala Rajya Laxmi Shah would be the chief guest for the function in Uttarkashi, Tirath Singh Rawat in Rudraprayag, Ajay Tamta in Pithoragarh and Ajay Bhatt in Udham Singh Nagar.Government buildings in the Kumaon and Garhwal region will remain lit from November 8 to 11 to mark the occasion. However, in the wake of Covid-19, it was decided that gatherings would remain prohibited.On November 8, the CM is scheduled to flag off a mountain bike rally. He will also inaugurate the project under which all government degree colleges will be given free Wi-Fi connectivity. The CM will also inaugurate the country’s longest motorable single-lane bridge in Dobra Chanti area in Tehri district, ending a 14-year wait for the people. The 440-metre-long bridge that will serve a population of three lakh has come up at a cost of Rs 150 crore.In the presence of a limited number of people, the CM will attend the state foundation day parade at Dehradun police lines on November 9. After the event at Dehradun police lines, the CM will attend a function at Gairsain, the summer capital of Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/foundation-day-celebrations-minister-in-charge-to-attend-event-in-district/articleshow/79067412.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 6, 2020||Rajkot||Gang of highway robbers busted||Rajkot: Five members of a gang of highway robbers were arrested in Porbandar on Wednesday night. Police recovered three knives, bats and iron pipes from the accused. Those held include Raju Odedara (41), Nilesh Bokhiria (31), Deva Bokhiria (40), Kana Khunti (30) and Mashri Modhvadia (52) from Jubilee crossroads in Porbandar. “We had received a tip-off about the accused gathering at Jubilee crossroads to plot a highway robbery. Acting on this information, we raided the spot and nabbed the accused,” said K I Jadeja, inspector with Porbandar special operation group. Apart from the arms, the police also seized one car, one bike and five cellphones, together worth Rs 3.80 lakh, from the accused. The accused have been booked under sections 399 and 402 of Indian Penal Code dealing with dacoity.“At present, the accused have been detained. They will be formally arrested once they undergo the mandatory Covid-19 test,” added Jadeja. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gang-of-highway-robbers-busted/articleshow/79067421.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||1 held for possession of crackers in Bundi||Kota: Bundi city police arrested one person on Thursday and seized 36 to 40 cartons of crackers stored in his house under Bundi city police station for sale ahead of Diwali. On a tip-off, a police team led by assistant deputy superintendent of police IPS Kundan Kanwariya carried out a raid and seized the crackers stored in a house in Poddharo ki Hatai in Bundi city, said Bundi city police. Police arrested one Pawan Jain alias Lucky, the owner of the house and booked him under sections of Explosives Act 1884, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-held-for-possession-of-crackers-in-bundi/articleshow/79070140.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Varsities to address mental health issues||VIJAYAWADA: The government has decided to play an active role in helping students deal with psychological stress emerging out of financial, career or other issues. As part of reaching out to students, the department of higher education has asked all public universities in the state to set up a counselling cell on campus. The decision acknowledges the psychological impact of the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown on students. Stress levels and fears about career prospects have increased, in many cases leading to depression. The government will appoint highly-qualified professors of psychology to address students’ concerns. Speaking about the initiative, special chief secretary Satish Chandra said, “We have noticed that a lot of students are scared about their future and think Covid-19 can damage their chances of being successful. Some of them also carry the baggage of other forms of stress due to the lockdown and the outbreak. Mental health is as important as physical health for a student. Due to the same, as per the directions of the chief minister, we have undertaken this initiative with the aim of getting such students back to the right path. They need to be told that their careers are not in danger and that the government and the departments stands with them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/varsities-to-address-mental-health-issues/articleshow/79068595.cms||Venu Lanka
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rape cases in Rajasthan down 16% in 9 months this year compared to 2019||JAIPUR: In 2020, of the total rape cases registered in the state between January and September, 43% turned out to be fake. The percentage of rape cases registered has declined by 16% in the first nine months of 2020 as compared to last year. The maximum number of cases registered were in Bharatpur with 197 FIRs, followed by Barmer which had 182 incidents. In two years from 2019 to 2020 till September, 9,000 rape cases have been registered in Rajasthan. Compared to 2018, there was an increase of 31% in the rape cases that were registered across the state. Cops also found that maximum number of cases were registered in later part of 2019 and one of the possible reason was that after the Thanagazi rape case last year, the complainants could file their FIRs in SP office as well, claimed officials. “The data shows that now the survivors have more confidence in the police because of which they are coming forward and registering their complaints. Though at times we do receive fake cases due to personal animosity, we are glad that at least in the genuine cases, the survivors get justice,” said a senior police official. Out of the 4027 rape cases registered from January to September in this year, FR was submitted in 1089 cases. This year the FIRs which came through courts was 13.3% while 86.61 cases were registered directly at the police stations. In 89% incidents, the accused were known to the survivors out of which 47% were from same area while in 19% matters the accused were known to the survivors through friends or family. In 20% cases the accused were relatives. In 86% of rape cases, no injury or struggle marks were found on the survivors during the medical examination. While in 86% survivors supported the claim that they had been raped, 30% of these retracted their statement in court when their statements under CrPC section 164 had to be recorded. Thirty eight per cent of the survivors worked in fields, while 42% were labourers and 80% came from rural backgrounds. In the survivors, 23% were uneducated and 35% had studied till primary class while 16% were graduates. In the accused, 12% were uneducated and 33% had studied till primary class while 22% had studied till secondary school. Only 6% were graduates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-cases-in-state-down-16-in-9-months-this-year-compared-to-2019/articleshow/79070108.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ludhiana||3 schools cry foul over NOC cancellation||Ludhiana: Schools whose NOCs were cancelled are in a dilemma as they are receiving no new admissions for the session and the school authorities claim that they were not even issued notices for cancelling the NOCs. Secretary of Guru Nanak Public School, Sarabha Nagar, one of the schools whose NOC was cancelled, Surinder Singh Ryait said, “No prior notification was given by the education department to our school to seek explanation and the department cancelled the NOC. It’s been over two weeks since the NOC was cancelled.” DAV School, BRS Nagar, and Amrit Indo Canadian Academy were two other schools whose NOCs were cancelled. “On October 16, 2020, we were shocked to know about the cancellation of NOC of our school. On inquiring from the education department, the said news was confirmed by the education department. However, it is very strange and unfortunate that neither any notice was served upon the school or the management before cancellation of NOC of school, nor any alleged notice was ever refused by school or the management. Rather the school management complied with all guidelines and orders passed by the government, authorities concerned as well as the education department and there is no lapse on the part of the school.” The school management has given a representation to the chief minister, Punjab, and others to look into the matter. Education minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “The matter will be looked into by the staff of the education department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-schools-cry-foul-over-noc-cancellation/articleshow/79068615.cms||Mehak Jain
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Nine more products added to ODOP for national, global branding||LUCKNOW: Nine more products have been added to the One-District-One-Product (ODOP) list which will now be systematically promoted and developed by the government. The scheme was launched by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in 2018 to promote district-specific handicrafts and goods. One product from each of the 75 districts was identified and have since been part of a plan to market and brand them nationally and globally. “Earlier, 66 products from 75 districts were being developed while providing training and financial assistance to workers. Later, we found some districts had more than one product with equal economic and employment potential and decided to include two or more products in ODOP list. Varanasi, for instance, has several GI products and like silk, these too could be developed,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (MSME). The new products include metal from Mirzapur, mentha from Rampur, food items and school dresses from Lalitpur, leather from Unnao, zari work from Farrukhabad, agarbattis from Kannauj, pink meenakari and toys from Varanasi and readymade garments from Gorakhpur. These districts already have at least one more product promoted under ODOP.Officials say products included under ODOP list will be specially marketed and packaged and artisans would be trained to improve product quality, while ensuring their uplift. “Under ODOP scheme, MSME department organises special exhibitions, funds artisans and workers to attend exhibitions in India and abroad, holds technical sessions for marketing, branding and technological improvements and provides tool kits. Lakhs of workers have benefited by this focused approach to development of a particular product,” an official said. The state’s ODOP programme has been recognised by the Centre and Union minister Piyush Goyal, who asked other states to adopt the scheme as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nine-more-products-added-to-odop-for-natl-global-branding/articleshow/79071153.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 6, 2020||Goa||Court rejects anticipatory bail plea of man accused of robbing Bengaluru tourists||PANAJI: A Mapusa court has rejected anticipatory bail to 21-year-old tout Lalsab Ameensab Nadaf from Khorlim, who robbed tourists from Bengaluru on the pretext of arranging accommodation for them. The tourists filed a police complaint stating that on September 15, the accused made them follow him on his scooter from Calangute to a villa at Porvorim on the pretext of arranging accommodation for him and three of his friends. Once inside the villa, they were assaulted and robbed. Along with other accused, Nadaf allegedly assaulted the tourist, threatened them with dire consequences, robbed cash of Rs 1,500 from the wallet and used one of their debit cards to withdraw Rs 8,000 through a swiping machine, stated the complaint. The court held that the alleged offence is “serious in nature” and that his custody is required for the purpose of investigation. Although other accused in the same case were released on bail, the court stated that the principle of parity couldn’t be applied to him as the allegations against him and against the other accused are different. The court was told that accused’s scooter, which was used for committing the offence, is yet to be recovered and his presence is required for the purpose of recovery. It was stated that the sum of Rs 8,000 has been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-rejects-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-man-accused-of-robbing-bluru-tourists/articleshow/79070159.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||Farmers of Terai region block NH against farm laws||Rudrapur: The farmers of the Terai belt of Uttarakhand, which is also known as the rice bowl of the state, protested against the Centre’s contentious agricultural laws on Thursday. The farmers under the banner of Terai Kisan Sabha (TKS) blocked the national highway, adjacent to the city's grain market. The call for the nationwide “chakka jam” from 12 pm to 4 pm was given by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC). The protesting farmers owing allegiance to TKS and the Kisan wing of the Congress party blocked NH-74 near the grain market. Terming the laws as "black laws," the agitated farmers slammed the central government and expressed fear that these legislations would “destroy the farming community and would only benefit big corporate houses.” TKS president Tejinder Singh Virk told TOI, "The new laws will dismantle the minimum support price (MSP) system and the farmers will be manipulated by the corporate houses. The farmers will become labourers in their own lands as the laws aim to privatise the agricultural sector." Kisan Congress state secretary Ganesh Upadhyay added, "These laws are going to badly affect the prices of crops across the country which will eventually lead to financial chaos.” The protesting farmers later conducted a march in Rudrapur’s main market shouting slogans against the Centre. The three farm laws — the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — were enacted recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-of-terai-region-block-nh-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79067395.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Most Jaipur play schools, day cares forced to shut shop||JAIPUR: Six months back, play schools and day cares in the city were a flourishing business with many teachers and support staff. With the outbreak of the pandemic, more than 30 pre-schools and day care centres have been forced to shut. Bachpan Play School had three branches in Jaipur out of which two have been shut as it has become difficult for the owners to pay the rent without any source of income. Simpal Vyas, director of Bachpan Play School said, “We had more than 200 students but with the lockdown, our income has become nil. Paying around Rs 2 lakh of rent for three properties wasn’t feasible. We are planning to start some other business till the preschools are open again.” Most of these schools have started taking online classes but it is a challenge to make children up to six years of age to sit in front of a laptop. Rajesh Mehta, director of Little Kingdom School said, “Only a few students had enrolled for online classes. It is difficult to manage small kids with online classes. We have more than 350 students but only 20% parents have paid fees. We are in a crisis as we are paying most of the expenses from our pocket.” According to pre-school authorities, parents have made it clear to them that they will send their children to school only after a vaccine is available in the market. “Parents are apprehensive about sending students in class IX to XII to school for consultation. It is definite that this year, schools will not be opened and pre-schools will be the last ones to be opened. More than 30 pre-schools have closed down in the city and people are opting for alternative career options,” said a play school and day care owner. Vivek Swami, owner of Smiling Star Day Care said that they had three branches, all of which they had to shut. “We are hopeful that things will be better. The times are tough as most people are still working from home and day cares are not needed. People who have started going to office are scared to leave their children in a day care due to the rising number of cases,” said Swami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/most-city-play-schools-day-cares-forced-to-shut-shop/articleshow/79070161.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 6,000 schools to get World Bank aid||GANDHINAGAR: World Bank has approved around Rs 7,500 crore $500 million to improve and modernize infrastructure and teaching of government-run schools in the state. The funding will be in the form of a soft loan and will be used in turning around about 6,000 of the 32,000 government-run schools of the state under the Schools of Excellence (SoE) project. Two other financial institutions — Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) — are also expected to fund the programme to upgrade infrastructure in government schools, capacity building of teachers and strengthening school governance. Sources in the state education department said that the mission envisages to improve learning outcomes and provide new age learning experience to students in 20,000 government schools —15,000 primary, 5,000 secondary and senior secondary — in the state covering about 5.3 million students. “The fund will be invested on improving physical and digital infrastructure, capacity building of teachers, school leaders and system officials and strengthening school governance in these schools in next six years,” said sources. The programme is expected to get funding of $500 million from the World Bank, $100 million from ADB, $250 million from AIIB and a contribution by the state and convergence of other local funds towards the programme. The programme is an endeavour to provide world class education across all districts, blocks and clusters of the state, said a top government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6k-schools-to-get-world-bank-aid/articleshow/79070157.cms||Kapil Dave
November 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Rural police seek NGO Uyir’s help to install CCTV cams||Coimbatore: Inspector general of police K Periaiah has sought the help of NGO Uyir to install automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) cameras in rural areas. The NGO, formed by industrialists, has been spending Rs 5 crore every year to make the city accident-free. The west zone, comprising eight districts, has 52,888 CCTV cameras in public places. While there are 10,883 cameras in rural areas of Namakkal, those in Erode has 12,037 cameras, Krishnagiri 9,135 and rural Coimbatore has 7,916 cameras. The Nilgiris has only 240 cameras. “We have requested industries, educational institutions and private firms in rural areas to install more CCTV cameras in public places as a corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. This would help to prevent crimes,” said Periaiah. “Uyir had spent money to install CCTV cameras, maintain traffic signals and develop software to generate automatic challan for traffic violations. I approached the managing committee and trustees of Uyir to extend their support to rural police also. We plan to install ANPR cameras in the entry and exit point of Coimbatore district to monitor vehicle movement,” he said. The Coimbatore city police had cracked several cases by monitoring footage from the 25,000 CCTV cameras here, Periaiah said. “In rural areas, traders are hesitating to invest on CCTV cameras. However, we are trying to convince them. While the cameras will provide us with valuable information, they will also keep their premises safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rural-police-seek-ngo-uyirs-help-to-install-cctv-cams/articleshow/79070170.cms||A Subburaj
November 6, 2020||Goa||South Goa MP tells 10 ex-Congress legistators to back protests||MARGAO: South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha on Thursday congratulated the anti-coal protestors for the successful midnight agitation at Chandor, even as he warned the government against ignoring the demands of the people of Goa. “People have woken up and shown the government that they don’t want double tracking. It is the duty of the government to listen to the people and change its decisions accordingly,” Sardinha said while addressing reporters at the Congress South Goa district office at Margao. Sardinha further demanded to know from the 10 MLAs who had switched over from the Congress to the BJP for reasons of developing their constituencies, if they were in approval of the BJP-led government in the state “working against Goa’s interests.” “They embraced BJP for selfish reasons. Now don’t sell off Goa. If people don’t want a particular project to come up in Goa, it’s the duty of the government to listen to them. The 10 MLAs should now tell the chief minister to change his decisions, and if need be, tell him that he will have to be ousted (if he doesn’t listen),” Sardinha said.  He particularly referred to minister for water resources Filipe Neri Rodrigues, Cuncolim MLA Clafacio Dias and Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa, who were among the 10 breakaway MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/south-goa-mp-tells-10-ex-cong-legistators-to-back-protests/articleshow/79070194.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man poses as PhD scholar to marry woman||AHMEDABAD: A man was booked on Wednesday for allegedly concealing his first marriage and posing himself as a PhD scholar from Australia to woo a woman for marriage. In her complaint with Ghatlodia police station, Zeel Choksi (32), a resident of Jawaharkunj Society on Ashram Road, alleged that the accused, Priyank Choksi, had claimed to have got a PhD degree from an Australian university in his bio-data in order to impress her for marriage in 2011. According to police, the victim was introduced to Priyank through a family friend. Impressed with his educational qualification, Zeel decided to marry him. The couple got married on December 7, 2012. After she moved to his place in Ghatlodia, Zeel chanced upon a family album that had pictures of Priyank with another woman. “Priyank claimed that they were pictures of his engagement with another woman in the past. However, upon investigation, Zeel found that Priyank had earlier married a woman named Mamta Patel in 2008 which he had concealed from Zeel,” said an official from Ghatlodia police station. When Zeel took up the issue with Priyank, Priyank walked out on her on April 21, 2015. She then filed a court complaint against Priyank. The couple separated two years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-poses-as-phd-scholar-to-marry-woman/articleshow/79070171.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Humiliated by debt collectors, 4 of family attempt suicide; 3 die||COIMBATORE: In a suicide pact, a family of four consumed poisonous pills used for killing rhinoceros beetles that attack coconut trees at their residence at the foothills of Marudhamalai here on Thursday morning after some people, who had lent them money, humiliated them in front of their neighbours for not repaying them. While three of them died, one is undergoing treatment at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). The Vadavalli police identified the deceased as R Sivamurugan, 50, of Leprosy Colony, his wife S Vaira Rani, 40, and daughter S Yuvashree, 22. His younger daughter, S Hema, 19, however, survived the suicide attempt. An investigation officer said Sivamurugan was into supplying milk and his wife was a homemaker. “Sivamurugan was also running a chit fund and many people had invested in it. Preliminary inquiry revealed he was facing huge loses in the milk business. He had also lent money to his friends and relatives, who failed to repay him. Some of them also didn’t pay him the chit fund amount. So, he had borrowed a few lakhs from his acquaintances.” On Wednesday night, the officer said, a group of people had met Sivamurugan at his house and asked him to return the borrowed money. They also allegedly abused him and his family members verbally. Following this, he said, the family seem to have decided to end their lives by consuming poisonous pills. “Around 5am on Thursday, the four took the pills along with banana. Hema vomited immediately after that and ran out of the house and informed the neighbours.” However, the remaining three died on the spot. The neighbours alerted the Vadavalli police, who sent the bodies to CMCH. Hema was also taken to the same hospital, where she is undergoing treatment. The officer said they have recovered a suicide note from the house with the names of four people, who had failed to repay the borrowed amount to Sivamurugan. Police have registered a case and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/humiliated-by-debt-collectors-4-of-family-attempt-suicide-3-die/articleshow/79070210.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Cong protests atrocities against Dalits & women||Jaipur: The Congress party on Thursday staged a protest against increasing incidents of crime against women and Dalits in the state capitals.The stir was part of the nationwide programme organised by the party on the call of Congress central leadership. PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra led the programme at a function at Shahid Memorial in Jaipur. Attacking the central government, Dotasara said the central government is not serious on the issue of safety and security of Dalits and women. He said the Hathras incident had shaken the conscience of the nation and civilisational values. He alleged that such incidents have become the order of the day in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, but the central and state governments try to hush up the matter. He alleged that the BJP is using police to suppress the voice of the people.The party president said with Bihar election, the countdown for the ouster of BJP will begin. He claimed that in the next Lok Sabha polls, the Congress party will come back to power with full majority.The meeting was addressed by Congress leaders Mumtaz Masih, former Rajya Sabha MP Askar Ali Tak, former AICC secretary Sanjay Bapna among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-protests-atrocities-against-dalits-women/articleshow/79070163.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Telugus divided on choice of next US President||VIJAYAWADA: With vote counting for the US presidential election going neck-and-neck, preferences for President among the Telugu community in America is split straight down the middle. President of the Telugu Association of North America (TANA) Jai Talluri said Telugu-Americans by and large stand with incumbent President Donald Trump, pinning their hopes on him to boost the economy of the country. The Telugu-American community is primarily scattered across the swing states of Florida, Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania. However, Telugus in the US without citizenship are critical of the President’s handling of the pandemic and immigration restrictions. But the immigration debate may not be relevant as both Republican and Democratic candidates, Joe Biden and Donald Trump, favour S-386 Bill, Talluri said. The legislation, Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act of 2019, seeks to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to eliminate country-wise numerical limitations on employment-based immigrants. “This Bill will ensure that immigration for Indian-Americans is more liberal. Both the candidates have supported it and assured to get it passed,” Talluri said. “So even if any one of them wins, it’s fine with many people in the community,” Talluri told TOI. However, the difference between Biden and Trump in terms of their support for the Bill comes with a catch. The incumbent President will seek a declaration stating that an employer could not find ‘highly-skilled’ persons within the United States if they wish to employ immigrants. “Even if Trump’s support for the Bill comes with a catch, the highly-skilled labour force in the US still comes from India. A significant number of jobs in the service sector has immigrants sitting on them,” Gopisetty Srinivasulu, a Telugu NRI from Detroit, Michigan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/telugus-divided-on-choice-of-next-us-prez/articleshow/79068627.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Firecracker godowns seized in Barmer||JAISALMER: After the state government announced ban on stocking and selling firecrackers, authorities swung into action in Barmer district’s Balotara and Sheo sub-divisions. Balotara SDM Rohit Kumar on Thursday sealed godowns of many cracker wholesalers. He said godowns of Ashok Kumar Khetmal Bagrecha at Tilwara railway station and Hastimal at Devnagar Asada Road were raided and sealed. DySP Subhash Khoja said 11 shopkeepers in Sheo and two in Goonga were warned not to sell crackers during Diwali. Land record inspector Babu Ram said the action was taken on the directions of the district administration. Despite ban, a large number of shopkeepers in Jaisalmer and Barmer ordered huge quantity of crackers and fireworks and are now selling them illegally, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/firecracker-godowns-seized-in-barmer/articleshow/79070173.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AAP, BJP spar after legal notice over property tax ‘graft’||NEW DELHI: A legal notice has been sent to Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal, party in-charge for municipal corporations Durgesh Pathak and north corporation leader of opposition Vikas Goel by Chandni Chowk councillor Ravinder Kumar over an allegation of corruption in property tax collection. The BJP councillor, who heads the high-powered house tax committee in North Delhi Municipal Corporation, also accused AAP of defaming him and his party by making these comments. “It is disappointing to see people making such baseless comments. We are receiving all money via cheques or online. These transactions are recorded properly, so how is it possible to dupe public and make huge difference in accounts?” Kumar asked. “Their comments have maligned our image. Rather we are making efforts to increase collection,” he added. According to the legal notice sent by Kumar’s advocate, without any valid proof, Pathak and Goel, in conspiracy with and at the behest of Kejriwal, have made the allegation. “The imputations... directly harm the reputation of my client in the estimation of others. The press briefing in which the allegation was made is available on the official YouTube channel of AAP and, thus, the content or defamatory imputation can be said to be the voice of the party,” it stated while demanding an unconditional apology in writing to all councillors. The notice also demanded withdrawal of the video from YouTube and publication of an apology in newspapers within seven days, failing which legal proceedings, both criminal and civil, will be initiated. Pathak said on Thursday that the north corporation had identified around 12 lakh people for collecting property taxes. If the BJP-run corporation had collected these taxes “correctly and honestly, Rs 2,100 crore would have come into its account. But it has just collected Rs 700 crore”. The corporation could not collect “around Rs 1,400 crore due to its negligence and corruption. Then what is wrong in asking about this money”, he questioned. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and his party must disclose the truth behind this Rs 1,400 crore, the AAP functionary demanded. “If this Rs 1,400 crore is found, the pending salaries could have been released today,” he said. “We will have to bring this to public notice. If BJP thinks it can keep our mouth shut by sending a legal notice, it is wrong. Aam Aadmi Party is not afraid of this legal notice,” Pathak said. Taking “full responsibility” for his statement, Pathak had earlier demanded an investigation or an audit by CAG and other agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-spar-after-legal-notice-over-property-tax-graft/articleshow/79070230.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||General category women move Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: Women candidates from general category for the posts of state tax inspectors have approached the Gujarat high court seeking job in 33% women’s quota according to the controversial August 1, 2018 government resolution, from which certain provisions have been struck down by the high court. The high court has issued notice to the state government and the Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC) and posted further hearing on two sets of petitions on December 12. The candidates have challenged GPSC’s select list declared in September 2020. Names of the petitioners were not included in the list. The select list was governed by another GR issued after the HC’s striking down the provisions of the 2018 GR. The petitioners submitted that the advertisement for the post of state tax inspectors class III was issued in October 2018, and the recruitment then was governed by 2018 GR. The select list for general category women should have been prepared by keeping in mind the 2018 GR interpretations and their names should have been included. The candidates claimed that there have been 35 recruitment processes for government jobs which were regulated by the August 1, 2018 GR. All the processes took place after the controversial GR was challenged in the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/general-category-women-move-hc/articleshow/79070220.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Congress ups ante against handing over of Mangaluru International Airport to Adani Group||MANGALURU: The Congress party in Dakshina Kannada has upped the ante against the handing over of the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) to the Adani Group for maintenance. The airport was recently handed over to Adani Airports as per a decision taken by the Union cabinet in July 2019. Consequently, on October 31, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) officially handed over handling of MIA to Adani Airports on lease for 50 years. Senior Congress leader and former minister B Ramanath Rai said the party will hold a mass protest near the airport at Kenjar on Monday. The District Congress Committee (DCC) convened a special meeting to discuss the issue threadbare, at the party office here on Thursday. In the meeting chaired by DCC president K Harish Kumar, party leaders decided unanimously to oppose the central government’s decision of handing over the airport to the private company. “It is injustice to the coastal district that an airport set up by former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and parliamentarian U Srinivas Mallya has been handed over to the Adani Group. The airport that was built on a parcel of land handed over to the government by people belong to the scheduled tribe has been now given to the Adani Group. The Modi government has already merged Vijaya Bank with a loss-making bank based in Gujarat, and thereby erased the name of noted banker Mulki Sunder Ram Shetty from history. The Modi government has been following an anti-people policy, which the people of Dakshina Kannada will not tolerate,” said Ramanath Rai. Former minister K Abhayachandra Jain, former MLC Ivan D’Souza, former MLA J R Lobo, Dakshina Kannada District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai, Mangaluru City Corporation opposition leader Abdul Ravoof and Mahila Congress district president Shalet Pinto spoke against the government’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cong-ups-ante-against-handing-over-of-mia-to-adani-group/articleshow/79067446.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: BJP and Congress field Gujjar faces for Greater mayor||JAIPUR: Somya Gurjar, hand-picked by the RSS, will compete with Congress candidate Divya Singh for the mayor’s post in Greater Municipal Corporation, Jaipur. Both BJP and Congress fielded candidates from Gurjar community after the seat was reserved for Other Backward Class (OBC) woman. Gurjar, former women commission member, was entangled in a controversy after she clicked a ‘selfie’ with a rape victim in 2016. However, with 88 councillors in BJP’s kitty, Gurjar is within sniffing distance of the post while possibilities of her Oxford returned rival Singh looks bleak after the Congress finished a distant second by winning 49 seats. Taking a jibe at the BJP’s decision, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi said, “BJP is making a joke of the people’s mandate by appointing Gurjar. She was forced to resign from her post after taking selfie with rape victim. A woman who does not have wisdom where to click pictures has been picked by the party to head the corporation.” Gurjar (36) is not only facing opposition from the Congress party, but also from her own party members. BJP MLAs of Jaipur city who were discontented with the decision did not accompany Gurjar to the office to file nomination for the mayor’s post. Supporters of Sheel Dhabhai also protested against the decision. Dhabhai was amongt the front runner for the post as she was first woman mayor of Jaipur city. A senior BJP party leader said, “There were 9 women candidates belonging to OBC community who won the election.” The BJP announced the name of Gurjar after the Congress fielded Divya Singh. Though, political equations are not in favour Singh, but she was always considered as strong candidate. 28-year-old Singh studied diploma in business management from Oxford. Her father Sanjay Singh is an AICC member and close aide of urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-cong-field-young-gurjar-faces-for-mayors-post-in-jaipur-greater/articleshow/79070212.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Rajkot||Tenders issued for four over bridges||RAJKOT: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Wednesday issued tender for four over bridges which were approved in the past budgets. The civic body had issued tenders for constructing over bridge at KKV chowk and near Jaddus restaurant on Kalavad road. The other two are in Nana Mava chowk and Ramdevpir chowk on 150-foot Ring Road. The estimated cost of KKV bridge is Rs 98 lakh, while for Juddus chowk bridge it is Rs 20 lakh. Nana Mava chowk bridge will come up at a cost of Rs 30 lakh, while Ramdevpir Chowk bridge for Rs 29 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tenders-issued-for-four-over-bridges/articleshow/79067445.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||Kau drops another ‘letter bomb’, accuses party colleague of using ‘wrong language’ for ex-CM||Dehradun: The past few months have proved to be a rough ride for the ruling BJP in Uttarakhand with some of its MLAs directly approaching the party's national president JP Nadda over “development related matters” and its own legislator accusing the government of being involved in corruption. Minister Harak Singh Rawat, too, has not appeared pleased with the developments in his own department and now Raipur MLA Umesh Kumar Kau has triggered a fresh controversy. On November 4, Kau, who had registered a win by the biggest margin in the 2017 assembly polls, shot a letter to the state chief Bansidhar Bhagat. In the letter, he has highlighted the issue of “his ignorance” in a training session organised by the party in his constituency. He went on to mention that party leader Indu Bala in her speech had used “wrong words and language” for former CM Vijay Bahuguna, in a party event. It was under the leadership of Bahuguna that 10 Congress MLAs, including Kau, had left the party to join hands with the BJP in 2016. In the letter, he has requested the state chief to look into the matter and take action. On being asked about the issues which led him to write the letter to the state chief, Kau told media persons, “Party workers expressed their annoyance over the issue and being a dedicated member, it was my duty to bring the matter to the knowledge of my state chief. Now, it is up to him to take a call on the issue. I stand strongly with my party. A party is made up of party members. I have nothing against the party or the state government. I am working as a dedicated party member.” On the question of his previous letter to Nadda, the BJP lawmaker said, “The government will tell you about the work done in my constituency.” Party member Indu Bala denied naming any leader while speaking about the previous government. She said, “When we present the achievements of a government in a positive manner, it is important that one compares it with the performance of the previous government. We all are well aware about the works done in the previous government and there is no denying the fact that I did point them out. However, I did not take any name and the facts have been distorted. At least before making the letter viral, he should have spoken to me as we both are members of the same party.” Meanwhile, Bhagat who was in Haldwani on Thursday said that though he did not receive the letter he had a telephonic conversation with the MLA. “I spoke to Indu Bala and she has denied naming any one in her speech. We will look into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kau-drops-another-letter-bomb-accuses-party-colleague-of-using-wrong-language-for-ex-cm/articleshow/79067426.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 6, 2020||Ludhiana||No student turns up after GSSS, Samrala, re-opens||Ludhiana: Not even a single student turned up at Government Senior Secondary School, Samrala, almost a week after it reopened. It was sealed on October 28 and was closed for eight days after a teacher tested Covid positive. She was tested on October 24 and her test report was found positive on October 28. However, she will have to remain on leave for next week. Nearly, 60 students used to attend classes after Punjab government opened schools for Classes IX to XII on October 19. Now, the school teachers also claim that the students may not prefer to come and many will choose to continue with online classes. Local MC authorities have already started the sanitisation of the school premises regularly. Last Wednesday, 32 other teachers had been called for testing and students were called to get themselves tested with their parents’ consent, however, no student turned up. Davinder Singh, principal of the school, said, “No student turned up at the school and online classes were continued accordingly. This may be due to farmers’ protest as well as for the reason that students have to come from villages. Apart from this, Covid-19 too is the reason that students have not turned up.”  “Now, we will be more cautious and follow the same norms, including temperature checking, sanitisation and social distancing. We have sent the messages in the schools Whatsapp groups. A few students were coming and now this has become more challenging. Probably, students will come to attend the school after Divali as festivals season is going on,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-student-turns-up-after-gsss-samrala-re-opens/articleshow/79068625.cms||Mehak Jain
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Diwali will light up biz, decorators hope||Nagpur: As Diwali approaches, things are marginally looking up for small electricians and decorators who are bagging orders to put up decorative lights. While this is the first time during festive season that they are seeing some traction, it’s still very less compared to last year’s business. Kartik Thakre, an electrician whose major part of the income comes from putting up decorative lighting, said, “Around 30% of my regular client base has confirmed orders. We had a poor run this festive season as neither Ganeshotsav nor Durga pandal set ups were there. Also Dussehra too passed off without any business. Finally, some orders are trickling in for Diwali.” He added that ‘series’, as the decorative lights are popularly called, are rented out for an average three to five days during Diwali. “Rent depends on number of LEDs and the location,” said Thakre. Sudhir Ingle, owner of Sree Om Decorations, said though Diwali might bring some cash flow, businesses are still struggling. “For me, only 25% of the business, as compared to last year, has come back. People are simply not spending on home decoration this time,” said Ingle. Even big players like Sewakunj, a firm dealing with large scale private and government decoration and event management, are feeling the heat. Owner Nitin Aggarwal said, “The Covid pandemic has badly hit the finances of everyone. So, it’s a natural tendency to think about saving money. And decorating homes with extravagant lighting is not a priority.” He added the only business inflow will be seen from commercial establishments. “Jewellery shops, consumer electronic outlets and malls will probably be the only ones going for grand lighting decoration,” said Aggarwal. Sudeer Dagor, owner of Sai Decorations, said even if Diwali brings in a few customers, it would not be able to cover up the loss. “For commercial scale decorators, core season is for three months. From Ganeshotsav to Diwali is when we would garner 80% of our revenue. So far, we have earned nothing and Diwali is showing some green shoots, but it’s nowhere near what we require to stay afloat. This year has been a disaster from financial point of view,” said Dagor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/diwali-will-light-up-biz-decorators-hope/articleshow/79068629.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||Farmers, traders get relief as UP govt slashes mandi tax to 1%||Lucknow: In relief to farmers and traders, UP government on Thursday reduced the mandi fee from 2% to 1%. Now, for trading within a mandi, one will have to pay 1.5% fees as against 2.5%, which includes 0.5% as development charges. The move, said an official, has been made to encourage trade within the mandi, especially in light of the new agricultural laws under which a farmer need not sell his or her wares within a mandi premise. At present, 1% is the lowest that the government can charge as mandi fees. As per the Agricultural Produce Market Regulations of 1964, the mandi fees have to be within the 1-2% bracket. An official explained that while the collections from mandi fees and development fees had increased over the past year, the Covid-19 pandemic has hit it adversely. Despite that, the fees had to be reduced. In 2016-17, the collection from mandi tax was Rs 1,210 crore while in 2019-20, it had increased to 1,997 crore. However, in light of the special circumstances this year, collections for 2020-21 were revised to Rs 1,214 crore of which only Rs 499 crore had been collected till August 31, 2020. “By reducing mandi fees even this target may not be met but this step is necessary to make it attractive for one to come and trade in the mandi and assist traders and farmers who have been affected by Covid’s impact on the economy,” said an official. Earlier, to assist farmers and traders during the Covid-19 slowdown, the government had denotified 45 commodities which meant that one did not have to pay mandi fees on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/farmers-traders-get-relief-as-up-govt-slashes-mandi-tax-to-1/articleshow/79071156.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: CCP to crackdown on haphazard parking||PANAJI: City residents “will not face any hardships” with offshore casino operations resuming, as we will take “strict” action against haphazard parking, Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. “We have already appointed an agency and we will sign the agreement on Friday. All two, four wheelers and heavy vehicles, including buses, haphazardly parked will be towed,” he said. “We will have a meeting with the traffic police and town police. We will tell them to do night patrolling. Residents shouldn’t face any inconvenience. In the past, people were not able to get out their houses, ambulances and fire brigades didn’t get access,” he said. The CCP has given casino operators the option of night parking at EDC Patto Plaza, at the municipal market’s parking facility or in the empty area opposite Royal Foods, the mayor said. “We have asked them not to block roads,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-to-crackdown-on-haphazard-parking/articleshow/79070211.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Mumbai||Anway Naik suicide case: Arnab Goswami gave statement in Mumbai, says Maharashtra minister||MUMBAI: The intervention of a senior cabinet member in the previous government made it possible for Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami to record his statement in the suicide abetment case in Mumbai instead of Raigad, said state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Read AlsoArnab Goswami case: Revival of probe forms crux of high court caseA case closed by police and legal issues pertaining to its reopening will be the crux of the arguments before the Bombay high court when it hears the interim bail plea of Arnab Goswami on Friday.Goswami’s statement in the case should have been recorded in Raigad where Anway Naik committed suicide in 2018 and where the case was filed. But this senior leader ensured that investigating officer Anil Paraskar took the statement in the office of the joint commissioner of police in the Mumbai police commissionerate, said Deshmukh. “Goswami’s statement was recorded on May 30, 2018, while instructions were given to Paraskar on May 26,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arnab-gave-statement-in-mumbai-says-maharashtra-minister/articleshow/79072297.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
November 6, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Active Covid cases fall to 1,000||VADODARA: Dip in new cases and a consistently high discharge rate ensured that the number of active Covid-19 cases in the city and district came down to 1,000. The total number of cases reported in the city and district has now gone up to 15,540. According to the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), 93 new Covid-19 cases came to light in the city and district since Wednesday evening. Against this, 145 persons were discharged. Those discharged include 108 persons from home isolation and remaining from government and private hospitals. The civic body did not confirm any more deaths where Covid-19 was the primary cause of death. The toll due to the pandemic remained at 213 in the city and district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/active-cases-fall-to-1000/articleshow/79067489.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Power wires being laid in Jaisalmer despite NGT ban||Jaisalmer: Despite NGT Bhopal imposing a ban on laying electricity wires and other activities at Degrai temple pasture land in Jaisalmer on October 14, the laying of electricity wires by the energy companies and other construction works continue to take place on the land. Around 60 to 70 desert species of trees were cut including those on the verge of extinction. In the last three days, cutting of trees has gained pace. Many Khejri and Kumbhar trees were cut down on Wednesday. There is resentment among villagers over violation of the NGT order. The villagers even tried to stop the activities by the companies but in vain. Degrai Oran samiti main member Sumer Singh Bhati said that the ERDS foundation, on behalf of Degrai temple trust and with the technical help of Intach Barmer chapter, filed a petition at NGT Bhopal bench. NGT Bhopal bench on October 14 ordered a ban on cutting trees in Degrai temple pasture land and laying of electricity wires there, but the orders are being violated. The works are continuing and wherever towers were erected, now the wires are being laid. Bhati said that he has been to the pasture land 2-3 times with villagers and tried to stop the works. At present, work by three main companies is going on there and despite apprising them about the NGT order they are continuing with the work. A committee of Jaisalmer DFO and pollution control board members has been made by the NGT. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi said that he has no information about trees being cut at the pasture lands registered in the revenue record and he is trying to get the information and that the work of laying electricity wires for the power projects is out of the pasture land area. Wildlife biologist Sumit Dukia said that despite stay by NGT, there is no effect at the ground level. The work of laying electricity lines and construction works has gained pace. There is no effect of the protest by the local people on the company representatives. He said that many Great Indian Bustards have died due to hitting the live electricity wires in the pasture land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/power-wires-being-laid-in-jaisalmer-despite-ngt-ban/articleshow/79070209.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Goa||In U-turn, Panaji corporation decides to renew trade licences of offshore casinos||PANAJI: In a volte-face, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) on Thursday stated that it will renew the trade licences of offshore casinos in the Mandovi for one year and has called for fresh applications. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar’s announcement comes three months after stating that CCP was firm on its stand not to renew the casino trade licences, and a year and a half after Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate promised to move the casinos out of the Mandovi within 100 days of winning the 2019 Panaji byelection. It is the government that renewed the casino licences so the CCP’s role was “limited” to renewing trade licences for the casinos offices onshore, he told reporters. “Restaurant owners, hoteliers and rickshaw drivers met us and requested us to renew their trade licences as they already faced hardships (no business) due to Covid. So we decided to renew it. A council decision was taken to keep their licences on hold. The final decision will be taken at the council meeting, but the commissioner and I have asked them to submit fresh applications,” Madkaikar said. “We cannot keep their trade licenses on hold if the government has given them permission to operate,” he said. Asked how the casino operators could start operations without a trade licence for their offices, Madkaikar said they were not operating from their offices. On different yardsticks for small businesses and the casino operators, the mayor said fines would be imposed where necessary. Asked about Monserrate’s promise, the mayor said his demand is to get the casinos out of the Mandovi. “We will follow up with the captain of ports and ports minster Michael Lobo who gave an assurance that he would shift two casinos out of here. The two casinos were ready, but there was opposition from the people. We will follow up with them. We don’t want the casinos. We have not retracted our stand on this,” he said. Defending the corporation, Madkaikar said that the CCP had hiked the casino fees to Rs 52 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-u-turn-city-corp-decides-to-renew-trade-licences-of-offshore-casinos/articleshow/79070258.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Vijayawada||HC stay on SIT probe: SC notice to respondents||Vijayawada: The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notices to the respondents in a petition moved by the state government challenging the high court order of staying the Special Investigation Team’s (SIT) probe into alleged irregularities during the TDP regime, including Amaravati land transactions. The high court had earlier stayed further proceedings of SIT after hearing petitions moved by TDP functionaries Varla Ramaiah and Alapati Rajendra Prasad. The Supreme Court bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, Justice M R Shah and Justice R Subhash Reddy heard the petition moved by the state government with a plea to set aside the high court order and also seeking interim directions to stay the high court order. The apex court issued notices to Ramaiah, Rajendra Prasad, SIT and the director-general of police (DGP) and asked to file counters within four weeks without granting any interim relief. Arguing on behalf of the state government, senior counsel Dushyant Dave told the apex court that the high court order is extraordinary as it stopped the entire investigation into the allegations of fraudulent practices and abuse of power. Citing various judgements of the Supreme Court, Dave said courts should not interfere in investigation at a premature stage. The high court does not have extraordinary powers according to the Supreme Court judgements, he said. Dave also questioned the locus standi of Varla Ramaiah as he was not personally affected by constitution of SIT in any manner. Unless one is personally affected by the action of the state government, the writ is not maintainable. The wrong doings of previous government should not go unchecked, he said. In fact, the state government has asked for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and written to the Union government but there was no response till date, Dave said. Ramaiah and Rajendra Prasad in their petition argued before the high court that the actions of the government of the day should be prospective but not retrospective. They said that the SIT was constituted with mala fide intentions to defame TDP. The high court in its order observed that the state government does not have inherent powers to review every decision of the previous government. There should be a continuity in governance and the policy decisions are to be reviewed only in exceptional circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-stay-on-sit-probe-sc-notice-to-respondents/articleshow/79068637.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Congress nominates Gurjar and Muslim face for key posts||Jaipur: Munesh Gurjar and Kusum Yadav are the mayoral nominees for Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Heritage, from the Congress and BJP respectively. For the post of deputy mayor, the Congress has declared that a candidate from the minority community will be nominated soon. Gurjar is said to be an underdog whose name came as a shock to people. Said to be a close ally of Pratap Singh Khachairyawas, Congress is said to have given a message to Gurjar community at the time of ongoing Gurjar protest for reservation in the state. Since the announcements of the names, controversies have eruoted. BJP has blamed Congress for polarization of votes while Congress has said that by nominating Kusum Yadav, BJP has proved it has no morals left. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi on Thursday said Yadav became a rebel when she didn’t get the party ticket. She contested independently and made allegations against her own party for fraud. “Now BJP has nominated the same candidate who had made allegations against them. This shows BJP has no stance and will just fool people,” said Joshi. Joshi has declared that deputy mayor candidate will be from the minority community. The decision has been taken looking at the high number of Muslims councillors from Walled City area. More than 20 Muslim councillors were elected this year from the Congress.A senior BJP leader said delimitation of wards on the basis of religion had been a major reason for the Congress to make a board in JMC, Heritage.Congress won 47 seats in JMC, Heritage, and according to the party leaders, around eight independent councillors out of 11 totals in Walled City have supported Congress in forming the general board. As it is definite for the Congress to be making the board in the JMC, Heritage, nominating any candidate by BJP was a sheer formality. However, sources in BJP said there is internal opposition of Yadav in the party and there is a possibility of cross voting just to get her number of supporters down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-nominates-gurjar-and-muslim-face-for-key-posts/articleshow/79070226.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hubballi||Eight Covid centres in Davanagere declared inactive||DAVANAGERE: At a meeting of the district health and family welfare department chaired by Davanagere deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi on Thursday, it was decided to declare eight Covid Care Centres (CCCs) in the district inactive owing to the lack of any infected patient in these institutions. Bilagi directed senior officials in the district health department to transfer doctors and other personnel who had been deputed on Covid-19 duty back to their original posts. The centres that have been declared inactive were being run out of government hostels, of which three were in Davanagere taluk, while one building in each of the five other taluks too had been used for the same purpose. Davanagere district surveillance officer (DSO) Dr Raghavan said that the number of active Covid cases in Davanagere had slipped to under 450, of whom only 100 were receiving treatment in hospitals while the rest of them were quarantined at home. “But if there is a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases during the winter, we will reactivate these centres. We are prepared to deal with any such surge in the number of cases,” Bilagi added. However, the DC pointed out that all private hospitals and nursing homes had been directed to subject all patients to Covid-19 test before they were admitted for treatment. E-Sanjeevani Davanagere deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi called on people suffering from problems to avail of prescriptions via online video consultations using ‘E-Sanjeevani’ app. This would mean that people could be diagnosed without having to leave their home. More than 280 patients had been given prescription for medicine via E-Sanjeevani app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/eight-covid-centres-in-davanagere-declared-inactive/articleshow/79067055.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mother’s warmth, milk a child’s birthright: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has said that to be embraced in the warmth and protection of motherhood is a child’s birthright because the foundation of its health and nutrition is the mother’s milk. With this observation, the high court ordered a man to hand over custody of his seven-month-old son to the mother, who knocked at the HC’s doors after she did not get any relief from the lower courts, which are not fully functioning due to the Covid-19 situation. In this case, the woman, who is from Lunawada, married a lawyer from Nadiad in December 2018. The couple had a son in February. As their relationship soured, the woman left her matrimonial home and returned to Lunawada, where she approached the police and then a lower court for custody of her son. The lower court redirected her to the family court for a custody suit, but as family courts are not working, she filed a habeas corpus petition in the high court. She told the HC that her child was living without her for the past three months and he was not getting his mother’s milk. This led the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Nirzar Desai to observe, “It is a birthright of the child to be embraced in the warmth and protection of motherhood. His foundation of health and key nutritive diet is mother’s milk. He cannot be deprived of these valuable requirements. For the better and the fullest health, growth and development of the child, ordinarily mother’s custody is a must.” The court further said, “The child has no voice of his own, means or capability to knock at the doors of justice for establishing his right of welfare. It is an axiomatic truth that the parents, father and mother are required to look after the welfare of the minor and are treated as natural guardians and yet, rigid insistence of statutory interpretation would not be welcomed for the welfare of such a young child. It is trite law that the custody of a child at least till the age of five needs to be with the mother.” The judges have ordered the father to give custody of the child to the mother on Friday in the presence of the judge in Lunawada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mothers-warmth-milk-a-childs-birthright-hc/articleshow/79070240.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Goa||No stake in Goa’s road, rail projects, says Adani Group||PANAJI The Adani Group on Thursday strongly refuted claims made by politicians and activists that the Gautam Adani-based conglomerate stands to benefit from the national highway widening and South Western Railway’s double tracking projects. Clarifying its stand on social media, the Adani Group said that “politically motivated groups” are behind the ongoing protests in the state, particularly coal transportation. Without naming any firm, the Adani Group said that the largest quantum of coal is imported and transported by the other firms at Mormugao Port Trust. “The Adani Group refutes and condemns fake news circulated by politically motivated groups about fictitious business interests comprising road and railway projects in the state of Goa,” the firm said in the public statement. Adani Mormugao Port Terminal Pvt Ltd has a fully mechanized coal handling facility at MPT’s berth no 7 where coal is imported, loaded on trucks and train wagons and transported to Karnataka. Along with the Adani Group, JSW Steel and Vedanta have dedicated berths to handle coal and between the three companies, millions of tonnes of coal are unloaded at the port and carried across Goa to power stations and refineries in Karnataka. “This is to clarify that Adani Group is in no way connected to the existing issues in Goa pertaining to the expansion of the highway and railway lines. The Adani Group’s share of coal handling at MPT is just 10% while the remaining 90% is for the rest companies,” the firm said. Over the last two months, thousands of Goans have taken to the streets in protest against the transportation of coal and three major infrastructure projects in Mollem. Activists and politicians from the opposition parties have blamed the state government for ceding ground to the three companies. “The ongoing issue is a politically driven agenda with vested interests that is misleading people. The Adani Group is committed to building the nation through growth with goodness ensuring the development of economies and communities,” the group said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-stake-in-goas-road-railprojects-says-adani-group/articleshow/79070279.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer Congress leader dies of post-Covid ailments||JAIPUR: Even as the state reports a rapid decline in coronavirus cases, 61-year-old Congress leader and former minister Lalit Bhati died of post-Covid complications at Jawahar Lal Nehru (JLN) Hospital in Ajmer on Wednesday night. Bhati was elected as MLA for the first time from Ajmer East in 1985. Bhati’s death is the third casualty of a politician related to Covid-19. Earlier, B D Agarwal, a prominent businessman of Sriganganagar who launched his own political party, had died of Covid-19 and a Congress MLA from Bhilwara Kailash Trivedi had died in a private hospital in Gurgaon of post-Covid complications. Bhati was rushed to JLN Hospital in critical condition on Tuesday night. Before being brought to the hospital, he was undergoing treatment under home isolation. The doctors immediately admitted him to the ICU and put him on ventilator support. But, all their efforts went in vain as Bhati died. “He was brought to the hospital at 1.30am on intervening night of Tuesday-Wednesday. He had difficulty in breathing. We put him on ventilator support, but he died around 9.30pm. We provided him best possible treatment, but he died due to shock and respiratory failure. He was diabetic as well, having co-morbidities,” said Dr Anil Kumar Jain, medical superintendent, JLN Hospital, Ajmer. He was tested positive two weeks ago but, his condition deteriorated on Tuesday. “We collected his samples for Covid-19 test on Wednesday morning which tested negative,” said Dr Jain. The doctors claimed that Bhati had recovered from Covid-19, but he died of post-Covid-19 complications. Congress leaders have expressed condolences on Bhati’s death who became the youngest minister after elected for the first time. He was re-elected MLA from Ajmer East in 1998. “The news of untimely demise of Ajmer’s senior Congress leader, former minister and former MLA shree Lalit Bhati is saddening. In this difficult time, my condolences are with bereaved family. I pray to God to give courage to the family to bear the loss and God may give peace to his departed soul. #Rajasthan,” chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted. “Saddened to learn of the demise of Sh. Lalit Bhati, former state minister and MLA from Ajmer city. He succumbed to Covid related complications last night. I had worked closely with him for many years. My deepest condolences to his family. Om Shanti,” tweeted Tonk MLA Sachin Pilot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-cong-leader-dies-of-post-covid-complications/articleshow/79070260.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer Congress leader dies of post-Covid ailments||JAIPUR: Even as the state reports a rapid decline in coronavirus cases, 61-year-old Congress leader and former minister Lalit Bhati died of post-Covid complications at Jawahar Lal Nehru (JLN) Hospital in Ajmer on Wednesday night. Bhati was elected as MLA for the first time from Ajmer East in 1985. Bhati’s death is the third casualty of a politician related to Covid-19. Earlier, B D Agarwal, a prominent businessman of Sriganganagar who launched his own political party, had died of Covid-19 and a Congress MLA from Bhilwara Kailash Trivedi had died in a private hospital in Gurgaon of post-Covid complications. Bhati was rushed to JLN Hospital in critical condition on Tuesday night. Before being brought to the hospital, he was undergoing treatment under home isolation. The doctors immediately admitted him to the ICU and put him on ventilator support. But, all their efforts went in vain as Bhati died. “He was brought to the hospital at 1.30am on intervening night of Tuesday-Wednesday. He had difficulty in breathing. We put him on ventilator support, but he died around 9.30pm. We provided him best possible treatment, but he died due to shock and respiratory failure. He was diabetic as well, having co-morbidities,” said Dr Anil Kumar Jain, medical superintendent, JLN Hospital, Ajmer. He was tested positive two weeks ago but, his condition deteriorated on Tuesday. “We collected his samples for Covid-19 test on Wednesday morning which tested negative,” said Dr Jain. The doctors claimed that Bhati had recovered from Covid-19, but he died of post-Covid-19 complications. Congress leaders have expressed condolences on Bhati’s death who became the youngest minister after elected for the first time. He was re-elected MLA from Ajmer East in 1998. “The news of untimely demise of Ajmer’s senior Congress leader, former minister and former MLA shree Lalit Bhati is saddening. In this difficult time, my condolences are with bereaved family. I pray to God to give courage to the family to bear the loss and God may give peace to his departed soul. #Rajasthan,” chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted. “Saddened to learn of the demise of Sh. Lalit Bhati, former state minister and MLA from Ajmer city. He succumbed to Covid related complications last night. I had worked closely with him for many years. My deepest condolences to his family. Om Shanti,” tweeted Tonk MLA Sachin Pilot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-cong-leader-dies-of-post-covid-complications/articleshow/79072518.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Rajkot||Two attacked with swords over financial dispute||RAJKOT: In what is suspected to be the outcome of a financial feud, two nephews of Congress Rajkot city president Ashok Dangar were attacked with sharp-edged weapons near Kothariya colony on Thursday evening. According to police Jaydeep Dangar (38) and Rajesh Dangar (41) who were attacked with sword and pipes received severe injuries including on their heads during the melee. Both have been admitted to a private hospital where one of them is said to be critical, while cops are hunting for the the accused who are yet to be identified. However, police are yet to register an FIR in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-attacked-with-swords-over-financial-dispute/articleshow/79067462.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: CCP to sign agreements with vendors||PANAJI: City mayor Uday Madkaikar has stated that agreements with vendors at Panaji municipal market, who have been doing business for around two decades without paying a single rupee in rent, will be signed by Diwali. Madkaikar told presspersons that agreements will be signed with only around 200 vendors whose names are legally on the list. “The rest are not illegal. We will send the rest to the government for them to take a decision. We will start with signing agreements with those who are legal,” Madkaikar said. The corporation has handed the draft agreement to many vendors, he said. When asked about shopkeepers subletting and dividing their shop into two, Madkaikar said the government would take a decision on this. When asked about an inquiry into the illegalities of subletting the shops in the municipal market, he said “we will come to know everything after signing agreements”. A 30 years agreement approved by the government is expected to be signed between Corporation of the City of Panaji and the shopkeepers. The corporation has a Rs 7 crore plus electricity bill of the market pending. “The government, director of municipal administration and chief minister have clear cut said that if we don’t start bringing in the revenue, the electricity supply will be disconnected. Many are ready to sign the agreement. By Diwali, we want to start getting revenue,” he said. While individual shopkeepers have their own meters installed, the electricity bill is for the overall lighting in the complex and the parking area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-to-sign-agreements-with-vendors/articleshow/79070246.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Autonomous agencies misused to target political opponents, says R Dhruvanarayan||MYSURU: Former Congress MP R Dhruvanarayana on Thursday accused the Centre of misusing autonomous agencies like Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to threaten their political opponents. With reference to the arrest of former minister Vinay Kulkarni, the former MP claimed CBI officials have become puppets in the hands of the government by functioning according to their whims and fancies. Autonomous agencies like CBI, Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate are being used for political gains and to target political opponents, which is absolutely shameful on the part of the government. “We, the party, have full faith in Kulkarni. He isn’t involved in any such incident. Let a fair investigation be carried out on allegations in a lawful manner instead of pressuring autonomous agencies to threaten opponents,” he said. “KPCC chief DK Shivakumar was threatened similarly. He was asked to join BJPx, but when he resisted their bid he was raided again. Now Vinay Kulkarni is targeted just because he was with Shivakumar,” he added. Dhruvanarayan said Congress will romp home easily in both RR Nagar and Sira byelection. Yathindra Siddaramaiah, Varun MLA, claimed there is a neck-and-neck-race between Congress and BJP in RR Nagar byelection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/autonomous-agencies-misused-to-target-political-opponents-says-dhruvanarayan/articleshow/79068204.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hubballi||Belagavi DIET in need of funds to implement activity-based learning||BELAGAVI: Educators working in DIET (District Institute of Education Training) are looking for funds to impart skills among primary school children returning to schools after classes resume. About 170 subject experts have teamed up to carry out a research on creating an activity bank — both physical and virtual — for daily learning of six subjects, including languages. According to DIET experts, diverse subject-oriented activities will help enhance the skills of children. However, the implementation of the project will cost about Rs 7 lakhs. DIET is planning to publish 2,500 activity bank booklets for the teachers who will implement the project in Classes 1 to 8. Interestingly, DIET wants introduce QR code based learning activity. Scanning of the code will lead to learning content for children. Speaking to TOI, DIET principal MM Sindhoor said the soft copy of the book of about 600 pages in Kannada, Marathi and Urdu languages are ready. “Since there are no government schemes under which the book can be published, we are looking for donors,” the principal added. Recently, DIET with the help of a donor Dr Sashikanth Kulagode, published a similar text exclusively for science. The book, Vignana Deepti received good response. Hence, DIET decided to come up with the large project. MM Sindhoor urged donors to come forward to help publish books that will be distributed to 18,734 schools in the state. Hailing the efforts of DIET, Vinayak Kudari, a teacher from Belagavi said the implementation will enhance applied knowledge of the subjects among children. “These activities will spark interest in learning among children who will return to schools after a long break,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/belagavi-diet-in-need-of-funds-to-implement-activity-based-learning/articleshow/79067134.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||BJP, Congress select mayor aspirants for 6 civic bodies in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Congress and the BJP selected their warhorses on Thursday for the mayor posts, the elections for which will be held on November 10. The ruling Congress beat BJP in elections to the six newly formed municipal corporations. The party has won the majority of seats in two civic bodies — Jodhpur North and Kota North — while taking the lead in Jaipur Heritage Corporation. The BJP had crossed the majority mark in Jaipur Greater and Jodhpur South corporations. But both parties are tied in Kota South with 36 seats each in a house of 80. At present, out of the six municipal bodies, Congress has majority in three, while the BJP dominates in two. The competition will be nail-biting as the Congress will attempt to maintain the lead, while the saffron party would struggle to equal the score. In such a scenario, all eyes are glued on Kota (South) seat, which will be deciding factor, whether, majority of corporations are ruled by Congress, or both will have to satisfy with three each. On Thursday, from Kota (South) BJP party placed its bet on its seasoned councillor Vivek Rajvanshi. Opportunity was granted as Rajvanshi, who is a real estate developer, is also a three-time councillor. On the contrary, the Congress has fielded a fresh face Rajiv Agarwal from this corporation. Urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal, who hails from Kota, while talking to media said, “Chief minister Ashok Gehlot will produce magical results in Kota south. The Congress will form the board.” A senior office bearer in BJP said, “To weaken Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla’s hold, a faction of BJP supporters from Vasundra Raje’s camp are supporting the opposition party internally.” From Kota (North), the Congress has fielded Manju Mehra against BJP’s Santosh Berwa. Congress is in a comfortable position here to make the board after winning 48 seats. Power equation of political parties in the Blue City is expected to remain balanced after the ruling party Congress dominated in Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (North) and BJP emerged victorious in Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (South). After Congress emerged as a clear winner in Jodhpur (North) with 53 seats in its kitty out of 80, the party has fielded Kunti Parihar for mayor’s seat. A Congress leader said, “Parihar comes from Mali community and is the daughter of senior MLA Maan Singh Deora, who once stepped down from his seat in 1998 for Ashok Gehlot to contest elections.” BJP has fielded Dr Sageenta against Congress. In Jodhpur (South), the BJP has fielded Vanita Singh, who is considered as Vasundra Raje loyalist. Congress has given ticket to Pooja Pareek. Jaipur Heritage will also be witnessing an easy battle and the Congress is inching to win the mayor’s seat here after having a support of 55 councillors. In a surprise move, the Congress announced the name of Munesh Gurjar, who is supported by cabinet minister Pratap Singh. After failing to find a candidate, BJP fielded independent candidate Kusum Yadav. She was earlier with the party but was denied ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mayor-candidates-decided-for-six-municipal-corporations/articleshow/79070253.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||26-yr-old falls into Ganga while performing Karwa Chauth rituals, body not yet found||RISHIKESH: A 26-year-old woman accidentally fell into the Ganga river while performing Karwa Chauth rituals at Rishikesh’s Sai Ghat on Wednesday night. The police divers have launched a search operation to trace her body. The woman identified as Boby and her husband Bittu (28), resident of Rishikesh, went to Sai Ghat on Wednesday night where she slipped and fell into the Ganga. Rishikesh station house officer Ritesh Shah told TOI, “The incident took place around 7 pm on Wednesday while performing Karwa Chauth rituals. The police divers are trying to track the victim’s body.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/26-yr-old-falls-into-ganga-while-performing-karwa-chauth-rituals-body-not-yet-found/articleshow/79067459.cms||MS Nawaz
November 6, 2020||Goa||Goa IPB survey seeks inputs on govt’s e-services||PANAJI: Goa Investment Promotion Board (IPB) has launched an online survey for entrepreneurs and industry stakeholders to try and identify the reasons behind Goa’s poor show in the Ease of Doing Business rankings, particularly feedback on the online services offered by close to 15 departments. After the scathing criticism from industry bodies, the state government swung into action and initiated various steps to try and understand why Goa’s place on the Ease of Doing Business rankings slipped five places to 24 despite several reforms being taken up. The recently launched survey has asked business entities to mention if they avail of the online services offered by various departments and if they are happy with the online services. The survey also asks entities if they prefer online services or offline services. “This is an exercise started by IPB along with the consultants to try and understand what needs to be done to improve ease of doing business. While the survey has just started, the respondents who did participate in the survey indicated that the electricity department’s online services are the ones most often availed. The initial data also shows that despite offering online services, many individuals had to physically visit panchayats, transport department and PWD. Recently, the directorate of industries, trade and commerce (DITC) held a meeting with consultants E&Y (formerly Ernst & Young) to identify why Goa’s position on the ease of doing business ranking failed to improve despite completing 90% of the objectives specified in the Centre’s Business Reforms Action Plan (BRAP). Goa’s industry bodies such as the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Confederation of Indian Industry and Goa State Industries Association has informed the state that the reforms taken up remain on paper and as a bureaucratic process with the hassles remaining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ipb-survey-seeks-inputson-govts-e-services/articleshow/79070295.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Several govt officials in ACB custody for bribery||Jaipur: The ACB on Thursday laid four traps across the state and arrested government officials including four belonging to the central cadre for allegedly accepting bribes from various complainants. An executive engineer and a technical officer of Union ministry of road transport were arrested by ACB sleuths for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 50,000. “A complainant approached us and said both the officers were demanding bribe in lieu of releasing an NOC required for a petrol pump in Nokha town of Bikaner. A trap was laid in which Daan Singh, the executive engineer, and Sitaram Verma, the technical assistant, were arrested for accepting bribe of Rs 50,000,” said BL Soni, DG, ACB. Both the officials were on deputation with National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and were arrested from their Ajmer Road situated office, he added.Following the arrest, the ACB initiated the search action at their houses and office premises. In an another trap, a superintendent of Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) department was arrested along with an inspector of CGST for accepting a bribe of Rs 40,000. “Ramswaroop, the superintendent, and Sunil, the inspector, were caught red-handed for accepting the bribe,” Soni added. Both were demanding bribe in a CGST related matter from a complainant. In an another raid, a fourth class employee of a family court in Churu was arrested for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 40,000 in lieu of facilitating a woman fighting a divorce case in getting the alimony money. “The employee, Bhagwati Prasad Saini, was demanding a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from a woman who was fighting a divorce case. After verifying the complaint, a trap was laid in which the accused was arrested for accepting bribe,” said Soni. Likewise, a head constable posted at a police outpost of Mandratyal in Karauli district was arrested for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000. “The head constable identified as Srikrishna was investigating a case in which the brother of the complainant was an accused in a case in which buffaloes got injured. The head constable was demanding bribe to favour the complainant’s brother in this case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/several-govt-officials-in-acb-custody-for-bribery/articleshow/79070288.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Nayab tehsildar arrested for taking Rs 25,000 bribe in Baran||KOTA: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested a nayab tehsildar for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 25,000 at his deputy tehsildar’s office in Kelwada town of Shahabad tehsil in Baran district on Wednesday. He was produced before the special ACB court in Kota on Thursday which sent him to remand for two days. Circle inspector (ACB), Baran, Gyanchand Meena said nayab tehsildar has been identified as Hari Prakesh Gupta (59), a resident of Mahaveer Nagar, Kota. He was accepting a bribe of Rs 25,000 from a farmer at his office, he said. Meena said the farmer identified as Ramkalyan Panchal submitted a report on August 17 and alleged that the nayab tehsildar, who also held the charge of tehsildar, had demanded bribe of Rs 50,000 for the measurement of his agriculture land following which the ACB carried out the verification of complaint on the same day, he added. Meena said the work on measurement of the land could not be executed during the raining season because of the land being damp, the complainant reached the deputy tehsildar’s office at Kelwada town on Wednesday afternoon and handed him over the bribe amount of Rs 25,000 claiming that he did not have full bribe amount of Rs 50,000. The ACB sleuths, already alert there, arrested him red-handed and recovered the bribe amount from his table’s shelf in his office, he added. Meena said during the search at his residence in Mahaveer Nagar in Kota, bank papers and Rs 35 lakh deposited in personal bank account were traced following which an inquiry for disproportionate assets was initiated. The accused was to retire after two months, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nayab-tehsildar-arrested-for-taking-rs-25000-bribe-in-baran/articleshow/79070251.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur to be social forestry dept headquarters; 6 circles to close||Nagpur: The social forestry department (SFD) is in for a major overhaul as its Pune-based headquarters headed by director-general & PCCF rank officer will be shifted to Nagpur and six circles headed by the conservator of forest (CF) rank officers will be closed. A new circle will be opened in Nanded. The proposed Nanded circle will have Latur, Hingoli, Parbhani and Nanded division, which will be carved out of Aurangabad circle. SFD divisions will also be included in the new Nanded circle as recommended. The Nanded circle has been proposed for effective control. Currently, Latur in Aurangabad circle is about 250km from Aurangabad, while Parbhani and Hingoli are around 200km away. State forest minister Sanjay Rathod has accepted the recommendations suggested by a seven-member committee set up on April 28, 2020, to reorganize the SFD for better governance and management. The issue was discussed in details at a video conference on October 20 and a go-ahead was given by the minister. This will be the third big overhaul for the SFD, which is mainly engaged in developing nurseries and roadside plantations. On December 4, 2014, the social forestry directorate was brought under the control of the forest department. Later on May 30, 2017, the regional offices of SFD were brought under the control of territorial CCFs. As per the plan, in the first phase the SFD headquarters from Pune will be shifted to Van Bhavan in Nagpur. Secondly, the six SFD circles in Nagpur, Nashik, Amravati, Pune, Aurangabad and Thane will be closed and staff will be redeployed in other wings of the forest department at Nagpur headquarters. Plan has also been approved to open Nanded circle and a forest division in Kinwat. On October 29, the forest ministry has asked the PCCF (HoFF) to submit a detailed proposal on the requirement of staff, building, and financial implications to the government by November 15. Kinwat, Mahur and Mandvi forest ranges under the Nanded division are rich in forest and wildlife and are part of the Tipeshwar-Dhyanganga wildlife corridor. Kinwat is sensitive from the forest protection point of view and there have been several assaults by the timber mafia. Nanded is 130km from Kinwat and it is difficult to manage. PCCF N Rambabu did not respond to TOI calls. As per the reorganization of SFD, the post of APCCF will be downgraded to CCF and shifted to forest academy, Chandrapur. The six conservators with SFD each will be redeployed with PCCF (wildlife), budget & planning, CAMPA, and Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-to-be-social-forestry-dept-headquarters-6-circles-to-close/articleshow/79068659.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||All Covid beds in top 7 private hospitals of Jaipur are full||JAIPUR: The state might have reported a steady decline in Covid-19 cases, the city’s hospitals are revealing a different picture with some of the top corporate and private hospitals running with full capacity. Patients are finding it difficult to get admission to these private hospitals for treatment. Even in government-run biggest dedicated Covid-19 RUHS Hospital, all the 75 ventilators were fully occupied on Wednesday. In the city, 46 hospitals including seven government-run and 39 private and corporate hospitals are providing Covid treatment. According to the health department reports, seven private and corporate hospitals in the city were having not a single bed available in ward and not even in ICUs and ventilators, as all their beds available for Covid-19 patients were completely occupied by the patients. The patients trying to get admitted for Covid-19 treatment have no other option except to find other hospital in the city. Out of 283 beds available with ventilator support, 176 remain occupied. A health department official said there is no shortage of beds for Covid treatment. “Beds are lying vacant in our hospitals,” said a senior health department official. Following the state government’s direction, the private hospitals have reserved 30% of the beds for Covid treatment. The beds available for Covid patients in private hospitals depend on the total number of beds available in the hospital. Different private hospitals have different number of beds for Covid treatment. Out of 855 beds available in ICUs in government and private hospitals for Covid, 489 were occupied by patients on Thursday including 121 in government-run hospitals and 368 in private hospitals. A private hospital doctor said patients were coming to hospitals when their condition deteriorated and needed ICU and ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/seven-among-citys-top-pvt-hospitals-have-all-beds-for-covid-patients/articleshow/79070294.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||No more transfers: CS to heads of depts||Jaipur: Chief secretary Niranjan Kumar Arya in a circular to additional chief secretaries and principal secretaries of various department on Thursday said the transfer ban which was lifted on September 15 and continued till October 31 has ended and no further transfers will be allowed except in emergency cases.Arya said it was noticed that some departments, during the transfer ban period, issued transfer orders and sent it to the administrative reforms department (ARD) for approval which is not the norm. Similarly, some departments issued awaiting posting orders (APO) and asked such officials to report to their place of choice. They also sent such postings for approval to the administrative reforms department. Such system of transfers defeats the purpose of ban on transfers, he said.Arya said the ARD had already issued circular on July 30 against such malpractices. He warned that action will be initiated against officials who indulge in such practices.He asked the department heads if transfers are required in the interest of the state, then such transfer recommendations to the ARD had to be followed by the compelling circumstances mentioned in detail.He said this direction would be applicable to the employees of the government, including boards, corporations, local bodies.3 IAS officers replaced as incharge of dists: The state government on Thursday appointed Ajitabh Sharma as the secretary in-charge of Udaipur in place of Subodh Agarwal; Aruna Rajoria as in-charge of Hanumangarh raplacing Hemant Gera and P C Kishan as in-charge of Sirohi in place of Siddharth Mahajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-more-transfers-cs-to-heads-of-depts/articleshow/79070259.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Pandemic stops migration of students from coast to metros||MANGALURU: While thousands of students from across the country — and even hundreds from overseas — flock to join educational institutions in undivided Dakshina Kannada district for higher studies or to continue their education, many local students move out to Bengaluru and other metros for the same purpose. This year though, the pandemic has stopped locals from moving out and as a result, most have joined colleges in the district. Norbert Lobo, director, administrative block and associate professor of economics, St Aloysius College, Mangaluru, says since parents are apprehensive of Covid-19, most students who had planned to pursue their studies outside the city have joined colleges in their hometown. Lobo said some students move out because some courses are unavailable in Mangaluru. “Most students move out of Mangaluru due to this reason and to pursue a course of their choice,” he said. Courses like interior design, textile design, fashion design, public health (UG, PG), jewellery design and management, animation and multimedia, fine arts and various specialisations in MBA, BA, BSc and BBA which are unavailable in Mangaluru or have limited seats. In engineering too colleges do not offer biomedical engineering or aerospace engineering courses. Metro cities also provide greater industry exposure and better career opportunities. Charles Pais, registrar, St Agnes College, said Mangaluru has good colleges, but little industry exposure, while Bengaluru and other places offer ample opportunities when it comes to internships and jobs. A chemistry lecturer in a private college in Bengaluru, who taught many students from Mangaluru, said the Garden City has an array of career opportunities which candidates can explore. Another factor is there are some rare, less-familiar courses offered in some colleges in Bengaluru. “Having worked in both cities, I would say Bengaluru is way ahead in terms of advanced courses, lab facilities and the like,” the lecturer said. Anora Lobo, who studied BA Economics at Azim Premji University, Bengaluru and who is currently pursuing an MSc in Germany, said she found the course of her choice in Bengaluru so she moved out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-stops-migration-of-students-from-coast-to-metros/articleshow/79067824.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Private hospital offers free institutional delivery||MANGALURU: A private medical college hospital in the outskirts of the City is offering institutional delivery at no cost. The idea is to cater to the needs of the population at large amid Covid-19 challenges. The Srinivas Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre launched the scheme of deliveries at no cost in October. “This is an ongoing programme which will be reviewed and revised over time,” said Dr Vinod Prem Singh, medical superintendent. Deliveries — both normal or caesarean section — will not be charged if there is no complication, he asserted and said this is a social responsibility initiative. Dr Sowmya, assistant professor, Obstetrics and Gynecology said the response to the initiative has been encouraging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pvt-hosp-offers-free-institutional-delivery/articleshow/79067487.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC grants bail with rider: No use of social media for 2 years||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has granted bail to a person from Deoria accused of making objectionable remarks against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and other public representatives. However, while granting bail to Akhilanand Rao, Justice Siddhartha barred him from using social media for the next two years. Secondly, he was also ordered to cooperate in the trial sincerely without seeking any adjournment till the conclusion of the trial before the trial court. A first information report (FIR) was registered against Rao by the police under sections 420 (cheating), 120B (conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code and section 66D of IT Act at Kotwali police station of Deoria and he is in jail since May 12, 2020. It was also alleged that he had falsely shown his status and had tried to obtain undue advantages. Further, the applicant was also posting objectionable posts against some local police officers on social networking sites. The petitioner’s counsel submitted before the court that it is a case of false implication by the police. The bail was granted on November 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-grants-bail-with-rider-no-use-of-social-media-for-2-yrs/articleshow/79071183.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||CID-CB to probe criminal case against MLA||Udaipur: A chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court in Rajsamand on Thursday ordered the police to forward a pending criminal case against legislator Kiran Maheshwari to the CID-CB for investigation.A case was filed by a lawyer Jitendra Khatik resident of Nathdwara against the MLA for failing to mention in her poll affidavit several criminal cases against her during the nomination for the state elections in 2018. According to the complainant total three criminal cases were pending against the MLA however, she intentionally did not disclose details in the nomination form. Khatik had first complained about the legislator to the Election Commission of India and the latter suggested Khatik to move to the appropriate court of law for action under Section 125 A of the RP Act 1951 for false statement in the affidavit in form 26. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cid-cb-to-probe-criminal-case-against-mla/articleshow/79070299.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Jaipur||Sikar: Four on way to condolence meet killed in mishap||JAIPUR: Four members of a family including a couple were killed in a head-on collision between a car and a truck near Tasar village under Sadar police station area of Sikar around 8.30am on Thursday. The impact of the collision was such that all the people got trapped in the car and were taken out with the help of metal cutters and other gadgets. According to police, the family was on the way to Nagaur to attend a condolence meeting of a dead relative. Locals heard a blast-like sound and rushed to the spot. Later, a team of senior police officers with metal cutters too reached the site. “The deceased were identified as Bhikaram, his wife Shanti Devi, Geeta Devi and Durga Devi. They started from Nawalgarh town of Jhunjhunu and were going to Jayal village of Nagaur district,” said a senior police officer. Police said it took almost 30 minutes for them to take out the trapped from the badly mangled car. A case of causing death due to negligence has been registered against the tanker driver who fled from the scene. CM Ashok Gehlot has condoled the deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-on-way-to-condolence-meet-killed-in-mishap/articleshow/79070296.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Vijayawada||PIL seeks minority status for 4 groups||Vijayawada: The AP High Court on Thursday asked the government to file an affidavit in a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking to recognise the religion of Dudekula, Noorbhasha, Laddaf and Pinjari groups as Islam. The high court also included school education secretary as a respondent in the petition. One Shaik Khajavali Nurbasha moved the high court with a PIL seeking to replace the religion of the four castes in certificates issued by government departments as Muslim instead of Hindu. Though people from these castes practise Islam as their religion they are identified as Hindus in certificates and identity cards. Arguing on behalf of the petitioner, advocate Y Koteswara Rao said that because of recognising these people as Hindus, they are losing the opportunity to avail of welfare programmes. The high court bench headed by Chief Justice J K Maheswari and Justice T Rajani asked whether any representation was given to the government. Responding to the query, Koteswara Rao said representations were given to the government and the school education commissioner wrote a letter to the principal secretary seeking clarity on whether these people are to be recognised as Hindus or Muslims.  The bench posted the matter for further hearing after Diwali. — Srikanth Aluri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pil-seeks-minority-status-for-4-groups/articleshow/79068661.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 6, 2020||Goa||Include names of 11 growers in land documents: Melauli locals||VALPOI: The villagers of Melauli-Sattari held a protest rally at Valpoi on Thursday demanding that the proposed IIT project be moved out from the village. The protest commenced with a rally from the Hath-wada junction to the Sattari deputy collector’s office at Valpoi. The locals chanted slogans against chief minister Pramod Sawant and health minister Vishwajit Rane for not supporting them. Locals also submitted a memorandum at the deputy collector’s office stating that the names of villagers had been removed from the Form I and XIV. Shankar Naik, a villager, stated that Form I & XIV of year of 1990 shows the names of the 11 people as cultivators in the survey number 67/1 - the area of the proposed IIT site, however, their names no longer appear in the land ownership document. He demanded that the names of all the 11 cultivators be immediately included in Form I & XIV. “A few days back, chief minister Pramod Sawant had visited Melauli village and seen for himself the plantations and cultivations of the poor people at the proposed IIT site. He also heard the grievances of the people, but within two days of his visit he stated that the IIT will come up only in Melauli,” Shankar Naik, a villager, said, while adding that “come what may, we will never allow the CM to construct an IIT in our village and we will stand firm till the end”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/include-names-of11-growers-in-land-docus-melauli-locals/articleshow/79070302.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Trichy||39 Trichy cops addicted to alcohol identified, counselled||Trichy: The top cops of the central zone of Tamil Nadu, on Wednesday, interacted with 39 police personnel identified to be addicted to alcohol in Trichy range. They tried to instill confidence in them to get rid of the drinking habit and bring them back on track. In the programme that was held at the Armed Reserve marriage hall in Trichy, inspector general of police (IGP), central zone, H M Jayaram discussed the problems caused by alcohol addiction and provided the personnel a platform for finding a solutions. The interactions by the Jayaram and the deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Trichy range, Z Annie Vijaya made the attendees open up about their issues. During the interaction, total 17 police personnel from different ranks cited their personal, health and family issues as the reason that forced them to turn to alcohol. Five of them requested for transfers to the police stations, which were closer to their residences or to the place where the police residential quarters were available. Two special sub-inspectors (SSI) have been ordered to provide housing quarters as per the request. Jayaram said that the cops from various ranks were not informed about the subject of the meeting before they joined the session. “If they had been informed about the reason for the meeting, they would have set some preconceived ideas about the session. So, we kept it a secret and counselled them,” he said. The session came to an end with the participants taking a pledge that they will give up this habit. Jayaram said that apart from these 39 cops, they will identify other such cops in the zone and provide them solutions to to get rid of the addiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/39-trichy-cops-addicted-to-alcohol-identified-counselled/articleshow/79070300.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Trichy||Woman sets herself ablaze, mom-in-law hubby booked||Trichy: A 22-year-old woman tried to immolate herself at Kavundampatti village near Thuvarankurichi on Tuesday night, after her mother-in-law planned another marriage for her husband. The woman has been admitted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy with 80 % burn injuries. According to the police Ambika, wife of Manikandan, 24 set herself ablaze after pouring kerosene on her around 11.45 pm. And was admitted to the hospital by her family members. When Thuvarankurichi police went to the hospital on Wednesday morning to record Ambika’s statement, she alleged that she took the extreme decision following her mother-in-law, Chithra’s, plan to marry off Manikandan to another woman. The police said on Thursday that two were in love with each other for four years and got married a year back. They were living separately in Kavundampatti. However, Chithra decided to separate the couple. Going by the complaint, the police filed a case against Manikandan and Chithra under sections of 498 A (if a husband or his relative subjects woman to cruelty shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-sets-herself-ablaze-mom-in-law-hubby-booked/articleshow/79070310.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Bengaluru||5% Covid patients face reinfection, panel tells Karnataka government||BENGALURU: About 5% of those who had contracted the SARS CoV-2 virus could face reinfection, the technical advisory committee (TAC) for Covid-19 management set up by the state government has revealed. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with TAC members on Thursday, health minister K Sudhakar said the committee has been asked to conduct research on Covid-19 fatalities and reinfections. “These reports will be submitted soon,” Sudhakar said. Sudhakar said experts were of the view that those who had severe symptoms when they first contracted the virus, may not have suffer similar severity if they are infected a second time. “But those who were asymptomatic the first time may face severe symptoms if they are positive for a second time. We need further research on this,” the minister said. When TOI tried to speak to members of the panel, they were unavailable for comment. The minister said he held the meeting with TAC members to discuss various issues and to devise ways to contain the spread of the virus ahead of Deepavali festival, the forthcoming winter season and gram panchayat elections. The committee has suggested government ban bursting of firecrackers during Deepavali. “In the report, the committee has said chemicals used in crackers can pose a threat to Covid patients who are recovering or being treated at home,” Sudhakar said. “The issue will be discussed with the chief minister and the government will take a decision soon.” Following discussions with the committee on the need to ramp up testing in Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sira where bypolls were conducted earlier this week, the minister said the government has chalked out a plan. “All those who were involved in the election process will undergo tests,” he said. “Besides those involved in election campaigns, officials who worked in polling booths will also be tested.” He said the committee has also requested the government to postpone gram panchayat (GP) elections till February next year. When asked why GP elections should be deferred when assembly bypolls were conducted and parties had conducted huge rallies and roadshows despite the pandemic, Sudhakar said, “In a GP election, candidates go door-to-door in villages to meet voters. Experts are of the opinion that it can turn into home-delivery of the virus. Hence elections must not be conducted before February 2021, as per the TAC report. The state government will take this up with election authorities concerned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/5-covid-patients-face-reinfection-panel-tells-karnataka-government/articleshow/79067853.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Trichy||Diwali shoppers ditch public transport, add to traffic woes||Trichy: Even though traders say the festive sale is poor this Diwali season compared to the previous years due to the pandemic scare, the commercial streets in the city remain overcrowded and congested. Shoppers prefer mostly own or hired vehicles for their commute, said transport and law enforcement agencies citing it as the major reason for the snarl-ups in the city. Meanwhile, the public and private bus operators also said that passenger occupancy is only 50% during the festive season. People are scared of using public transport due to safety concerns. Though TNSTC and private bus carriers started operating city buses in September, the bus operators said that the patronage was nowhere near normal during the festival season. City traffic police concurred with the opinion and said that all the four temporary parking lots are in high demand. “Two-wheelers dominate all the four temporary parking lots near the Main Guard Gate. Several tourist cars from adjoining districts are also seen,” a police officer on duty in WB Road said. While at least 30%-40% of visitors used the public transport on earlier occasions, this year it was too negligible. The private bus operators’ association said that usually during Diwali season a bus will sell around 2,500 tickets per day. But, this season the number has come down to 600 to 1,000 tickets. “We are struggling even to fill 50% of the seats. Citing safety, people opt for travelling on two-wheelers. This is the worst festive season we ever witnessed,” D R Dharmarajan, secretary, Federation of Bus Operators Association of Tamil Nadu, told TOI. Bishop Heber School ground, Yanaikulam ground and Corporation ground on Madurai Road are flooded with private vehicles. TNSTC sources also said that the number of passengers is disappointing. “Only during peak hours, we get passengers,” an official with TNSTC Trichy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/diwali-shoppers-ditch-public-transport-add-to-traffic-woes/articleshow/79070329.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 6, 2020||Trichy||Trichy traffic police undertake work to enable free left at Palpannai junction||Trichy: The city traffic police have launched the work to facilitate a free left at Palpannai junction, situated on the intersection of multiple highways. The ongoing modification work, likely to be completed in a week, is expected to decongest the busy junction.Trichy city police has facilitated a four-feet additional space on the left side of the intersection where Trichy-Thanjavur NH merges with Trichy-Chennai NH. Clearing the potholes and levelling the uneven surface, the traffic police have filled the stretch with layers of concrete mixture. “We tested the sturdiness of the concrete base by allowing a truck to pass through the free left and the attempt was successful. Presently, the curing process is underway, soon the stretch will be opened for traffic,” a city traffic police official said.Palpannai junction, the oldest gateway to access Trichy city from delta districts was commissioned without an exclusive free-left access, which made the vehicles approaching the city from delta districts to get stuck in traffic. The vehicles heading to G corner from Palpannai junction were stuck at the intersection as vehicles approaching Gandhi market occupied the entire road. Even as the NHAI delayed the work for free left despite repeated requests, the traffic police decided to initiate the work at their own expense. NHAI sources had cited the presence of an electricity pole near the junction as a hindrance for facilitating the free left. They have now assured to relocate the pole at the earliest and widen the stretch further by 5-6 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-traffic-police-undertake-work-to-enable-free-left-at-palpannai-junction/articleshow/79070336.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 6, 2020||Lucknow||‘No one should leave UP for want of treatment’||LUCKNOW: Committed to improving health infrastructure in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government feels the need to increase health sector spending. Speaking at the TOI NBT Project Health webinar titled ‘Making UP’s Health Care World Class’ minister for finance and medical education Suresh Khanna said that UP will, in due course of time, increase the allocation to health sector. He also stressed on the ultimate goal saying, “The vision is to ensure that no person from UP is compelled to go out for treatment of their disease.” “I am aware that the central norms advocate for higher spending on health sector. In fact, it recommends an allocation of about 8%. Even I want to do this. At the moment, UP has a budget of about Rs 5 lakh crore. Of this, Rs 26,000 crore (5%) is earmarked for health sector. I know this is not up to the mark but we are making efforts that in time, we will increase health sector spending,” the minister said. Adding that UP had a sensitive and committed political leadership represented by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Khanna stated: “A heftier budget for the health sector is the need of the hour. I will speak to the CM and urge him to facilitate the same in public interest. It is beyond doubt that the present government has gone an extra mile to give an impetus to the health sector by undertaking some bold steps.” Speaking in the presence of an eminent panel comprising Padma Shri awardee (Hony) Brig Dr Arvind Lal, founder of Dr Lal’s PathLabs; health care economist Ramamurthi Balasubramaniam and chairperson of Smart Bharat Group Preeti Malhotra, the minister said the state’s financial position was slowly improving. “I have recently reviewed the quarterly progress. Economic activity is resuming normalcy. If the trend continues, we will make best efforts to raise the bar,” he said. Lending a patient ear to the points made by the panel which also included Prof AK Singh, vice-chancellor of the newly carved Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University; Dr Kanupriya Singhal, health specialist Unicef, UP field office and Dr Mayank Somani, MD and CEO Apollomedics Multi Specialty Hospital, the minister said that he agreed with the need to use available funds and resources in a rational way. Based on their expertise, the panelists shared ideas for UP which will surely help the state achieve the goal set by the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-one-should-leave-up-for-want-of-treatment/articleshow/79071185.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 90% of IPC cases pending trial in 2019||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police filed a chargesheet in just 16% of the cases registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) in 2019. Also, 90% of the total IPC cases were pending trial at the end of the year. These were a few of the findings that were revealed by NGO Praja Foundation after analysing crime data obtained through various sources, including Right to Information Act. The report, released on Thursday, showed a pretty grim picture of the investigation done by Delhi Police. Praja’s White Paper showed that while 3,10,983 cases were lodged, chargesheets were filed in only 16% last year. Poor investigation of cases also resulted in a low conviction rate. “The accused in 59% of the cases of crime against women and 38% of crime against children were acquitted or discharged. Further, there was a high pendency of investigation in cases of crime against women (58%) and children (55%) in 2019. Also, 89% of the total Special and Local Laws crime cases were pending trial,” the report claimed. In cases registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, Praja found that in 2019 there were 1,719 child sexual abuse cases, including 969 of rape, 604 of sexual assault, 90 of unnatural offences and 50 of sexual harassment. “In the same year, Pocso courts adjudged just 118 cases. Moreover, only 25% of these judgments (30 out of 118) were pronounced within one year, which is required by the Act,” said the report. Girls were victims in 93% of the cases. The low proportion of male cases also reflected the stigma attached to reporting of sexual crimes against males, stated the report, while also highlighting how reporting of cases had fallen in all major crimes in the last five years in Delhi. Reporting of murders fell by 9%, rape by 1%, molestation by 46% and kidnapping by 24%. Praja claimed that cybercrime investigation was also in the doldrums. “Cybercrimes can be registered at the 13 district cyber cells and not at police stations. This led to poor reporting — 115 cases in 2019, 29% less than in 2017. The conviction percentage drastically decreased from 50% in 2017 to 14% in 2019,” the report stated. While complaints could also be filed online, the NGO said a cyber cell in every police station was the need of the hour. The data analysis revealed that just 35% of 14,836 victims of kidnapping and abduction were recovered in 2019, a fall from 48% in 2017. Kidnapping of girls had risen in the past five years. While in 2015 there were 54% cases of girl child kidnapping, in 2019 this rose to 63%. The recovery rate of alive kidnapped victims fell from 48% in 2017 to 35% in 2019. The report also highlighted the shortage of police personnel at various ranks, which was severely impacting investigation of heinous crimes. Meanwhile, Delhi Police said it was a professional force that carried out investigation according to the law and cases were probed and finalised in a time-bound manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/90-of-ipc-cases-pending-trial-in-2019/articleshow/79071208.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: #ArrestMeToo after FIR against coal protesters||PANAJI: A day after an FIR was registered against people who had gathered for the midnight protest at Chandor on Sunday against the double tracking of the South Western Railway (SWR) route, netizens began condemning authorities with the hashtag #ArrestMeToo on Twitter. Activists and protesters, accused for blocking the road, rioting and unlawful assembly at the railway gate, have been booked under Sections 147, 149 and Section 143 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “#ArrestMeToo is the war cry of Goans to FIRs filed by the police against #GoyantKollsoNaka members for peacefully protesting on November 1 night against #SayNoToCoal transportation projects, Twitter user Neelam Ahluwalia wrote. Users pointed out through their online outrage that the protests were peaceful and that there was no rioting. “If saving our forests is an offense; If preserving our biodiversity is a crime; If questioning our ignorant government and asking for a sustainable development is illegal in a democratic country, then #ArrestMeToo,” posted Twitter user, Shreesiddhi Bhomkar. “We live in a country where destroying future is called development & fighting for future is crime. If those wanting to save the forest of Goa’s Western Ghats are being arrested then #Arrestmetoo, I too want to Save Mollem,” another user, Anyatam Shukla wrote. The night of November 1 at Chandor also saw people dressed in traditional attire engaging in song and dance as a mark of protest through music. One user also shared images from the night of saree-clad women dancing in a circle. “Please see photos of the people of Goa “rioting”. Here is the proof of the riots. Hope this helps Dr Pramod Sawant especially, the dancing women,” she wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arrestmetoo-after-fir-against-coal-protesters/articleshow/79070319.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad municipal corporation sends AAI notice for Rs 22 crore dues||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has issued a notice to the Airport Authority of India asking them to pay their service charge dues outstanding up to the year 2020-21, totalling a sum of Rs 22.56 crore. The AMC has threatened that in case of default, it will seal the airport office and prevent scheduled takeover of management of the airport by Adani Ahmedabad International Airport Limited (AAIAL) on Saturday. The AMC has asked AAI to pay up before transferring management of airport to AAIAL, or give a letter of undertaking from AAIAL that they take responsibility of the unpaid dues and will pay Rs 22.56 crore to the AMC. A senior AMC officer said that AAI had earlier informed AMC that the takeover date was November 10. The date was later changed to November 9, and when the official notice was served to AAI, it was learned that the handover of management to AAIAL was to take place on Saturday, November 7. An AMC official said clarity was required on the issue as the airport will now be run on a public-private-partnership model and who was liable to pay the dues needed to be specified. The officials said that besides AAI, several government establishments including state and central government organizations have not paid their service charge. The AMC earlier issued property tax bills, but later the apex court ordered the AMC to collect service charges and not property tax and hence in case of AAI, railways and even state and central government establishments, the AMC was issuing service charge bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-sends-aai-notice-for-rs-22cr-dues/articleshow/79068698.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 6, 2020||Trichy||Tanks revived, 1,000 palm saplings to be planted by YI||Trichy: The Trichy chapter of CII Young Indians and Holy Cross College have together revived 23 acres of land comprising multiple water tanks in Thaluthalapatty village near Manchanallur. Having removed the seemai karuvelam trees that had invaded the vicinity around the tanks, the two institutions will plant around 1,000 palm tree saplings in the area. Four tanks, each sprawling 1,200 to 7,200 square feet, in Thaluthalapatty were cleaned. The tanks were desilted for up to six feet in depth to augment the groundwater table to tap the monsoon rains. Around 450 tree saplings belonging to 11 varieties have been planted so far as bio-fence to protect the water bodies. While Holy Cross college had sponsored Rs 1 lakh towards the drive aimed at reviving the Thaluthalapatty tanks, the Young Indians have sponsored the cost of desilting and cleaning the tanks. In the next phase, around 1,000 palm trees are to be planted in the area to make the vicinity a social forest. “The initiative once completed will increase the biodiversity and boost the socio-economic development of the village. Besides, as the tanks were desilted, the drinking water requirement of the nearby villages can be met,” Ketan J Vora, chairperson, Young Indians, Trichy chapter said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tanks-revived-1000-palm-saplings-to-be-planted-by-yi/articleshow/79070431.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||Teachers' recruitment scam: Officer in-charge of verifying docus to appear before HC||NAINITAL: The education department officer in-charge of verifying the documents of teachers will appear before the Uttarakhand high court (HC) via video-conferencing on Friday. The development comes as the state government informed the court that it could verify documents of only around 10% of the total teachers in the last four weeks. This is despite the fact that the Uttarakhand government had given an undertaking in the HC that the entire process will be completed within these four weeks. However, on Thursday, the government said that it has verified only 12,889 documents of the more than 1.25 lakh. “The state government had told the court last month that it will verify the documents of over 30,000 teachers in the next four weeks. However, their data showed that only about 10% of the total documents have been verified,” said an advocate present in the hearing. The bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani, however, was not satisfied with the progress after which the government said that the officer in-charge will appear before the HC through video conferencing. “Though the state government sought some more time and wanted the case to be listed after Diwali break, but the court will hear the case on Friday,” added the advocate. As reported by TOI earlier, the HC was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that had alleged that there are thousands of teachers working in the government-run schools who do not have required qualification and have furnished forged documents to get the job. The PIL alleged that even though a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was formed in 2018 to investigate the scam, the progress of the investigation has been very slow. The state had earlier sought 18 months to verify these documents but the court refused to accept the statement. After this, the government said it will complete the exercise in four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/teachers-recruitment-scam-officer-in-charge-of-verifying-docus-to-appear-before-hc/articleshow/79067542.cms||Prashant Jha
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh cabinet clears new sand policy||VIJAYAWADA: The cabinet meeting on Thursday cleared the new sand policy to be adopted in the state shortly. It has also decided to take up land survey all over the state. This is the first time in 100 years that a comprehensive survey of land is being taken up. The cabinet sub-committee, which studied the present sand policy and the policy followed in various states, submitted its report to chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy at the cabinet meeting. The government has decided to hand over the sand mining activity to a single company across the state and plans to rope in central government agency in the activity. The cabinet also proposed a price list that varies based on the delivery point from each supply point or the mining point. The new policy would also authorises people to take sand in their own vehicles after online booking. The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) would be strengthened further. Red sanders task force would be attached with the SEB. The cabinet also cleared the proposal for integrated land survey to be taken up across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-cabinet-clears-new-sand-policy/articleshow/79070388.cms||Gopi Dara
November 6, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Upload midday meal scheme details online, schools told||MYSURU: In order to usher in transparency and accountability in the functioning of the midday meal scheme in schools, the state government has decided to leverage the use of the internet. Headmasters and teachers of schools where the midday meal scheme is operational have been asked to upload all the relevant information pertaining to the programme. This includes the number of students being fed at each institution, stock of the food grains, et al, which are to be uploaded daily on the SATS MID website, which has been developed for this exclusive purpose. More than 56 lakh students across the state – 2.2 lakh children in Mysuru district – benefit under the scheme. With the schools being shut indefinitely owing to the pandemic, the state government decided on delivering foodgrains, milk powder to the homes of the students, in addition to providing money to the families to purchase the necessary vegetables to ensure the children are fed nutritious food. Headmasters of all schools in the state have been asked to upload data on the distribution of all the commodities and money on the website so as to enable the government to keep track of the expenditure. Midday meals officer for Mysuru district Ningarajaiah said that the zilla panchayat had already trained the headmasters, teachers and officials in the department of public instruction on the procedure to be followed in uploading the necessary details on the website. “The website has been launched officially and the teachers and headmasters must start uploading details on the distribution of foodgrains to the students,” Ningarajaiah told TOI. Under the earlier system, the headmasters had to submit a utility certificate to the government each month, furnishing details on the utilisation of the foodgrains, in addition to putting forth demand for more vegetables, pulses, cooking gas and staff. “But the website will reduce all the paperwork, and ensure that the department has accurate details on the number of students benefitting from the scheme, which will, in turn ensure that the government has an accurate estimate of the grants required,” Ningarajaiah added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/upload-midday-meal-scheme-details-online-schools-told/articleshow/79068072.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Chennai||Governor has to decide on release of Rajiv Gandhi convicts: Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday said governor Banwarilal Purohit alone could decide on the release of Rajiv Gandhi assassins as the Constitutional powers were vested with him. Talking to reporters in Coimbatore, Palaniswami said the DMK cabinet-led by M Karunanidhi in 2000 had unanimously decided to commute only Nalini’s death sentence, considering her child’s welfare. The government, however, rejected the mercy petitions of the other convicts. “Amma (Jayalalithaa) made efforts to release all of them, but she passed away unfortunately. But Amma’s (EPS claims his government is Amma’s) government decided to release them by passing a unanimous resolution in the cabinet and it was sent to the governor. Only our government has real concerns (for the convicts) and it reflects the sentiments of the people of Tamil Nadu,” the CM said. Asked if the state government would act on the lines of NEET quota order to release the seven convicts, the chief minister said the matter was in the governor’s purview. Meanwhile, the governor is in Delhi to discuss “important issues” concerning Tamil Nadu. An official release from Raj Bhavan said the governor met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday. “They discussed important issues related to Tamil Nadu,” the release said, without giving any details. Purohit also met minister of state in Prime Minister’s Office, Jitendra Singh. On Thursday, the governor called on Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu. He is expected to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday. Purohit’s Delhi visit assumes significance since it comes close of the heels of the Supreme Court expressing displeasure over the pendency of the recommendation of the state government to release one of the convicts, A G Perarivalan. While Purohit is awaiting the final report of the multi-disciplinary monitoring agency (MDMA) probing the larger conspiracy that led to the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, the court observed that the probe was to find out if any other persons, besides those convicted, were involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/governor-has-to-decide-on-release-of-rajiv-convicts-eps/articleshow/79068818.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Company cheated of Rs 3.3L||Ahmedabad: A resident of Kudasan village in Gandhinagar district, Girish Mittal, has lodged a complaint at Naroda police station against one Ravi Upare, a resident of Vinzol, for allegedly cheating him of Rs 3.36 lakh in a transaction involving the purchase of gloves. Naroda police lodged a complaint under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC. Upare runs a business called Still Structure in Vinzol. He allegedly took 930 boxes of gloves worth Rs 5.46 lakh, on August 12 from Shreenath Industries, where Mittal is the CEO. He paid only Rs 2.10 lakh so far. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/company-cheated-of-rs-3-3l/articleshow/79068727.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Stalin raises Sterlite, custodial deaths in Tuticorin ‘Tamilagam Meetpom’||Madurai: The people of the state should give the DMK and its allies a wholesome victory in the ensuing assembly elections like the one they had given the front in the Lok Sabha polls, said DMK president M K Stalin. Addressing the ‘Tamilagam Meetpom’ virtual meet of Tuticorin district on Thursday, he said that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had betrayed the people of the state. He listed out the schemes and programmes that were implemented in Tuticorin during the DMK rule. “On the other hand, what the AIADMK government has to its credit are the killings of 13 Sterlite protestors and the deaths of the father and son in Sathankulam police custody,” Stalin said. If the then Tuticorin district collector had received the petition from the protestors, they would not have been killed in the shooting. The Aruna Jegatheesan Commission is yet to submit its report on the shooting even after 30 months. The jobs given to the family members of the shooting victims are not equivalent to their educational qualification. Family members of Antony Selvaraj and Shanmugam are yet to get jobs. It was due to the pressure by the DMK that the Santhankulam custodial death case of Jeyaraj and his son Beniks was handed over to the CBI. He said that the chief minister was acting on the beck and call of the BJP as he feared that they would act against him. The 39 MPs that the DMK and its allies sent to the Lok Sabha were raising their voice for people. This was made possible by the people, and they will do it again in the 2021 elections, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stalin-raises-sterlite-custodial-deaths-in-tuticorin-tamilagam-meetpom/articleshow/79071195.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||In Uttarakhand hills, villagers display daughter’s name on nameplates||DEHRADUN: In a first of its kind initiative in Uttarakhand, intended to raise awareness about the rights of the girl child, Pauri district administration has launched an initiative, named “Ghar ki pehchan, nooni ku noo” (house in the name of the daughter). Under this programme, villagers are being encouraged to put their daughter’s names on the nameplates of their house. So far, around 100 families have already put up such nameplates. This Saturday, another 50 families of Mathana village will put up their daughter’s names at the entrance of their houses, said officials. “The role of women in the hill economy is extremely important. Such initiatives will not only motivate them, but also encourage their menfolk to undergo behavioural and societal changes,” said Ashish Bhattgain, chief development officer, Pauri. Villagers have expressed satisfaction over the scheme, saying that in the hills, women play an active role both outdoors and indoors — from feeding cattle and cultivating to nurturing the family and taking care of household chores. Expressing happiness, fathers with daughters said the scheme might instill a sense of pride among girls. “I have one daughter, Kashish, who is three-and-half-years old. Every time she sees her name on the door, she gets excited and says she will add a “Dr” before her name when she grows up,” said Bipin Chandra of Malli village. The entire expense of creating nameplates with names of girls is being borne by the Pauri district administration, which is currently trying to identify blocks where awareness of the rights of the girl child needs to be raised. “Over 70 families in Budeshu village of Khirsu block, and another 45 in Malli village of Pauri district have come out in support of the initiative. They understand the nameplate is not just a formality, but an identity being given to daughters, with the hope that they will get the same respect after marriage,” said Jeetendra Kumar, district probation officer, Pauri. The child sex ratio of the district declined from 930 in Census 2001 to 904 in Census 2011. Under the Centre’s Beti Bachao Beti Padhao programme, various initiatives are being implemented in Uttarakhand to promote birth and rights of the girl child. The state’s overall child sex ratio stands at 963 in Census 2011, just one point better than 962 in 2001.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-ukhand-hills-villagers-being-encouraged-to-display-daughters-name-on-nameplates/articleshow/79067569.cms||Shivani Azad
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Sound from all firecrackers in city market within safe limit||Nagpur: All the firecrackers available in the local market ahead of Diwali are well within the permissible limits of noise levels. This came to the fore following a pre-Diwali test of firecrackers conducted by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). According to officials, the variety of crackers available this year is far more than what it was in the past few years. This year, the board tested nearly 50 types of sound-emitting crackers against last year’s 25. The testing was carried out at the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) at Gondkhairi on Wednesday. The samples of crackers were collected from local markets by a committee headed by additional district collector and comprised officers from different departments. Like in the last few years, sound from all tested crackers was found within the permissible limits. According to the Environment Protection Rules (1986), manufacture, sale or use of fire crackers generating noise levels more than 125db (A) at a distance of four metres from the point of bursting in ambient air is prohibited. This time, the noisiest cracker was found to be New Standard atom bomb, the sound level at the time of bursting was 116.8 db with the permissible limit being 145 db (C). MPCB regional officer Ashok Kare, who was present during the testing, informed that bursting of series crackers (ladi) was completely banned as per the directives of the Supreme Court. “Apart from this, pop-up crackers are also banned,” he said. The board officials tested three samples of every cracker. “This time, the number of brands available in market are more. As the decibel levels vary depending on wind direction we take three readings from different directions and then calculate an average for every cracker,” said MPCB sub-regional officer Hema Deshpande. Officials have also warned against burning of ‘popcorn’ cracker that emits sparks while bursting in circular motion. “We term it as operationally dangerous as it can cause harm,” said Deshpande. Other officials present during the testing were Rajnish Piplani, deputy chief controller of explosives, HP Sangole and AJ Sonbarse, deputy controllers of explosives (all from PESO) testing station, and Nagpur tehsildar Suryakant Patil. Not just noise pollution, bursting of fire crackers has also been causing significant air pollution in the city. Cautioning citizens, MPCB officials advised that crackers should be burst in open areas. “When crackers are burst in congested areas, the pollutants do not disperse and can cause harm,” said Deshpande. 5 noisiest crackers: - New Standard Atom Bomb - 116.8 dB - Hercules - 113.9 dB - Naya Carnation fireworks- 112.8dB - Standard Giant Electric Crackers - 111.2 dB - Gnannavel gorilla bomb - 110.5dB||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sound-from-all-firecrackers-in-city-market-within-safe-limit/articleshow/79068769.cms||Manka Behl
November 6, 2020||Bengaluru||25 booked for violating rules during Bengaluru MP Tejasvi Surya’s rally||BENGALURU: The government on Thursday told the high court that a complaint has been lodged in a city magistrate court against 25 people for violating norms relating to wearing of masks and social distancing in Chikkajala police limits. These people had participate in a rally from KIA to the BJP office on September 30 to welcome BJP MP Tejasvi Surya after he was nominated national president of BJP Yuva Morcha. The court was told the complaint was lodged on October 24 and a case was registered under section 51(b) of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and section 188 of IPC. “Have you collected fines from the MP (Tejasvi Surya)and other leaders for not wearing masks? What signals are you sending,” a division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka asked. The government said Surya had maintained social distancing and was wearing a mask during the rally. However, some advocates pointed out that photographs published in newspapers showed the Bengaluru South MP without a mask on. Meanwhile, the government also informed the court that between October 30 and November 2, 18 cases (NCRs) have been registered against political parties for violating Covid-19 safety norms during campaigning for RR Nagar bypoll. Acknowledging the statements, the court directed the government to submit copies of the complaints addressed to DCP (Crime).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/25-booked-for-violating-rules-during-bluru-south-mp-suryas-rally/articleshow/79067949.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajkot woman alleges gang rape by four||AHMEDABAD: A 23-year-old woman from Rajkot on Wednesday filed a complaint of gang rape against four men, alleging that she was raped by them multiple times at various places in the city and Udaipur between September 11 and October 23 this year. She alleged that she had lost her job due to the Covid-19 pandemic and came in touch with the accused as she was promised a job in the corporate world here. In the FIR filed at the women’s police station (west), the woman accused builder Pragnesh Patel alias Pragnesh Gota, a resident of Sola, Jitendragiri Goswami, a resident of Vasna, Maldev Bharwad, a resident of Isanpur and Jaymin Patel, a resident of Bopal, of raping her repeatedly. She alleged that Pragnesh’ wife Neelam confiscated her passport and threatened her. The complainant said Bharwad contacted her in August after he got her number through a common friend and promised to get her a lucrative job in the corporate world. Bharwad then introduced her to Pragnesh and Goswami, who promised her job involving event management work for their companies. On such work, they took her to a hotel in Udaipur on September 11. She alleged that Pragnesh and Goswami, who had also put up in a five star hotel in Udaipur, allegedly gave her a cold drink spiked with sedatives which made her fall unconscious. “The next morning, I found myself and the accused naked. I also felt pain in my lower abdomen. When I confronted the accused, they apologised and promised it would never happen again,” the woman stated. However, the accused allegedly took compromising pictures and videos of her in the Udaipur hotel and used it to blackmail her and expoit her further. She has alleged that Pragnesh’ other aides — Bharwad and Jaymin Patel — also allegedly raped her at various hotels and flats in Ahmedabad. She alleged Pragnesh once took her to a resort in Mandvi, where he and his aides raped her after using the drug ‘MD’. She also alleged that she was raped by Pragnesh and Bharwad in a moving SUV when they were travelling from Kutch to Ahmedabad. She said she she fled to her friend’s place in Adipur when the accused were getting fuel for their car. She said that she was later threatened by Neelam, who also took away her passport. Further investigation has been transferred to crime branch. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rajkot-woman-alleges-gang-rape-by-four/articleshow/79068746.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Dehradun||Two from Uttarakhand make it to Stanford’s list of world’s top scientists||DEHRADUN: Dr Prakash Keshaviah and Dr CS Nautiyal from Swami Rama Himalayan University (SRHU) have ranked among the top 2% Indian scientists of the world by California’s Stanford University for the exemplary works in their field. Dr Keshaviah was selected for his works in urology and nephrology and Dr Nautiyal was selected for his works in the field of microbiology. The ranking was released by Stanford University after analysing the data of over one lakh scientists from across the globe in 22 different research fields. Dr Keshaviah is currently serving as a member of SRHU board of administrators and finance adviser. He is also mentoring medical post-graduates in the field of academic and research. After completing B.Tech in Mechanical Engineering from IIT Madras, he did his Masters in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Minnesota, US. He then completed PhD in the field of biomedical research. Dr Keshaviah also did his MS in Physiology from the University of Minnesota. After 15 years of academic research, he became the vice president of Baxter, a healthcare company based in Chicago. Notably, he has published 130 papers and got nine patents in his name. On the other hand, Dr Nautiyal is serving as a scientific adviser in SRHU. After pursuing MSc in Botany in 1977, he completed a PhD in microbiology. He was also the Vice Chancellor of Doon University. Dr Nautiyal was also a production manager at American Biotech Company in the US. He is also honoured with national awards in the field of research and development. He has published 123 research papers and more than 40 patents are registered in his name. SRHU VC Dr Vijay Dhasmana congratulated these two scientists and termed it as a golden feather in the university’s hat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-from-ukhand-make-it-to-stanfords-list-of-worlds-top-scientists/articleshow/79067584.cms||Shivani Azad
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre to build Rs 820 crore road, bridge across Krishna river||AMARAVATI: In what could a big relief to riverbank villages in Kurnool and erstwhile Mahabubnagar districts, the Centre has proposed to take up a new road along with a bridge on the Krishna river connecting the two districts in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The 122-km-long road will also have 3-km long bridge over river Krishna. The project is likely to cost around Rs 820 crore. The Centre has included the project in Bharatmala phase-I. However, irrigation experts wanted the project to be converted into bridge-cum-barrage to provide relief from floods in both districts and also cater to drinking and irrigation water needs of the drought- hit regions. “Instead of construction of a mere bridge, the Centre should take it up as bridge-cum-barrage which would help reduce flood pressure on the Srisailam project as well as provide drinking and irrigation water to many villages in AP and Telangana,” said Kamani Venugopala Reddy, Kundu river conservation committee president. He said the barrage would also help reduce formation of silt in Srisailam reservoir in the long run. Venugopala Reddy urged chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to suggest to the Centre to change the design of road-cum-bridge to road-cum-bridge-cum-barrage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-to-build-rs-820-cr-road-bridge-across-krishna-river/articleshow/79070430.cms||Samdani MN
November 6, 2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami arrest: 'Anvay Naik a son of the soil, cops following law'||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena on Thursday slammed BJP for supporting Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and calling his arrest in a 2018 abetment to suicide case an “Emergency-like situation” and “an attack on the freedom of the press.” Read AlsoAnway Naik suicide case: Arnab Goswami gave statement in Mumbai, says Maharashtra ministerMUMBAI: The intervention of a senior cabinet member in the previous government made it possible for Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami to record his statement in the suicide abetment case in Mumbai instead of Raigad, said state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Goswami’s statement in the caseAn editorial in its mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ said the Fadnavis government had tried to cover up the case to protect Goswami. “A man committed suicide along with his aged mother and his wife is demanding justice and the police is following the law. His (Goswami’s) arrest is not an assault on the fourth pillar of democracy as described by home minister Amit Shah,” it said. Read AlsoArnab Goswami arrest: Maharashtra home dept set up 40-member team to carry out ‘Operation Arnab’The state home department led by NCP’s Anil Deshmukh drafted a high-level 40-member team led by Kokan range inspector general Sanjay Mohite to arrest Arnab Goswami in the 2018 suicide abetment case.Referring to attacks on the press in BJP-ruled states, the editorial cited the example of a journalist in Gujarat who was arrested for criticising the state government; in UP, it said mediapersons have been killed. “Nobody was told these incidents were reminders of the Emergency. State BJP leaders should demand justice for Anvay Naik, who is a son of the soil,” the Saamana said. Shah had tweeted on Wednesday saying “It reminds us of the Emergency... This attack on free press must be and WILL BE OPPOSED.” The editorial alsodescribed Goswami’s work as “supari” journalism, adding that the BJP should stop grieving for a “nautanki.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arnab-goswami-arrest-anvay-naik-a-son-of-the-soil-cops-following-law/articleshow/79072306.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Kambala Samiti seeks govt nod for daylong events||MANGALURU: Even as the kambala season is all set to begin in the last week of November, District Kambala Samiti has decided not to hold day-and-night events this season due to Covid-19 crisis. They are planning only to hold daylong kambalas. According to organisers, it is not possible to hold kambala events in a full-fledged manner because of the pandemic restrictions. So the Samiti members have decided to submit a memorandum to the government seeking permission for only daylong events. “If the government gives permission, kambala events will be held at nearly 20 places in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts,” said Samiti president P R Shetty. “We will submit letters to the DCs of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts seeking permission. We want to hold kambala events strictly from morning till evening. Crowd management for such events is difficult. Ensuring social distancing between the audience and making them wear masks is a challenge. It will bring a bad name for the organisers if the virus spreads through Covid-infected persons,” Shetty said, adding each team that bring buffaloes comprises a minimum of 15 people, including owner, jockeys and caretakers. “We need to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. Samiti will submit a memorandum to chief minister B S Yediyurappa and other ministers seeking permission. We expect the government to allow us to hold at least day-time events that will end by evening. Considering the pandemic situation, regular round-the-clock events may be held in January,” Shetty explained. The kambala season had begun on November 30 last year, in line with the event calendar of Samiti. While the first out of 20 kambalas was held at Kakkyapadavu in Dakshina Kannada district on November 30, the season ended with an event at Katapady Beedu in Udupi on March 28, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kambala-samiti-seeks-govt-nod-for-daylong-events/articleshow/79067590.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Hyderabad||AP: PIL seeks minority status for four groups||VIJAYAWADA: The AP High Court on Thursday asked the state government to file an affidavit in a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking to recognise the religion of Dudekula, Noorbhasha, Laddaf and Pinjari groups as Islam. The high court also included school education secretary as a respondent in the petition. One Shaik Khajavali Nurbasha moved the high court with a PIL seeking to replace the religion of the four castes in the certificates issued by various government departments as Muslim instead of Hindu. Though people from these castes practise Islam as their religion they are being identified as Hindus in the certificates and other identity cards issued by the government agencies. The high court bench headed by Chief Justice J K Maheswari and Justice T Rajani asked whether any representation was given to the government. The petitioner said the representations were given to the government and in fact the school education commissioner even wrote a letter to the principal secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pil-seeks-minority-status-for-four-groups/articleshow/79070439.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||OCHRI to resume non-Covid OPD services from Nov 9||Nagpur: Orange City Hospital & Research Institute (OCHRI) was requisitioned by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to manage Covid cases and it did that successfully with more than 300 patients recovering and getting discharged. With Covid cases reducing, OCHRI has announced the commencement of its non-Covid routine OPD and indoor services. OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar stated that since March 2020, the OPD was not functioning. Needy patients were really concerned and had been requesting the hospital to resume the services. Accordingly, from November 9, 56 specialists and super specialists will render their expertise on a regular basis at the OCHRI OPD apart from round the clock indoor and casualty services for non-Covid patients. With the induction of fresh talent, the rejuvenated OCHRI team intends to kick start its comprehensive non-Covid multi super speciality care on a 24X7 basis. RNHPL director Dr Usha Nair said that the casualty & emergency services were operating on a regular basis throughout the Covid period. However, regular patients in need of follow-up tests were finding it difficult to cope with their situation as transportation had virtually come to a standstill. With the situation easing out considerably, a 56-member strong OCHRI OPD team will provide the much-needed expertise to the needy patients of central Indian. After thanking everybody for their support to keep the staff motivated, medical superintendent of OCHRI Dr Noorul Ameen said that all diagnostic services, including cardiac and vascular cath lab and planned surgeries, have commenced on a regular basis. The OCHRI goodwill team comprising Anil Dhakate, Prakash Shende, Ramesh Pande along with Dr Sajan Nair led by Sunil Sure are reaching out to the public, all affiliated doctors and companies to announce regular resumption of OCHRI’s non-Covid multi-super speciality outdoor and indoor services. For appointments, patients can call the Priya Sashi-led team of relationship executives on 9372332910/ 9225211146/9225260606.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ochri-to-resume-non-covid-opd-services-from-nov-9/articleshow/79097640.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three held for arguing with cops over masks||AHMEDABAD: Three persons from Naroda — Bhumik Patel, Amrish Patel and Dhaval Patel — were detained by Ramol police on Wednesday after they got into an altercation with police near Matla Circle in Ramol. All of them have been booked under Sections 186, 294(b) and 114 of the Indian Penal Code. According to complaint lodged by police sub-inspector V B Vaghela of Ramol police station, when they were on a checking drive at about 6.30pm near Matla Circle, they intercepted a tempo whose driver and passenger were not wearing masks. The driver, Bhumik, and passenger, Amrish, got out of the vehicle and started laughing at the cops, saying they are robbing people in the name of masks. “They then called another person, Dhaval Patel, who screamed at the cops saying that they don’t know who is he and he would have them taken to task for stopping his vehicle. As the three accused got aggressive, other cops arrived and took the three to Ramol police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-held-for-arguing-with-cops-over-masks/articleshow/79068766.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Stabbed policeman gets a new lease of life at city hospital||Nagpur: Ravindra Chaudhary, a 50-year-old cop, got a new lease of life at Wockhardt Hospital after he was brutally stabbed by a criminal a few days ago. Bleeding profusely, Chaudhary was rushed to the emergency department where he underwent an operation that saved his life, informed the hospital.Chaudhary, a head constable at the Kanhan police station, was stabbed as many as eleven times on the thighs, chest and abdomen by a history sheeter whose brother he had arrested in the past. The assault was an act of revenge. After consultation with the general surgeon, Dr Hemant Chhajed, followed by evaluation by a team of doctors, the victim was immediately rushed to the surgery section.“After performing the rapid antigen test for Covid and routine investigation along with transfusing four units of blood, he was operated,” informed Dr Chhajed. “On examination, he was found to have omentum and bowel coming out from abdominal wounds. It was decided to immediately operate him for exploratory laparotomy which was necessary to save his life. The surgery was successful and he was discharged,” he added.“When I reached the hospital I was in shock but I was still glad to see that within such a short span of time all the necessary investigations were done,” said the victim’s wife. “I have no relatives in town but the way my husband was taken care of at Wockhardt Hospital, I did not even feel that I needed someone. Things were done very promptly and swiftly without wasting any time and everyone handled the situation with calm and a positive approach,” she added. “Policemen work so hard for us and all the more during this pandemic. It gives us satisfaction and pride to have been able to treat him successfully and contribute in saving a valuable life,” said K Sujatha, centre head, Wockhardt Hospitals, Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stabbed-policeman-gets-a-new-lease-of-life-at-city-hospital/articleshow/79097652.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 6, 2020||Trichy||PWD’s turn system for water blamed for crops withering||Thanjavur:Samba paddy crops on about 700 acres are in withering condition due to the insufficient flow of water to the Konakadunkal irrigation canal near Thiruvaiyaru block in Thanjavur district. Framers blame the turn system adopted by the public works department (PWD) in releasing water from Kallanai for the present condition. They have also appealed to the authorities to release water continuously to the river Cauvery from Kallanai to save the standing crops.Farmers from Vellamperambur East, Thiruvalampozhil, Mela Thiruppanthiruthi, Thiruppanthiruthi, Udayavar Arcot in Thiruvaiyaru block have raised samba paddy on 700 acres of land. These farmers depend on the Konakadunkal canal for irrigation which receives water from river Cauvery.P Sugumaran, a functionary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association said that following the implementation of the turn system of releasing water into Cauvery from Kallanai, farmers are not able to get the required quantum of water to irrigate their paddy. “Hoping to get required water, several farmers have raised samba paddy as the current level of water in Mettur dam stands at around 100 feet”, he said. Farmers should have completed transplantation before mid-October. But as there was no flow in Cauvery as well as its tributary Konakadunkal canal, farmers were able to complete the process only during the fourth week of October, he added. “Some of the farmers are pumping water straight away from the river Cauvery using motor pumps as there is no flow into the canal. Usually, water would drain from Kudamurutti and Vennaru rivers in Cauvery, which would to an extent help farmers to get water for irrigation. But this year that also has not happened due to turn system in all the rivers,” Sugumaran said. Meanwhile, officials from PWD said that they would take necessary steps to release water in all the irrigation canals to benefit farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pwds-turn-system-for-water-blamed-for-crops-withering/articleshow/79070481.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 6, 2020||Pune||Virus checks pick up among new TB patients in Pune metropolitan region, over 700 tested so far||PUNE: Response to a Union health ministry order that made Covid-19 RT-PCR tests compulsory for all newly diagnosed TB patients has been improving across the Pune Metropolitan Region. Records show a total of 765 of 1,255 newly diagnosed TB patients have been tested for Covid since the order was issued on September 1. Seventeen of the 765 went on to test positive — a positivity rate of just over 1%. Healthcare activists have been urging authorities to step up Covid testing among new TB patients. They had earlier alleged that the state had failed to immediately implement the health ministry order. But officials said there have been improvements. R S Adkikar, acting joint director (TB) of the state health department, said, “The TB notification of newly diagnosed patients is slowly picking up in Pune district. More TB detection will lead to more Covid testing.” Tuberculosis is a notified disease and doctors have to report all cases. Over the past two months in Pune rural, a total 637 residents have been detected with TB. Of them, 228 patients got the benefit of mandatory Covid tests. And among them, two patients tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. “Before Covid, we would detect an average of 500 new cases of TB every month, mainly at state-run healthcare units. Now, we are detecting 300 new cases per month,” said district TB surveillance officer Sanjay Darade. There are 25 state-run rural hospitals (RHs) in the district. Of them, 22 have were converted into Covid units. “People were scared to visit these hospitals, which led to low TB detection and subsequent testing,” Darade said. In PMC areas, there have been 373 new TB cases over the last two months. Of them, 339 benefitted from compulsory Covid testing and nine showed they were positive. In Pimpri Chinchwad, health officials detected 245 new TB patients over the past 60 days. Among them, 198 availed the benefit of Covid testing and six patients tested positive for Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virus-checks-pick-up-among-new-tb-patients-over-700-tested-so-far/articleshow/79070486.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Online classes: Boys harassing girl students in Haveri||HAVERI: Besides connectivity problems and students being left out because they cannot afford laptops or smartphones, online classes have had another side effect in Haveri district. Contact numbers of many girl students are being misused by their male classmates and even third parties. Girls’ contact numbers are available on WhatsApp groups formed to enable students to link to classes easily. Some of the boys in the class are using these numbers to make unsolicited calls. Many girls say they receive inappropriate messages and phone calls late in the night. Some boys are also passing on contacts to third parties, who are harassing girls. Many parents of girl students have complained to school authorities, who in turn have reported it to officials in the education department. “Two SSLC students in our school were trying to contact girl students at odd hours using their contact numbers,” said an assistant teacher in a private school. “They were harassing some of them by sending inappropriate messages on WhatsApp. The girls’ parents brought the incidents to the notice of school authorities. We have removed the boys from the online classes and sent a report to the block education officer, Haveri.” The teacher confirmed even outsiders were harassing girl students. “Our girl students are losing their peace of mind because of this.” A parent who did not want to be named said, “Our daughter began receiving unwanted posts and SMS texts from her classmates during the night. It became too much to bear so she quit attending online classes.” When contacted, Andaneppa Vadageri, deputy director of public instruction, Haveri district, said he is unaware of such incidents, but promised to look into it. “This is a serious issue,” Vadageri said. “I will find out inquire about it and will hold a special meeting to discuss the issue. We will take precautionary measures to curb such incidents and ensure safety of girls during online classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/online-classes-boys-using-contact-numbers-to-harass-girl-classmates/articleshow/79067787.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Private schools face shortage of teachers as many quit||BENGALURU: With schools continuing to remain closed due to fears of the SARS-CoV-2 virus spreading, managements of affordable private schools have a new problem on hand: A shortage of teachers. Unpaid for several months, many teachers have quit for greener pastures, leaving these schools with only a handful of teachers to conduct online classes. For example, Sridhar KL of KVS School, Kalasapura, Chikkamagaluru taluk, said he is left with only two teachers to conduct online classes. “We have only 45 students who have paid fees and are attending online classes,” Sridhar said. “These teachers take four half-an-hour periods each day. The other teachers have left for jobs, mainly in bigger towns. We have been on the lookout for new teachers, but it’s difficult to get them in a small town like ours.” Staff at Suma Public School in Hebbal, Bengaluru, said they have roped in two guest teachers to ensure students are taught online. “These guest faculty themselves are teachers who quit from another school because of non-payment of salaries,” said Ramesh CA, principal. “They now freelance and conduct online classes for many schools like mine. I have told them we will divide whatever fees we get equally amongst all of us. We need some system to keep ourselves going.” Private schools point out that their inability to collect fees has affected payment of salaries for teachers. “Many schools have cut salaries and some have not been able to pay anything,” said D Sashi Kumar of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. “In many cases, teachers found their salaries too low after the reduction. Besides that, many did not want to go to school to take online classes as they were scared of contracting the infection. Some went back to their hometowns, while others had to stay at home because their children were home. We do not know whether they will return once schools reopen.” Kumar went on to say, “It’s difficult for those who teach in different grades to pitch in. Teaching a primary grade child is different from imparting lessons to a high school student. What is sad is that parents who can afford to pay are also refusing to do so.” Maya Menon, founder-director, Teacher Foundation, said it’s possible that recently recruited teachers have left schools or shifted careers. “Many affordable private schools have tried to retain their senior teachers and have possibly let go their less-experienced ones. Most schools may be trying to fill the gap by asking existing teachers to teach multiple classes,” she said. Schools in cities seem to be coping better as they have got more applications for jobs than the usual. “While some of our teachers left for better paying jobs, it wasn’t difficult to find replacements this time,” said Tanuja Monappa, principal of Mary school in Mysuru. “Usually, we find it difficult to get people in June and July. This time, there were plenty of freshers approaching us for jobs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/private-schools-face-shortage-of-teachers-as-many-quit-over-pay-cuts/articleshow/79067988.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
November 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Covid task force wants 50% of hospital beds held till January||PUNE: Members of the district task force have said they are keen on reserving at least 50% of the region’s hospital beds for Covid-19 patients until January — an allocation that takes into account possible post-Diwali spikes and a second infection wave during the winter. While the state government has stated the 80:20 rule (80% of a hospital’s beds reserved for Covid patients) will stay on, health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said local authorities can now decide how many beds need to be set aside for Covid and general patients. But he urged officials not to let their guard down. “Districts with high caseload should, at least, reserve 50% of hospital beds to prevent a last-minute scramble for Covid care,” he told TOI. Tope and the task force members held a meeting on Thursday to discuss bed allocation and Covid containment strategies for the next two months. Technical advisor to the state and district task force head Dr Subhash Salunke, who attended the meeting, said Pune needs to ensure at least half of all its hospital beds are reserved for Covid patients until January. “There was an alarming increase in cases after the Ganesh festival. Now, we have more festivals coming up, along with the winter. The district should be prepared to handle possible surges. Private hospitals should reserve at least 50% of their beds and retain staff until January,” he said. Besides reservation of beds, Thursday's meeting also discussed aggressive testing, contact tracing and increased focus on Influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases, which can emerge during the winter. Private practitioners have been asked to report these cases to local healthcare authorities for further testing. Salunke said the medical fraternity has also been asked to stick to treatment protocols. Tope, meanwhile, suggested tier-2 and tier-3 cities take advantage of telemedicine facilities to train doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-task-force-wants-50-of-hospital-beds-held-till-jan/articleshow/79070467.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajpath Club AGM ends, ten directors elected||AHMEDABAD: The annual general meeting (AGM) of Rajpath Club Limited ended on Thursday. This is the first time the meeting was held online on a video conferencing platform instead of members gathering at the club, due to the pandemic. The results of the election for 10 posts of directors were announced. Those elected to the board of directors are Narendra Somani, Ashesh Patel, Mihir Shah, Dr Vikram Shah, Manish Shah, Jigish Shah, Kandarp Amin, Nagin Patel, Naginesh Patel and Nainesh Patel. An estimated 42,000 votes were cast in the election and the entire electoral process took place online, using passwords. Former GCCI president Durgesh Buch along with Ajitsinh Jadeja and Mohan Bharwad were appointed scrutinizers for the elections. All members of the Power Panel were voted in with at least 4,000 votes. The president of Karnavati Club, Nagin Patel, was also elected as one of the directors of Rajpath Club. Top sources confirmed that there are no change in the appointments at the club. At the meeting, audited accounts of the club were presented and an account of activities carried out at the club was placed before members and the board of directors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rajpath-club-agm-ends-ten-directors-elected/articleshow/79068799.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Govt okays 200 body-worn cameras for city traffic cops||Nagpur: State home department has accorded administrative approval to procure 200 body-worn cameras for city’s traffic constables. In an affidavit filed in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, government pleader Sumant Deopujari informed the court that the state has issued a government resolution on November 5 empowering the office of inspector general of police (IGP) to purchase the equipment. Appropriate tender process would be followed and the body-worn cameras would be made available to the office of the commissioner of police, the affidavit further said. The court was hearing two suo motu PILs (No. 5/2016 and No. 7/2019) wherein Shreerang Bhandarkar has been appointed amicus curiae, assisted by Nidhi Dayani. The first PIL relates to a fatal accident involving a 15-year-old boy, who dashed against a middle-aged woman and himself suffered serious head injuries. The second PIL is related to dereliction of duty by traffic police that leads to congestion on roads. The GR mentioned that each body-worn camera would cost Rs21,476 and an Rs42.95 lakh would be allocated for purchasing them. On Tuesday, the bench comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Ravi Deshpande had directed the home and finance departments to make their positions clear by Thursday on CP Amitesh Kumar’s proposal for procuring 1,000 body-worn cameras for the city traffic police. The CJ had even stated that if the experiment is successful, it could be replicated across the state. The proposal for purchasing such cameras was first submitted by DCP (traffic) Vikram Sali, who informed the HC that those would be effective in monitoring every constable’s performance and also protect them from false allegations/complaints. TOI had reported about Sali’s proposal in detail on October 17 in which he had stated that such cameras would be provided to traffic cops along with other beat marshals and those in police stations with a view to ensure transparency and accountability. Earlier, home department deputy secretary Yuvraj Ajetrao had informed the HC that state government would be procuring 200 such cameras in the first phase on experimental basis. Accordingly, CP’s proposal is being considered and necessary sanction is being granted for expeditious procurement of the equipment from department’s funds. He had also informed the HC that the government would examine amending the Motor Vehicles Act, 1998, for stringent action against offenders attacking traffic police on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-okays-200-body-worn-cameras-for-city-traffic-cops/articleshow/79068828.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt docs to file petition against audit of hospital bills by NMC||Nagpur: The Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA), apex body of private hospitals in Vidarbha, has decided to file a fresh petition against the audit of hospital bills, introduced by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) during Covid-19 peak. Dr Pradeep Arora, VHA member, has drafted the petition related to audits. Dr Arora had drafted and argued the earlier petition related to capping of non-Covid rates, in which the high court passed a verdict in favour of VHA. This judgement has become a reference judgement nationwide for the medical fraternity. Arora will argue the fresh petition too on behalf of VHA. VHA president Dr Ashok Arbat termed the bill audit system of NMC as ‘Taliban style of atrocity’. “Despite having no authority under law, NMC is acting in a quasi-judicial manner and is tormenting private doctors on frivolous pretexts,” he said. VHA claims the audit of hospital bills by NMC is irrational and unconstitutional. “Private hospitals have been unconstitutionally forced to reserve beds and work under capped charges without any compensation. Moreover, they are shocked to see autonomous vigilant groups functioning openly under eyes of law, and enforcing illegalities by conducting media trials in a blatant manner,” said Dr Arbat. Dr Alok Umre, VHA secretary, added that NMC administration was questioned about the source or authority for the unjust notifications as per law by VHA. “But, instead of replying, the hospitals were invaded by non-medico auditors and threatened with lodging of FIR for unknown crimes,” he added. Dr Shrikant Mukewar, VHA vice president, lamented that private Covid warriors in Nagpur have been repeatedly disrespected by the NMC administration. “Firstly, NMC trampled on the fundamental rights of doctors in professing their vocation, and now, after the work of saving Covid patients is done, it is adding salt to the wounds of the beleaguered Covid warriors by sending illegal refund notices retrospectively,” said Dr Pramod Giri, VHA vice president. Dr Anup Marar, VHA convener, dejectedly said that not a word of appreciation or thanks was ever issued in favour of private health care sector by the authorities. “Rather, they enjoyed demeaning and humiliating doctors and private hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-docs-to-file-petition-against-audit-of-hospital-bills-by-nmc/articleshow/79068820.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tortured by husband, woman poisons herself in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Badamiya Saiyed, 58, of Saiyadwada in Ramol lodged a complaint with Ramol police on Wednesday alleging that his daughter Hajibibi, 36, mother of a 2-year-old girl, had committed suicide by consuming poison. Badamiya alleged his daughter killed herself as she was unable to bear the torture of her husband Imran Saiyed, also from Saiyadwada in Ramol. The FIR states that Imran had beaten his wife urging her to die as he wanted to marry another woman. After this, Badamiya’s daughter consumed poison. She was taken to LG Hospital, where she was declared dead. Inspector K S Dave of Ramol police said they have registered a complaint under Section 306, 323 and 294 (b) of IPC and are probing the details mentioned in the FIR. The complaint details state that Imran had married Badamiya’s daughter about eight years ago. Since two years after the marriage, he took to gambling and drinking. He also left working, and stopped giving money to his wife for running the household, and also beat her. The complainant said that for two years after the birth of the girl child, his daughter had stayed with him, but after intervention by others in the community, Imran had taken his daughter to his home about two and a half months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tortured-by-husband-woman-poisons-herself/articleshow/79068824.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Trichy||140kg ganja meant for smuggling to Sri Lanka seized||THANJAVUR: The Thanjavur special branch police seized 140kg of ganja that was to be smuggled to Sri Lanka via sea and arrested four people. Based on a tip-off, a police team headed by deputy superintendent of police Sivasankar conducted a search at a pump house in a paddy field owned by Kannan of Pannavayal village near Pattukottai. Police found 140kg of ganja packed in 120 packets in the pump house. According to police, it was worth more than Rs 14 lakh. Police also found that four men Ayyappan, 36, Raja, 29, Chellappan, 52, and Veerappan had smuggled the ganja from Andhra Pradesh and concealed it in the pump house without Kannan’s knowledge. Kannan is the maternal uncle of Raja. Police handed over the ganja and the accused to the Narcotic Control Bureau in Nagapattinam district and are investigating further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/140kg-ganja-meant-for-smuggling-to-sri-lanka-seized/articleshow/79070513.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Like-minded youngsters sponsor teacher’s salary||Mangaluru: A group of like-minded youth from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi under the banner MakeSome1Smile-Helping Hand have decided to pay a teacher’s salary by teaching Gubbachi Spoken English course at a government school for one year. Gubbachi spoken English course is a methodology to train Kannada medium students of Karkala in spoken English. About 27 schools in Karkala have implemented Gubbachi spoken English course from August, though most of the teaching is happening through mobile phones. Guruprasad Shetty, member, Helping Hand, said, “We have been launching various programmes for the welfare of the children since three years. Rizwan, a team member from Karkala got to know about the Gubbachi course and discussed it with the members. All members have decided to contribute Rs 60,000 as a year’s salary to the teacher. Depending on the success of this project, we may consider funding other schools too in the future,” he said. Karkala Block Education Officer G S Shashidhar, said, “I met Rizwan through a teacher when they were working towards providing electricity supply to poor households. During our discussion, he got to know about the Gubbachi course and was willing to sponsor a teacher. Government Higher Primary School Nallur will now have a dedicated teacher for a year at least. Currently, classes are being held through WhatsApp.” Lighting up homes This Deepavali is going to be a special one for two families in a remote village of Karkala. MakeSome1Smile-Helping Hand will ensure that two households are provided with electricity supply, while three others will get solar-based interventions. Besides, the 60-member group of which 25 are active members have decided to celebrate birthdays of children in orphanages. “Generally, people celebrate their own birthdays in orphanages. Since last month, we have been visiting orphanages regularly and celebrating birthdays of children there. We have listed out 12 orphanages and during our visit every quarter, we celebrate birthdays of all children falling during that quarter,” said Guruprasad. Sujan, an I PU student and the youngest member of the group has launched MakeSome1Smile- for the streets, through which volunteers are working on feeding strays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/like-minded-youngsters-sponsor-teachers-salary/articleshow/79067620.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man drives car for 1km with cop on bonnet, in net||PUNE: A Pimpri Chinchwad traffic constable was dragged on the bonnet of a car for nearly a kilometre by a man trying to evade action for not properly wearing the face mask while driving on Thursday evening. Yuvraj Kisan Hanuvate (49) of Pimple Nilakh continued to drive the car in the Chinchwadgaon area around 6pm with constable Aba Sawant clinging on to the bonnet till he was forced by some police personnel and motorcyclists to apply the brakes. Sawant suffered a fracture in his right knee. “We booked Hanuvate under relevant sections of IPC and arrested him,” Chinchwad police inspector Vishwajeet Khule said. “Sawant and his colleagues were taking action against traffic and mask rule violators. Sawant noticed the man, Hanuvate, driving without properly wearing the mask. Sawant tried to intercept the car, but the man did not stop,” Khule said. “As Hanuvate stopped at a distance, Sawant ran towards the car and stood before it. When he was talking to the man, the latter accelerated. He drove with Sawant on the bonnet. It was a close shave for Sawant,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-drives-car-for-1km-with-cop-on-bonnet-in-net/articleshow/79070499.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 6, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Rangolis in native village wish Kamala Harris success||TIRUVARUR: With the outcome of the US presidential elections becoming curiouser, residents of Thulasendrapuram, the ancestral village of Democratic Party vice-presidential candidate Kamala Harris, have drawn rangolis in front of their houses wishing her success in the election. Rangolis which read “We Wish Kamala Harris Wins” were drawn on the front yard of several houses. The residents said they were waiting to hear the victory news. “Kamala Harris is the daughter of our village. From children to senior citizens, each one of us is awaiting the result and the day she would take oath as the vice president of the United States,” said S Arunmozhi, Mannargudi union chairman. M Abirami, a resident of the village, said they were waiting to celebrate her election in a grand manner. The villagers had performed puja at the Sri Dharma Shastha temple on Tuesday and also offered annadhanam (free food) to the people for the fulfilment of their wish. In 2014, Kamala's aunt Dr Sarala Gopalan had donated money for the consecration of the temple which is the family deity of Gopalan. The name of Kamala Harris has been engraved on the plague in the temple. Thulasendrapuram is the native village of Kamala's maternal grandfather and former Indian diplomat P V Gopalan. She was born to Shyamala Gopalan and Donald Harris in California.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rangolis-in-native-village-wish-kamala-success/articleshow/79070500.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 6, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Performance spaces reopen, but theatre producers sound a note of caution||PUNE: Performance spaces reopened across the state and city on Thursday, which brought about smiles to the theatre industry, but most of the theatrewalas say that they will play it safe over returning to the stage, as economic and logistical difficulties endure due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Symbolic events marked the reopening of theatres in Pune, with Balgandharva Rangmandir and Bharat Natya Mandir hosting Nandi song recitals — the prelude to musical theatre pieces in Marathi that include invocations to deities — as well as inaugural rituals on the stage. There were speeches from theatre industry figures in appreciation of theatre owners, some of whom are undertaking work to spruce up the spaces after months of being idle, and investing in new safety features and equipment, including temperature scanning and sanitization material. Even the theatre lobby, such as it is, in the state concedes that any full-fledged return to commercial theatre is only a pipe dream over the next few weeks, or even months, largely due to the economic and health landscape. “We have now received permission to open theatres with 50% occupancy. This is still good news for our industry, even though a lot of precaution needs to be taken into account before any production, for the crew and the audience. However, it may not be economically feasible to do so right now, because of the rent involved for the spaces, and the cost to produce some of the plays, with fewer tickets available to sell. Plus, people need to have the confidence to go to theatres now, particularly given the Covid-19 situation,” said Meghrajraje Bhosle, who heads the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Natya Parishad in the state of Maharshtra. Some theatre artists said that well-resourced theatre producers and personalities should “take the plunge”, and give the rest of the industry a fillip. “The difference between a cinema hall and a theatre space is that, unlike screening a film, there are multiple dimensions in a performance, be it the production and stage crew. Besides the audience, there are many safety precautions that they have to take as well. My view is, the ones that are well-resourced should take the plunge, stage a production, and find out things like audience reaction, among other things. Some things can still work out well on stage, such as mono acts, as the cast is reduced automatically,” said Raveesh Jaiswal, founder of the Bombay Theatre Company. For others, the question to returning on stage is also ethical, as well as affecting the artistic side, particularly in intimate theatre that is generally performed in small spaces and the audience is now expected to be smaller. “The question remains whether it is wise for people to gather in a closed room, given that the pandemic is still ongoing? The more important question is that will our work reflect the change that is prevalent at the moment? Besides, there are aspects like intimate theatre, which some, like me, like, and the intimacy is in the audience being close to each other. That will obviously be an issue with a reduced capacity in smaller spaces, as well as the expected rise in ticket prices across state,” remarked city-based stage director Mohit Takalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/performance-spaces-reopen-but-theatre-producers-sound-a-note-of-caution/articleshow/79070527.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wife sets man ablaze for doubting her fidelity in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 40-year-old man from Sarkhej on Wednesday filed a complaint against his wife alleging that she set him on fire as he suspected that she was having an extra-marital affair. In his complaint from Asarwa Civil Hospital, Dinesh Makwana, who suffered severe burns on his chest, hands, legs and hips, alleged that his wife Dharmishtha (35) would beat him up whenever he asked her about her paramour. “My wife works as a domestic help at various bungalows in Makarba and has an extra marital affair with a man named Mukesh Vala. Even my teenage daughter knows about it. Due to this, there used to be fights between us,” Makwana said in his FIR with Sarkhej police station. On Tuesday night, when Makwana returned from his workplace, he told his wife that many people had complained about her affair with Vala. After hearing this, Dharmishtha got angry and she beat him up. Later at night, Dharmishtha left his house for her mother’s place. On the same night, while Makwana was asleep, Dharmishtha allegedly poured some inflammable liquid on him and set him ablaze. “Makwana alleged that when he woke up from his sleep, he found himself on fire and saw Dharmishtha fleeing from the house,” said an official from Sarkhej police station. To save himself from getting burned, Makwana had dived into an underground water tank but still suffered severe burns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-sets-man-ablaze-for-doubting-her-fidelity/articleshow/79068834.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mechanism to fight rumours in run-up to vaccination||PUNE: Collector Rajesh Deshmukh said the district task force would be prepared to develop a robust communication model at all levels to address rumour mongering related to the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Till Wednesday, the Pune district had prepared names of 1.1 lakh frontline beneficiaries and would accommodate more respondents till November 7, with the government allowing inclusion of private doctors practising in the state, likely to receive the first Covid-19 vaccine doses. Deshmukh on Wednesday said the district task force would monitor the entire mechanism for the introduction of Covid-19 vaccine at the urban and block-levels, besides ensuring timely disbursal of funds and sharing feedback at the state-level. The Centre has directed all district administrations to ready their respective plans and prepare the lists of the frontline beneficiaries before December. Health workers, nurses and supervisors, medical officers, paramedical staffers, scientists and research staffers, students and support staff, clerical and administrative officers from both the government and private sectors would be among the priority population for the Covid-19 vaccination drive as part of the Centre’s directive. The Union health ministry has said the drive for the introduction of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) would span over a year with multiple groups being included, sequentially starting from healthcare workers and therefore it is important to create strong advisory and coordination mechanism at the state and district levels. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) had approached the Prime Minister’s Office on the exclusion of the private doctors, helping the state in its fight against Covid-19, from the beneficiaries’ list. “The Maharashtra government has finally agreed to include namws of the private doctors practising in the state in the Covid-19 vaccination drive,” IMA-Maharashtra president Avinash Bhondwe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mechanism-to-fight-rumours-in-run-up-to-vaccination/articleshow/79070531.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Skewed ratio of antigen tests to RT-PCR a worry, says Harsh Vardhan||NEW DELHI: Amid rising number of Covid-19 cases in the capital, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has expressed concern about the highly skewed ratio of rapid antigen test (RAT) to RT-PCR and asked Delhi government to ensure mandatory testing for all persons who test negative in RAT if found to develop symptoms of influenza like illness or severe acute respiratory infection. In Delhi, RAT accounted for 77% of total tests, whereas RT-PCR comprised only 23%, official data show. “The false negative results might give way to complacency among the Covid infected, hence mandatory testing of all RAT negative persons if they develop influenza-like symptoms,” Vardhan said during a review meeting of the Covid situation in Delhi. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain requested the Centre to increase the number of ICU beds in AIIMS (Delhi) and other central hospitals to augment the present capacity which has come under strain. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan informed that the makeshift facility developed by the Army at Dhaula Kuan has a facility for 125 ICU beds that can be utilised. The city reported 6,842 new cases of Covid-19 in a single day on Wednesday, with the number of active cases or those with a current infection hitting a high of over 37,000. The infections are seen as a third wave in the city which has a large population and recieves lakhs of commuters from neighbouring areas on a daily basis. Vardhan also expressed concern about rise in positivity rate across six districts - North, Central, North East, East, North West and South East of Delhi – and asked the city government to focus its efforts to contain the spread in these districts. “There are six districts in Delhi where the positivity rate is between 12 and 14%. Ideally, this should be less than 5%. There is a need to increase testing and surveillance in these areas. Delhi is a cause of concern. It is the capital and hence there are more activities that happen here. At 1.71%, the fatality (case fatality ratio; the proportion of deaths among total tested positive) rate in Delhi is more than the national average of 1.49%. The recovery rate of Delhi is 86%, lower than the national average of 92%,” the minister said. The Centre also urged authorities in Delhi to be alert during the forthcoming festival and winter season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/skewed-ratio-of-antigen-tests-to-rt-pcr-a-worry/articleshow/79071217.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Cops foil man’s bid for ‘jeeva samadhi’||Madurai: A 39-year old man who claimed to be an aghori ascetic and attempted ‘jeeva samadhi’ was pulled out of his self-made tomb by police near Andipatti in Theni district on Wednesday. Ashok alias Sokkanathar, son of Rajendran of Mottanoothu village, had left his home at the age of 13 and returned after nearly 26 years two months ago. He told the people he had gone to Kasi, interacted with ascetics there and become an aghori ascetic. Police found that he had dug a 12-foot-deep pit in the village, got seated inside and was meditating. He was dressed like an ascetic with a rudraksha and photograph of Lord Shiva nearby. Police tried to persuade him to come out but he told them not to interrupt his attempt as they would incur the wrath of aghoris. Police told him he did not have permission to sit underground and conduct rituals. Subsequently, he agreed to continue his attempt by sitting on the ground. The pit was closed but police are keeping a watch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-foil-mans-bid-for-jeeva-samadhi/articleshow/79071216.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Teachers accuse jt director edu of harassment, violating promotion norms||Nagpur: Many assistant professors, some at the fag end of their careers, are up in arms against joint director of education Mahesh Salunke. They have accused him of imposing undue condition of holding PhD to become eligible for Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) placement or promotions. In a strongly worded letter to the education minister and the education director, besides Salunke, the teachers’ association, National Forum for Quality Education (NFQE), has accused Salunke of harassment by stalling legitimate CAS promotions. NFQE said that the joint director has stalled promotions, and is not clearing CAS committee files for verification and salary disbursal for over a year now. It also accused him of changing the date of CAS promotions at his level despite the CAS committee already recommending a date. There are around 7,500 assistant professors belonging to three universities at Nagpur, Ramtek and Gadchiroli under the Nagpur division. In the letter dated November 3, NFQE president Ramesh Zade and convener Kushal Mude noted, “CAS promotion is legitimate right of teacher and must be done in reasonable time as per UGC norms, and citizen charter of state GR. Proactive role of joint director is very essential. But your action is neither proactive nor cooperative.” They also observed, “Your approach towards teachers is highly biased and vicious. This not only causes uproar among NET/SET teachers but also maligns the image of state government.” Salunke, however, insists there is no pendency of promotions and all proposals were speedily processed. “All rules are being followed. In Nagpur division, we are quickly clearing all files without any delay. This is the first time in last three years that a large number of promotions have been expedited,” he said. Regarding naming nominee on CAS committee, Salunke said, “In last four months, no one was willing to go due to Covid-19. Hence, I would myself go as nominee to ensure CAS placement interviews are not delayed,” he said. Officials sources claimed the proposals are routed through principals and in most cases only the covering letter reaches the joint director. “Without supporting documents, how can the promotion be processed? The office keeps requesting principals to visit us to sort out the issues, but they never turn up,” officials said. Another reason for the alleged pendency has been manpower shortage. “Each university has at least 20 employees in their establishment section to look after these issues. As compared to this, only one employee is entrusted with all the claims at the department,” they said. TEACHERS DEMANDS Allow CAS promotion of NET/SET teachers without PhD and PBAS as per choice of options provided in UGC regulation and state GR Provide joint director nominee to all pending applications and verify committee approved proposal within 15 days Keep date of CAS promotion as per UGC regulation of 2018, which is fulfilment of eligibility and not date of interview||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teachers-accuse-jt-director-edu-of-harassment-violating-promotion-norms/articleshow/79068841.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 6, 2020||Trichy||Probe on into assault of TTEs By Rly staff at Thanjavur stn||Thanjavur: Railway police have commenced investigation on the assault on two train ticket examiners (TTEs) at Thanjavur station by two railway employees the video clip of which has been doing the rounds on social media. According to railway police, TTEs Jawahar and Ramesh were on duty on the Karaikal - Guruvayur special train (Number 06187) that departed from Karaikal at 4.10 pm on Wednesday. While Jawahar was checking tickets, he came across a person identified as Manikandan who had no ticket. He was a temporary worker in Trichy division and had boarded S1 coach at Tiruvarur. Being a temporary worker, Manikandan has no free pass to travel, he said, and asked him to pay the penalty. However, he refused to pay anything and informed two of his friends over phone about the incident.When the train arrived at Thanjavur, two people picked up an altercation with the TTEs on the platform. The argument turned violent and they attacked the TTEs. Government railway police personnel intervened and pulled them apart. The two were identified as Karthi and Arulmurugan who were railway employees, police said.The incident delayed departure of the train from Thanjavur by 30 minutes, railway sources said. Both the TTEs have been admitted to hospital for treatment. Based on a complaint lodged by the TTEs, government railway police began inquiry. A senior official of Trichy division told TOI that departmental action would be taken based on an ongoing inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/probe-on-into-assault-of-ttes-by-rly-staff-at-thanjavur-stn/articleshow/79070529.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||Desperate city schools seek parents’ cooperation, reveal outstanding fees||Kolkata: Claiming to be reeling under financial crisis owing to the outstanding fees, many schools opened their accounts books, showed the huge backlog of fees from pre-pandemic days, and appealed to parents of their students to clear the dues before the November 30 deadline or they would be forced to debar their wards from classes. While these are mostly church-run heritage schools, some other private schools also said the outstanding figures would be revealed in the Supreme Court, where the school fee issue is still being heard. On the top of the list is St Thomas’ Kidderpore, where the accounts books reportedly showed an outstanding amount of Rs 8.5 crore, that have accumulated since pre-pandemic days. It is followed by La Martiniere Schools (Boys and Girls), where the accounts office has prepared a fee outstanding list of Rs 5.5 crore. “We cannot take the hit any more. This amount has accumulated over almost two years and there is a long list of defaulters. We have drafted a letter and are writing to parents in no uncertain terms that unless they clear the dues by November 30, their children will not be allowed in classes after December 8,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of the schools. The accounts books of St John’s Diocesan Higher Secondary School showed an outstanding fee of Rs 3 crore, followed by Rs 2.5 crore at St James’, Rs 1.15 crore at St Paul’s Mission School, Rs 1.25 crore at St Thomas’, Free School Street, and over Rs 1 crore at Pratt Memorial. “We have been lenient with parents as is the culture of church schools. But now, we have our back to the wall. At St Thomas’, Free School Street, 53% students have not paid since pre-pandemic times, at St Paul’s Mission School, 35% have not paid and at Pratt Memorial, 25% have not paid,” said John Ghosh, secretary of Kolkata Diocese of CNI. In utter desperation, many Loreto schools and Loyola Kidderpore have repeatedly been appealing to parents to pay their dues from pre-pandemic months. At Loreto, Elliot Road, teachers are teaming up with the accounts department and calling up parents to re-confirm the dues as the outstanding amounts are different in each case. Administrations of some schools, like Birla High, Sushila Birla Girls’ School and Shri Shikshayatan, said the outstanding amounts since pre-pandemic times were “substantial” but declined to reveal the figures. Both said they would show the amounts in to the court when needed. Father Moloy D Costa, secretary of West Bengal Association for Christian Schools, said a large number of schools had joined the association in filing the appeal in the Supreme Court and the huge outstanding amounts of member Christian schools would be submitted then. “Christian schools have been lenient with backlogs as a matter of ideology but this is costing us heavily now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/desperate-city-schools-seek-parents-cooperation-reveal-outstanding-fees/articleshow/79088854.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 6, 2020||Pune||PMC to divert Mandai museum funds to boost medical infra||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned to divert money reserved to restore heritage structures in the city for Covid-19 mitigation. Around Rs1 crore would be diverted from a project to build a museum at Mahatma Phule Mandai. The funds would be used to procure medical equipment. A proposal regarding the diversion has been tabled before the standing committee. “The funds are to be diverted for work related to Covid-19. The money will be spent on building health infrastructure and procuring medical equipment required for civic hospitals and laboratories,” states the proposal. According to data compiled by the PMC, it has spent around Rs300 crore to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak. Funds have been utilized to purchase personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, medicines, manpower recruitment and setting up of facilities such as the jumbo hospitals. “The civic body has prioritized procurement of material that will help deal with the outbreak. All proposals tabled before the committee to curb Covid-19 spread have been cleared. Funds may also be diverted,” said a member of the standing committee. PMC has planned renovations and repairs of Phule Mandai, which was established in 1885. The plan to build a museum was being discussed since the last couple of years. Budgetary provisions of Rs1 crore had been made for the same. “The work on the museum has not started yet and the project has only been principally approved. The exact plan has not been finalized so the funds have not been utilized,” said Shivaji Lanke, head of PMC’s estate department. “The actual work could not be started as the theme of the museum is yet to be finalized. The idea of setting up a freedom fighters’ museum was mooted but it could not be finalized since a museum on the same theme is already in place at Nanawada. There is hardly any possibility of using these funds over the next three months, so the diversion has been proposed,” said a senior official of the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-divert-mandai-museum-funds-to-boost-medical-infra/articleshow/79070586.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man assaulted by loan sharks||AHMEDABAD: A 28-year-old man from Nikol, Dharak Jani, lodged a complaint at Khokhra police station on Wednesday against five persons, including a moneylender, for assaulting him over repayment of money he had borrowed. Inspector Y S Gamit of Khokhra police said they are hunting for the accused. According to the FIR, Jani rented an Amul parlour in Nikol five months ago. He stated he borrowed Rs 50,000 from Gaurav Chauhan. “He was to repay Rs 1,250 every day. The complainant said he paid 30 instalments and borrowed Rs 1 lakh more from Chauhan. Chauhan deducted the outstanding and gave him Rs 61,000 for a daily instalment of Rs 2,500,” said a police official. Jani stated that as he failed to pay seven instalments, Chauhan’s aide kidnapped him and took him to Chauhan’s office. There he was beaten there with a iron pipe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-assaulted-by-loan-sharks/articleshow/79068847.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Pune||FDA cracks whip on shops flouting mask price cap||PUNE: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Pune, has cracked the whip on 28 retail medical shops in the district for overcharging buyers for the protective face masks in the time of Covid-19 . The Maharashtra government had recently put a cap on mask prices . FDA assistant commissioner S V Pratapwar told TOI, “The FDA inspected 419 retailers across the district for the maximum retail price (MRP) they were charging for masks. As many as 28 shops were found violating the fixed prices. Action against these shops has been initiated and notices are being sent to them.” Pratapwar said FDA commissioner Abhimanyu Kale had instructed all officers to implement the price cap order and inspect the retail medical stores. All retailers have also been told to display the price list of masks outside their shops, he said. A mask manufacturer said, “Before the MRPs were fixed, the medical shops were overcharging consumers by selling masks not only at high prices, but also duplicate masks in some cases. We raided several such establishments and lodged FIRs against them. Now, such medical shops are stuck with the duplicate masks. They can neither sell them at higher price, nor can they give them to the manufacturers as the protective gears are not genuine.” Top sources from the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AiMeD) stated that there was a standard practice to fix the MRP of an item — it has to be at least over three times of the ex-factory cost for medical devices to ensure that goods reach the last mile. Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator, AiMeD, said, “Maharashtra is the only state that has put a cap on the MRP of the face masks. However, the restriction is dissuading distributors from delivering these masks to the state’s remote parts as the manufacturers are left with extremely low margins. Besides, they cannot even cover the transportation costs of the masks to such areas.” Nath added, “The Maharashtra government’s intentions are good, as they seek to protect consumers and give them access to reasonably priced masks of standard and high quality. However, the mask prices that have been fixed need to be rational.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fda-cracks-whip-on-shops-flouting-mask-price-cap/articleshow/79070577.cms||Neha Madaan
November 6, 2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami arrest: Maharashtra home dept set up 40-member team to carry out ‘Operation Arnab’||MUMBAI: The state home department led by NCP’s Anil Deshmukh drafted a high-level 40-member team led by Kokan range inspector general Sanjay Mohite to arrest Arnab Goswami in the 2018 suicide abetment case. The preparations for “Operation Arnab” began a few days after Raigad police secured permission to reopen the probe into the alleged suicides of architect Anway Naik and his mother Kumud in 2018. In all, 40 personnel were drawn from Mumbai and Raigad police. Read AlsoMake widow party to case: HC to Arnab GoswamiArnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, had to spend his second night in custody as the Bombay high court on Thursday granted him no relief but posted his urgent plea for interim release to 3pm on Friday.Mohite drafted the plan to arrest Arnab while the responsibility to execute it was entrusted to high-profile encounter specialist Sachin Vaze. “For the team led by Mohite, it was a challenging task in view of the powerful Arnab. We acted very carefully, every member of the team observed restraint despite provocation,’’ a senior cabinet member told TOI. Read AlsoMumbai: Magistrate told Arnab Goswami to ‘maintain decorum’The chief magistrate of the Alibaug court on Wednesday evening told Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami to maintain decorum, “behave like an accused” and not interrupt the proceedings.The cabinet member said after the preliminary probe, it was confirmed that Arnab was allegedly involved in the abetment to suicide case. “Our people made several rounds of the building where Arnab was residing. It was a secret operation. We were fearing that if the information is leaked, Arnab may flee the city to avoid arrest,’’ he said. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeArnab was arrested in the early hours on Wednesday. Police personnel chose the morning hours to ensure he was at home. “It was a planned operation, even small issues were taken care of. It was decided who will knock at the door, who will talk to Arnab and his family members and what the course of action would be if he resists. Arnab did resist. However, after Vaze explained to him the legal position if he failed to join the investigation, it was a smooth affair,’’ he said. Read AlsoFake images and threat of 'live telecast' of Arnab's arrest?MUMBAI: Within hours of the arrest of Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, by Alibaug police on Wednesday morning, social media was flooded with pictures purportedly showing the journalist being beaten and tortured by the police. On Twitter, several people connected with a social mediaHome minister Anil Deshmukh said under the Fadnavis government, all out efforts had been made to wind up the case. “When I listened to the widow and her daughter, I got a shock of my life. I could not believe that this can happen in Maharashtra. We will take the case to its logical end,’’ he said. Launching a frontal attack on the BJP, particularly Fadnavis, Deshmukh said the BJP politicised the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide though there was no evidence while here despite a clear suicide note, Fadnavis had suppressed it. “We will ensure justice to the Naik family,” Deshmukh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-home-dept-set-up-40-member-team-to-carry-out-operation-arnab/articleshow/79072310.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Justice Deshpande accorded red-carpet farewell||Nagpur: On the final day of his tenure, senior administrative judge Ravi Deshpande bowed before the stairs of Nagpur bench of Bombay high court’s historic edifice to pay tributes for the last time. After more than 25 years of service in the legal practice, the senior judge was given a red-carpet farewell from none other than Bombay high court’s chief justice (CJ) Dipankar Datta — who arrived in the city especially for this purpose — and other judges and lawyers. “It was the first time in history that a chief justice was present for the farewell function of any senior administrative judge at the Nagpur bench. I am overwhelmed by the love and cooperation from all stakeholders of the judiciary, from judges to lawyers to litigants,” an emotional justice Deshpande told TOI. After over 11 years and seven months of service as a judge, justice Deshpande walked out on a red carpet laid on the stairs of the historic edifice. He was accompanied by all HC judges including the CJ, and a few lawyers who were associated with him in the past, like Shreerang Bhandarkar. After a photo session with the judges, justice Deshpande handed back the administration’s charge to justice Datta before driving away in his car, with his wife sitting beside. The police band escorted the car till the main gate. All the judges and lawyers lent a helping hand to the vehicle as a symbolic gesture, while the judge was leaving the HC premises. Entire staff working at the court came out to witness the rare ceremony and gave a standing ovation. The judge responded by waving and smiling while moving out. Family members of justice Deshpande, including his father senior counsel KH Deshpande, attended the ceremony, along with senior counsel Anand Jaiswal, assistant government pleader Anand Deshpande, and others. Earlier, a full court meeting was organized online where the senior judges from Bombay, Aurangabad and Goa benches wished justice Deshpande on his last day. It included justices AA Sayed, Mahesh Sonak, SV Gangapurwala and others. Senior judge Sunil Shukre is likely to succeed justice Deshpande as the new administrative judge. “My tenure was highly satisfactory and I don’t think there’s anything remaining to be done. The Nagpur bench’s disposal rate is highest among all benches and even CJ appreciated it. There’s reduction of frivolous PILs and other cases as well,” justice Deshpande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/justice-deshpande-accorded-red-carpet-farewell/articleshow/79068904.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||14 projects receive GYTI Awards||Ahmedabad: A total of 21 innovations from prestigious scientific institutions across India were chosen for the Students Innovations for Advancement of Research Explorations (SITARE) — Gandhian Young Technological Innovation (GYTI) Awards and SRISTI-GYTI Awards for 2020. Twenty-seven other innovations were also given appreciation citations in a virtual event on Thursday headed by Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union minister for health and family welfare and science and technology. While majority of the awardees were from Indian Institute of Technologies, Indian Institute of Sciences (IISc), Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Researches, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Researches, the students from other institutes also won laurels. Some of the major categories in which the awards were conferred included healthcare (devices and diagnostics), agriculture, biomedical engineering, nanoscience and material science among others. Dr Harsh Vardhan said that they would form a committee to take some of the ideas for scaling-up in time-bound manner. He lauded the scientific community in the country for self-reliance in the time of Covid-19 and said that when the Indian scientists got together, they could surmount any problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/14-projects-receive-gyti-awards/articleshow/79068862.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: 31 more casualties push toll above 8,000 in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: The Covid-19 fatalities surpassed 8,000-mark on Thursday, with 31 more patients succumbing to complications in the region in the last 24 hours. Among the 8,016 fatalities recorded in PMR so far, as many as 4,473 (more than 50%) have been seen in the PMC limits alone. The rural and Cantonment areas together have reported 2,005 deaths, while 1,538 patients have succumbed to the contagion in the PCMC limits, data provided by the district health office said. The region added 624 recoveries on Thursday as compared to 543 new infections, taking the tally and discharge count in PMR above 3.26 lakh and 3.07 lakh, respectively. The PMC areas reported more recoveries than new cases. In PCMC and rural areas, however, the new cases exceeded discharges for the day. The report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, said more than 1.52 lakh patients have been discharged in the PMC limits till Thursday, followed by over 85,000 in PCMC and over 69,300 in the rural and cantonment areas. Among the Thursday’s 31 deaths, 16 were reported in the PMC limits, 14 in the rural and cantonment limits. One patient died in the PCMC limits. Health officials said the region had reported a steady decline in daily deaths in the last one month. Active case tally dropped to 11,377 on Thursday, including 5,054 in various hospitals and 6,323 in home isolation. Health authorities conducted 6,526 tests in PMR on Thursday, including 2,372 in the PMC limits, 2,185 in the rural and cantonment areas and 1,969 in the PCMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/31-more-casualties-push-toll-above-8000-in-pmr/articleshow/79070594.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: 16-year-old addicted to mobile games hangs self||MADURAI: A teenager from Madurai ended his life by hanging at his house after his parents reprimanded him for playing games on the mobile phone. The deceased was identified as S Manikandan, 16, from Gandhi 2nd Street in Sambakulam in K Pudur. According to police, Manikandan had become addicted to games and had downloaded a range of games. The time he spent on games had increased after schools were shut due to the lockdown. His parents tried to wean him out of mobile addiction, but could not. They recently scolded him and snatched the phone from him. Frustrated by this, he hanged himself on Wednesday when his parents were not in the house. When they returned in the evening, they found him dead and alerted the K Pudur police. A team reached the house and shifted the body to the Government Rajaji Hospital for postmortem. Based on a complaint from Manikandan’s father S Sivaraman a case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/16-year-old-addicted-to-mobile-games-hangs-self/articleshow/79071221.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Southern districts get heavy rain for 2 days||Madurai: Heavy rain lashed the southern districts in the last two days with Madurai district receiving an average rainfall of 17mm on Wednesday. While Usilampatti received the highest rainfall of 110.2mm in a single day on Wednesday, other places which received good rainfall were Vadipatti (50mm), Andipatti (38.2mm), Peraiyur (35mm), Kuppanampatti (25mm), Thaniyamangalam (24mm), Melur (9mm) and Thirumangalam (14mm). Thursday remained cloudy throughout the day in Madurai with intermittent drizzles and rainfall, accompanied by thunder. Water was stagnated in many parts of the district resulting increase in mosquito menace. The Madurai Corporation stepped up fogging of the wards. Bad roads, added to the ongoing smart city works in many places, made commuting difficult in many parts of the city. Tuticorin district also received fairly good rainfall with Ettayapuram receiving the highest of 67mm. Tuticorin city received 30.2mm in the last 24 hours ending 8am on Thursday. Vilathikulam and Kayathar received over 30mm of rainfall. Meanwhile, there was a slight increase in the water level of the major dams. The water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at 124.25ft, with an inflow of 860 cusecs and 1,300 cusecs was discharged from it. Vaigai dam’s water level stood at 49.25ft, with an inflow of 1,216 cusecs and 1,199 cusecs was discharged from it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-districts-get-heavy-rain-for-2-days/articleshow/79071218.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Overhead traction cable work starts on 8.3km Metro stretch||PUNE: The overhead traction cable laying work for providing uninterrupted power supply to Metro rakes has started in the Civil Court to Ramwadi Reach-3 section, covering about 8.3km. The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) started the installation of tubular portals for the overhead catenary wire system near the Pune railway station recently. Arches have been built on 1.2km stretch so far. There is a plan to extend the installations to all the stretches where the viaduct was ready. An official of the MahaMetro said around 2.5km of viaduct was ready on the Civil Court-Ramwadi stretch for further work, including installation of overhead cables and laying of Metro tracks. The overhead cable laying work has started. The MahaMetro is now planning to lay the tracks. “We are getting the infrastructure ready for laying the tracks. We have speeded up the viaduct work, so that a considerably long stretch is available for laying the tracks,” the official said. More than 319 pillars are expected to be built on the Civil Court-Ramwadi stretch on Vanaz to Ramwadi elevated Metro corridor. Foundations of over 80% pillars are ready. More than 75% pillars have been built on the stretch. The work has been expedited near RTO, Pune station, Wadia College, Bund Garden and beyond Yerawada. The stretch where the work was stopped could begin soon following the high court’s recent directive to hand over the land for the Metro work. Another MahaMetro official said the Metro stretch would cross the river near Sangam bridge and at Bund Garden. The construction of pillars has been completed at both the river crossings. The installation of spans of viaduct was yet to begin, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/overhead-traction-cable-work-starts-on-8-3km-metro-stretch/articleshow/79070618.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 6, 2020||Madurai||Thousands participate in temple’s palanquin fest, ignore safety norms||Madurai: People from seven villages near Usilampatti in Madurai gathered in large numbers to participate in the palanquin festival of the local temple on Thursday, even as religious congregations with large gatherings are prohibited in view of Covid-19 in the state. The festival of the Muthalamman temple in Ammapatti near Peraiyur in Madurai is celebrated once in two years by the villagers of T Kallupatti, Devakurichi, K Chathirapatti, Kilankulam, Vannivelanpatti, V Ammapatti and Kadaneri. This year, the temple festivities began two days ago and culminated into the palanquin ceremony, where each village brings their own grandly-decorated palanquin. Thousands of people took out procession from each village, carrying the palanquins, throwing Covid-19 safety measure to the winds. “People just don’t seem to realize the lurking danger and seem to believe that the disease does no longer exist,” said K Suresh Kumar, a teacher, who had witnessed the crowd. The footfall was so huge that the buses plying to Theni, Virudhunagar, Rajapalayam, and other places via T Kallupatti had to be diverted. However, the officials were not monitoring if the safety measures like wearing of masks or social distancing is being followed, sources said. A police officer said that permission for the Muthalamman temple festival was given by the revenue department and they had no role to play. They tried to prevent crowds by conducting meetings with villagers but the villagers still violated the norms. A case would be registered for curfew violations, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/thousands-participate-in-temples-palanquin-fest-ignore-safety-norms/articleshow/79071222.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 6, 2020||Pune||Tricksters prey on two women, steal jewellery||PUNE: Two elderly women on Wednesday were tricked by two men and lost gold ornaments, collectively worth Rs2.6 lakh. The con men told the women that a donor would be distributing free saris and bangles among the needy to lure them. They also told the women to remove their gold ornaments and keep then in their own bags so that they would get the freebies easily. The suspects then diverted the women’s attention and made off with the bags. The incidents were reported from Bhosari and Chinchwad on Wednesday afternoon. Sindhubai Borade (65) of Moshi, who lost gold ornaments worth Rs1.9 lakh, lodged a FIR with the Bhosari police station, while Nagarbai Bonagire (65) of Rahatani, who lost gold ornaments worth Rs65,000, has lodged an FIR with the Chinchwad police station. Borade’a grandson Aditya Saste said, “As she was heading towards the bank, the two men stopped her and said that one person was donating saris, bangles and chappals to people suffering due to the pandemic.” The men asked her to remove her ornaments. “They helped her keep the jewellery in her own bag then they asked her to sit there and left. After sometime, my grandmother realized that the ornaments were stolen,” Saste said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tricksters-prey-on-two-women-steal-jewellery/articleshow/79070631.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 6, 2020||Nagpur||Crucial November: Caution first, festivities later||Nagpur: First weekend of November is also the last weekend before Diwali. Shopping, travelling, and meeting friends after a long break due to pandemic is on the cards for many. Falling Covid-19 cases, and few deaths may give sense of freedom. But, understand the risk factors and follow self-regulation to stay safe, healthy and happy during and post festive season. RISK FACTORS Crowding: With more relaxations, people likely to gather at shopping malls, multiplexes, and market places, leading to more infections Travelling: With travel restrictions removed, and almost all public transport back, crowded buses and trains are all potential carriers of virus Firecrackers: Air pollution caused by firecrackers may help aerosols of the virus from an infected person remain afloat in the air for longer than 10-20 minutes Winter: Nagpur city has recorded below normal temperature in first four days of November, and the trend is expected to continue over next week. Any flu virus survives for a longer period in a colder climate. Rising cases: Though not significant, there is a change in number of new cases and number of patients recovering daily in Vidarbha. In last three days, cases were more and recoveries were less. So, no one is safe. SECOND WAVE? Second wave means a revival of viral infection that appears to have decreased for a certain period of time State health minister Rajesh Tope has said second wave of Covid-19 is unlikely in Maharashtra Infectious disease specialists find no reason to say there will not be a fresh wave of the disease “There is no epidemiological reason to say there will not be a second wave. But how severe it will be depends on how seriously we follow Covid norms over next four weeks,” said Dr Ashwini Tayade, infectious disease specialist. INDICATORS OF SECOND WAVE - If new cases remain more than recoveries - If sample positivity rate is more than 10% - If doubling rate, which is over 200 days now, reduces significantly - If under-treatment patients (active cases), which is less than 6% of total cases at present, increases - If recovery rate, which is more than 92% now, goes down significantly HERD IMMUNITY? Declining number of new cases may create a notion that we have developed herd immunity. But, according to doctors, there’s a long way to go “Herd immunity comes when at least 60% of the population gets infected, which, in turn, acts as a barrier for transmission. In India, we are not even at 10%,” said pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat. TIPS FOR SAFE DIWALI Hand sanitizers: Alcohol-based hand sanitizers are inflammable and can cause fire. Don’t use them before lighting diyas, candles or firecrackers. Sanitizers: Sanitizer bottles have become most common household items during Covid-19. But, they can easily catch fire. So, keep them at a safe place before Diwali. Use water and soap: Better option is to keep water handy and wash hands with soap. Paper soap is better Distancing: To ensure Covid distancing, opt for ‘namaste’ instead of hugs Wear mask: Diwali will be healthier for all if we follow Covid regulations. Wear masks while going out anywhere||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crucial-november-caution-first-festivities-later/articleshow/79068937.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 6, 2020||Pune||Security guard bludgeoned to death in Pune||PUNE: A 56-year-old security guard was bludgeoned to death in a field at Kapremala near Bhosale Garden in Hadapsar on Wednesday night. Security guard Dattatraya Kamble’s body was spotted by a passerby around 8.30am on Thursday, who immediately informed the city police control room. Senior inspector Balkrishna Kadam of the Hadapsar police said, “Kamble left his residence in Malwadi around 1.30pm on Wednesday but did not return home. His body, with multiple injuries, was recovered from the field located near his residence on Thursday morning.” Kadam said, “He was found bludgeoned with a stone, but the motive behind the murder is yet unknown. The guard’s family members do not suspect any person(s). We have registered an FIR under the relevant sections of the IPC. We are questioning people in the vicinity and working on certain clues to establish the identity of the suspect(s).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/security-guard-bludgeoned-to-death/articleshow/79070647.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Digital redressal way out for apartments’ plaints||PUNE: The staff at the cooperation department’s registrar offices, already reeling under the pendancy of cooperative societies’ cases, applications for deemed conveyance and other matters, may not be able to cope with the added responsibility of dealing with grievances that apaprtments or condominiums face. Commissioner for Cooperation and Registrar of Cooperative Societies Anil Kawade told TOI that they will roll out an online redressal mechanism soon. “We are initiating steps. Applications for deemed conveyance, and other issues can be executed online. A decision is likely soon,” he said. An amendment to the Maharashtra Apartment Ownership Act 1970 now enables apartment owners or condominiums to approach these offices instead of courts for redressal. There are some 15,000-20,000 registered condominiums in the state, Maharashtra State Housing Federation members said. Its vice-president Suhas Patwardhan said the amendment to include apartment owners is a good move. “But, the staff at the cooperative district registrar offices are overburdened with housing societies’ cases. Unless they get more staff or start an online grievance system like in MahaRERA or in RTI cases, it will be of no use,” he said. Data from the department shows that from 2011 to 2020, a total of 2,306 complaints were registered with the department. Of these, 2,096 have been given the final orders and 210 cases are pending. Another official said 566 other complaints registered by the housing societies that could not be heard for the last nine months will be taken up soon. “A process to address these complaints online is needed,” he added. President of Akhil Bhartiya Grahak Panchayat,Vijay Sagar said, “The amended act will help managements of apartments and the owners approach the deputy district registrar of societies with their complaints.” Apartment holders can rectify the deed of declaration, and apartment deeds and seek redevelopment using the 51% majority vote rule . Activist Ravindra Sinha told TOI that the builders made members form apartments rather than cooperative societies. “This amendment helps members decide by a simple majority, the byelaws and clauses of the deed of declaration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/digital-redressal-way-out-for-apartments-plaints/articleshow/79070643.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 6, 2020||Pune||Water supply sought before merger of villages in PMC||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) may have to cater to the water supply demand of some neighbouring villages before their merger in the municipal limits.A group of elected representatives have demanded that PMC supply water to the fringe villages like Kondhwe-Dhawade and Kopare, which are yet to be added to the PMC limits. A proposal regarding water supply has been tabled before the standing committee. As per the proposal tabled by corporators Vrushali Chaudhari and Shushil Mengade, water is supplied to Shivane, Kondhwe-Dhawade through a common water supply scheme of the department. Shivane village has been added to the PMC limits. Around 80% of the water under this government scheme is given to Shivane. Only around 20% water is being supplied to Kondhwe-Dhawade and Kopare villages.“Kondhwe-Dhawade and Kopare are in list of 23 villages which are to be added to civic limits in future. PMC should start supplying water to these villages in view of likely increase in demand,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-supply-sought-before-merger-of-villages-in-pmc/articleshow/79070645.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Consider jail staff change to address claims of activist’||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Thursday directed Tihar jail authorities to consider changing jail staff against whom student activist Gulfish Khatoon, accused in a northeast Delhi violence of February, had raised allegations of mental harassment. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said, “I deem it fit, without getting into the allegations/denial of allegations, to instruct the jail superintendent to ensure that if need be, to change the ward of the applicant or change the staff on duty or other steps that he deems fit to avoid any confrontation.” The order noted that Khatoon had accused the jail staff of calling her names that had caused her mental and emotional harassment. She, therefore, urged the court to issue directions to the jail authorities not to harass her and sought action against them. Following a court direction, the Tihar jail superintendent had filed a report stating various requests of the applicant had been considered from time to time as per jail rules. “The applicant had made a complaint about the discrimination by a jail staff and after making inquiry, it was found that there were arguments between the applicant and the jail staff over the issue of going inside the jail ward after 6.30 pm as per rules,” the court said. The report further claimed no derogatory words as alleged were made and two other inmates had given their statements. “There are 48 Muslim female inmates as on October 15, 2020, and no other inmate has ever made such kind of complaint. There is no discrimination on the basis of caste, religion, creed inside the jail. The applicant is also trying to overpower the jail staff and create nuisance in jail. Her behaviour is aggressive and troublesome,” the jail superintendent alleged. Taking into consideration the submissions from both sides, the court observed, “It appears that there were some arguments between a jail staff and an accused/applicant. It is a version of the applicant versus version of the jail staff. The jail superintendent has conducted an inquiry.” “Should the applicant still have the grievance about any offence being committed against her, she may move complaint before the jurisdictional magistrate,” it added. Earlier during a videoconference hearing, Khatoon had said, “Ever since I was brought here, I have been facing discrimination. They called me ‘educated terrorist’...” She further stated that if she hurt herself “only jail authorities will be responsible for it”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/consider-jail-staff-change-to-address-claims-of-activist/articleshow/79071227.cms||Aamir Khan
November 6, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-dengue pincer attack worries civic authorities in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Even as the pandemic rages on, several cases of Covid patients, also suffering from dengue, have been reported from across Kolkata over the past two months. Though few in number so far, the cases have raised an alarm since simultaneous treatment of the two diseases could be complicated as they may require conflicting medication, according to experts. While the civic authorities are deploying additional manpower from its vector control wing to fight a sudden outbreak of dengue, dealing with the twin attack could be difficult, they admit. A KMC health department official conceded that in October, the civic body recorded a surge in the number of Covid patients also suffering from dengue. Over 60 patients have tested positive to both in the last two months. In October alone, 40 such cases were recorded, a civic official said. “Treating a twin attack could be risky since while dengue patients need to stay away from steroids, Covid patients must be treated with them. These patients have to be handled carefully and monitored round-the-clock,” said consultant Arindam Biswas. The KMC health department had sounded an alarm in the second week of September when they found that some patients, who were tested positive for Covid-19, were also tested positive for dengue. These patients were sent to Covid-designated government hospitals for specialized treatment. According to a civic health department official, the KMC vector control department intensified its vigil over city’s dengue-prone areas. “So far, we have not seen any surge in number of dengue patients in a particular dengue-prone area. We have found dengue patients from across the city who have also tested positive for Covid,” said a KMC health department official. Twin attacks could continue till the year-end, a survey has revealed. However, the civic bosses maintained that since Covid cases were not being recorded in specific areas of the city, they would keep an eye on the city’s dengue-prone zones for the next two months to prevent the twin attack. “We have reasons to feel satisfied so far as dengue prevention is concerned. But the dengue-Covid combination is a bigger challenge for us,” a KMC vector control department official said. Data available with the KMC health department reveals while the civic body had recorded around 800 dengue cases across the city in 2019 (January to October), the cases went down to 300 this year. However, a sudden surge in dengue cases in October has made a section of the civic officials jittery. “We have alerted our dengue detection centres and the vector control wing to continue with the surveillance,” a KMC health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-dengue-pincer-attack-worries-civic-authorities/articleshow/79088886.cms||Saikat Ray
November 6, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Zero Covid deaths for 2nd time in a week||RANCHI: After eight casualties in 48 hours, Jharkhand did not get a single Covid death on Thursday, the second day in the last six with no corona deaths. Meanwhile, Jharkhand reported 355 fresh infections and 484 recoveries, taking the number of active cases down to 4,685. State capital Ranchi continued to report the highest number of fresh infections with 99 cases, followed by Dhanbad with 34 and Bokaro with 30. However the recoveries continue to rise in these districts as Ranchi declared 166 patients were cured and Dhanbad reported 72 recoveries. The cumulative caseload in Jharkhand stood at 1,03,543, of which 4,685 are currently active, 97,964 have recovered and 894 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/zero-cov-deaths-for-2nd-time-in-a-week/articleshow/79068704.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 6, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Zero Covid deaths for 2nd time in a week||RANCHI: After eight casualties in 48 hours, Jharkhand did not get a single Covid death on Thursday, the second day in the last six with no corona deaths. Meanwhile, Jharkhand reported 355 fresh infections and 484 recoveries, taking the number of active cases down to 4,685. State capital Ranchi continued to report the highest number of fresh infections with 99 cases, followed by Dhanbad with 34 and Bokaro with 30. However the recoveries continue to rise in these districts as Ranchi declared 166 patients were cured and Dhanbad reported 72 recoveries. The cumulative caseload in Jharkhand stood at 1,03,543, of which 4,685 are currently active, 97,964 have recovered and 894 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/zero-cov-deaths-for-2nd-time-in-a-week/articleshow/79076104.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 6, 2020||Ranchi||Ajsu party chief Sudesh Mahto re-infected with Covid||RANCHI: Ajsu Party president Sudesh Mahto found re-infected with Covid-19 weeks after recovering from the virus. Mahto, who represents Silli in the assembly, took the test on Thursday, before he was scheduled to fly to the UAE to watch the IPL playoffs. The former deputy CM had tested positive for Covid on an RT-PCR machine on August 18 and was declared cured from virus on August 26. His test on Wednesday evening was also conducted on RT-PCR, known as the gold standard for coronavirus diagnosis with a very little margin for error. Ajsu Party is a BJP ally and Mahto campaigned actively for Bermo and Dumka for bypolls that took place on November 3. His plans to relax in the Gulf had to be cancelled after the test results arrived on late Wednesday night, sourced in the party said. Talking to TOI, Ajsu Party chief spokesperson Devsharan Bhagat said: “He remains asymptomatic and is in isolation at his Kanke Road residence.” Mahato addressed more than half a dozen public meetings in Bermo and Dumka between October 28 and November 1. He interacted with several senior functionaries from BJP and his own party and they too are planning to go into quarantine as a precautionary measure. A former minister and BJP MLA who campaigned along with Mahato in Bermo said: “I will quarantine myself and will get tested for the infection if I develop any symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ajsu-p-chief-sudesh-re-infected-with-covid/articleshow/79068667.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 6, 2020||Ranchi||Tourists crowd Netarhat||RANCHI/LATEHAR: After the government lifted the 14-day mandatory quarantine rule for visitors from outside the state, tourist footfall has shot up across Jharkhand. When TOI recently visited Netarhat in Latehar — popularly known as the ‘Queen of Chhotanagpur’— the place was brimming with tourists, many of whom were from neighbouring West Bengal and Chhattisgarh. The increased movement of tourists has provided a relief to the locals whose life dependent on tourism, but it has also upped the chances of contracting Covid-19. Arun Singh, the manager of state tourism department’s guest house, said: “There was no vacancy at any of the hotels or guest houses during Durga Puja and we are expecting the same turnout during Diwali.” Several tourists at popular spots like Magnolia Point, sunset and sunrise points and pine forest were spotted without masks. “Some tourists are not even wearing masks properly, forget about maintaining social distancing. But we do not say anything to them as that might affect our sales,” said the owner of food joint near old Dak Bungalow. Professor of community medicine and a public health expert Dr Devesh Kumar said: “Since winter has arrived, any negligence in following the Covid protocols might cost us dear. I would strongly advise people to wear masks when they step out of their homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tourists-crowd-netarhat/articleshow/79068194.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 6, 2020||Ranchi||Covid survivors wary of Diwali celebrations, urge Jharkhand govt to ban crackers||RANCHI: With less than a fortnight left for Diwali, many Covid-19 survivors are desperately hoping the state government puts a ban on bursting crackers this year as the resultant rise in air pollution will pose problems for them. Many of them are experiencing breathing problems and fatigue while some are battling asthma despite testing negative several weeks ago. Jamshedpur-based septuagenarian Mahesh Kedia recovered last month after three rounds of plasma were administered to him and since then, he has been suffering from asthma. “Even a slight rise in air pollution is making me almost breathless. Why can’t we celebrate Diwali only with lights this year,” he said. Ranchi resident Kaveri Sinha, who recovered from the virus in August, wondered why the government is keeping mum on banning crackers especially when other states have already said no to bursting them this year. “I am already experiencing shortness of breath because of the slight nip in the air. I shudder to think what will happen if the fireworks continue unabated,” Sinha, who is in her 30s, said. Harmu-based LIC agent Abhay Kumar, who recovered in July, is still feeling weak and is yet to get back to his pre-Covid fitness level. “Although I am not experiencing any major respiratory problems, I feel fatigued most of the time and my legs pain often,” Kumar, who is in his 40s, said. “Right now, I am exploring ways to safeguard myself from the pollution during Diwali,” he said. “If it were up to me, I would put a ban on bursting crackers this year,” he added. While the state government has not yet cleared its stand on bursting crackers, the medical fraternity has warned about the health risks involved. A week ago, the Jharkhand chapter of Indian Medical Association had issued an appeal to the public and the government for a smoke-free Diwali this year owing to the raging pandemic. They warned that the resultant rise in air pollution from bursting crackers coupled with the dip in temperature could prove to be lethal for Covid survivors, especially for those with respiratory ailments. They said that since this virus affects the lungs the most, the pollution could result in other complications for those cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-survivors-wary-of-diwali-celebrations-urge-govt-to-ban-crackers/articleshow/79068000.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 6, 2020||Jamshedpur||Online video games, comic books to be part of anti-Covid campaign in E Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: Animated mascots, online video games, walkathons, comic books and selfie with the mascot cut-outs will soon become part of the innovative mass Covid awareness drive targeted at the younger generation in Steel City. Authorities of the East Singhbhum district, one of the worst Covid-hit in the state, decided to take up the drive to encourage the masses to take up the three fundamental points — to wear masks, maintain social distancing and to wash hands. Initially, the officials created a mascot titled "huudhud" and installed it various places including at the offices of the DC, the SSP, JNAC and other public areas like markets, malls and institutes among others to promote the three points. DC Suraj Kumar, who is the brain behind the campaign, said, “We have started both online and offline measures to target the youngsters and make them comply with the safety measures.” He stressed that it is often the elderly people, who fell prey to the virus after it was inadvertently brought home by the younger members, who could asymptomatic carriers. He further said online video games, walkathon and comic books, all themed on Covid safety, will be launched later this month. "Anybody can take selfies with the mascots we have put up and upload them on social networking sides. They can also tag the DC office with the selfies," Kumar said, adding that prizes will be given weekly to people to pro-actively participate in spreading the awareness. The district administration is also putting up hoardings and posters in collaboration with Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Jamshedpur Bar Association and Commercial Taxes Bar Association among other business and commercial groups. Appreciating the initiative, Indian Medical Association, Jamshedpur chapter president Umesh Khan said, “East Singhbhum is apparently the first district in the state to have worked on innovative ways to spread the Covid safety awareness campaigns both offline and online.” As of Thursday morning, the has a total of 16,450 positive cases, of which 1,328 are active, 14,785 have recovered and 337 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/online-video-games-comic-books-to-be-part-of-anti-covid-campaign-in-e-singhbhum/articleshow/79068123.cms||B Sridhar
November 6, 2020||Ranchi||Ghostbusters: Chatra brothers exorcise ‘haunted’ hamlet, turn it into veggie bowl||CHATRA: Vast swathes of barren land at Jejla adjoining Belhar village in Barwadih panchayat of Pathalgaddha block was once considered "haunted" but they are now fast turning into a vegetable bowl of the district, thanks to the efforts of the Dangi brothers. A decade ago, the villagers were scared to visit the area even in broad daylight and left their fields unattended making them barren. They also urged Rituraj Dangi and Vinay Dangi of Belhar to avoid the place. Rituraj and Vinay, however, did not let superstition get the better of them and put in efforts day in and day out to make their two-acre land to make it fertile. Talking to TOI, the elder Dangi brother, Vinay, said, “Though Jejla villagers have farmlands, nobody dared to venture there for years. The result is that the land became barren though some grass and bush covered it." Vinay said he and his brother Rituraj decided to cultivate the land when they faced financial crunch with no work. "Our initial efforts were opposed saying the land was haunted. The decision to go against the villagers and cultivate our land was a tough one but we had no other option to run our family," he said. The brothers first started work in their field in 2007 when they clean it for a month. They gradually make it cultivable and started growing vegetables. "By 2015, we are financially stable after growing cauliflower, radish, maize, brinjal, cabbage, coriander, peas and other vegetables. They even planted guava, mangoes, aloe vera, gooseberry and started supplying them to the local markets," Vinay added. Rituraj said they use water of the rain-fed Jejla river to grow the vegetables, but faced problems in summer as the river dried but somehow managed to produce the vegetables. After seeing the achievement of the brothers, around two dozens of other villagers started cultivation in 2019. Rituraj added, "Earlier, the villagers used to take the advice of a 'tantrik' to stay safe from the Jejla ghost. But Vinay and I have proved that it was only a superstition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/excorcising-the-jelja-ghost-to-turn-it-into-chtras-veggie-bowl/articleshow/79068076.cms||---
November 6, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Speaker-governor meet sparks speculations on defection cases||RANCHI: Speaker Rabindranath Mahto on Wednesday met governor Droupadi Murmu amid speculations that he briefed her about the decision to register defection cases under provisions of the 10th schedule of the Constitution against Babulal Marandi, Bandhu Tirkey and Pradeep Yadav. Earlier this year, Marandi had merged JVM(P) with BJP when Tirkey and Yadav joined Congress. Mahto, however, refuted the claims and said that it was a courtesy meeting and he had gone to invite Murmu for the Foundation Day celebration of the state assembly. “My official purpose of visit was to extend her an invitation,” he said. On the issue of defection, he said, “Let time come I shall explain the things.” However, Marandi’s counsel R N Sahay said the notice served by the speaker’s office had no mention of any petitioner. “Speaker has initiated the case in his own motion and asked my client to present his argument before the speaker’s court on November 23,” he said. Prior to this, taking suo motto cognizance in the matter of defection of MLAs, Mahto had registered a case and fixed November 23 as the date of the first hearing. He has also allowed the members to present their part, either in person or though their counsel. While Marandi claimed merger of JVM(P) into the BJP, Yadav claimed its merger with Congress. None among the three, however, was ready to lodge a case of defection against the other. Tirkey had said, “We are not coming in Marandi’s way of joining BJP so he should also not object to our merger with the Congress.” Though Marandi has been allotted a seat in the opposition benches and Tirkey and Yadav with the treasury benches in assembly floor, Mahto has neither accorded leader of opposition status to Marandi nor allowed Yadav or Tirkey as Congress members while participating in debates. Meanwhile, parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam requested Mahto to issue a notification for a one-day special session of the assembly on November 11. The special session is being summoned to approve a proposal for inclusion of a distinct code for the tribals in the census, for which a proposal will be sent to the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/speaker-guv-meet-sparks-speculations-on-defection-cases/articleshow/79049925.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
November 6, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand is 8th state to withdraw general consent for CBI probe||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government on Thursday joined the league of non-BJP ruled states that have revoke the general consent accorded to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to operate or start investigating any within the state without prior permission. Jharkhand is the eighth state to revoke the consent granted under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. State home, prison and disaster management department on Thursday formally notified the order a day after the Kerala government took a similar decision in a cabinet meeting. Maharashtra, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and a few others have already done so, accusing the Centre of misusing the CBI. The state government’s order stated, “In exercise of the power conferred by Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, the government of Jharkhand withdraws the consent accorded to the members of the DSPE by a government memo dated 19 February 1996 as also by other instruments issued by Government of Jharkhand from time to time to exercise the power and jurisdiction under the said act in the state of Jharkhand.” While the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD welcomed the move, BJP questioned the logic behind it. Chief minister Hemant Soren had in the past accused the Centre of harassment, violating constitutional bodies including CBI out of vendetta and political mileage. Talking to TOI, Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said the move is a timely intervention to save the sanctity of the constitutional bodies. He said, “the Since Narendra Modi government came to power, all that it has been doing is misuse CBI and other central agencies to harass his political opponents. There are several examples. This is the reason why the states are now taking corrective steps. The party welcomes the move.” BJP state president Deepak Prakash on the other hand said, “This (Jharkhand) government does not have faith in courts and constitutional bodies. We want to know the logic behind the latest move? Kahin daal mein kuch kala toh nahin?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-is-8th-state-to-withdraw-general-consent-for-cbi-probe/articleshow/79068692.cms||ASRP Mukesh
