November 7, 2020||World||Trump loyalists go bananas as he hunkers down for long fight||WASHINGTON: A Twitter account linked to Trump loyalist Steve Bannon was permanently suspended on Friday after the former White House strategist called for the beheading of Dr Anthony Fauci and FBI Director Christopher Wray for not not toeing the President's line. "I'd put the heads on pikes. Right. I'd put them at the two corners of the White House. As a warning to federal bureaucrats: Either get with the program or you're gone," Bannon said during a livestream of his talk show and podcast, War Room: Pandemic, causing his account to be suspended for gratuitous incitement of violence. The call for violence comes amid a growing frenzy among Trump supporters at the prospect of his presidency coming to an inglorious end. On Thursday, his son Donald Trump Jr called on his father to 'fight to the death' over the presidential election as he echoed the President's unfounded claims of voter fraud and cheating. "I think the number one thing Donald Trump can do in this election is fight each and every one of these battles to the death so that we get full transparency in the process," Trump Jr said at meeting in Atlanta, following up with a tweet saying, "This is a fight worth having and it’s worth exposing all of the nonsense going on so that it can never happen again in this country. We look like a banana republic right now." Trump is reported to be considering holding a political rally this weekend to shore up his crumbling support as several GOP veterans are starting to distance themselves from the fiasco. According to some accounts, discussions are ongoing within the President's inner circle about who is going to tell him the gig is up and it is time to concede. Apparently, there are no takers for this task. Democrats have long believed that he will be forced to concede once the counting is done and results formally declared, but Trump appears to be digging in for the long haul given that he constitutionally remains President till noon of January 20, 2021, when a new term begins for a President -- a new one or a re-elected one. What happens if Trump refuses to leave? "The United States government is capable of escorting trespassers from the White House," an unnamed Biden spokesman was quoted as telling reporters in Delaware, where Biden is said to be preparing to address the nation on Friday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-loyalists-go-bananas-as-he-hunkers-down-for-long-fight/articleshow/79089344.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
November 7, 2020||World||Kamala’s on cusp of history. Now, she has to be a Biden to Biden||“You could be president. You could be president, but not right now. You have to be over the age of 35.” Kamala Harris’ affectionate advice to her great niece Amara is currently viral on the internet. Harris will be making history herself, literally a heartbeat away from the presidency, as Joe Biden prepares to make Donald Trump a one-term wonder. As a woman politician with a biracial history, she has already etched her name in history books. Some reports suggested that Biden himself could be a one-term president, which would make Harris a shoo-in for the ticket in four years. For an American with Indian heritage, it will be a signature moment. Many Indians embraced Harris for her heritage, though she herself played on the Black minority identity when she was seeking votes. As Biden’s running mate, though, she rediscovered her Indian identity, as videos of her making idlis were pulled out. “Shyamala always told Kamala, ‘Don’t sit still. Go ahead and do what you have to do’,” her maternal uncle G Balachandran told TOI after she was named by Biden. “She will be a very active vice president. There are three big influences in Kamala’s life – her mother, my father, and the civic principles she was imbued with.” Harris’ personal history is interesting enough — a child of two immigrants, an Indian-American mother and a Jamaican father. Raised in California, she went to Howard University in Washington DC before becoming a criminal lawyer and one of the few senators who was a woman of colour. For those who believe Harris may have some sympathy for India, she took a tough position when foreign minister S Jaishankar refused to meet congresswoman Pramila Jayapal in Washington DC last year. Harris also openly opposed India’s decision to abrogate Article 370. To be fair, her position on 370 was echoed by many in the western world as well as within the Democratic Party. As vice president, however, Harris will have little influence on foreign policy. But she has shown herself to be flexible and pragmatic – qualities of an evolved politician. It’s unlikely either she or the Indian government will hold last year’s interaction against each other. What Harris is likely to bring to the Oval Office is this — a punchy advocate of US interests, very different from the silent Mike Pence. Her background as attorney will probably see her taking a more visible role in terms of articulating and defending the Biden presidency. The India-US relationship has deepened to the degree that makes it not only bipartisan but multilayered and one with the greatest potential. Harris has a chance to make it work for herself. One of the areas where India will find a lot of common ground with Harris is in the area of technology. This Bay Area politician has some of her biggest backers in Big Tech, who have proved invaluable in her campaign with support and funding. From Facebook to Salesforce and LinkedIn, Harris has had the tech giants batting for her. A big part of the India-US relationship goes through technology. It could potentially be a major point of convergence with Harris personally. Where Harris will be called upon to display her political skills would be in the Senate. Biden performed that job brilliantly during the Obama years, famously labelled the ‘deal-maker’, reaching out across the aisle to Republican leaders such as Mitch McConnell. Harris will have to be a Biden to Biden. His legislative agenda will depend on her making those deals. From all accounts, Kamala Harris will have to cultivate those skills. Watch US Elections 2020: How Kamala Harris is on the cusp of history||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/kamalas-on-cusp-of-history-now-she-has-to-be-a-biden-to-biden/articleshow/79091415.cms||Indrani Bagchi
November 7, 2020||World||US Election Results 2020: H-1B, China, India policies may not change much||NEW DELHI: As Democrat challenger Joe Biden closes in on the White House, both he and Donald Trump have polled record votes and Trump's unexpectedly strong showing at a time when it was widely anticipated that he would be demolished will probably have its shadow on the Biden administration and the choices it makes with regard to adversaries as well as allies. “Regardless of who wins the White House, Trumpism is here to stay: de-regulation at home to unleash economic dynamism, low corporate taxes, & no futile wars against Mid Eastern/Afghan fanaticals, to instead focus on containing China with AUS, India, Japan, Vn allies,” tweeted eminent historian Edward Luttwak, summing up a strongly held assessment. Despite the Democrat-Trump bad blood, India is more confident of its own relations with the US. On Friday, the MEA spokesperson reiterated, “India-US relations rest on strong foundations, encompassing cooperation in every possible sphere. A comprehensive global strategic partnership has very strong bipartisan support in the US.” China cannot say that. Trump has taken a wrecking ball to that relationship and Biden will find it hard to put it together or make deals with Beijing. Just this week, reports say US has de-listed the Uighur terror group, ETIM, as a terrorist organisation, adding to China’s fury. Biden’s best bet for a bold new start would have been a trounced Trump and a Democrat-strong Congress. The Republicans are likely — as of Friday — to keep their majority in the Senate, particularly after Susan Collins defeated Democrat Sara Gideon in Maine. In the House of Representatives, Democrats haven’t flipped more than two seats, and they haven’t removed any Republican incumbent or won fresh new seats. Therefore, the victory of The Squad (Ilhan Omar, Rashida Tlaib, Alexandra Ocasio Cortez and Ayanna Pressley) notwithstanding, the Democrats will have to work much harder in the House. If the Senate retains a Republican majority, that will make Mitch McConnell a very powerful political leader, a man responsible for pushing through a lot of Trump policies in the past four years, including the most recent Supreme Court appointment. Biden, who has had a long relationship with McConnell, will have to work even more closely with the Republican leadership in the Senate, particularly to get his cabinet appointments through. Kamala Harris, as Veep, will have her work cut out as she will be expected to work the Capitol Hill corridors to clear a path for Biden’s legislative agenda. The Trump voter is going nowhere — the non-college going whites, a part of the Latino-Hispanic population, white males (women seem to have comprehensively dumped Trump). This could mean that Biden might have to temper his promises on issues like immigration — that could impact H-1B and other skilled and unskilled visas from countries like India. The US move on Huawei, which has been replicated by European countries, Australia and Japan, is likely to stay. That may make it harder for Silicon Valley and Big Tech, who count Harris as one of theirs. For many US corporates who would rather have some relaxation in US-China ties, it could be a difficult walk. On the other hand, China, certainly under Xi Jinping, would feel no reason to cut deals with Biden particularly if Beijing believes it is on the cusp of superpower-dom. China may not be willing to give any quarter either. But if Biden is seen to be very keen on a climate deal, he may have to be more conciliatory on the China front. That could have implications for American allies, who have hardened their stance on China particularly in the past couple of years — a ready example would be Australia, which is taking extraordinary levels of economic pain from China at present. Biden is not about to return to the Middle East, from where Trump has withdrawn America or even Afghanistan. As vice-president to Obama, Biden was the original proponent of a lighter US footprint, confined to counter-terrorism missions. That may be the extent to which he would go. Trump stitched the Abraham Accords in the past few months with the general idea of not only making Israel more acceptable to the Arab world but leaving them to manage the regional threat from Iran. Biden wouldn’t want to go back in there. So Biden will inherit a less involved America. He will be under pressure from his advisers to make America a world leader again. The terms of that engagement might be very different. Watch US election results: H-1B, China, India policies may not change much||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/us-election-results-2020-h-1b-china-india-policies-may-not-change-much/articleshow/79091631.cms||Indrani Bagchi
November 7, 2020||World||Secret Service gives Biden cover upgrade||The US Secret Service increased its protective bubble around Joe Biden, sending an extra squad of agents to his campaign HQ in Delaware, Washington Post reported on Friday. Quoting two unnamed sources, CNN said extra Secret Service agents were sent to Delaware on Thursday. Upon a presidential win, the USSS detail for a president-elect would get larger and mirror the size and scope of a president’s. The Federal Aviation Administration posted the Temporary Flight Restriction on Wednesday, the day after the general election. An FAA notice to pilots available online shows the one mile radius nofly zone is now active until next Wednesday morning. A USSS spokesperson declined to give details , “For operational security reasons, the Secret Service cannot discuss the means, methods we utilise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/secret-service-gives-biden-cover-upgrade/articleshow/79091710.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||Fresh military talks on border stand-off||NEW DELHI:As India and China held another round of corps commander-level talks to resolve the LAC stand-off, the government said it would continue to maintain dialogue with the Chinese side to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution to the current situation in eastern Ladakh. As conveyed earlier, the MEA said, both sides continued to maintain close communication at the military and diplomatic levels to achieve complete disengagement along the LAC. “The two sides are guided by the leaders’ consensus to jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.  In the last few days, the top military brass of India held a series of meetings where it was decided to press for comprehensive disengagement of the troops in talks with China. India has all along maintained that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fresh-military-talks-on-border-stand-off/articleshow/79091801.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||‘Beijing won’t be able to exploit NE insurgency’||NEW DELHI: Ruling out the potential of China exploiting insurgency in the northeast to stoke trouble in India, home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Friday said the central government was in peace negotiations with almost all rebel outfits active in the region, thus minimising the scope for any major disruptions. “There could be potential but not that much. These people (insurgents) have lost that kind of massive support. The leadership of Ulfa is back in Assam and talking to the government. The NSCN people, after the ceasefire, are sitting in Delhi and talking to us for a final settlement. We don’t see that kind of major disruptions coming,” Bhalla said in a webinar when asked whether the government foresaw China’s involvement in the eastern sector in the aftermath of the Ladakh stand-off. The home secretary said the situation in the northeast was “well under control” and the central government was providing assistance to the state governments to deal with insurgent groups and also carrying out negotiations with the rebel outfits. “There has been a settlement with the Bodos after a long struggle, talks are in an advanced stage with the NSCN to resolve the Naga issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/beijing-wont-be-able-to-exploit-ne-insurgency/articleshow/79091806.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||SC protects Arnab from arrest in Maha privilege motion case||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court initiated contempt proceedings against Maharashtra assembly officer Vilas Athawale and said the threat administered through the letter was “unprecedented and interfered with the administration of justice”. A bench of CJI SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian took serious view of the following sentences in the letter to Arnab Goswami: “You were informed that the proceedings of the House are confidential... Despite this, it has been observed that you have presented the proceedings of the House before the Supreme Court on October 8, 2020. No prior permission was taken from the Speaker of the Maharashtra assembly... You have knowingly breached the orders of the Speaker... and your actions amount to breach of confidentiality. This is definitely a serious matter and amounts to contempt.” Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeGoswami’s counsel Harish Salve said the Maharashtra government was adopting all possible tactics to harass his client and sought protection from arrest by state assembly in the breach of privilege motion initiated against him for using harsh language against the CM and for not prefacing the CM’s name with Hon’ble. He went on to suggest the court could initiate suo motu contempt proceedings against the officer for attempting to interfere with administration of justice. Read AlsoMumbai: Magistrate told Arnab Goswami to ‘maintain decorum’The chief magistrate of the Alibaug court on Wednesday evening told Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami to maintain decorum, “behave like an accused” and not interrupt the proceedings.The bench agreed with Salve, protected Goswami from arrest and sought assistance of attorney general KK Venugopal. It said, “Statements made by Athawale are unprecedented and tend to interfere in the course of administration of justice. The intention of Athawale seems to be to intimidate the petitioner because the petitioner approached this court and to threaten him with a penalty for seeking legal remedy.” Read AlsoArnab Goswami arrest: Maharashtra home dept set up 40-member team to carry out ‘Operation Arnab’The state home department led by NCP’s Anil Deshmukh drafted a high-level 40-member team led by Kokan range inspector general Sanjay Mohite to arrest Arnab Goswami in the 2018 suicide abetment case.The SC said the assembly secretary “would have been well advised to understand that the right to approach the SC under Article 32 of the Constitution is itself a fundamental right”. The bench said, “There is no doubt that if a citizen of India is deterred from approaching this court in exercise of his right under Article 32 of the Constitution, it would amount to a serious and direct interference in the administration of justice.” It noted the non-appearance of counsel on behalf of Maharashtra assembly despite notice being served. During the hearing, the bench sought out senior advocate AM Singhvi, who was appearing for the Maharashtra government. Singhvi, however, steered clear of the contempt issue and expressed his “inability to explain or justify the contents of the aforesaid letter.” The bench asked Athawale to respond by November 23 to its notice asking why contempt proceedings be not initiated against him under the summary contempt powers conferred upon SC through Article 129, which was resorted to by the SC to punish advocate Prashant Bhushan. The court also appointed senior advocate Arvind Datar as amicus curiae. The bench made caustic observations against Athawale. “We have serious questions about the intention of this officer... Even the privileges committee (of assembly) cannot tell a person not to approach SC. How could this officer say this? We have never seen such a letter or such attitude from an officer of the assembly,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-protects-arnab-from-arrest-in-maha-privilege-motion-case/articleshow/79091815.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 7, 2020||India||List cases against MPs, MLAs that you’ve stayed: SC to HCs||NEW DELHI: Reminding high courts about its consistent rulings that interim stay on trials could not remain in force beyond six months, the Supreme Court has asked HCs to urgently take up cases in which they had stayed long pending trials in criminal cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose said, “We had directed the chief justices of HCs to list matters relating to the aforementioned cases before an appropriate bench, and to decide on any issue relating to stay by keeping in view the principles laid down in 2018 by the SC in ‘Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Private Limited vs CBI’. Recently, the law as stated in the 2018 case has been reiterated by a three-judge bench of the SC on October 15”. On October 15, an SC bench headed by Justice R F Nariman had said, “Whatever stay has been granted by any court, including the high court, automatically expires within a period of six months, and unless extension is granted for good reason, as per our judgment (in Asian Resurfacing case), within the next six months, the trial court is, on the expiry of the first period of six months, to set a date for the trial and go ahead with the same.” Amicus curiae and senior advocate Vijay Hansaria told the bench that because of small number of designated/special courts for expeditious trial of cases against politicians, it would be better if the Centre assisted state governments financially in providing video-conferencing facilities with trial courts in each district, which have been designated to speedily complete trial in criminal cases against sitting and former legislators. The bench said in its October 6 order, it had noted that it granted the Centre time till October 19 to submit a status report relating to probes by special agencies and making provision for establishing at least one video conferencing facility in every district for conducting these cases. However, solicitor general Tushar Mehta sought more time and was granted one week by the court to respond to both the queries. “We hope and expect that the Union of India will take into consideration the requests made by state governments and a timely response will be submitted on all the above queries,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/list-cases-against-mps-mlas-that-youve-stayed-sc-to-hcs/articleshow/79091847.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 7, 2020||Dehradun||DMC’s ‘Plastic Lao, Mask Le Jao’ drive receives thumbs up from residents||Dehradun: The ‘Plastic Lao, Mask Le Jao’ (bring plastic, take mask) campaign initiated by Dehradun Municipal Corporation along with social organisations on November 3 has been receiving good response from city residents and more than 300 residents have so far deposited a total of 70 kilogram plastic waste generated from their households. “A plastic collection stall was installed at Harrawala on Thursday, where as many as 45 residents from an apartment came to drop the plastic waste. In addition, our team also received several calls from the residents of other localities and they also deposited plastic waste and were handed over face masks” said Naveen Sadana, member of NGO Waste Warrior. Such stalls have also been put up at Gandhi Park and the teams will also be collecting plastic waste from Usha Colony (at Sahastradhara road) on November 9-10. The DMC officials say that the initiative will prove helpful in curbing two menaces — plastic waste and Covid-19. While the plastic waste collected from various parts of the city will be sent for recycling at the plant in ISBT, the face masks given in exchange will safeguard people from catching the Covid-19 infection. Social development for communities’ foundation is another organization which has set up plastic banks at several schools and commercial establishments for collecting plastic waste. The plastic collected at these banks is sent to the Indian Institute of Petroleum where it is refined to be converted into fuel. Talking to TOI, Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Social Development for Communities Foundation, said, “Since the school and other commercial establishments are slowly opening and expanding their operations, we will soon resume the functioning of the plastic banks and the plastic, thus collected, will be sent for recycling and subsequent conversion into fuel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmcs-plastic-lao-mask-le-jao-drive-receives-thumbs-up-from-residents/articleshow/79087610.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Patna||As Shah visits Bengal, his absence in Bihar raises many questions||PATNA: Union home minister and BJP’s master strategist Amit Shah’s conspicuous absence from electioneering in Bihar’s three-phase assembly polls, has taken the state’s political circles and observers by surprise. Shah is in West Bengal for the last two days to set BJP’ strategy for the polls due in that state next year. “Shah Ji did not campaign in the state due to health reasons, but the party has been working on the strategy he had made way back in January this year itself,” state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said. The senior BJP leader’s last engagement in Bihar was the launch of the party’s first virtual rally on June 7. Earlier, Shah had come to Patna on a two-day visit to Bihar on January 16 and also addressed a public meeting at Vaishali to explain the Centre’s position on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the National Population Register (NPR). “Be it the Vaishali rally or the virtual meeting, he said that Nitish Kumar will be the NDA’s CM,” Patel added. PM Narendra Modi held 12 physical rallies in the state, beginning October 23 till November 3. Curiously, Shah’s name figured in the list of the party’s star campaigners along with PM Modi, party president J P Nadda, defence minister Rajnath Singh, and Nitin Gadkari, besides UP CM Yogi Adityanath and former Jharkhand CMs Raghubar Das and Babu Lal Marandi, among others. The list was prepared on October 11. “Shah has said in West Bengal that the NDA will form its government with Nitish Kumar as CM. The party’s frontline leaders from PM Modi and Nadda onwards have campaigned for the NDA candidates. No issue should be made out of Shah’s absence from campaigning,” JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. Incidentally, Shah had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2 and was advised to rest to increase his immunity level. At the sidelines of the BJP’s function in Bankura district in Bengal he told a TV channel, “The NDA will form its government in the state winning a good majority in the assembly polls. CM Nitish Kumar has erased all the ‘pratichhaya (image)’ of jungle raj (euphemism for crime and anarchy under the RJD rule of Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi) in the state.” Noting that the Congress-led UPA had discriminated against Bihar, he added, “PM Narnedra Modi provided every assistance to Bihar and Nitish Kumar also did good work. People of the state will take notice of it and will give a good majority to the NDA to form its government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-shah-visits-bengal-his-absence-in-bihar-raises-many-questions/articleshow/79088826.cms||Abhay Singh
November 7, 2020||Patna||Security beefed up in 15 districts||Sitamarhi/Madhepura/Motihari/Bagaha: Security has been tightened in all the 15 districts going to polls in the third and final phase on Saturday. Precautionary measures have been taken in five constituencies of Sitamarhi district – Riga, Bathanaha, Parihar, Sursand and Bajpatti – to keep Covid-19 at bay. Thermal scanners, sanitiser, masks and gloves have been made available at all the booths in the district. Sitamarhi district magistrate (DM) Abhilasha Kumari Sharma and SP Anil Kumar on Friday told the district officials that any leniency would land them in trouble. “Every booth will be manned by central paramilitary forces,” the DM said. The SP said India-Nepal border has been sealed till Saturday in view of the assembly election. In Madhepura, four assembly constituencies will go to the polls on Saturday. The district administration has issued a toll-free helpline number, 1950, for suggestions and complaints from people. Altogether 22 candidates are in fray in Bihariganj, 18 in Madhepura and 10 each in Alamnagar and Singheshwar constituencies.The district administration has marked the region in 145 sectors, including 31 zones. Magistrates have been deployed in each zone. At least 201 volunteers have been engaged to help differently-abled voters. Madhepura district magistrate -cum-district electoral officer Navdeep Shukla said 1,869 VVPAT and 2,793 ballot units were issued in the district for the four seats. “Altogether 12,93,428 voters will exercise their franchise at 1,869 polling booths,” he added. SP Yogendra Kumar said all borders in the district have been sealed. East Champaran district magistrate -cum-returning officer Shirshat Kapil Ashok said 17,81,681 voters in six assembly segments – Motihari, Raxaul, Sugauli, Chiraiya, Dhaka and Narkatiya – will exercise their franchise at 2,569 polling booths from 7am to 6pm. Altogether 88 candidates are trying their luck in these segments. The district administration has made tight security arrangements to ensure fair and fair elections. Five assembly segments in the district – Sugauli, Raxaul, Narkatiya, Dhaka and Chiraiya – are situated at Indo-Nepal border. Raxaul SDPO Sagar Kumar said the border has been sealed and joint patrolling is being done by SSB and Nepal police. “At least 18 additional check posts have been set up at the border,” he added. East Champaran superintendent of police (SP) Navin Chandra Jha said 60 booths in six assembly constituencies are Maoist-affected. One section of paramilitary force will be deployed at each Maoist-hit booth. West Champaran district magistrate (DM)-cum-returning officer Kundan Kumar said elaborate arrangements have been made in the district to conduct free and fair elections in six assembly constituencies. The bypolls for Valmikinagar parliamentary constituency in the district will also be held on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/security-beefed-up-in-15-districts/articleshow/79088754.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
November 7, 2020||Rajkot||Taiwan mulls anti-dumping duty on Morbi ceramics||Rajkot: Trouble seems far from over for the ceramic manufacturers of Morbi after the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) imposed anti-dumping duty in June this year. Now, the Taiwan government has initiated the process of imposing duty on ceramic imports from four countries, including India, following allegations by local manufacturers there. The other countries are Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia. Together these four countries account for 70% of ceramic imports to Taiwan. Though Morbi’s exports to Taiwan is around Rs 300 crore of the total annual export basket of Rs 12,000 crore, the manufactures are worried about more countries following the trend . Nilesh Jetpariya, president of Morbi Ceramic Association (wall tiles division), said after GCC imposed duty ranging from 40% to 106% on Indian ceramic products, the export to the Gulf countries has dropped by 20%. “We export 500 containers per month to Taiwan, which is a very small quantity compared to the total exports. However, we can’t ignore this investigation by the Taiwanese authority,” Jetpariya said. The ceramic industry came to know about investigation initiated by the ministry of finance of Taiwan last week through a public letter stating that three Taiwanese companies along with Taiwan Ceramic Industry Association have sought anti-dumping duty on ceramics from four countries. The Taiwanese firms raised objections regarding pricing by 34 ceramic exporters of Morbi. The companies had appointed a local market research company and based on 2019 production of top ten ceramic companies and other data they claimed that dumping margin was 80%. Mukesh Ughareja president of of association’s (vitrified tiles division) said “We don’t want more countries to impose anti-dumping duty on our products. It impacts our credit in the international market.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/taiwan-mulls-anti-dumping-duty-on-morbi-ceramics/articleshow/79088164.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
November 7, 2020||Business||Union Bank Sept qtr net up 55% QoQ||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Union Bank of India reported a net profit of Rs 517 crore for the quarter ended September 2020 as against a net loss of Rs 994 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The latest profit figure was 55% higher than the Rs 333 crore reported in the preceding quarter ended June 2020. The bank’s deposits doubled from a year ago to Rs 8,86,098 crore as a fallout of the merger of Corporation Bank and Andhra Bank with itself with effect from April 1, 2020. Advances also grew 94% to Rs 5,79,030 crore for the same reason. Deposits and advances marginally dropped over the second quarter as the bank consolidated operations. Because of the merger, the year-on-year numbers are not comparable. Although interest income dropped 3.28%, the bank still managed to report a 6% jump in net interest income to Rs 6,403 crore as interest expenses fell by nearly 7%. Announcing the results, the bank’s MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai said that the second quarter was encouraging in terms of business and that there is a clear picture that provisioning (for bad loans) will ease in future. “We are already carrying nearly Rs 1,200 crore for Covid-related stress, including for loans that would have been classified as NPAs but for the Supreme Court stay.” He said that the bank has scaled down the expected slippages projected in the last quarter because the stress on borrowers was less than expected. “We had projected 2.5-3% delinquency, which would translate into Rs 15,000-18,000 crore. This figure now has a downward bias as we have a better idea being in the middle of the third quarter,” said Rai. The bank expects only 2-3% of loan book to be restructured as against 5-6% projected earlier. “Although we have enough capital, we will raise around Rs 2,000 crore of AT-1 bonds in the third quarter. We have already raised Rs 2,000 crore of tier-2 and will raise an additional Rs 1,000 crore. We may look at raising equity only in the fourth quarter, looking at economic revival and double-digit credit growth expected next year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/union-bank-sept-qtr-net-up-55-qoq/articleshow/79089661.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 7, 2020||Business||SBI integrates its Yono with farm marketplace||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: State Bank of India (SBI) has turned its internet platform for farmers Yono Krishi into an online marketplace for them. The bank has done this by integrating the platform with IFFCO eBazar portal. This will enable users to obtain doorstep delivery of farming-related products in 27,000 pin code locations across the country. Since its lunch last year, the Yono Krishi platform has been catering to all the farmers’ agricultural needs — from sowing to harvesting — and has cut down bank branch visits for availing loans on Kisan Credit Card. The app for rural customers is available in 10 local languages, besides Hindi and English. In a statement issued here on Friday, the bank said that over 3 crore registered Yono customers can be benefited with the integration of Yono Krishi and IFFCO eBazar. They can seamlessly order online seeds, fertilisers, agro machinery, pesticides, organic products and various other farm products with no minimum order value through the IFFCO eBazar portal. IFFCO eBazar is a 100% owned subsidiary of IFFCO Limited. Through its online B2C platform, IFFCO eBazar sells a variety of agro products. “This is another step towards fulfilling the vision of the government of doubling the farmer’s income by 2022. With a digital-first approach, it is part of our continuous endeavour to provide innovative digital banking solutions to all our customers across the country,” said SBI MD (retail & digital banking) C S Setty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-integrates-its-yono-with-farm-marketplace/articleshow/79089688.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 7, 2020||Business||Ashok Leyland posted Rs 147 cr loss in Q2||Chennai: Hinduja Group flagship Ashok Leyland has posted nearly Rs 147 crore loss for the second quarter ended September compared to a profit of Rs 39 crore in the year ago period. However compared to Q1FY21, when its losses jumped to Rs 389 crore, the Q2 score was better. Said Mitul Shah, Head of Research at Reliance Securities, "Ashok Leyland recorded subdued operational performance in 2QFY21 due to 33% fall in its sales volume. Revenue fell 28% YoY (+336% QoQ) to Rs 2837 crore. Lower revenue was primarily due to volume decline of 33% YoY." The company recorded revenue of Rs 651 crore in Q1 FY21 and Rs 3929 crore in Q2 FY20. The company's EBITDA "fell 65% YoY due to higher raw material cost, while EBIDTA margin contracted 298 bps YoY to 2.8% owing to negative operating leverage," said Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ashok-leyland-posted-rs-147-cr-loss-in-q2/articleshow/79088938.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
November 7, 2020||Patna||Three held for NIT-Patna graduate's murder sent to jail||PATNA: The two engineering graduates from NIT-Patna and one of its students arrested on Thursday for killing their college-mate Aditya Jai Singh were forwarded to jail on Friday. The Airport police station had registered an FIR against them under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison) and 34 (common intention) of IPC on the written complaint of Aditya’s maternal uncle Sachin Kumar. SHO Arun Kumar said the arrested youths were Saurav Tripathy, Anmol Kumar and Raj Gopal. Saurav and Anmol had passed out from NIT-Patna last year while Raj is a fourth year student of electrical engineering there. Aditya also studied electrical engineering from NIT-Patna and had passed out this year. He had come to Patna from his native place Ballia in Uttar Pradesh to collect his marksheet and other documents from NIT-P. Aditya died allegedly due to the overdose of brown sugar at a party with the friends at the rented accommodation of Saurav at Sheikhpura on Thursday morning. The SHO said Aditya used to consume drugs since his college days. “The arrested three confessed that Aditya had consumed some powdery substance at Sheikhpura on Wednesday night after which he died,” he said. He said the postmortem report was awaited. “The viscera has been preserved for forensic analysis to know the details of substances found in his body resulting in poisoning and death,” he said, adding no illegal item was recovered from Saurav’s residence. He said Saurav belongs to Amethi in Uttar Pradesh and was working in Patna with COMFED. Anmol, a native of Begusarai, was earlier working with a private firm engaged in making election strategy for different political parties, but had resigned. Raj was a resident of Pashchim Darwaza in Patna City. The four had a party together at Saurav’s place on Wednesday night. The three found froth oozing from Aditya’s mouth on Thursday morning and rushed him to the IGIMS, where doctors declared him dead and informed the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-held-for-nit-patna-grads-murder-sent-to-jail/articleshow/79088976.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Patna||JD(U) and Congress in direct contest for Valmiki Nagar seat||PATNA/BAGAHA: The byelection for Valmiki Nagar parliamentary seat on Saturday is set to witness a direct contest between Sunil Kumar of the JD(U) and Pravesh Kumar Mishra of the Congress. There are, however, seven contestants in the fray. Kumar is the son of former JD(U) MP Baijnath Prasad Mahto, who died in February this year. He is considered to be the political heir to late Mahto as other sons of Mahto —Ramakant Prasad and Manoj Kumar — are businessmen. Kumar, who has been active in politics since long, is pitted against Mishra, a journalist. Shashwat Kedar Pandey, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, was denied ticket this time. Pandey is the son of former Congress MP Manoj Pandey and the grandson of former chief minister Kedar Pandey. Altogether 17,22,102 voters, including 8,01,728 women and 95 third gender, will exercise their franchise at 2,478 polling booths. The bypoll for the parliamentary constituency was necessitated following the death of Baijnath. Apart from Valmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency, the six assembly segments in West Champaran – Valmiki Nagar, Ramnagar (SC), Lauria, Narkatiaganj, Bagaha and Sikta – will also go to the polls on Saturday. In Valmiki Nagar and Ramnagar assembly segments, poling will be held from 7am to 4pm. Uttar Pradesh and Nepal borders adjacent to Valmiki Nagar have been sealed. ACEO Sanjay Kumar Singh said preparations for the by-polls in the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat were complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-and-cong-in-direct-contest-for-valmiki-nagar-seat/articleshow/79088793.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Business||30% UPI market share cap to hit e-pay adoption: GPay||BENGALURU: Google Pay, the market leader on payments platform Unified Payments Interface (UPI) with typically over 40% monthly market share, has hit back at National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) for its policy to cap market share at 30%. Google’s payments unit said the regulatory change is a ‘surprising move’ which will have its implications on ‘hundreds of millions of users who use UPI for their daily payments and could impact the further adoption of UPI and the end goal of financial inclusion.’ Google Pay’s comments come after NPCI, which manages UPI, announced Thursday it will allow a third-party app on UPI to have a maximum of 30% volume share, right before it allowed WhatsApp to go live with 20 million users. While Google Pay and PhonePe would get two years to comply, it has clearly hurt Google. According to sources, currently it is unlikely that the regulation will be changed or modified. “Digital payments in India is still in its infancy and any interventions at this point should be made with a view to accelerate consumer choice and innovation. A choice based and open model is key to drive this momentum,” Google Pay added in its statement. Walmart-owned PhonePe has also previously said it does not like the idea of limiting market share on UPI. Late Friday night, its co-founder and CEO Smaeer Nigam said PhonePe's customers and merchants have 'absolutely no risk of any UPI transactions failing on its platform.' "In fact NPCI's circular categorically says that the 30% market share cap does not apply to existing third-party apps like PhonePe until Jan 2023. PhonePe remains fully committed to ensuring that there is no customer disruption caused by this circular," he added. Meanwhile, sources said NPCI is also considering making market share data public in light of the regulatory changes. While it still hasn’t decided a timeline but new rules being effective from next year for new players like WhatsApp Pay could accelerate this change. While NPCI has noted the market cap would help it to address the risks and protect the UPI ecosystem, platforms like Google Pay and PhonePe have spent significant capital to take UPI to masses and get users to transact. For example, Google Pay reportedly spent Rs 1,028 crore to incentivise users in the form of cashback rewards in the financial year ending March 2019. On Friday, after securing the regulatory nod, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a post that the combination of WhatsApp and UPI’s unique architecture, in the long run, can help local organisations address some of the key challenges 'including increasing rural participation in the digital economy and delivering financial services to those who have never had access before.' His post said WhatsApp will work with five banks -- ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, the State Bank of India, and Jio Payments Bank--for UPI payments. “Just like every feature in WhatsApp, payments is designed with a strong set of security and privacy principles, including entering a personal UPI PIN for each payment,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/30-upi-mkt-share-cap-to-hit-e-pay-adoption-gpay/articleshow/79089775.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: All eyes on 24 seats in Seemanchal area||PATNA: The stage is set for the third and final phase of the state assembly polls for 78 seats, including 24 in the Seemanchal region comprising Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar and Purnia districts, on Saturday. Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM is contesting election with Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP, Mayawati’s BSP, Devendra Yadav’s SJDD and SBSP under the banner of Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF). Out of the 24 seats AIMIM is contesting across the state, 19 are in the Seemanchal region. AIMIM has raised the issues of Seemanchal’s neglect, migration and NRC-CAA. As per the Election Commission’s data, Kishanganj has more than 60% Muslim population, followed by Araria with 45%, Katihar with over 40% and Purnia with over 30%. Muslim are 16.09% of the state’s population. Hence the narrative for the final phase has changed in Seemanchal, which is primarily dominated by Muslims with a sizeable population of Yadavs and EBCs. In 2015, the region had voted for the grand alliance (GA) comprising RJD, JD(U) and Congress. “If the Owaisi factor works, then the road to power for the GA will be very difficult,” said poll analyst Pramod Kumar. This time JD(U) is with BJP and against GA. In 2015, AIMIM had contested six seats in the region, but failed to open an account. “The significance of AIMIM can be gauged from the fact that senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala had to attack Asaduddin on Thursday,” a close confidant of AIMIM candidate Akhtarul Iman said. Akhtarul, a former MLA from Kochadhaman, is pitted against six-term MLA Abdul Jalil Mastan of Congress in Amour. Mastan hogged the limelight last week when he threatened Owaisi to send him to Hyderabad after chopping off his hands. “Though the alliance with RLSP, BSP and other smaller parties will not help AIMIM, it shows the party is no longer an outsider in the state politics. Moreover, Qamrul Hoda of AIMIM won the Kishanganj seat in the 2019 bypolls,” said Mani Kant of Purnia. Apart from the GA and BJP-JD(U) NDA, Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA) comprising Pappu Yadav’s JAP(L), Chandrashekhar Azad’s Azad Samaj Party, MK Faizi’s Social Democratic Party and Bahujan Mukti Party is also in the fray. Political observers feel the contest by and large pans out between GA and NDA, but as the majority of the constituencies are dominated by the Muslims, parties such as AIMIM, LJP and NCP may end up cutting votes of the larger parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-eyes-on-24-seats-in-seemanchal-area/articleshow/79088044.cms||Ramashankar
November 7, 2020||Vadodara||Pamper your pooch! A pet park takes shape in Anand||VADODARA/ ANAND: Think again before saying it’s a dog’s life. For there are more options to pamper man’s best friend. In fact, Anand will now be home to a park dedicated to pets. Touted to be Gujarat’s first such pet park, the park is equipped with a play area with hurdles and agility equipment, pool to bathe and even a café where you can have a meal with your canine friend or cuttie cat. The Rescue and Rehabilitation of Stray Animals (RRSA), a foundation that has been taking care of stray animals in Anand since 2016, has carved out this park in a 3,000 square foot area from its animal shelter in Jol village on Bakrol-Vadtal Road. The foundation has set up this park to fund its own activities like rescuing injured, providing them treatment, medicines, food and shelter. In the last four years, the foundation and its volunteers have rescued nearly 10,000 stray and street animals, most of them domestic, ownerless from dogs, donkeys, cows to birds. “We manage our activities through donations, these are not consistent. So, we have taken up this project through which we continue with our activities and in a way extended our work,” said Bhavesh Solanki from RRSA foundation which currently has 80 animals under treatment at its shelter spread across 26,000 square foot area. The pet parents will be charged a nominal entry fee after which their pets can enjoy series of activities. “We have hurdles, rings, walkers, tunnels. Also, the pet-friendly café has separate menus for both humans and pets,” said Solanki, adding that the park will also provide space for pets to socialize – a space which currently they miss. “Anand does not have space where pet parents regularly meet. This park will provide such a space where they can discuss their pets, exchange information and tips on how pets should be taken care of,” he said. The park will be thrown open tomorrow for animal lovers with a free vaccination camp for both pets and stray dogs, health camp for owners by Anand district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian who only recently has adopted two stray motherless dogs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pamper-your-pooch-a-pet-park-takes-shape-in-anand/articleshow/79087116.cms||Prashant Rupera
November 7, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 safety norms thrown to wind during electioneering||PATNA: While the world is reeling under coronavirus fear, there was a popular saying in Bihar that this virus has taken a break in the state till the assembly election and its results on November 10.  At least the kind of gathering and people moving without masks in rallies showed how the Covid-19 norms were violated by all political parties during the three-phase state assembly election campaigning, which ended on Thursday. In fact, several leaders themselves got infected and had to remain away from campaigning. BJP’s star campaigner Smriti Irani could not come to campaign for the third phase of election after getting infected. State’s deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and BJP other senior leaders like Devendra Fadnavis and Shahnawaz Hussain also had to take a break after testing positive for coronavirus. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra, who was among the party’s star campaigners, was restrained from attending rallies when his Covid-19 test report came positive. “I got infected in September, before the campaign. Still I did not go to any rally and, instead, handled other responsibilities bestowed on me,” Mishra said, adding political leaders were apprehensive about this factor. When asked about violation of Covid-19 safety norms in all the rallies, he replied, “We had alerted people, but practically it was not possible. We tried our best to follow the Election Commission’s guidelines.” Congress’s Rajya Sabha member and Bihar incharge Shaktisinh Gohil also tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Gohil had camped in Bihar for over three weeks. Be it the rally of Mahagathbandhan CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav or CM Nitish Kumar, a big crowd without masks could be spotted everywhere. RJD state spokesperson Chgitranjan Gagan said the party had told the EC about these problems. “Practically, it is not possible for a speaker from the dais or candidate to manage the crowd in an open area. Had it been a closed venue, there would have been control. Still, we arranged for masks and sanitisers,” Gagan said. Though the EC stated that total 498 cases for various kinds of violation have been lodged since the enforcement of the model code of conduct in the state, there was no break-up of the number of cases related to the violation of Covid-19 protocols. An official in the election commission said, “FIRs have been lodged for violation of Covid-19 norms in different districts, but we do not have the exact data right now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-safety-norms-thrown-to-wind-during-electioneering/articleshow/79088178.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: ED attaches property of five accused||PATNA: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday provisionally attached movable and immobile property worth more than Rs 3.14 crore allegedly purchased by former PMCH superintendent Dr O P Chaudhary and four more people by using money amassed through medical item purchase scam that took place in Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) 10 years back. The other people whose property was attached are PMCH’s former deputy medical superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh, former incharge of pharmacy and surgical store Dr Ganesh Prasad Singh and two suppliers, Amit Dhandhania and Bimal Dalmia, who were proprietors of Swastik Enterprises. Sources said nine immovable property in form of flats and land plots in Patna, Bengaluru, Pune and Ghaziabad worth more than Rs 2.6 crore located was also attached. They said three expensive cars worth around Rs 25.86 lakh and Rs 28.09 lakh lying in several bank accounts had been attached provisionally. “The actual market value of all these properties is estimated to be somewhere around Rs 30 crore,” a source said. They said the case was registered by Special Vigilance Unit of state government in 2013 and the ED was recommended to attach property of accused people around three years back. “Surgical equipment, chemical reagents, medicines and several other items were purchased for PMCH at exponentially higher rate than the market price. In addition, quantity of purchased items was much more than what was actually required by the hospital. All these purchases were made in 2008-09 and 2009-2010 financial years,” an ED source said. They said SVU, in its investigation, found that the total scam was of around Rs 12 crore and it has already filed chargesheet against all the accused people. “ED investigation is still in progress. More attachments will be made in future. Some private hospitals and doctors might come under the ambit of ED’s investigation,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ed-attaches-property-of-five-accused/articleshow/79087614.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 7, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Radiotherapy given to 1,121 at MPMMCC in past nine months||VARANASI: Despite Covid-19 menace Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya Cancer Centre (MPMMCC), a Tata Memorial Centre (TMC), an autonomous institute under the department of Atomic Energy, Government of India- has given radiotherapy to 1,121 patients just in past nine months. Disclosing the achievements of MPMMCC on the eve of National Cancer Awareness Day on Friday, director of MPMMCC and Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital Dr Satyajit Pradhan and head of radiation oncology department Dr Ashutosh Mukherji said that the centre has treated more than 1,100 cancer patients just in nine months and most of these patients received their radiotherapy during Covid pandemic. Releasing the hospital’s data of radiation treatment given to the patients they said, “So far 3,332 cancer patients have been treated at HBCH and MPMMCC. Out of these, 1,121 patients were given radiotherapy between January and October. It was noticed that one third patients who received the radiotherapy were having head and neck (oral cancer) related cancer. As per the data and many studies, it has been found that over 80% of oral cancer caes were caused becase of tobacco consumption. Therefore, awareness regarding cancer and its causes needs to be raised.” MPMMCC and HBCH have been built with the aim of catering the large population of Varanasi and its adjoining region, they said. Pradhan mentioned, “The aim of this cancer centre is to provide the best quality of cancer care to all sections of the society in a timely and caring manner and play a major role in the development of high-class cancer related research in this part of the country.” National Cancer Awareness Day is observed to highlight the significance of increased awareness about cancer prevention and early detection for the general public, they said. Union health and family welfare minister Harsh Vardhan had announced in 2014 that November 7 will be observed as the Cancer awareness day every year to generate awareness about early detection and its causes. Pradhan said that since the HBCH and MPMMCC started to function, a total of 28,852 cancer patients had been registered at TMC run centres in Varanasi in past two and half years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/radiotherapy-given-to-1121-at-mpmmcc-in-past-9-months/articleshow/79089440.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Patna||Star campaigners of political parties back to their places||PATNA: With the campaigning for Bihar assembly election coming to an end on Thursday, central leaders of all political parties camping in the state for the last fortnight have started returning to their places. BJP national president JP Nadda left Patna on Thursday night. After holding rallies in Darbhanga, he spent some time with party leaders and organizational members in Patna before leaving for Delhi, said party’s media centre and war room incharge for Bihar election, Danish Iqbal. “He held talks with party members and discussed the good response we have received. We are forming the government,” he said. Danish said party’s star campaigners like Manoj Tiwari, who was here for 20 days, also left Patna on Thursday. “Even Dinesh Lal Yadav (Nirahua) and Ravi Kishan, who drew big crowds, returned,” he said. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan had left on Wednesday and party’s Bihar incharge Bhupendra Yadav will leave on Sunday. When asked if the leaders felt relaxed with the campaigning ending, he replied, “In BJP, there is no concept of relaxing. Everyone is back to his work. For instance, all union ministers and senior leaders are now handling their responsibilities.” Four senior Congress leaders, who camped in Bihar for nearly three weeks, also left on Friday. They were Rajya Sabha member Shaktisinh Gohil, incharge of party’s Bihar affairs, national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala (party’s election management committee chairman), Mohan Prakash (election management committee convener) and Pawan Kera (media coordination committee chairman) left on the last day of the campaigning. Former IPS officer and party’s former Jharkhand president Dr Ajay Kumar, who was managing the strategy, also returned. “Yes, you will not find these leaders at Sadaquat Ashram, but local leaders and workers are still there,” Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Rathhore said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/star-campaigners-of-political-parties-back-to-their-places/articleshow/79088809.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 7, 2020||Business||Indian Overseas Bank Q2 net profit at Rs 148 crore||Chennai: Indian Overseas Bank Q2 net profit at Rs 148 crore for the September ended quarter, 2020, as compared to the loss of Rs 2,254 crore in the same quarter last year. This is due to increase in cash recovery, better asset quality and lower provisioning for bad loans and write-offs. Sequentially, IOB’s net profit grew by 22% from Rs 121 crore in the June quarter of this fiscal. Asset quality of the bank improved with gross non-performing assets (NPA) at Rs 17,660 crore in the September quarter, as against Rs 28,673 crore on a year-on-year basis, and Rs 18,291 crore on a quarter-on-quarter basis. Total fresh slippages were contained at Rs 292 crore for September quarter, 2020. Gross Advances also improved to Rs 1.35 lakh crore as on September-ended quarter, as against Rs 1.31 lakh crore in the previous quarter. Its MD & CEO Partha Pratim Sengupta said “This quarter’s good performance is attributed to the good cash recovery of about Rs 750 crore of the target of Rs 1000 crore. Hence, no write-off has been made.” Provision Coverage Ratio has improved to 89.36% in the September quarter, as against 87.97% in the previous quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-overseas-bank-q2-net-profit-at-rs-148-crore/articleshow/79087865.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 7, 2020||Dehradun||Days after 80 teachers test positive in Pauri, contact tracing underway, 500 students to be tested||Dehradun: A day after 80 teachers, employed at 23 government schools of Pauri district, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, the health department has now started the contact tracing of over 500 students who came in contact with them. All 23 schools have been closed for the next five days and sanitisation will be undertaken in them, as per officials. “We have asked for the November 2-to-5 attendance records of students who were present at the classes where the infected teachers taught. The list is expected by Monday and then we will get all the contacts tested,” chief education officer (Pauri), MS Rawat told TOI. As per the report from the education department, 19 teachers were found to be infected in Khirsu, 21 in Pauri, 20 each in Kot and Pabo and one in Kaljikhal block of the district. The health department has red-flagged the fact that the teachers were allowed to attend classes without having their Covid-19 test reports. In its defence, the education department said that the teachers’ samples were collected days before the reopening of schools but the results did not reach on time. However, additional chief medical officer (Pauri) Dr AK Tomar said he hadn’t received any specific request from the education department to get Covid-19 tests done for the teachers. “We have sought the details of all the teachers in the schools in the entire district and we will get each person tested,” added Dr Tomar. Meanwhile, the total Covid tally of the state reached 64,538 cases on Friday, with 473 fresh cases being reported during the day. With 163 fresh cases, the state capital continues to report the maximum number of infections, followed by Udham Singh Nagar (57). A total of 55 cases were reported in Haridwar, 48 in Chamoli, 40 in Pauri, 39 in Nainital, 17 in Almora, 16 in Rudraprayag, 14 in Pithoragarh, 12 in Tehri, seven in Uttarkashi, three in Champawat and two in Bageshwar. Nine deaths were reported on the day, taking the state’s death toll to 1,056 in the state. With 404 persons recovering on Friday, the total recoveries stand at 59,227. “The recovery rate in the state has now reached 91.7%, while the sample positivity rate is now 5.9%,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room. Test reports of over 14,000 samples meanwhile are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/days-after-80-teachers-test-positive-in-pauri-contact-tracing-underway-500-students-to-be-tested/articleshow/79087628.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Man kills youth suspecting illicit relation with daughter||PATNA: A man, accused of killing his minor son four years back by slitting his throat, was arrested and sent to jail on Friday for allegedly stabbing a youth to death suspecting an illicit relation with his minor daughter at village Bishanpur under Kateya police station area in Gopalganj district. SHO Suman Mishra said the murder took place at around 7.30pm on Wednesday. He said the accused, Jaishree Chauhan, was arrested on Thursday. He said the deceased was identified was Satyendra Sah, aged around 25 years. “Chauhan has some psychological problem. In April 2014, he had killed his eight-year-old son on suspicion that he was born out of someone’s illicit relation with his wife. He had come out of jail around one and a half years back. His wife and 15-year-old daughter lived at Bishanpur,” he said. Mishra said the accused started suspecting that his minor daughter had illicit relation with Satyendra. The SHO said when he raised his suspicion, Jaishree’s wife and daughter fled from village out of fear. “Jaishree reached Satyendra’s house on Wednesday night and started hurling abuses, saying he was hiding his wife and daughter inside,” Mishra said. He said Satyendra was having dinner at that time and came out of his house. “Jaishree pulled out a knife and stabbed Satyendra multiple times in his abdomen, killing him on the spot,” Mishra said. The SHO said Jaishree had fled from spot after the killing and was arrested the next day. He said last time Jaishree’s wife had moved the court for his bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-youth-suspecting-illicit-relation-with-daughter/articleshow/79089137.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 7, 2020||Business||Debt MFs must invest 10% in liquid assets, says Sebi||MUMBAI: In a ruling that will impact most debt funds, markets regulator Sebi has mandated that these schemes hold at least 10% of their assets in liquid instruments like cash, government securities (G-Secs), treasury bills and repo on G-Secs. The move is aimed at making debt funds less risky, especially during times of unusual falls in turnover in the bond market. However, overnight, liquid and gilt schemes have been exempted from this rule since a major part of the portfolio of these schemes are invested in liquid assets. Effective February 1, 2021, the rule change come a little over six months after Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund decided to close down six debt funds, mainly due to its inability to sell bonds from its portfolio to meet increasing redemption pressure. On April 23, the fund house had announced the closure of six debt schemes, which then had assets worth about Rs 26,000 crore and over three lakh investors. The change in rules, was necessitated “to augment the liquidity risk management framework for all open-ended debt schemes”, a Sebi circular said. The regulator also said that fund houses should do stress testing for all debt schemes other than overnight schemes. In case the exposure in such liquid assets falls below the 10% threshold, the fund house should “ensure compliance with this requirement before making any further investments”, the Sebi circular said. Through another circular, the markets regulator also allowed fund houses to launch flexi-cap schemes, which can invest in stocks from across the market cap spectrum. The decision came nearly two months after the regulator had changed the rules for multi-cap funds by mandating these schemes to compulsorily invest 75% of their portfolio across three market cap categories — large, mid and small — divided equally between the three. In a separate note, Sebi said that from November 9, the cut-off timings to invest in mutual funds would be restored to the pre-Covid deadline of 3pm for all schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/debt-mfs-must-invest-10-in-liquid-assets-says-sebi/articleshow/79091311.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hubballi||Youth makes Haveri proud with ‘Attyapattya’ feat, bags Krida Ratna||HAVERI: Mahesh Yarimani from Hurulikoppi village in Savanur taluk of the district, has made Haveri proud with his feats in ‘Attyapattya’, a traditional Indian sport played nine to a side. Mahesh has bagged Karnataka Krida Ratna for the year 2017. Mahesh started practising ‘Attyapattya’ 12 years ago while studying in Class 5 at the public school in Dharwad. Since then, he has participated in umpteen events conducted at state, national and international levels, and won several medals, bringing laurels to the state. Mahesh bagged gold medals at the 28th Junior Attyapattya held in Kerala in 2015, ‘Attyapattya’ Federation Cup in Jammu & Kashmir in 2017 and at the third South Asian Attyapattya competition held in Bhutan in 2017. “Amidst all ups and downs, I started my sports career when I was in Class 5 at Dharwad under the guidance of my coach Veeranagouda Patil. The credit for all the achievements go to my parents and my coach. My coach took care of the expenses when I participated in several state as well as national events,” shared Mahesh. “The sport has never acted as a hurdle in the way of my education. I passed SSLC, PUC, and degree with first class. I want to become a coach for poor rural students,” he added. Speaking to TOI, Mahesh’s coach and Attyapatty Federation of India president Veeranagouda Patil said, “ Mahesh’s achievements have inspired several youths. He is a committed sportsman. I am confident that he has a bright future. He will bag more awards in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/youth-makes-haveri-proud-with-attyapattya-feat-bags-krida-ratna/articleshow/79088259.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 7, 2020||Patna||28 model booths set up in Kishanganj: DM||PATNA: Special arrangements have been made for women and persons with disabilities (PwD) at several places in 78 constituencies across the 15 districts going to the third and last phase of the state assembly polls on Saturday. Pink booths with all women staff to conduct the polls have been set up in different districts. Out of the total 2,35,32,052 electors in the 15 districts, 1,12,05,378 are women. Women voters’ turnout in the second phase was 58.80% against men’s 52.92%. “Many booths are especially decorated and only women polling and security personnel are deployed there to give them the look of model booths. Such booths are also called pink booths to encourage women to cast their votes. Similarly, the facilities and assistance required will be provided to PwD voters at the booths,” additional chief electoral officer Baiju Nath Singh said. Kishanganj DM-cum-electoral officer Aditya Prakash said 28 all-women or model booths have been set up in the district. “Two booths each have been set up in Bahadurganj, Thakurganj and Kochadhaman, while the rest 22 model booths are located in Kishanganj town,” he said. “The booths are located in the areas easily accessible to women. There are 1,668 booths in Kishanganj,” he said and added that social distancing will be maintained at the booths. West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar said drinking water, light and other basic amenities have been provided at the polling booths in the district. “Besides, wheelchairs will be provided to PwD voters along with volunteers to navigate them,” he said. “Thermal scanners have been placed at each booth and voters will be provided gloves. Also, the booths have been sanitized completely to ensure safety of voters,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dm-28-model-booths-set-up-in-kishanganj/articleshow/79088099.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Business||Amazon nod must to recast Future biz: Singapore ruling||BENGALURU: The emergency arbitrator in the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has said that, in the Amazon-Future dispute, the US-based online retailer has an “apparent right” to be present for any restructuring of Future Retail (FRL) and the Future Group. The sole arbitrator has mentioned in its summary of the interim ruling that the assets of FRL can’t be compromised without Amazon’s consent. TOI has reviewed the interim order summary by the SIAC arbitrator V K Rajah, who is also the former attorney general of Singapore. This is part of the interim grant given to Amazon, which approached the SIAC saying Future Group has violated its contract by selling retail assets to Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries in a Rs 24,713-crore deal. So far, Future Group has said the interim order is not enforceable in India besides disagreeing with Amazon’s allegations. “Notwithstanding the claimant’s (Amazon’s) desire to work with them, the respondents (Future Group) decided to enter into a transaction with a contractually prohibited entity to strip FRL of its core assets. This disregarded their obligation to the claimant,” the interim order said. The order was passed on October 25 and is valid for 90 days. The prohibited entity here refers to Reliance Industries. It added that the respondents have given no good legal reason for effecting the sale of FRL’s retail assets behind the claimant’s back. The order summary also noted the pandemic had caused unforeseeable difficulties as well as substantial losses for Future Retail and it needed fresh capital. “...but even in these conditions, law expects business persons to honour contractual commitments unless they are legally vitiated or modified,” it added. The Kishore Biyani-led Future Group has said in a regulatory filing that Future Group is not a party to the agreement under which Amazon had invoked legal proceedings against it and that Amazon’s contention, in this case, is “entirely misconceived”. The interim order observations pointed out economic hardship alone is not a legal ground for disregarding legal obligations.A Future Group spokesperson did not respond to TOI’s query, and Amazon India declined to comment. While Biyani and the Jeff Bezos-led Amazon have locked horns in public over this issue, this is also impacting Future Retail’s store networks with many outlets reportedly seeing empty shelves, while vendor payments are also getting impacted along with the salary of some of its staff. Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries has said it wants to close the deal formally without any delay. It is not a party to any of the court proceedings yet. Legally, the opinion is divided whether this interim ruling can be enforced on its own or a directive from an Indian court is needed. Both Amazon and Future have filed caveats against each other in the Delhi high court to get a hearing, in case either of them file a case against each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-nod-must-to-recast-future-biz-spore-ruling/articleshow/79089884.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 7, 2020||Patna||Covid claims 8 more lives in Bihar, toll rises to 1,129||PATNA: With 746 more people testing positive in the last 24 hours, the state’s Covid tally mounted to 2,20,992 on Friday. Officially, eight people succumbed to the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s toll to 1,129. However, with 2,12,911 recoveries, there are 6,950 active cases in the state. According to the state health department, three more people have succumbed to Covid in Patna. With this, the district’s Covid toll has increased to 275. Madhepura, Nalanda, East Champaran and Purnia recorded one death each on Friday. At AIIMS-Patna, a 65-year-old man from Agamkuan locality in Patna and a 70-year-old man from Chirori in Madhepura died on Friday. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 15 patients were admitted to the hospital and 22 discharged on Friday. Among those admitted to the hospital on Friday, many were from different Patna localities like Bhika Chak, Gauriya Matth, Malsalami, Sharma Path in Rukanpura, Rajvanshi Nagar, Kadamkuan and Lodipur. At Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, five Covid-19 patients were admitted and one was discharged on Friday. There was no report of any fresh Covid casualty at the hospital. Meanwhile, state health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Friday that 613 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 96.34%. “Altogether 1,36,290 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,17,38,124 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year,” the minister tweeted. Of 746 new Covid-19 cases registered in the state in the last 24 hours, Patna accounted for 228. With this, the district’s Covid tally has risen to 37,097. However, with 34,930 recoveries and 275 deaths, there are 1,892 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Nalanda recorded 62 cases on Friday, Rohtas 34, Gaya 30, Muzaffarpur 30 and Bhagalpur 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-claims-8-more-lives-in-state/articleshow/79087858.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Patna||Col Biswas is new principal of Sainik School Nalanda||PATNA: Colonel Tamojeet Biswas took over as the new principal of Sainik School Nalanda on November 2. The post had become vacant after the transfer of Col MI Hussain. Hailing from Tripura, Col Biswas was commissioned in the Army Education Corps on June 12, 1993. He has a long experience of education and administrative work in various military training institutes. He has a Master of Education (MEd) degree along with Master’s degree in Physics and Psychology. He has served as an instructor in Army Education Core Training College in addition to serving as the principal in Sainik School Bijapur in Karnataka and Rashtriya Military School, Bangalore. Before joining Sainik School Nalanda, Col Biswas served at Officers Training Academy in Gaya as a senior instructor and head of education department. He has been awarded with the commendation card by General Officer Commanding in Chief for his remarkable and meritorious service. Colonel Biswas said he is delighted to come to Nalanda — the world famous ancient seat of learning. He said the school would continue in its pursuit of excellence in all spheres of education as well as military training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/col-biswas-is-new-principal-of-sainik-school-nalanda/articleshow/79087907.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Business||Large NBFCs can become banks: RBI||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said that there is a case for systemically important non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) beyond a certain size to convert into banks and subject them to the same prudent regulatory framework. This arrangement will enable a regulation-light structure to continue for most NBFCs that gives them the flexibility to serve the last-mile consumers. “The spill-over of risks from a systematically important NBFC capable of transmitting perceptible impact on financial stability must be dealt with in a proportionate manner. So, NBFCs with significant externalities and which contribute substantially to systemic risks must be identified and subjected to a higher degree of regulation,” said RBI deputy governor M Rajeshwar Rao, speaking at a summit on NBFCs organised by Assocham. According to the RBI, risks from NBFCs can be passed on to the banking system. As of end-March 2020, NBFCs have been the largest net borrowers of funds from the financial system, of which more than half were from scheduled commercial banks, followed by mutual funds and insurance companies. Pointing out that very large finance companies need the same regulation as banks, Rao said, “One can also argue that the design of a prudential regulatory framework for such NBFCs can be comparable with banks so that beyond a point of criticality to systemic risks, such NBFCs should have incentives either to convert into a commercial bank or scale down their network externalities within the financial system.” The RBI has increased its vigilance over the NBFC segment following high growth in the last decade, which was followed by a collapse of two large finance companies IL&FS and DHFL. Between March 31, 2009, and March 31, 2019, the total assets of NBFCs grew at a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 18.6% — almost twice as fast as banks, which grew with a CAGR of 10.7%. With this growth, the balance sheet size of the NBFC sector increased from 9.3% to 18.6% of the aggregate balance sheet size of commercial banks. In absolute terms, the asset size of the NBFC sector (including housing finance companies), as on March 31, 2020, is Rs 51 lakh crore. Watch Large NBFCs can become banks: RBI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/large-nbfcs-can-become-banks-rbi/articleshow/79089941.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hubballi||Rabi sowing picks up despite delay||HUBBALLI: Incessant rain in October has delayed the rabi season, but despite the delay, sowing is gaining momentum in 12 districts of North Karnataka. Farmers are removing onion and chilli crops from the fields which are badly damaged due to excess moisture in the soil. According to the data sourced by the agriculture department, rabi crops are expected to be sown on 32 lakh hectares in the state. Major crop of the season are jowar and chickpea. Chickpea is expected to be sown on 12.67 lakh hectares and jowar on 9.37 lakh hectares in the state. Due to moisture in the soil, farmers are expecting a good yield of jowar and chickpea. Since jowar needs a little moisture in black cotton soil, mist or fog condition in December and January is likely to enhance crop growth, said Rudreshappa TS, director, agriculture department, Gadag. In Dharwad district, sowing will take place on 1.91 lakh hectares. In the state, Vijayapur has the highest target land for sowing which is 5.24 lakh hectares followed by Raichur district at 3.18 lakh hectares. Vijaykumar, agriculture joint director of Koppal district told TOI that sowing is happening in good pace. Of the 1.5 lakh hectares target, sowing has been completed in 90,100 hectares. Rajshekhar DW, agriculture joint director of Vijayapur, told that the district is known for rabi crop cultivation. Due excessive sowing in khariff season, rabi sowing will not be as expected. Total area for this season for sowing is 5.24 lakh hectares. Though jowar is the main crop of the season, farmers are not sowing it extensively. As a result, every year jowar cultivation is diminishing, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rabi-sowing-picks-up-despite-delay/articleshow/79088647.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 7, 2020||Patna||Three killed in separate incidents in Bihar||PATNA: In three separate incidents, an influential fish trader, a female money lender and a sarpanch were killed in Gopalganj, Patna and Saharsa districts respectively since Thursday midnight. Unidentified bike-borne armed criminals shot dead an influential fish trader Jai Mangal Singh (65), while he was sitting with some other traders of the town at Shabya Mor under the Veerganj police station area in Gopalganj district on Friday morning. Hathua SDPO Naresh Kumar said that Singh was an influential fish trader of the area. The SDPO said that the slain trader was a native of Ratanchak under the Hathua police station area and owned several ponds for fish rearing. “Eyewitnesses said that four suspects on two bikes reached the spot and opened fire targeting Singh and killing him instantly on the spot. Everything took place within 15 to 20 seconds after which the killers escaped towards Mirganj,” he said. Residents and traders blocked the road for several hours to protest the killing and to demand immediate arrest of the culprits. Money lender murdered: Meanwhile, a female money lender was found murdered inside her residence at Naudiha village under the Naubatpur police station area in western Patna on Friday morning. SHO Samrat Deepak Kumar said the slain woman was identified was Chadrawati Devi (55). He said the family members alleged that she was throttled to death. SHO said Chadrawati used to lend money on high rate of interest. “Police suspects Chandrawati was killed over some financial dispute only. However, it is yet not clear how she was murdered,” he said adding police are yet to receive any written complaint from Chadrawati’s family. Shot dead: Sahpur panchayat sarpanch Laxmi Mistry (66), was shot dead in his sleep at Ramji tola village of Bhelahi village in Darhar police outpost under the Nauhatta police station area in Saharsa after Thursday midnight. Darhar incharge Vinod Kumar said, “Mistry was sleeping with his wife on a cot just outside his residence, when criminals shot him on head from a very close range at around 12.30am. He had some dispute with some co-villagers. They were pressuring him to sign some documents which Mistry had denied. This was the root cause of dispute,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-killed-in-separate-incidents-in-state/articleshow/79087937.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Patna||EC makes foolproof arrangements for third phase polls in state today||PATNA: The Election Commission (EC) claims to have made foolproof security and other arrangements for the third and last phase of state assembly election in 78 seats spread over 15 districts on Saturday. Around 2.35 crore electors will decide the fate of 1204 contestants, including 110 women, at 33,782 polling booths to be manned by the central armed police forces (CAPF). Additional chief electoral officer (ACEO) Sanjay Kumar Singh on Friday said the polling booths located in the riverine belt will be under the surveillance of the Mounted Military Police (MMP), who will patrol the vulnerable locations. In addition, choppers will conduct an aerial surveillance to keep the suspected troublemakers at bay during the polling. Multi-layer patrolling will be conducted in all the 78 constituencies to ensure free, fair and peaceful election, the ACEO said. In order to maintain Covid-19 safety norms, altogether 12,78,221 bottles of sanitisers of 100ml each and 6,39,156 bottles of hand sanitisers (500ml), 1,06,526 infra thermometers, 25,57,882 pairs of hand gloves, 56,25,831 face masks and 12,78,221 face shields have been provided to the polling personnel across the 15 districts. The stakes are high for both the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan. Many of the 78 assembly segments fall in the Kosi-Seemanchal region where mainly the two alliances are in contest. However, Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has fielded candidates in 16 seats in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region to make the contest triangular. Owaisi had carried out hectic campaigning in the Seemanchal region. While PM Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar campaigned for the NDA candidates, the opposition’s CM candidate Tejashwi Yadav sought votes in favour of the Mahagathbandhan nominees. The Kosi-Seemanchal region is also considered to be an influential area of former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, whose Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) is trying to make its presence felt. The party may dent some Yadav votes considered to be the traditional RJD’s support base. In 2015, JD(U) had won 24 seats in alliance with RJD and Congress, which had emerged victorious in 19 and 10 seats respectively. BJP had won 19 out of the 78 seats going to the polls on Saturday. This time, JD(U) and BJP are contesting 37 and 35 seats respectively while the other NDA partners, VIP and HAM(S) have fielded 5 and one candidates, respectively. While RJD is contesting 46 seats, Congress has fielded 25 candidates in the third phase. The other Mahagathbandhan partners, CPI(ML) and CPI are contesting 5 and 2 seats respectively. LJP, BSP, RLSP and NCP are also contesting 42, 19, 23 and 31 seats, respectively. LJP, which is contesting on its own and outside the NDA umbrella, may spoil the JD(U) game in this phase, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-makes-foolproof-arrangements-for-third-phase-polls-in-state-today/articleshow/79088165.cms||Ramashankar
November 7, 2020||Business||India Cements quarterly profit rises 13x at Rs 69 cr||Chennai: Cements major India Cements (ICL) on Friday reported a 13x year-on-year growth in consolidated net profit for July-September at Rs 69 crore aided by improved cement prices and lower costs structure. ICL recorded a net profit of Rs 5 crore in the July-September quarter a year ago and Rs 19 crore in the quarter ended June 2020. The consolidated revenue for July-September stood at 1,090 crore- declining 14% compared to Rs 1,269 crore in the same quarter of the previous year. The volume of clinker and cement for the quarter was at 21.1 lakh tons as compared to 26.7 lakh tons last year. The variable cost of production reduced by around 6% in the quarter while the outgo on fixed overheads was also significantly reduced, ICL said. The company also appointed T S Raghupathy as an additional, non-executive director of the company and S Balasubramanian Adityan as a non-executive, independent director.“The cement prices which started improving from the month of April sustained during the second quarter under review with only marginal aberrations in some of the southern states. These improved prices along with cash and carry policy of the company helped in improving the profitability and the liquidity in these troubled times,” ICL said in a statement. ICL is hopeful of revival in demand on the back of pick up in construction activity, and expectations of stimulus measures from the government. Shares of the company closed flat at Rs 121.55 on the BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-cements-quarterly-profit-rises-13x-at-rs-69-cr/articleshow/79087740.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
November 7, 2020||Business||Sundaram Finance Q2 net profit dips 29%||Chennai: Truck financer Sundaram Finance saw net profit decline by 29% at Rs 192 crore for the quarter ended September 30, 2020, as compared to the same period last year. New loan disbursements for the September quarter is lower by 17% at Rs 3,174 crore, as compared to the same period the previous year. Income from operations stood flat at Rs 993 crore for the second quarter of this fiscal year on a yearly basis. Assets under Management stood flat at Rs 30,572 crore in the second quarter on a yearly basis. It’s MD TT Srinivasaraghavan said, “Despite the first two months of the year having been a total washout, we managed to reach over 80% of our disbursements in Q2. Every succeeding month since May has witnessed an upward trend and that is something heartening. On the back of a bountiful monsoon and Government’s investment in infrastructure, the Tractor and Construction Equipment segments have done particularly well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sundaram-finance-q2-net-profit-dips-29/articleshow/79087812.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Soumitra remains critical||Kolkata: Even though there has been a marginal improvement in his level of consciousness, actor Soumitra Chatterjee remained critical on Friday. His renal condition remains a cause for worry, say doctors. While Chatterjee has undergone three dialyses last week, he may have to go through more. So far, efforts to revive his consciousness have failed. Overall, he remains critical due to prolonged Covid encephalopathy and it could be difficult to revive him if the condition persists for long, said Belle Vue critical care head Arindam Kar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitra-remains-critical/articleshow/79088897.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 7, 2020||Business||Voltas to shift its B2B ops to group co||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Voltas is restructuring its operations by transferring the B2B (business-to-business) operations to a separate company. The move is part of the Tata Group’s broader plan of centralising businesses by combining units in similar lines of operations. It will also help the Noel Tata-led Voltas to focus more on the consumer durables business. Under the restructuring, Voltas will transfer businesses relating to electromechanical projects, mining & construction equipment and textile machinery to a 100% subsidiary Rohini Industrial Electricals on a slump sale basis. Slump sale means transfer of a division for a lump sum without assigning any value to individual assets and liabilities of the company. Some 7 years ago, Voltas had acquired the city-based Rohini Industrial to ramp up its play in electrical and instrumentation projects. After the restructuring, Voltas will rename Rohini Industrial to reflect the broader business portfolio. Tata observers see the B2B restructuring as a precursor to a larger consolidation within the conglomerate. Group company Tata Projects also executes industrial and engineering projects. Interestingly, Tata Projects MD Vinayak Deshpande is also on the board of Voltas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/voltas-to-shift-its-b2b-ops-to-group-co/articleshow/79089804.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 7, 2020||---||Choppers leave Patna airport as netas wrap up poll campaign||PATNA: A day after the conclusion of campaign for the last phase of assembly elections in the state, the roar of helicopters finally came to an end on Friday. The star campaigners of political parties, too, started returning from the state. Officials who handle the choppers and private aircraft of senior political leaders at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport here have also heaved a sigh of relief as the mounting pressure for parking and other formalities for clearance of flying machines has also ended. Anshu Aman, whose company provides choppers to netas and offers technical support to them, said most helicopters have flown back to Delhi and other places carrying senior leaders of different parties as electioneering has ended in the state. “Only two choppers hired by the BJP and one each by the Congress and Election Commission are still parked at Patna airport,” Aman said. According to the AAI-Patna, at least 21 to 23 choppers have flown per day from the airport on an average during the second last two phases of Bihar polls, carrying senior netas from one constituency to another. Besides, chartered flights of some national leaders of BJP and Congress were also given space at the airport. PM Narendra Modi, CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, BJP national president J P Nadda, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, BJP MP Manoj Tiwari, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and VIP chief Mukesh Sahni, among others, used choppers and private aircraft during electioneering in the state. BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said different party leaders held at least 16 rallies per day in the state since the beginning of the poll campaign. “Around 350 rallies and meetings of BJP have been held in the state in the last 20 days. The PM has alone addressed 12 election rallies. Nadda, Manoj Tiwari, Rajnath Singh and Dharmendra Pradhan have also held rallies in the state,” he added. “The CM has alone addressed 100 election rallies in the state, including six with PM Modi,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said. Congress state general secretary Sanjeev Singh said the party leaders used two choppers to cover 83 rallies in the state. “In the last phase, several senior Congress leaders held rallies in the state, including Rahul Gandhi, Shatrughan Sinha, Imran Pratapgarhi, Raj Babbar, Pramod Tiwari and Ajay Kapoor,” he said. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said Tejashwi has alone addressed 257 rallies in the state for the Grand Alliance candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/choppers-leave-city-airport-as-netas-wrap-up-poll-campaign/articleshow/79096715.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 7, 2020||Patna||Choppers leave Patna airport as netas wrap up poll campaign||PATNA: A day after the conclusion of campaign for the last phase of assembly elections in the state, the roar of helicopters finally came to an end on Friday. The star campaigners of political parties, too, started returning from the state. Officials who handle the choppers and private aircraft of senior political leaders at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport here have also heaved a sigh of relief as the mounting pressure for parking and other formalities for clearance of flying machines has also ended. Anshu Aman, whose company provides choppers to netas and offers technical support to them, said most helicopters have flown back to Delhi and other places carrying senior leaders of different parties as electioneering has ended in the state. “Only two choppers hired by the BJP and one each by the Congress and Election Commission are still parked at Patna airport,” Aman said. According to the AAI-Patna, at least 21 to 23 choppers have flown per day from the airport on an average during the second last two phases of Bihar polls, carrying senior netas from one constituency to another. Besides, chartered flights of some national leaders of BJP and Congress were also given space at the airport. PM Narendra Modi, CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, BJP national president J P Nadda, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, BJP MP Manoj Tiwari, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and VIP chief Mukesh Sahni, among others, used choppers and private aircraft during electioneering in the state. BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said different party leaders held at least 16 rallies per day in the state since the beginning of the poll campaign. “Around 350 rallies and meetings of BJP have been held in the state in the last 20 days. The PM has alone addressed 12 election rallies. Nadda, Manoj Tiwari, Rajnath Singh and Dharmendra Pradhan have also held rallies in the state,” he added. “The CM has alone addressed 100 election rallies in the state, including six with PM Modi,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said. Congress state general secretary Sanjeev Singh said the party leaders used two choppers to cover 83 rallies in the state. “In the last phase, several senior Congress leaders held rallies in the state, including Rahul Gandhi, Shatrughan Sinha, Imran Pratapgarhi, Raj Babbar, Pramod Tiwari and Ajay Kapoor,” he said. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said Tejashwi has alone addressed 257 rallies in the state for the Grand Alliance candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/choppers-leave-city-airport-as-netas-wrap-up-poll-campaign/articleshow/79088201.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 7, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: All eyes on 24 seats in Seemanchal area||PATNA: The stage is set for the third and final phase of the state assembly polls for 78 seats, including 24 in the Seemanchal region comprising Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar and Purnia districts, on Saturday. Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM is contesting election with Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP, Mayawati’s BSP, Devendra Yadav’s SJDD and SBSP under the banner of Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF). Out of the 24 seats AIMIM is contesting across the state, 19 are in the Seemanchal region. AIMIM has raised the issues of Seemanchal’s neglect, migration and NRC-CAA. As per the Election Commission’s data, Kishanganj has more than 60% Muslim population, followed by Araria with 45%, Katihar with over 40% and Purnia with over 30%. Muslim are 16.09% of the state’s population. Hence the narrative for the final phase has changed in Seemanchal, which is primarily dominated by Muslims with a sizeable population of Yadavs and EBCs. In 2015, the region had voted for the grand alliance (GA) comprising RJD, JD(U) and Congress. “If the Owaisi factor works, then the road to power for the GA will be very difficult,” said poll analyst Pramod Kumar. This time JD(U) is with BJP and against GA. In 2015, AIMIM had contested six seats in the region, but failed to open an account. “The significance of AIMIM can be gauged from the fact that senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala had to attack Asaduddin on Thursday,” a close confidant of AIMIM candidate Akhtarul Iman said. Akhtarul, a former MLA from Kochadhaman, is pitted against six-term MLA Abdul Jalil Mastan of Congress in Amour. Mastan hogged the limelight last week when he threatened Owaisi to send him to Hyderabad after chopping off his hands. “Though the alliance with RLSP, BSP and other smaller parties will not help AIMIM, it shows the party is no longer an outsider in the state politics. Moreover, Qamrul Hoda of AIMIM won the Kishanganj seat in the 2019 bypolls,” said Mani Kant of Purnia. Apart from the GA and BJP-JD(U) NDA, Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA) comprising Pappu Yadav’s JAP(L), Chandrashekhar Azad’s Azad Samaj Party, MK Faizi’s Social Democratic Party and Bahujan Mukti Party is also in the fray. Political observers feel the contest by and large pans out between GA and NDA, but as the majority of the constituencies are dominated by the Muslims, parties such as AIMIM, LJP and NCP may end up cutting votes of the larger parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/all-eyes-on-24-seats-in-seemanchal-area/articleshow/79094632.cms||Ramashankar
November 7, 2020||Business||Sensex 1% away from record 42,274||MUMBAI: As Democrat nominee Joe Biden inched closer to winning the US presidential race, Dalal Street followed global markets’ overnight rally and surged 553 points on Friday to close at 41,893. It’s now within 1% of its all-time high of 42,274, recorded in January this year. Wall Street’s main indices, however, gave back some of this week’s sharp gains (see graphic) as investors awaited the outcome of a nail-biting election, while the monthly payrolls report underlined the economic challenge facing America’s next President. On Dalal Street, Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and HDFC contributed the most to the sensex’s gains, while selling in Maruti and Bharti Airtel limited the gains to some extent. Friday’s rally made investors richer by Rs 1.2 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at its all-time peak at Rs 162.4 lakh crore. The day’s gains came on the back of a Rs 4,870-crore net buying by foreign funds, while domestic funds were net sellers at Rs 2,939 crore, BSE data showed. According to Kotak Securities VP (private client group research) Sanjeev Zarbade, the US elections — for both the President and the Senate — have nearly ensured there will be no ‘blue wave’, meaning dominance by Democrats. This in turn means lowering the odds for a potential higher taxes and stronger regulations, and hence the global rally in stocks. In India, “positive macroeconomic data on core sector growth, rebound in GST revenues and robust power demand is driving economic recovery”, Zarbade said. “Earnings announcements have also been largely above expectations and many of the frontline companies in IT and private sector banks have reported higher than expected profits. All this, has boosted investor sentiment,” Zarbade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-1-away-from-record-42k/articleshow/79091333.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||HC to see if Andhra facing constitutional breakdown||VIJAYWADA: The Andhra Pradesh HC on Friday said it will decide if there is constitutional breakdown in the state after taking a considerate view on various aspects, including the social media cases targeting judges. The bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi made the observations during the hearing on a batch of habeas corpus petitions. The judges said that the state government had proposed to abolish the legislative council as bills intended for trifurcation of the state capital were referred to a select committee. The state government has also targeted the state election commission and now it seems the third target is the HC, the bench observed. The bench asked the advocates representing the petitioners to assist the court in establishing whether constitutional breakdown had taken place or not. Expressing displeasure over the status report submitted by the CBI regarding the investigation of the cases in which the HC ordered inquiry, the bench said that they would summon the joint director if they failed to make progress in the investigation. The bench observed that the police did not register a case even after the HC registrar-general lodged a complaint. It was only after two days, 10 FIRs were registered by omitting all the key persons. Resuming the arguments in a petition pertaining to illegal detention of a couple, the government special advocate, SS Prasad, told the bench that as the allegations made by the petitioners were not proven. The petitioner’s counsel said that the police detained his clients even before a case was registered which was illegal and violated fundamental rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-to-see-if-andhra-facing-constitutional-breakdown/articleshow/79091862.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 7, 2020||Madurai||Pleas seek quota for children of serving defence personnel||Madurai: Observing that reservation is being provided for the children of ex-servicemen in medical courses, and the same should be extended to those of the serving personnel, the Madras high court on Friday sought a response from the central and state governments.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi, which was hearing a batch of pleas, observed that pursuant to the GO passed in 1979, six seats - two each for children of ex-servicemen, deceased defence personnel and serving defence personnel were given. In 2002, a snew GO was passed by the state in which the reservation for service personnel was discontinued.The additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that an order was passed in 2017 by the ministry of defence, in which reservation was prioritised for admission of children of ex-servicemen in medical courses. He also submitted that the state government had increased the number of seats from six to 11 for these children. If the state government needs to provide reservation to the children of serving defence personnel, then the central government should prescribe prioritization as done for reservation for ex-servicemen.Taking cognizance of the submissions, the judges put forth a series of queries including year-wise details on the number of medical seats allotted since 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pleas-seek-quota-for-children-of-serving-defence-personnel/articleshow/79090182.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Temperature drops to 19.8°C, may rise after 3 days||KOLKATA: The mercury dropped to its lowest this season on Friday even as Kolkata recorded a minimum temperature of 19.8°C, two notches below normal. With the chilly northwesterly winds blowing in, the temperature will continue to remain below the 20°C mark for the next three days, said the Met office. But the chill could then disappear as easterly winds return, carrying moisture with it. Kolkata woke up to a chilly Friday morning with a nip in the air. Winter is still some way off, though, said the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). “We have had northwesterly winds for the last two days and it has pulled the mercury down. The minimum temperature had been around 23°C to 24°C mark till three-four days back. Till November 9, it will hover around 19°C to 20°C. Then, we expect easterly winds from the sea to start blowing in. It will be carrying moisture that will again push the mercury up and the chill will disappear. But it will remain comfortable till then,” said RMC director GK Das. Next week, the minimum temperature may climb back to 22°C 23°C. But despite the presence of moisture, the Met Office expects no rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/temp-drops-to-19-8c-may-rise-after-3-days/articleshow/79088939.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Varanasi||PM Modi will gift 36 new projects to Kashi on November 9||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay foundation of new projects and inaugurate ready projects in his parliamentary constituency through video conferencing on November 9 at 10.30 am. With this, LBS International Airport of Varanasi will have two more passenger boarding bridges (PPB), commonly known as aero-bridge. The PM’s event will be hosted at six places in the district while chief minister Yogi Adityanath will join it from Lucknow. Talking to TOI following finalization of the list of projects and itinerary of the PM,s event on Friday evening, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “The PMO has approved inauguration of 19 ready projects of Rs 230 crores while foundation of 17 new projects of Rs 465 crores will be laid by the PM.” “The district administration had sent lists of some more ready and new projects to the PMO, but many of them were excluded from the final list in view of the model code of conduct enforced in view of MLC (teachers’ constituency) election,” admitted Agrawal. “The virtual inauguration and foundation-laying ceremony will be hosted on six big LED screens to be installed at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Trade Facilitation Centre, Circuit house, commissioner auditorium, Dashaswamedh Ghat, Shoolttankeshwar and airport,” the commissioner added. One UP minister and MLA of concerned area will remain present at each of the six sites, he said adding, the CM will also join the event from Lucknow. Among ready projects, the newly installed aero-bridges will also be inaugurated remotely by the PM. An airport spokesman said that currently 2 PBBs exist at the airport while after inauguration of two more, the total numbers of PBBs will become four. This will help in accommodating four flights at a time for boarding or alighting the passengers. These two new PBBs have been installed with a total cost of Rs 9 crores. The installation of new PBBs will enhance safety of passengers apart from reducing the walking distance for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/modi-will-gift-36-new-projects-to-kashi-on-nov-9/articleshow/79089529.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 7, 2020||Madurai||Madurai palace landscape gets ‘smart’ look, new park||Madurai: Madurai residents as well as tourists will now have one more reason to visit King Thirumalai Nayak Mahal, one of the most important tourist attractions in the city, as the landscape around the 17th century palace is wearing a new look. Madurai corporation has restored the surroundings with a beautiful park under the smart city scheme. Raised platforms with cobble stone works have come up on three sides of the palace known for its gigantic pillars. Vast green lawns ridged with attractive plants are also seen extensively in the front, right side and backyard of the palace. Seating arrangement, fountains and shade to take cover from the elements have also been installed. Corporation officials said the landscaping, done at a cost of Rs 3.3 crore, was part of the development of heritage sites in Madurai city which would help augment tourism. With the park yet to be opened, visitors are not allowed in yet. However, it would be open when the Covid-related lockdown norms are relaxed.  The landscape will complement the palace, which is also undergoing a makeover, with funds allotted from the tourism department. V Jeevagan, a resident of Pandhadi, said the park around the palace was not taken care of well and hence not many people showed interest in visiting it. Visitors would confine themselves to the palace visit, and many who came from other places did not even know a park existed there. “After restoration, the park looks attractive even from outside. However, it all depends on how well it is taken care of after it is thrown open to visitors,” he said. Officials from tourism department said the palace’s renovation work is also nearing completion. The work carried out at a cost of Rs 3 crore involves plastering of gigantic pillars to remove engraving marks made by visitors. The open space in the courtyard has been covered using a net to prevent pigeons and other birds from entering the palace. Bird dropping was a big challenge since it not only created an eyesore for visitors but also created foul smell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-palace-landscape-gets-smart-look-new-park/articleshow/79090188.cms||V Devanathan
November 7, 2020||Nashik||Ahmednagar district most crime-prone in north Maharashtra||NASHIK: Ahmednagar tops the serious crime chart among the districts in North Maharashtra. The district has been more vulnerable to criminal activities due to its vast spread and certain socio-economical factors. Even among the police units that are under the jurisdiction of the Nashik range inspector-general of police (special), Ahmednagar registers the highest number of murders, dacoities, robberies, rapes, etc. Nashik (rural) is placed behind Ahmednagar, followed by Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar. IG (special) Pratap Dighavkar, said: “The spread of the Ahmednagar district is vast. At the same time, most localities are scattered. Therefore, dacoities, thefts, robberies are more in this district. The district also has the presence of a certain tribal community, most members of which are involved in criminal activities. These factors have made the district prone to criminal activities.” The superintendent of the district has been instructed to make a list of all the criminals on record over the past seven years and maintain a vigil on them, said Dighavkar. The IG said he has started a scheme under which police personnel would “adopt” one criminal and maintain a vigil on his activities. When a criminal knows that his every move is under watch, he is deterred from criminal activities. The “adoption” will show results soon, said the IG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ahmednagar-district-most-crime-prone-in-north-maha/articleshow/79088958.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 7, 2020||Nashik||Godavari concrete-removal: Further work after spot check||Nashik: The concrete-removal in the Godavari river stretch from Dutondya Maruti to Gadge Maharaj bridge is to be done only after seeing the results of similar deconcretization works done so far on a very small stretch of the river by the Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL).Nashik divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game, who is chairperson of the Bombay high court-appointed special committee to tackle Godavari pollution, has directed the NMSCDCL and the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to conduct a joint spot inspection of the deconcretization work and submit a report. The meeting of the committee was held at the divisional commissionerate here on Friday.The NMSCDCL has removed a small section of concrete near the Dutondya Maruti so far. Godavari river deconcretization work has been proposed on 500m between Dutondya Maruti and Gadge Maharaj bridge, in a bid to smoothen the flow of the river. Game said NMSCDCL and NMC officials, along with experts, will conduct a joint inspection of the work done. Further deconcretization will be done after assessing the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/godavari-concrete-removal-further-work-after-spot-check/articleshow/79088968.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 7, 2020||Madurai||4 deaths in south TN, new cases go up in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: A total of 215 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths were reported in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu on Friday. The deaths include two in Dindigul and one each in Kanyakumari and Tuticorin. The central region witnessed 237 fresh cases, 26 more compared to Thursday, taking its total to 66,854, and one death. A judge of the Madras high court Madurai bench has tested positive. Subsequently, health officials were tracing all his contacts including other judges and staff and collecting samples from them. In Kanyakumari, a 102-year-old man with complaints of fever was admitted to a private hospital on Tuesday afternoon. He tested positive on Wednesday and died on Thursday evening. His comorbid conditions include diabetes mellitus and hypertension. The three others also had comorbid conditions and were aged above 60. All the districts in the region recorded less than 50 fresh cases each. Madurai (41) recorded the highest, followed by Kanyakumari (37), Tirunelveli (36) and Tuticorin (33). Tenkasi (4), Theni (8) and Ramanathapuram (9) recorded less than 10 cases. Virudhunagar (12), Dindigul (12) and Sivagangai (19) registered less than 20 cases. Tenkasi (63), Ramanathapuram (69), Theni (71) and Virudhunagar (89) have less than 100 active cases as of Friday. Madurai (405) is the only district in the southern region with more than 400 active cases. In the central region, Thanjavur and Trichy recorded 49 and 45 cases respectively to take their tally to 15,639 and 12,740 overall to top two among the eight districts. Nagappattinam produced 36 cases while Tiruvarur and Karur reported 32 and 31 cases respectively. Perambalur had only five cases. The trend of active cases remained upward - after slipping from 1,832 to 1663 cases on Tuesday, they went up to 1,719 on Wednesday, 1,745 on Thursday and 1,818 on Friday. Trichy district had the highest number of active cases of 338 followed by Nagappattinam (318). Perambalur continued to have the lowest — 38 active cases. A 76-year-old man from Pudukottai was the only death recorded on Friday, at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on November 5. Besides being infected with Covid-19, he had acute kidney injury, carcinoma glottis and hypertension. Admitted to GRH on October 22, the man tested positive on November 3 and died a couple of days later. The death toll of the region was 876.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4-deaths-in-south-tn-new-cases-go-up-in-central-dists/articleshow/79090208.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Already promoted, but 3rd & 5th-semester Calcutta University students to be evaluated before December 23||KOLKATA: Undergraduate students at Calcutta University, who had been promoted to the third and fifth semesters without having to appear for exams due to the pandemic, will now be evaluated through internal assessments before December 23. CU on Friday told the affiliated colleges that they would follow the UGC guideline issued in April, where it was stated that 50% weightage of the evaluation of intermediate semester students should be based on internal assessment and the rest 50% on their performance in the previous semester.  “Due to lockdown in June, CU could not hold exams for the second and fourth semesters and those students were promoted to the next semesters automatically. Now, we will hold internal assessments between November 23 and December 23. The scores will be calculated based on that exam as well as their performance in the previous semester,” said Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar. “Thus, for those who are currently in the third semester, their internal evaluation will be done on the syllabus taught in the second semester and those in the fifth semester, will be internally evaluated on their fourth-semester syllabus.” Fifty percent weightage based on their performance in the earlier semester, will be from the first semester for third-semester students and third semester for the present fifth-semester students. “If a candidate has secured 60 out of 100 in a paper, then 30 marks will be awarded under the column, marked for 50% previous semester weightage,” said another college principal. Surendranath College principal Indranil Kar said the format of internal examinations should not vary among colleges. “We expect CU authorities to inform us about a uniform format for the internal assessment. Otherwise, some colleges may hold viva voce, some will evaluate students on projects, while some others will conduct written exams,” Kar said. Some principals, however, remained confused if a component within the internal assessment could be accorded to the students’ attendance, for which UGC permitted full marks. The decision has taken the students by surprise. “We were not prepared to run a revision of the earlier-semester syllabus within such a short time, while the current classes are going on,” said Papri Ghosh, a student at Maharaja Manindra Chandra College. Another student said as 50% weightage would be awarded from the previous semester, several of her batchmates were unhappy with the score secured in the first semester, for which they would have demanded a review.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/already-promoted-but-3rd-5th-semester-cu-students-to-be-evaluated-before-dec-23/articleshow/79088969.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 7, 2020||Kanpur||Five policemen compulsorily retired in Etawah||KANPUR: Five cops were given compulsory retirement in Etawah on Friday after they were found physically unfit to discharge their duty. The five cops--Ramesh Chandra (head constable-civil police), Nabi-ullah Khan (head constable -driver), Jaiveer Singh (head constable-driver), Surendra Singh (head constable--local intelligence unit and Roop Singh (head constable--civil police-- during screening were found physically unfit and suffering from various ailments, said police sources. The screening committee submitted its report to the senior officials. Confirming the action, SSP Etawah Akash Tomar said,"The cops often complained of physical constraints owing to illness while performing their duty. All the five underwent screening by a committee comprising DSP Rajiv Pratap Singh and head clerk Raj Kumar. They later submitted a report about their poor performance after which we decided to give them compulsory retirement." A senior police official further said that this was the first list and more lists are likely to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/five-policemen-compulsorily-retired-in-etawah/articleshow/79089597.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: 50 home-isolated taken to hospitals before they turned critical||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday said that as many as 50 Covid-19 patients who had opted for home isolation were taken to hospital before they could turn critical. He attributed this to the system put in place wherein 118 third year MBBS students have been enrolled to monitor home-isolated patients, along with medical officers. After it was noted that some home-isolated patients were late in seeking medical help, and some died after a few hours of hospitalisation, an expert committee had suggested better monitoring of these patients. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with the expert committee, Rane said that with most patients opting for home isolation, it had become crucial to keep tabs on them. To simplify the task, the health services department has also created a digital dashboard. Till date, a total of 22,502 Covid-19 patients have opted for home isolation. This is almost half of the state’s case tally reported since March. The state conducts 1,500 to 20,00 tests a day. A daily average of 100 patients opt for home isolation, while 30-40 require hospitalisation. Rane further said that by enhancing the testing done, they are trying to ensure that family members of those who test positive are kept safe. Meanwhile, in a spot of good news, the availability of beds has increased at all three Covid hospitals as the number of cases has reduced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50-home-isolated-taken-to-hosp-before-they-turned-critical/articleshow/79091179.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Madurai||Virudhunagar sweet makers must register online ahead of Diwali||Madurai: Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan, on Friday said that this year, sweet sellers have to get themselves registered and licensed online with the foods safety compliance systems ahead of Diwali and adhere to the hygiene and safety norms.In a press statement, he has said that all types of sweet, savoury and bakery product manufacturers should duly register online and get their permit to manufacture and distribute food products. This has been made mandatory, the statement said. Quality ingredients should be used and the food should be manufactured in a safe and hygienic manner and adulterated ingredients including chemical colours should not be used, it further stated. The packed food should have all details on a label including-- name and address of the manufacturer, date of manufacture and date of expiry.The manufacturing process should also be done strictly adhering to safety and hygiene norms in view of to the Covid-19 crisis. People directly involved in making the food items should mandatorily wear caps, masks and gloves. Retail sellers should compulsorily and prominently display the shelf-life of the displayed food items, collector said in the statement.All manufacturers should register online on the website-- https://foscos.fssai.gov.in-- as per the food safety standards Act of 2006 and obtain the license or permit. People have also been asked to ensure that they buy properly registered and licensed food in the shops. Public can also send voice messages or WhatsApp messages on the number 9444043222 for any complaints , the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/virudhunagar-sweet-makers-must-register-online-ahead-of-diwali/articleshow/79090197.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Cracker shops await Diwali spark||PRAYAGRAJ: At a time when people have started making plans for celebrating the upcoming festival of lights — Diwali, in earnest, for wholesalers selling crackers, the festival looks less promising this year. Although these traders were optimistic that Diwali would allow them to recover the losses incurred in the past six months because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, the meagre demand in the market just days ahead of the festival has their hopes shattered. With the demand for crackers coming down to more than 50% of that compared to the last year, the wholesalers hardly see demand surge in the coming days. Situation is so grim that the traders, who used to repeat their orders from the cracker manufacturing city of Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu at least four times by now, are unable to clear their stock which they had purchased in anticipation of the marriage season in April-May-June. “Our demand for Diwali is placed well in advance and around May-June we get the stock which is used in the wedding season and the order is repeated in August-September. But because of the lockdown, we were not sure about the market outlook in November. Hence, we did not repeat the order this year because of which our stock is almost half as compared to 2019. We are afraid if even our limited stock would find buyers this year,” said Mohamad Quadir, a wholesaler. The city has around a dozen big wholesale dealers who supply not only to Prayagraj, but to neighbouring districts as well. According to rough estimates, the turnover of cracker sale in the city used to be around Rs 8 crore till last year, but this year the traders anticipate that this would not even reach half of that figure. The administration has identified specific spots for these sellers. “We knew that this would be the scenario, and the same is the situation at the cracker town of Sivakasi where the trade has been adversely affected. In all, we don’t see any surge in demand in the coming days, and we hope that the limited stock that we have gets cleared,” said Gopal das, another trader who is in the business for the second generation. Even the buyers are not that excited this Diwali. “I am helpless as because of Covid my company has reduced my salary, and with the limited resources, I have decided to buy limited crackers this Diwali”, said Dheeraj Jaiswal, a local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cracker-shops-await-diwali-spark/articleshow/79089569.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Bhopal||BJP claims support of BSP & Independent MLAs; sign it’s losing bypoll: Congress||BHOPAL: Four days ahead of bypoll results, closed-door meetings between a BSP legislator and an Independent MLA with BJP minister and convener of state election committee, Bhupendra Singh, created ripples in political circles on Friday. Congress said BJP was working on Plan B because it knows it will lose the bypolls. After the meeting, BSP MLA Sanjeev Kushwaha told reporters that his party has extended support to the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh. Kushwaha was the first to arrive at Singh’s residence, followed by Independent MLA from Burhanpur, Surendra Singh Shera. “BSP is going to win 10-12 seats in the bypolls and we will play the role of king maker. We have extended our support to BJP since the formation of the new government and will continue to support them,” Kushwaha told reporters. He said he had come to discuss development works of his constituency with the urban development minister. BSP’s other MLA in the MP assembly, Rambai, wasn’t there in Friday’s meeting. Recently, BSP supremo Mayawati had announced her party's support to BJP in Uttar Pradesh MLC elections. Earlier in the day, BJP MLA from Maihar Narayan Tripathi also called on Singh amid reports of the party instructing him to keep the state leadership in confidence. Tripathi had stunned BJP in July 2019 by voting in favour of Congress on a bill, and had also opposed CAA in January this year, saying the country should not be divided in the name of religion. On Friday, he said he is very much with BJP and that his voting with Congress in July 2019 was a “confusion”. “I met minister Bhupendra Singh to discuss the development of Maihar,” he said. Sources said Singh was instrumental in bringing Congress MLA from Damoh, Rahul Singh Lodhi, to the saffron fold just nine days ahead of the bypolls. Friday’s development is being seen in political circles as BJP working on its Plan B ahead of the bypoll results. With Lodhi’s resignation, BJP needs eight more seats to reach halfway mark. The Congress accused BJP of trying to lure Congress and non-Congress MLAs because it is afraid of losing the polls. “BJP is sure to lose the bypolls, so it is trying to woo BSP and Independent MLAs. But it will never succeed as all the MLAs are with Congress," said Congress state spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta. BJP’s Bhupendra Singh claimed his party is going to win all 28 seats in the bypolls. "We have full support of BSP and Independent MLAs. But, the meetings were to discuss development works in their constituencies. There is no effort to lure them to the saffron fold,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-claims-support-of-bsp-ind-mlas-sign-its-losing-bypoll-cong/articleshow/79090222.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Madurai||DMDK to take call on alliance for poll in Jan: Premalatha||Madurai: MDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakanth said here on Friday that the decision on the party’s alliance for the assembly elections would be decided in January. She told reporters at the Madurai airport and later at Kadachenendhal, where she inaugurated a new office for her party, that the party’s executive committee was to be meet in the first week of January when a decision on the alliance will be taken. Vijayakanth was keeping good health and he would be seen in the election campaign, she said. Asked about her son Vijaya Prabakaran’s statement that a third front would be formed in Tamil Nadu, she said that it was too early to comment on it. On BJP’s Vel Yatra, she said there would be no problem if it did not inconvenience the public or cause law and order issues. The DMDK has expressed hope that the seven Tamils who had served their full jail term in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case should be released, she said.The present AIADMK government had its positives and negatives, but the condition of roads in Madurai was as bad as in Chennai, she said, adding that smart city works cannot be an excuse for it. She later inaugurated the new office building of the DMDK Madurai north district and distributed welfare measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmdk-to-take-call-on-alliance-for-poll-in-jan-premalatha/articleshow/79090219.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Panel orders 5 hospitals in West Bengal to pay damages, refund parts of bills||KOLKATA: Three private hospitals have been directed to pay compensation to three patients’ families for lapse in care services, while two others have been told to refund parts of the bills. West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission passed the orders on Friday. Flemming Hospital has been directed to pay Rs 1 lakh to a family of a patient who was admitted there in December. Topsia’s Sabir Khan claimed his wife was not attended to properly in ICU. A doctor was also found to be not qualified. “We asked the hospital to pay Rs 1-lakh compensation and fined it Rs 10,000, to be deposited with the commission,” said Justice Retd Ashim K Banerjee, WBCER, chairperson. Family of a 75-year-old patient, who had undergone cardiac surgery at Medica Hospital in February, alleged the surgeon did not follow up with the treatment and another doctor did not inspect the surgical wound properly. A diabetologist was reportedly not arranged for. Admitted for a second time, the patient died later. “The hospital offered a discount of Rs 3.32 lakh. We asked them to pay Rs 50,000 more,” said Banerjee. The health panel directed Charnock Hospital to pay Rs 50,000 to the family of a Jharkhand patient who died in November last year and told ILS Hospital Dum Dum to refund Rs 40,000 to a patient who was admitted for 10-day Covid treatment in May. The panel also told AMRI Mukundapur to discount Rs 16,000 from a patient’s bill. In an allegation of mismatch of blood at a private hospital , the panel has sought expert opinion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/panel-orders-5-hosps-to-pay-damages-refund-parts-of-bills/articleshow/79088987.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 7, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Man speeds away with stolen tractor-trolley, held after 20-km chase||KANPUR: After stealing a parked tractor-trolley ion Kanpur-Auraiya highway Akbarpur area of Kanpur Dehat, an allegedly mentally challenged man drove the vehicle for nearly 20 kilometres before he was nabbed by the police on Friday afternoon. At the time, a PRV was stationed near the site. As senior personnel flashed wireless messages to the district police, the PRV personnel saw a man speeding a tractor-trolley towards Auraiya on the wrong side of the road, taking the oncoming vehicles and people head-on. The PRV team swung into action and started chasing the tractor- trolley. The team tried to intercept the vehicle at several junctions, but in vain, as the man was driving at a very high speed. Following a 20-kilometre-long chase, the cops were finally able to apprehend the suspect. According to Akbarpur Kotwali inspector Tulsiram Pandey, preliminary findings suggested that the man who stole the tractor-trolley is mentally challenged. He was able to flee with the vehicle when its owner went to attend nature’s call, leaving the keys in the ignition. Fortunately, no eventuality occurred. “We are interrogating him to understand his mental state that led to the bizarre act. We are also trying to find out his address, and further investigation is underway in this regard,” added the inspector. Eyewitnesses, meanwhile, said several people at different points across the 20 km-stretch saved themselves from being hit by the tractor-trolley driven by the allegedly mentally challenged man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-speeds-away-with-stolen-tractor-trolley-held-after-20-km-chase/articleshow/79089620.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 7, 2020||Kanpur||Farrukhabad SP chief booked for remarks against Yogi Adityanath||KANPUR: An FIR has been registered against Farrukhabad’s Samajwadi Party (SP) district president for his alleged controversial remark against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath besides for violation of Covid-19 norms. “The FIR was registered on Friday at Shamshadbad police station on a complaint by former Nagar Panchayat Adyaksha Vijay Kumar Gupta, who has alleged that Nadeem Farooqui, SP district president, had made a controversial statement against the chief minister soon after his release from jail on Wednesday, besides he also violated the pandemic norms by taking out procession along with his hundreds of supporters,” police said. Gupta alleged that Farooqui’s statement has hurt the feelings of the people. Farooqui was earlier arrested and sent to jail on November 2 in connection with an alleged house-grabbing incident. He had made the controversial statement on Wednesday after reaching Shamshabad town following his release from the district jail. Police station in-charge RK Rawat said, “Farooqui has been booked under IPC sections 147, 148, 153 A, 269, 270, 188, 504, 506, 341, 152, 124 A and 7 CLA Act, besides Epidemic Act. No arrest has been made and further investigations are underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/farrukhabad-sp-chief-booked-for-remarks-against-up-cm/articleshow/79089609.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Madurai||Fireworks industry workers protest to revoke ban by states||Virudhunagar: Hundreds of fireworks unit workers attached to the Virudhunagar district crackers and matchbox workers association of the CITU took out protests at various places across the district on Friday to urge the Union government to pass directions to states to revoke the ban on fireworks for Diwali.The protestors participated in groups of 20 to 60 in different place to avoid crowding. District secretary of the association, P N Deva said the ministry of environment, forest and climate change should come out with a permanent solution to the fireworks industry crisis.While chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has written to his counterparts in Rajasthan and Odisha to lift the ban, the protesters said that the Tamil Nadu government should exert more pressure on the Centre and ensure that no more states are banning fireworks, and those who have imposed should revoke it.Protesters also urged the government to extend livelihood support to them when the industry is facing crisis as they will be out of job when the cracker units remain closed. They said that their worst fear is post Diwali as cracker units have already hinted that they might not be reopening at least for a couple of months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fireworks-industry-workers-protest-to-revoke-ban-by-states/articleshow/79090225.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hubballi||Congress writes to president Ram Nath Kovind seeking Kulkarni’s release||HUBBALLI / BELAGAVI: Congress workers on Friday submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind requesting his interference and facilitate the release of former minister Vinay Kulkarni who is in judicial custody in connection with the murder case of BJP ZP member Yogishgouda Goudar. Congress workers gathered in front of Mini Vidhan Soudha and alleged that some people with vested interest were trying to corner former minister Kulkarni by using Central Bureau of Investigation officers. In the memorandum submitted to the president through the tahsildar, the Congress workers claimed that their leader was being targeted unnecessarily in the Yogishgouda murder case. They charged that Kulkarni’s arrest was laced with malicious intentions. Those who are unable to digest the political development of the Kulkarni are trying to fix him in the case, they alleged. Congress leaders Altaf Halwoor, Bangaresh Hiremath, Rajshekhar Mensinkai, Sharanna Kotagi and others were present. Savadi hits out at Cong Deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi on Friday took pot shots at Congress for playing politics over Vinay Kulkarni’s arrest. Congress has alleged BJP was indulging in political vendetta by arresting Kulkarni. Reacting to this in Belagavi, Savadi said Kulkarni was arrested by the CBI after an investigation and BJP had no role in it. “Congress leaders do not have any work other than making false allegations at our party,” he added. “When the BJP ZP member was murdered, his family members, followers and party workers had protested urging the state government to hand over the case to the CBI. However, when our government came to power, we only handed over this case to CBI after receiving huge pressure from their followers and family members. Now, CBI might have gathered strong evidence against Vinay Kulkarni in the case and hence he has been arrested. Now tell me where is the political vendetta here?” he added “Congress will make allegations at BJP national calamities like drought, heavy rain, wind and any other matter except Corona virus,” said Savadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cong-writes-to-president-kovind-seeking-kulkarnis-release/articleshow/79088750.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad girl ranks 7th in Isro essay competition||Aurangabad: An Aurangabad student, Arya Vaishnav, has secured the seventh position in the essay writing category for Classes IX and X in the Isro Cyberspace competition, 2020The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has declared the top 500 winners of the competition, which was organised with an aim to enhance the knowledge of school students in space ccience and technology.Isro had formally communicated the success of the girl to the district administration, following which she was felicitated by Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan in the presence of her parents and school authorities on Thursday evening. Speaking on the occasion, Chavan praised Arya for making Aurangabad proud at the national level. “Writing is a skill and it can take students places if the potential is tapped early. The parents and teachers should strive for the all-round growth of students, besides ensuring academic progress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-girl-ranks-7th-in-isro-essay-competition/articleshow/79089017.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Madurai||Heavy rain leaves roads in southern districts inundated||Madurai: Rain lashed the southern districts on Friday morning for more than four hours inundating many places.Places in the Madurai city such as Anna Nagar, Vandiyur, Kaalavasal, Karupayoorani, Uthangudi, experienced thundershowers and it remained dark till 8 am. Streets became inundated and slushy with garbage lying scattered on the roads.Diwali shoppers were inconvenienced due to water stagnation in the ditches on the roads. Water also filled the girder bridge, where a man died last week. Kamarajar Salai, East Gate, Periyar bus stand, Simmakkal, and other places which were inundated made it difficult for people to commute. “We hope that the authorities come up with a solution for water stagnation at Periyar bus stand as it shows that no plans had been chalked for that issue till date,’’ said K Kumaraguru, of Simmakkal.Minister for revenue, disaster management and IT R B Udayakumar said that all steps had been taken to conserve as much rainwater as possible. Twenty seven vulnerable spots had been identified in Madurai. Desilting works had been taken up in 16 out of the 33 ooranis in Madurai city. He said that 280 places under Madurai corporation had been identified where water stagnates and steps had been taken to ease the inundation. Ramanathapuram district had incessant rainfall from late night on Thursday till the next morning and low lying areas became inundated. Many houses in the low lying areas were flooded. Farmers in the district started agricultural activities, as the rains raised their hopes. Inundated roads in Kadaladi, Sayalkudi and Mudukulathor affected the traffic movement.In Dindigul district, heavy wind with rains brought down branches of trees and power was disrupted for some time in Kodaikanal. Palani received rainfall throughout the day.Virudhunagar, Sivaganga, and Theni witnessed intermittent rainfall throughout the day. Tirunelveli district received an average rainfall of 16mm with Nanguneri recording the highest of 35mm. Tuticorin district recorded an average rainfall of 22.42mm in 24 hours ending 8 am on Friday, and Kadambur received the highest rainfall of 44mm. Ramanathapuram district recorded 22.27mm of average rainfall, with Ramanathapuram, recording 47mm, Pallamorkulam 42mm and Paramakudi 64.80mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/heavy-rain-leaves-roads-in-southern-districts-inundated/articleshow/79090227.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Madurai||MSME body thanks CM for waiving off stamp duty||Madurai: Members of the Laghu Udyog Bharati, Madurai, have thanked chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for waiving off stamp duty for registration of agreement relating to deposit of title deeds for securing loan under the Emergency Credit Line scheme announced by the Centre. In a statement, its president, K R Gnanasambandan, said that micro and small industries faced unprecedented financial problems during the pandemic induced lockdown. In order to overcome the crisis, the central government announced the scheme. But unfortunately, industries which had already pledged their properties were compelled to carry out the registration for title deeds in order to avail the credit line facility. The small and micro industries in the state made an urgent appeal to the chief minister to waive off the stamp duty for this registration and the chief minister conceded to their demand. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/msme-body-thanks-cm-for-waiving-off-stamp-duty/articleshow/79090233.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Madurai||Cop held for role in burglary||Tirunelveli: The Tirunelveli police arrested constable M Karukuvel, 28, from Tiruchendur in Tuticorin district after his role in a burglary case was established. The police said proof included finger prints of the constable at the place where the burglary took place was found. The burglary took place in the house of Thangadurai, 39, at Perumalpuram on October 20. The man had taken his mother to a hospital. On returning home, he had found the door broken and valuables including gold jewellery, two silver lamps and Rs 10,000 in cash missing. A special team formed to crack burglary cases in the city picked Karukuvel from the armed reserve quarters in Tuticorin on Thursday. After inquiry, he was formally arrested on Friday and lodged in jail under judicial custody. There were unconfirmed reports that he got involved in it as he had lost money in online rummy. Twelve sovereigns gold jewellery was recovered from him and search is on for his accomplices. Karkuvel was placed under suspension by the superintendent of police (SP) of Tuticorin district S Jayakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cop-held-for-role-in-burglary/articleshow/79090236.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Three men, all with comorbidities, succumb to Covid-19||PANAJI: Goa reported 203 fresh Covid-19 cases and 207 recoveries on Friday. With three deaths, the mortality count shot up to 634. Three men — a 65-year-old from Mapusa, a 79-year-old from Bicholim and a 73-year-old from Diwar — all having comorbidities succumbed to the virus while undergoing treatment. On Friday, as many as 100 patients chose home isolation and 39 had to be hospitalised. The state’s recovery rate stood at 94%. With 1,740 tests, the positivity rate was at 12%. For over a week, Goa has reported 150 to 200 cases a day on an average. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the health services are doing an excellent job. With so much unpredictability involved about the virus, he said people will have to continue to take precautions. While attending any event, social distancing must be maintained, and people must wear face shield/mask. “The onus also lies with the people,” Rane said. He said they would start documenting and compiling data related to Covid-19 cases, and all records will be digitalised. On Friday, with ten new cases, the Panaji urban health centre’s tally reached 138, the centre with highest caseload in North Goa, while that of Colvale and Chimbel was 115 and 125, respectively. In South Goa, the Margao urban health centre and Ponda primary health centre have the highest number of cases followed by Vasco. Rest of all the other centres in South Goa have less than 100 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-men-all-with-comorbidities-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/79091224.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Madurai||Fisherman battling for life rescued, body of another retrieved||Tuticorin/Kanyakumari: One of the two fishermen who went missing on Thursday morning, was rescued near Tiruchendur in Tuticorin district, while the body of another fisherman who went missing in a separate incident, was retrieved near Thengapattanam in Kanyakumari district. The rescued fisherman Ravi, who worked on a mechanised boat owned by Mariya Rajendran had jumped off the boat after an altercation with fellow fishermen. Around 6.30am on Friday, fishermen in another boat found him swimming and took him on board. In Kanyakumari district, the body of N Freddy, 36, from Poothurai coastal village who went missing after he fell off his boat at the Thengapattanam fishing harbour on Thursday morning was found two km off the harbour on Friday evening. He could not be saved despite an intensive search using boats and divers. His body was found floating around 5.30 on Friday evening in the sea off the coast of Midalam village by fishermen, who were returning. Hundreds of fishermen paid floral tributes to his body. The body was later taken to the Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fisherman-battling-for-life-rescued-body-of-another-retrieved/articleshow/79090240.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: After 10 years, villagers to get road to hilltop farms||AURANGABAD: Residents of Chowka village, about 20 km from here, can finally look forward to a road leading up to their hilltop farms. The decade-long wait for a road finally ended when the forest department sanctioned it recently. A majority of the villagers, who are tribals, believe that the road will bring some commercial value to their farmlands. The village, which is located along the national highway towards Jalgaon, has 6,000 residents. These villagers were allotted about 700 acres of land on a hilltop for cultivation in 2010. The district collector, under the state’s forest and rehabilitation policy, had allotted the land to the villagers for their rehabilitation and sustenance. However, the villagers had to pass through the forest area to reach the hilltop farms. With no concrete road leading to the top, the farmers had to do all the farming work manually. Moreover, they said, they would often be stopped by forest guards from entering the area. Tukaram Sonawne, who lives in the village, said that forest guards would often object to the villagers entering the forest area to go to their farmland situated on the hilltop. “Unable to use a vehicle or a tractor, we were forced to do everything manually.” Sonawne said. The pending demand got a push after Shiv Sena MLC Ambadas Danve took up the matter with forest department authorities. “The forest authorities took a considerate view of the long-pending demand and brought major relief for the villagers,” he said. Activist Amol Wagh, who brought the matter to the notice of Danve, said the forest authorities have sanctioned over 1 lakh square feet of land, following which the villagers got a kutcha road prepared with the help of excavators. The village administrator’s office is now waiting for the Zilla Parishad administration to allot a serial number to the village, so that a 3km road can be prepared under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/after-10-yrs-villagers-to-get-road-to-hilltop-farms/articleshow/79089038.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta University shuts PG admission portal after snag, extends deadline||KOLKATA: Calcutta University has shut down its admission portal after candidates enrolling for various post-graduation courses could not fill up the admission forms and upload the documents. The authorities said the process was under way to resolve the issue and candidates will get access to the portal by Saturday or Sunday. The university started accepting applications for its various post graduate courses in science, humanities, commerce and technology from November 2. The deadline to accept application forms has been extended till November 14. The previous deadline was November 10. But candidates seeking admission have complained that they were unable to fill up the form and pay the application fees due to various snags in the online process. Like the undergraduate courses, admission to the post graduate courses too are being conducted online this academic session owing to the pandemic. University authorities have assured the work to repair the snag will be completed as soon as possible. “The admission portal was shut down on November 6 after we received complaints that candidates were unable to fill up the application form and upload the documents. It seems that there is a snag in the server and we are trying to make the necessary repairs. The last date to apply for PG courses has been extended till November 14 so that nobody misses out on the opportunity to apply,” said an official of the university. From 2018 onwards, Calcutta University has started conducting centralised admission for post-graduate courses. Earlier colleges affiliated to CU would hold their own admission process to their post-graduation courses. A few autonomous colleges affiliated to CU can still hold their own admission process. Several candidates said they have been trying to fill up form for several days now but have been encountering hurdles. “I have been trying to fill up the form for the last four days. Every time I register, I receive a one-time password by e-mail. But after that when I try to fill up the details the website does not respond. Today when I tried registering I did not even receive an OTP. Since I don’t have a strong internet connection at home I have been trying from a cyber café but to no avail. I am scared if I am unable to fill up the form before the last date of application,” said Bidisha Bhattacharya, who has just graduated from Bethune College. Registration is the first step after which the candidates can fill up the form and upload their documents. “I have been trying for the past two days but the admission portal is not accepting my registration. On November 5, I received a message that the portal will be shut for some repair work,” said Debamoy Ghosh, who has graduated from Asutosh College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-shuts-pg-admission-portal-after-snag-extends-deadline/articleshow/79089054.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 7, 2020||Madurai||Madurai colleges mull options on reopening as safety remains key||Madurai: Even as the UGC has come out with a set of guidelines for reopening colleges and the state government announcing the functioning of institutions from November 16, there is no clarity yet on the decision at campuses in Madurai district. Though colleges are prepared, there are still concerns of Covid-19 safety.Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) is yet to take a decision on reopening as it remains a centre for Covid-19 care. “So far, as per directives given, we are writing to the higher education department after which arrangements will be made for those quarantined to vacate to another centre. Only then, the campus will be considered for reopening,” said MKU vice-chancellor, M Krishnan.The American College has decided to reopen the campus only for first year students from November 18, and conduct online classes for the others. “Only science students having practicals will be allowed to attend lab sessions for a few days. A meeting with the faculty will be held to ensure an SOP is in place before reopening,” said Davamani M Christober, principal of the college.At Lady Doak College, authorities said that online classes will continue and no one will be compelled to come to the campus. “We don’t intend to have regular classes for the whole of first semester. However, we are planning for students from some science departments to complete only lab sessions for few weeks. Even if any student does not come to college, the classes will be made available to them by online mode,” said Christianna Singh, principal of the college.Managements across various colleges said that priority is on safety of students and that already many parents have approached them with concerns. “There is no need for any rush as online classes are already on. With rainy season as well, commuting to and from college is going to be difficult too and there are chances of getting infection even when travelling in public transport. Even if one person contracts Covid-19 infection, then it can spread quickly in a campus,” said S Kalidas, a parent of a second year student at a city college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-colleges-mull-options-on-reopening-as-safety-remains-key/articleshow/79090272.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 7, 2020||Aurangabad||HC quashes order disqualifying woman sarpanch||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has quashed and set aside an order disqualifying a woman sarpanch for failing to pay property tax of her residence. In 2017, Mandabai Zinjurde (57) was directly elected village sarpanch of Mahalgaon gram panchayat in Vaijapur tehsil of Aurangabad district. A year later, former sarpanch Santish Kale lodged a complaint with the district collector claiming that Mandabai’s cheque deposited for paying property tax was dishonoured. He demanded her disqualification citing section 14 (1) (h) of the Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act, 1959. A report was sought by the district collector from Vaijapur tehsil. During inquiry, the gramsevak submitted that there was no record available with the grampanchayat regarding this case. Around the same time, Mandabai’s son had deposited a cheque of Rs 14,725 with the grampanchayat for paying a commercial shop’s rent and this cheque was also found to be dishonoured. Relying on the report of the tehsildar, the then district collector concluded that the cheque deposited by Mandabai’s son was for payment of property tax and it had been dishonoured. Accordingly, on July 8, 2019, Mandabai was disqualified from the post of village sarpanch. She appealed against the order before additional commissioner (revenue) of Aurangabad division. A stay was granted to the district collector’s disqualification order on the ground that there was no notice of demand issued to the woman sarpanch for paying the outstanding tax. However, at the end of appeal, the disqualification order was upheld following which Mandabai moved the high court. Ravindra Gore, the lawyer representing Mandabai, contested that prior to contesting the grampanchayat elections, she had paid her property tax in cash. To substantiate the claim, the lawyer also produced a receipt of Rs 1,209 before the high court. Gore pointed out that so as to disqualify a people’s representative under the said section, there should be some dues to the panchayat. Secondly, there is demand for such dues by serving the member a bill. Thirdly, the member fails to pay the dues within three months from the date of demand. But none of these demands were met. While passing the judgement, Justice Manges Patil expressed displeasure against the authorities and termed the previous judgements in the case as “clearly perverse, arbitrary and capricious and need to be interfered with and reversed even if those are concurrent findings.” The HC specifically observed, “The present matter in my view is false under such exceptional category and enables this court to interfere and reverse the concurrent findings for the reasons to follow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-quashes-order-disqualifying-woman-sarpanch/articleshow/79089055.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 7, 2020||Madurai||Covid patients, those cured must keep off crackers, fumes: Doctors||Madurai: From allergies and burns to perforated ear drums, fireworks during Diwali have always sent a section of the general public to hospitals. This year, especially amid the Covid-19 pandemic which primarily affects the lungs, doctors are discouraging their use. “Persons with any respiratory illness face additional distress due to the smoke and fumes emanating from firecrackers. People suffering from asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) have all always been highly vulnerable. Maintaining safe distance from smoke and fumes or staying inside homes is recommended for such patients,” said Dr Prem Ananth P, a consultant interventional pulmonologist. Doctors are hence advising Covid-19 patients and those who have recovered from the disease to exercise caution and keep away from bursting firecrackers and being exposed to fumes since they may in a compromised state as they suffered lung damage. Respiratory illnesses during monsoon has also been steadily on the rise during the past few years as per data from Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai where more than 40,000 respiratory illness cases are being treated every year. The count keeps increasing every year. “Even in healthy persons, allergies are common when exposed to smoke which can cause cough, sneezing and runny nose. Though green crackers may produce less smoke and pollution, no firecracker is 100% safe. Further, if crackers that produce loud noise are burst close to the ear, it can cause ringing in the ears or hearing loss,” said Dr DR Nageswaran, senior consultant, ENT department, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC). Apart from ear diseases and respiratory illnesses, firecrackers can affect eyes and also cause burn injuries if not handled safely. Doctors also expressed concerns that wearing of masks while bursting crackers cannot keep one safe either and it can cause one to feel more suffocated if exposed to smoke and pollution in excess. “During this festive season, no one will want to make trips to the hospital after suffering damage to health due to firecrackers. It is advisable for the public to exercise caution while celebrating the festival,” said a general physician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-patients-those-cured-must-keep-off-crackers-fumes-doctors/articleshow/79090291.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata metro to add 38 north-south services from Wednesday||KOLKATA: Metro Railway is adding 38 more services from Wednesday when local trains will resume graded services. Anticipating the increased rush with the restart of suburban trains after the lockdown, Kolkata’s transport lifeline is equipping itself and increasing peak-time frequencies from eight minutes to seven minutes along the north-south line from Wednesday. The Metro Railway was mulling the idea of increased frequencies and added services and waiting for Thursday’s meeting between the state government and railways at Nabanna. On Friday, it issued the formal notification on running 190 trains (95 Up and 95 Down) from 8am to 10am at an interval of seven minutes in the morning and evening peak hours. The last trains will leave Kavi Subhas and Dum Dum stations at 9pm as usual and from Noapara at 8.55pm. This timetable will be followed from Monday to Saturday. Currently, 152 services are operational on weekdays. On Friday, railway minister Piyush Goyal tweeted, “Kolkata metro to run additional 25% services in north-south corridor from November 11.” He added, “Increasing convenience and comfort, the number of services will increase from 152 to 190.” Metro’s current capacity along the north-south corridor is around 1.5 lakh. To enter any of the 24 stations along the city’s old line, e-passes must be booked in advance so that each train carries 400 passengers at a time. When Metro resumed graded services on September 14, only 20,000 rode. Even as ridership along the north-south corridor was 92,015 on Friday, the passenger count for the old Metro is likely to cross 1 lakh soon. For Line 2 or the East-West Metro, which was launched only in February, this year, e-passes are not required because the footfall hovers around a paltry 500. On Friday, it was 481. Sanjay Chatterjee, whom the state has appointed to develop the e-pass technology, said, “We have recommended that services along the north-south line be raised when local trains start.” Dum Dum Metro station is located on the same premises as the Dum Dum railway station that has three railway lines — the main Dum Dum line, the south line and the Circular Railway. “When local trains start plying, there will be huge pressure on Dum Dum Metro station,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-to-add-38-north-south-services-from-wednesday/articleshow/79089060.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 7, 2020||Meerut||Clerics in Deoband fume as Muslim women observe Karva Chauth’||Muzaffarnagar: Scores of Muslim women including a few in Lucknow and Agra observed fast on Karva Chauth seeking health for their husbands, a gesture which has not gone down well with a section of clerics in Deoband, the seat of country’s largest Islamic seminary. They called the trend “un-Islamic”.One of the women, Gulnaz Anjum Khan of Lucknow, observed Karva Chauth according to Hindu customs on Wednesday. Gulnaz’s husband, Rashid Khan, supported her and said it will send out a good message. Gulnaz told media that some of her Muslim friends also observe the fast on the day every year. “People should celebrate all the festivals,” she said.The clerics disagreed. “Karva Chauth is not in Islam. And those who are adopting it have nothing to do with Islam,” said Mufti Asad Qasmi, a cleric in Deoband, Saharanpur.“There is a provision of Roza for those who follow Islam. But, despite this, if someone observes Karva Chauth, it is his choice. Islam does not force anyone,” Qasmi added.Another scholar of Islamic studies and patron of Jamiat Dawat Ul Muslimeen, Maulana Kari Ishaq Gora, said, “Every religion has its set of rules and regulations. Karva Chauth in not there in Islam.”Scores of Muslim women in Agra too observe the festival every year. They keep fast and pray to Allah for the well being of their husbands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/clerics-in-deoband-fume-as-muslim-women-observe-karva-chauth/articleshow/79086777.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: New infections dip, but active Covid cases rise||JAIPUR: A little dip in the daily Covid-19 infections was witnessed in the state on Friday as 1,797 fresh cases took the overall tally to 2,07,597. Also, 11 deaths took the death count to 1,966 in the state. Health department officials said that steps have been taken to sensitize people on effectiveness of wearing masks. “The ‘No Mask, No Entry’ campaign is also becoming successful, as not only government offices, but private offices, shops, commercial establishments and others are abiding by it and people are not allowed to enter until they wear a mask,” said a health department official. Though there was a little dip in the new infections, however, active cases which were 16,301 on Thursday rose to 16,277 on Friday. “In Jaipur too we have witnessed an increase in the active cases as the city now as 4,610 active cases,” said a senior officer of health department. For past many days, the state is consistently reporting just 9-11 deaths as the state health authorities have been aiming to bring the mortality rate down with their various protocols. Also, the health department is aiming at higher recovery rate which is presently around 91%. “We have been following different protocols as per the symptoms. For some patients, azithromycin and hydroxychloroquine is administered while for others Ivermectin and remdesivir is given,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital. Districts which reported new cases include Jaipur (307), Jodhpur (191), Bikaner (165), Alwar (122) and Ajmer (115). In rest of the districts, less than 100 cases were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-infections-dip-but-active-cases-rise/articleshow/79090381.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Rajkot||Gang of five robbers busted in Gandhidham||RAJKOT: A gang of five robbers was busted in Gandhidham of Kutch district on Thursday. Police said they arrested Vishwajitkumar Jha (23), Saurabh Jha (21), Mahendra Gohil (19), Mahesh Makwana (23) and Rajesh Makwana (21) on the basis of a tip-off. “We had received a tip-off about some suspects having gathered at a hut of Gandhidham cargo. Acting on this information, we raided the spot. Vishwajitkumar and Saurabh were found from the spot. As they were armed with knives, when we interrogated them they confessed to having committed a series of robberies,” said J A Padhiyar, inspector with Mundra police station. Vishwajitkumar and Saurabh are from Sakri village of Munidhachi taluka in Darbhanga district of Bihar. They have settled in Bageshrinagar-3 Society of Varshamedi village of Anjar taluka. During their interrogation, they revealed the names of Gohil, Mahesh Makwana and Rajesh as their gang members, following which the police arrested them. The accused confessed to having committed as many as nine robberies and thefts including those of five motorcycles, cellphones and cash in Kutch district in the past three months. “The accused said they would target truck drivers and labourers on the highway and commit loot at knife point. We recovered two knives from their possession. Also seized were five motorcycles that they had looted or stolen and had used in several crimes,” added Padhiyar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gang-of-five-robbers-busted-in-gandhidham/articleshow/79088664.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Vadodara||Fake FB profiles of Congress, BJP leaders made to extract money||VADODARA: Senior Congress leader Narendra Rawat on Friday filed a complaint against an unidentified person who made a fake account on Facebook in his name and added his friends too. BJP MLA Seema Mohile too filed a similar complaint with the police a month ago. “The imposter began contacting my friends through Facebook messenger chat asking for money. He sent messages to my friends stating urgent need of money. He sought Rs 10,000 or more from everybody promising to return the amount,” Rawat told TOI. The accused also sent a mobile number and demanded money transfer through online payment apps. Rawat aleged that about 25 to 30 of his friends had been contacted over the last few days. The fake account has a similar profile picture as the original leading many to believe in the fake message. “I have urged the cyber crime cell to investigate the case and act quickly,” Rawat said, adding that the police have told him that the accused may be from the state or even from outside. “A gang of cyberfrauds seems to be targeting well-known citizens and politicians in the city. We have written to Facebook authorities seeking details of the account and the IP address from which the account was made. We will be able to trace the accused once we get their phone numbers or IP address,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The police said that it has been getting many such complaints since a few weeks and some senior cops too have been victims of such fraud. On October 5, BJP MLA Seema Mohile had written to the cyber crime cell after she learnt several fake accounts were being made in her name and were enlisting her friends online. Fake profile of another BJP MLA Manisha Vakil’s husband was also created, police said. The gang impersonates well-known person seeking financial assistance and once gets the money, the frauds close the social media account before disappearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fake-fb-profiles-of-cong-bjp-leaders-made-to-extract-money/articleshow/79087148.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mysuru||Two die after Tempo Traveller hits bike in Chamarajanagar district||MYSURU: Two men were killed in an accident on Thursday night when the bike they were riding was hit by a Tempo Traveller near Maddur in Yelandur taluk in Chamarajanagar district. The deceased are Anand, 28, a resident of Lokkanahalli and Siddaraju, 28, a resident of RS Doddi village, in Hanur taluk. Both were tender coconut sellers. The incident took place when they were returning home after business. The Tempo which was heading towards Chamarajanagar from Bengaluru hit their bike. Rider Anand was killed on the spot and pillion rider Siddaraju died enroute to hospital. The Tempo Traveller’s driver fled from the spot. Additional superintendent of police Anita PH Haddannavar told TOI that Mamballi police have registered a case and investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-die-after-tt-hits-bike/articleshow/79088828.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Meerut||Court awards life in jail to youth who killed his sister over affair in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: A court in UP’s Bulandshahr district has sentenced a youth to life imprisonment for killing his sister five years ago. The convict had attacked his sister with a spade following altercation over her affair with a youth in the area. He had also attacked the youth her sister was in relationship with, but he escaped with injuries. According to police, the convict had brutally killed his sister using a spade on July 7, 2015 in Risalu village. Later, based on the complaint of the village head, an FIR was registered. Police investigation and subsequent trial lasted five years. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 on the youth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/court-awards-life-in-jail-to-youth-who-killed-his-sister-over-affair-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/79086788.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Madurai||Woman stages robbery at home, faces action||Madurai: A woman from Madurai who staged a robbery at her home is now facing police action for wasting time and resources. She admitted to staging the incident to prevent suspicion on her after she spent her husband’s money. The woman’s husband, S Allahpitchai, from Uthangudi registered a complaint with K Pudur police station on Wednesday about the burglary incident and Rs 6,70,000 and gold jewellery weighing 6 pounds missing. On investigation, it was revealed that the man’s wife, Moomina Banu staged the robbery to hide the fact that she spent the money when he travelled abroad. She admitted to staging the robbery after her husband asked her for money to dig a borewell at their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-stages-robbery-at-home-faces-action/articleshow/79090323.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Rajkot||Dwarka railway cops get ‘Ushar’ as guard||RAJKOT: A German shepherd sniffer dog was deputed at the Dwarka railway station by the Rajkot division of railway protection force (RPF) on Friday. Currently there are three dogs — all are labrador — with Rajkot railway division, out which two are deputed at Rajkot railway station and one at Surendranagar station. Dwarka is the important pilgrimage destination with nearly 50 lakh tourists visit the temple town every year. Hence, to enhance security of pilgrims and tourists, the trained sniffer dog was deployed at the Dwarka station. According to railway official, the dog has been trained for 224 days at the southern railway training center. Senior divisional manager of Rajkot division Abhinav Jeph said, “The dog is called Ushar and it was trained by handler Arjun Chaudhary and Viresh Chaudhary at Podanur zonal training centre for 32 weeks. It was recently brought to Rajkot and posted at Dwarka station.” This dog is trained in smelling suspicious material including explosives and narcotics. Rajkot divisional security commissioner Dineshsinh Tomar said, “This dog will help us in guarding the important stations help keep an eye on any suspicious activity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dwarka-railway-cops-get-ushar-as-guard/articleshow/79088395.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Debris recycling plant in Jeedimetla||Hyderabad: A debris recycling plant in Jeedimetla will be inaugurated by MA&UD minister KT Rama Rao on Saturday. The plant’s capacity is 500 tonnes per day. The plant has been built to manage the construction and demolition waste generated in and around Hyderabad and process it. “The technology adopted in the project is a wet process technology,” said Ramky Group, the agency that has been handed over the contract. tnN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/debris-recycling-plant-in-jeedimetla/articleshow/79091283.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Can’t afford to be lax, second wave of Covid-19 expected by December 15, warns health minister||JAIPUR: Health minister Raghu Sharma on Friday warned people not to lower their guards as experts have predicted second wave of Covid-19 by December 15. He said that presently the coronavirus curve is flattening but that does not mean that people should be complacent and careless. “Experts believe that a second wave may come prior to December 15 this year, so people have to be very cautious, wear masks, maintain social distancing and wash hands frequently to keep themselves safe," Sharma said in a statement on Friday. He said that according to the experts, there will also be an increase in the cases of seasonal diseases such as swine flu, dengue, cold and cough in the winter and if the pollution levels rise, coronavirus cases will certainly surge. Quoting the opinion of various health experts, the minister, said, “Masks are better than vaccine as the effect of a vaccine will not be more than 60 per cent whereas by wearing masks regularly, the chances of infection can be brought down by 90 per cent.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cant-afford-to-be-lax-second-wave-of-covid-19-expected-by-dec-15-warns-health-minister/articleshow/79090393.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Meerut||Stubble burning: Police, admin in UP’s Saharanpur crack whip, file 108 FIRs||MEERUT: In a major drive against stubble burning, police in UP’s Saharanpur district have registered 108 FIRs against 143 farmers. At least 12 farmers were put behind the bars in the last three days for setting crop residues on fire, a senior police officer said. The state government has directed the agriculture and revenue department officials to keep a vigil on stubble burning, due to which the air pollution has reached to “severe” level in Delhi and NCR. Saharanpur’s superintendent of police (rural) Ashok Meena said, “We have been trying to create awareness against stubble burning through panchayats and through announcements from temple and mosque loudspeakers.” Stubble burning has seen a sharp spike in the last fortnight. A total of 33 such instances were recorded in 25 UP districts between October 1 and 4. The count jumped to 136 by October 9 in 44 UP districts. Senior officials claimed that in spite of repeated instructions, stubble burning cases are not coming down and punitive action is being taken across the state to deter farmers against it.Rs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/stubble-burning-police-admin-in-ups-saharanpur-crack-whip-file-108-firs-book-143-farmer/articleshow/79086794.cms||Piyush Rai
November 7, 2020||Bareilly||Youth, 25, booked for trying to rape minor in Pilibhit||PLILBHIT: A youth, 25, was booked for allegedly trying to rape a minor girl in Pilibhit city. According to the victim’s father, who filed a written complaint, the accused, Aman Rathaur of Sher Mohammad locality, barged into his house and tried to force himself on his daughter, 17. At the time of the alleged incident, on November 2 evening, the victim’s parents and her younger sister had gone to the market and she was alone at home. But the girl’s mother returned from the market as the youth was trying to force himself on her. He fled from the house after threatening the mother-daughter duo. Station house officer (SHO) of Pilibhit Kotwali, Shrikant Dwivedi, said that Aman was booked under section 354 (assault or force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 452 (house trespass) of IPC and sections 7, 8 of the Posco act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-25-booked-for-trying-to-rape-minor-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79086797.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Private hospitals set to scale up ICU bed count||KOLKATA: Less than a month after private hospitals extended their ICUs following a prod from the state government, another round of critical care unit expansion is on the cards. Even though most hospitals had claimed that they have exhausted their space and resources after the last extension, some have agreed to scale up the number of ICU beds yet again after another nudge from the state government earlier this week. The increase could be restricted to a few beds this time, though, and the government has offered to help hospitals procure equipment like ventilators to hasten the expansion. The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) will be asking its member hospitals to list their requirement of ventilators, monitors and dialysis machines for use at ICUs. “We will be sending the list to the health department that will then be forwarding it to the suppliers with a request for quick delivery. Other than helping to procure them quickly, it will also ensure the best price for us,” said AHEI president Rupak Barua, who is also the CEO of AMRI Hospitals. AMRI Hospitals that added 20 Covid critical care beds last month has just got the nod to use one of its Annexe buildings that was ravaged by a fire in 2011 as a 150-bed Covid unit. It is also ready to covert some of its Covid high-dependency unit (HDU) beds into ICU ones. It has ordered four ventilators and asked the state to help procure the equipment quickly. “We have been waiting for the ventilators and it would help if the government can hasten delivery. The only way we can extend our Covid ICU is by converting some HDU beds which now seems imminent. There is a tremendous pressure on the ICU and it has remained full for more than a month now with just one vacancy happening every 24 hours,” said Barua. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), that added 25 Covid beds on the eve of the Pujas, is ready for another expansion if ‘the need arises’. “Working with the authorities, we increased our Covid bed capacity from 105 beds to 130 beds including an increase in ICU beds during the Puja. But, we have not seen any change in occupancy over this period of time. We don’t anticipate any change in these metrics, but we are prepared to convert more Covid ward beds into Covid ICU beds,” said zonal director R Venkatesh. He also said there has been a significant rise in non-Covid patients with the opening up of transport facilities. “We have been finding it difficult to cater to these patients,” he added. Peerless Hospital plans to add eight beds to its 21-bed ITU unit but has been held back by shortage of nurses. “Since most of our ICU nurses have quit, we are not in a position to have more beds immediately. But we are ready with ventilators and monitors,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra. Some, though, felt that augmenting Covid units and ICUs won’t help. “Most hospitals can now extend Covid units only by cutting down on non-Covid treatment,” said a pulmonologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/private-hosps-set-to-scale-up-icu-bed-count/articleshow/79089073.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Mangal all set to be prez, 16 others too will be elected unopposed||LUDHIANA: In the much-awaited elections of the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA), former Ranji trophy player Satish Kumar Mangal is all set to be the president of the cricket body, as the nomination of other candidate Sandeep Goyal received for the president post has found to be invalid. Candidates for the 16 other posts — including those of general secretary, four senior vice-presidents, six vice-presidents, four associated vice-presidents and treasurer — are also going to be elected unopposed. This is due to either receipt of single nomination or nominations being found invalid. The response of members has been very lukewarm for contesting elections as only 19 nominations were received for 28 posts. The posts that will not see elections will be announced officially today. ADC Amarjit Singh Bains, the election officer, said, “We have not received nominations for all the 28 posts of LDCA’s managing committee. After checking all the forms, those found valid have been published online on the district administration’s website. For the post of president two candidates — Satish Kumar Mangal and Sandeep Goyal — filed their nominations, but only Mangal’s form was found to be valid.” Mangal told TOI, “We are awaiting the results, which will be announced formally in the coming days. But all I want to say is, cricketing association has been doing great work in the past and once elected I will ensure to take this legacy forward. Our major goal is going to be setting up of a cricket ground of our association in Ludhiana, which till now has not materialised and makeshift grounds are being used by the players. Besides this, we will also make sure to bring forward the youth and budding players by providing them the best of the facilities, as there is no dearth of talent in Ludhiana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mangal-all-set-to-be-prez-16-others-too-will-be-elected-unopposed/articleshow/79085045.cms||Mohit Behl
November 7, 2020||India||Will resolve differences via talks, Oli tells Gen Naravane||NEW DELHI: Nepalese PM K P Sharma Oli told Army chief General M M Naravane on Friday that he was sure the two countries would resolve their border differences through dialogue. During a courtesy call by Gen Naravane, Oli said India and Nepal had a “long-standing special relationship” and “good friendship”, while expressing confidence that the issues between the two would be resolved through dialogue. There has been a distinct chill in the bilateral relationship since Nepal issued a new political map that claimed Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh of Uttarakhand as part of its territory earlier this year. Gen Naravane, who was earlier conferred the honorary rank of ‘General of the Nepali Army’ by President Bidya Devi Bhandari during his three-day visit, told Oli that he would work to further strengthen defence cooperation between the two countries. During his visit, Gen Naravane also handed over Rs 5 lakh to Lance Havildar Dil Bahadur Chettri (retired), who was awarded a Mahavir Chakra for gallantry during the 1971 war with Pakistan while serving in 4/5 Gorkha Rifles of the Indian Army. “Chettri (70) was instrumental in capturing a well-fortified machine gun post at Atgram during the advance towards Sylhet in erstwhile East Pakistan (now Bangladesh),” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-resolve-differences-via-talks-oli-tells-gen-naravane/articleshow/79091873.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Pramod Sawant steps back, softens stand on Mollem, railway projects||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday stepped back on three contentious Centre-funded projects that have elicited widespread protests, and offered certain concessions aimed at countering the opposition narrative. The move comes two days after the BJP core committee advised him to “go slow” on the projects, as well as the proposed IIT-Goa campus at Melauli, lest they damage BJP’s poll prospects in the assembly elections hardly 16 months away. Sawant said the state government would not go ahead with widening of the Panaji-Belagavi national highway “right now”, and that the double-tracking of the railway route would be done through tunnels in the Mollem forest. He added that although the 400 KV power Tanmar transmission project would be completed soon, not more than 13,000 trees would be cut. Importantly, addressing the core concern of the anti-coal protestors, the chief minister said that the Mormugao port’s (MPT) coal-handling capacity would be capped at the current 15 MMTPA (million metric tonnes per annum). “The (Tamnar) project is on track, and it will be completed in a short span of time,” he said. “A few NGOs are combining this issue with coal, but that is not so. The project is (being undertaken) for the people of the state, as we are facing a shortage of power. We draw power from Maharashtra and Karnataka. To provide 24x7 power to industries, the 400KV line coming from Karnataka (is needed), and to oppose this line is not correct.” However, the CM stood his ground on the contentious IIT project, stating that it was allotted to Goa by the Centre on former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s request. Stating that the Railways double-tracking project was a national one that came under the aegis of PM Narendra Modi’s “pragati project,” Sawant refuted accusations that the project was meant only for facilitating coal transportation. “Double-tracking is (being) done to get different commodities, and (for the movement of) passengers,” he said. Asserting that he, too, loved Mollem just the way “people outside the state like Mollem,” Sawant seemed to suggest that the issue was being blown out of proportion. “People who are speaking on Mollem have probably not visited the place,” he said. “I have visited Mollem and gone to the Netravali wildlife sanctuary. Only six poles of the Tamnar project will come up at Mollem in the forest area. The sub-station is being built outside of the wildlife sanctuary. People are spreading wrong news that 70,000 trees will be cut. Not more than 13,000 will be cut for the Tamnar project.” The CM said that widening of the national highway has been planned to meet traffic projections for the next 25 years. “Nobody is interested in starting the widening of the national highway,” he said. “It is planned for the next 25 years. The state wants a project for the next 25 years and there is a proposal ready, but that does not mean that we are starting the widening.” On double-tracking, Sawant said that the 300km line has been completed, and only 70km includes the Collem to Castlerock stretch. “Certain modifications will be done to have the double-tracking go underground,” he said. “We are concerned about Mollem and the wildlife sanctuary, and I am giving a guarantee that nobody will destroy Mollem.” The chief minister stressed that the state government would not allow any destruction of the environment while pursuing development. “My government is taking care of flora and fauna,” he said. “When we are running the state, we want both environment and development, and we will take both together and move forward.” Sawant further said the intention of the NGOs in raising these issues was politically motivated. “When an election is near, NGOs raise various issues. This happened during the 2012 and 2017 assembly elections. It is happening now as the 2022 elections are approaching. Some environmentalists and NGOs go to the people and raise these issues. When they speak about the environment, they should also look at the development of the state. We have to take Goa forward, and there is a need for them to think over this. He also promised that no hills in the state would be cut for any infrastructure projects. “We are not giving any jungle to any industry,” he said. “We are pursuing development for the state. The projects coming to Goa are for the state and its people.” Replying to a question whether coal and Goa can go hand in hand, Sawant said that the import of coal to Goa was not started during his tenure, and was underway since 1947. “Before independence, coal used to be imported to Goa,” he said. “Around four companies used to get coal to Goa, but when mining was at its peak, coal import was very low in Goa, approximately 3 million metric tonnes. The port may have increased the quantity of coal because of viability. We will not allow coal imports to cross 15 million metric tonnes per annum. They should follow what environmentalists are demanding, to transport coal in covered wagons.” Nevertheless, the chief minister’s assurance of capping coal imports at existing levels are in stark variance at the cargo import projections contained in the master plan report for Goa under the Centre’s Sagarmala programme. Under the projections (as reported earlier by TOI), the Mormugao port will be upgraded to have a capacity of 51 MMTPA (million metric tonne per annum) by 2035 to cater to existing and proposed steel plants in and around Karnataka’s hinterland. The Sagarmala project envisages various infrastructure projects to evacuate this 51 MMTPA coal/coke from MPT and enable a quick turnaround for ships. Hence, the masterplan has proposed the double-tracking of the Hospet-Vasco rail line and four-laning of NH-4 from Panaji to Belagavi (the missing link of NH-17B connecting Verna and Ponda connects Mormugao port to NH4). In addition, several jetties are proposed along Goa’s rivers (national waterways), essentially for coal transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-steps-back-softens-stand-on-mollem-railway-projects/articleshow/79090397.cms||Murari Shetye
November 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Case count at 20,657 as 72 test positive||LUDHIANA: Seventy-two residents of Ludhiana and 19 outsiders tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. No casualty due to the virus was reported on the day. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally stood at 844 and that of outsiders at 330. To date, 4,00,418 persons have been tested for Covid. Of the 72 new cases, 29 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), seven positive cases’ contacts, 28 from OPD, one pre-operative case, five through tracing process, and one international traveler. The local health department officials said the district case count has mounted to 20,657 and that of outsiders to 2,846. So far, 19,248 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.17% of the total cases. There are 562 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,068. On Friday, 75 persons were quarantined and 2,006 samples collected. There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH. Nine patients, including four Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/case-count-at-20657-as-72-test-positive/articleshow/79085069.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Retail garment markets feel warmth of winter||LUDHIANA: Sudden weather change has brought cheers among garment traders of the city as after a gap of almost seven months, retail customers have started coming for purchases. However, the businessmen are claiming that the sales are not much and were only 30-35% of the pre-lockdown time. They said they were are satisfied with the development as it was better than not making any sales, which had been the case since the outbreak of coronavirus. Wholesale garment traders are still not out of the woods, as they are getting few orders and due to non-operation of trains, they are facing difficulties in catering to the orders from other states. Speaking to the TOI, Manpreet Bunty, president of Akalgarh Market, which is the hub of readymade garments, said, “There has been an increase in the footfall in our market from this week and our sales are now about 30-35% of the normal times before lockdown. Main reason for this increase in footfall is change of weather. Some customers are coming due to heavy discounts being offered ahead of Diwali. Not only locals, but buyers from nearby cities have also started coming. If there is no significant increase in cases of coronavirus in Punjab, then our sales might cross the 50% mark in the first week of December.” According to Rajesh Jain, vice-president of Garment Traders’ Association, “The retail sales have picked up a little ahead of Diwali due to the sudden weather change. It is a positive development for the traders and it seems that in coming days wholesalers will also receive decent orders from other states, as in some parts of the country temperatures have dipped drastically.” Wholesalers have nothing to write home about. Suresh Dhir Raja, president of Dal Bazaar Association where the largest number of garment wholesalers are based, said, “The situation is very gloomy for wholesalers as we have few orders from our customers based in other states. We are suffering huge losses as we have already invested big amount of money in stocking garments, anticipating increase in sales after seven months. We are facing difficulties in sending these orders to our customers due to complete shutdown of both goods and passenger trains as every station in the far-off states is not serviceable by road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/retail-garment-markets-feel-warmth-of-winter/articleshow/79085063.cms||Mohit Behl
November 7, 2020||Goa||Rapped by public for holding EDM fest, Goa govt cans Sunburn||PANAJI: The state government on Friday buckled under public pressure and revoked the in-principle permission it granted for the Sunburn festival in Vagator this December. “We have cancelled the in-principle permission given to Sunburn so as not to pose any risk to people, although Covid cases have dropped,” tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar told TOI. The three-day electronic dance music (EDM) festival was scheduled to be held from December 27-29. The tourism minister said that the in-principle approval wasn’t the government’s final decision. He said that some felt that Sunburn should be held (with a limited crowd) as it would boost the hospitality industry, which has been in the doldrums since Covid. “But we took into account all factors and decided not to have Sunburn this year,” he said. “People’s lives are more important, and Sunburn can always be held next year.” Ajgaonkar said. The government’s initial decision to allow the festival was met with widespread condemnation. The opposition Congress too slammed the government for allowing it when the pandemic is still raging. Before Ajgaonkar announced the cancellation, health minister Vishwajit Rane, who was grilled by reporters on Friday, justified the opening of commercial activities as people are losing their jobs. “What I’m suggesting is that you have strong standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place, and penalise organisers if they do not follow them,” he said. He was asked if his ministry was taken into confidence when permission for Sunburn was granted. Rane said there was no question of him or his ministry being consulted before permission. “What’s required is the SOPs, which come under the domain of the respective collectors, and they should ensure that they are thoroughly implemented,” he said. “We can have events but also have to ensure that people are safe.” Congress workers had a protest on Friday outside a starred hotel where Sunburn organisers had invited the media for a briefing. Earlier, Percept chairperson and MD Harindra Singh told reporters that they would not go ahead with the festival if they felt the risk of infection was high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rapped-by-public-for-holding-edm-fest-govt-cans-sunburn/articleshow/79090418.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Airports Authority of India asks AMC for service charge relief||AHMEDABAD: The officials of the AAI (Airports Authority of India) assured the AMC on Friday that the authority will pay the service charge (property tax) dues of Rs 22.56 crore. The AAI has, however, demanded that the runway and the land housing hangars and tracts used for parking aircraft be exempt from the service tax. The meeting was held to discuss the AMC’s notice over the dues up to 2020-21. The AAI officials have said that they will need at least 10 days to get the amount sanctioned. As for exemptions, AAI officials argued that the AMC provides amenities such as water and drainage only for the airport building. AMC officials said that once the AAI submits its case, rule books will be studied to evaluate the objections. The civic body officials said that the AAI was charged on a commercial basis as it levies a cost on every aspect of use, including entry to the airport building and for parking aircraft. A senior officer said that the AAI has been charging airport user fee. “So why can’t they pay service tax?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aai-asks-amc-for-service-charge-relief/articleshow/79089075.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chennai||For whom the gate tolls||CHENNAI: Several toll plazas dot the IT corridor, but Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation (TNRDC) data shows 17,000 vehicles pass through these daily without paying. Some of these are vehicles of state dignitaries, armed forces personnel and local residents — exempted from paying toll — but the number of those who flout the rules is significant. Though the exact number of violators cannot be determined, it is large enough for the TNRDC to take notice. Among the violators, many were vehicles with party flags. Though the rules say only legislators (one car for an MLA and two for an MP) are exempt, party workers and others often use such tactics to avoid paying. “Almost every day, there are instances when party vehicles refuse to pay toll and engage in a verbal brawl with our employees. We as a government agency can’t deploy bouncers to intimidate or threaten such people,” said an IT Expressway Limited (ITEL) official. On most occasions, the line of vehicles starts swelling and toll plaza staff are forced to let them pass. But it’s not just political workers who manage to slip through for free. Many even refuse to show their IDs to avail themselves of exemption. “Policemen not travelling by their official vehicle get past without paying. We have intensified checks to make it mandatory to show passes or proof,” the ITEL official added. However, despite CCTV cameras being fixed, ITEL staff have still not been able to stop people who evade paying toll by force. A TNRDC official said that efforts were on to come up with a common RFID sticker for people using both local resident pass (LRP) and Fastags. So far, 4,000 of the 16,500 LRP users have been provided with such stickers and the process is expected to be completed soon. As per the National Highways Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules 2008, such integration is possible only for cars owned by MPs, MLAs or gazetted authorities (allowed exemption as per law). Morover, this can only be done at the NHAI headquarters in New Delhi and not in state Project Implementation Units (PIUs). “Though the banks concerned demanded a higher fee for installing such a system and bureaucratic limitations, we managed to get it done. But people don’t understand the efforts taken by us,” the TNRDC official added. Residents say the ITEL isn’t fair to everyone who crosses the toll gates. S Dinesh of Perungudi said that till date LRP has not been merged with Fastag. “So even when we are eligible for free commute, we are paying ₹30 every time we use the toll road,” he added. Some residents point out that the road was much better before the toll plazas were put in place. “The road between Madhya Kailash and Kandhanchavadi is well-maintained with landscaped medians. But after the toll plaza, the plants on the median disappear and the service roads are a shambles,” said G Satish, a resident of the area. Others say the onus is not just on the government and that people too are responsible for the poor interior roads along the stretch. But everyone agrees that the toll is a key reason for various problems in the area. “As soon as there is traffic on the main road drivers take detours through service roads which are choked in no time,” points out Satish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-whom-the-gate-tolls/articleshow/79089078.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seaplane service resumes||Ahmedabad: After halting operations for two days on Wednesday and Thursday for aircraft maintenance, the seaplane service from Ahmedabad to Kevadia resumed flights. A SpiceJet spokesperson said SpiceShuttle operated two return flights on Friday and a total of 26 passengers travelled by seaplanes. “For tomorrow, there are 43 confirmed bookings and for Sunday, there are 49 confirmed bookings till now. The ticketing counters at both Ahmedabad and Kevadia are operational,” said the spokesperson. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seaplane-service-resumes/articleshow/79089104.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Income tax raids in Rs 150-crore tax evasion case||KOLKATA: Income tax department on Thursday conducted searches in Raniganj, Asansol, Purulia and Kolkata in connection with a case, in which a Bengal coal trader was involved. The searches have led to the seizure of unaccounted cash and bullion of around Rs 7.3 crore. “The searches were conducted following a tip-off that a large scale unaccounted for cash was generated and used for various purposes. The searches led to the seizure of documents indicating that the companies of the assessee group held bogus investments in unquoted equity shares of paper concerns to the tune of around Rs 150 crore, of which Rs 145 crore investments were sold,” said a statement by Surabhi Ahluwalia, commissioner of income tax, and spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/i-t-raids-in-rs-150cr-tax-evasion-case/articleshow/79089089.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Frontline doctor needs lung transplant||CHENNAI: Family of a Bengaluru doctor, a frontline worker who is critically ill and under treatment at a city hospital, have sought to raise funds online for his treatment through crowdfunding. For months together since nationwide lockdown was announced in March, Dr Balaji Prasad isolated himself at home from his family members as he was on frontline duty treating Covid-19 patients. He was also featured in TOI as part of the ‘lockdown heroes’ campaign. The 53-year-old consultant nephrologist is now on life support and requires a lung transplant and the estimated cost of his medical treatment is touted to be over Rs 1.2 crore. His wife, Hemali B Prasad, has left behind their teenage sons and the doctor’s 79-year-old mother back at home in Bengaluru. According to Hemali, Dr Prasad was infected with the virus in mid-September and within days it became apparent that the infection is severe. By September-end, he had to be put on ECMO - an artificial lung support system - and after over 20 days of ECMO, doctors at the private hospital in Bengaluru suggested a lung transplant. Dr Prasad was shifted to MGM hospital in Chennai three days ago. “The Karnataka government has promised to help and has granted Rs 25 lakh,” Hemali told TOI. Since Dr Prasad is the sole breadwinner of the family, the family is seeking to raise funds online through crowdfunding website Ketto to support the costs of the treatment. “He used to work tirelessly for the patients and treated for free patients with lesser means. Despite my apprehensions about him going to duty, he used to convince me saying that this is the time his service is needed. Since he was a consultant nephrologist, there was no fixed timing and he used to attend to patients as per requirements. For several months, he isolated himself at home to avoid infecting my aged mother-in-law,” Hemali said. Ever since he was admitted in hospital, Hemali has been visiting him every day wearing PPE kits to be by his side. “My husband remains positive even in the toughest of times. Initially, he used to even discuss with doctors about his treatment procedures. But slowly as infection became severe, he found difficult to speak. He used to write on my palm enquiring about the family and telling me to remain positive,” said Hemali. Fundraiser Link: https://www.ketto.org/fundraiser/offer-a-helping-hand-to-support-drbalaji-prasads-treatment?payment=form||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/frontline-doctor-needs-lung-transplant/articleshow/79089119.cms||Srikkanth D
November 7, 2020||Goa||Goa Medical College to restart tertiary care facilities: says Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday that the state government would open all tertiary care facilities at Goa Medical College (GMC) shortly, in a phased manner. The functioning of some non-essential departments at GMC was hampered due to Covid-19. On Friday, after an expert committee meeting, Rane said, “All the focus is on Covid-19, and as a result, non-Covid cases are getting neglected”. He also said that all efforts are underway to start an intensive treatment unit (ITU) at the South Goa district hospital, and it should be opened for normal patients after the pandemic. Rane also said that the standard operating procedure (SOP) for starting classes for medical students will decided by the dean shortly. “An undertaking from parents will be taken before starting classes,” he said. The health minister said that the medical field is one in which students need to have practicals, and that virtual teaching would not suffice. “Whatever can be taught virtually has been done,” he said. Before the next expert committee meeting, the SOPs for conducting classes will be ready, Rane said. He also said that nobody can predict when there may be a spike in Covid cases, and that people will have to continue to take precautions. “Not even the experts can say when cases will rise,” he said. He also stated that the onus is also on the public to follow protocol and take all precautions against the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-to-restart-tertiary-care-facilities-says-rane/articleshow/79090428.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ludhiana||1964 Russian tractor is his mean machine||LUDHIANA: Punjabis’ passion for unique vehicles does not stop at cars and SUVs. Tractors are also on the list. A Machhiwara farmer has kept a 1964 model Russian tractor, which, according to him, is the one of the very few such vehicles in running condition. Gurcharan Singh, 53, said his relative had bought the tractor in 1964. “Between 1961 and 1964 such tractors were sold in India from Russia. Its cost at the time was around Rs 12,000,” he said. “After my relatives gave us this tractor, we started using it on around 13 acres of our land. This is perhaps the only tractor with 40 horsepower and two cylinders. It consumes 3.5 litre fuel per hour which is very less as compared with an Indian tractor that consumes around 6-7 litre. We used it for years and in 1995, we overhauled its engine. It has helped us so much in farming and digging up barren land in Bet,” added the farmer, who is a matriculate. “We were using the tractor in fields till three years ago. When my son Jatinderpal Singh went to Canada two years ago, I stopped farming. I have given my land on contract. I have sold my another tractor, but will never part from the Russian one as it is precious to me,” he said. Every morning, he drives the tractor out of its shed, cleans it and then parks it back. “It is like my children as it really helped us in farming. After I made a video of the tractor and uploaded it on YouTube, it received much appreciation. Hundreds of people are now calling me up,” he added. His wife, Baljinder Kaur, said, “It is our prized possession. We have preserved the tractor in its original form and taken its best care.” Though the tractor is of Russian brand “Bragumupau”, the farmer has used compressor for long-range horn that has about five types of Punjabi songs’ tunes. Maintained its originality The farmer said they have tried to keep the tractor in its original form. Apart from replacing battery and tyres, they haven’t modified or changed anything. “We have painted it in golden and green colour,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/1964-russian-tractor-is-his-mean-machine/articleshow/79085090.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Miscreants rob UP cloth trader of Rs 80,000||LUDHIANA: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants on Friday snatched Rs 80,000 from a trader from Uttar Pradesh near the old vegetable market crossing here. The accused attacked the victim with sharp-edged weapons and fled with the cash. The victim—identified as Naveen Rastogi, 45, of Farrukhabad in UP—is a cloth trader, who comes to the city every year for purchasing shawls for sale in his city. Rastogi said after alighting from the bus at the local bus stand around 6am, he took an auto to the old vegetable market. After reaching close to Kapoor Hospital, when he was walking towards the market, the two bike-borne miscreants blocked his way and asked him to hand over the bag of cash. As he refused to part with the bag, the accused attacked on his both arms with two sharp-edged weapons and escaped with the bag containing cash. He was rushed to the hospital by some passersby and the police were informed. His statement has been recorded to lodge an FIR. Assistant commissioner of police (central) Waryam Singh said the incident occurred early in the morning. CCTVs under the Smart City Project were installed near the spot, so it is expected that the incident or the accused may have been captured in those cameras, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/miscreants-rob-up-cloth-trader-of-rs-80k/articleshow/79085097.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Two youths killed in Kota road accident||KOTA: Two youths were killed on the spot after their motorbike collided head-on with a speeding mini truck near Shambupura village on Kota-Chittor NH-27 under Kunhari police station late on Thursday night. Police handed over the bodies to family members after post-mortem on Friday morning and lodged a case of negligent driving against the unidentified mini truck driver. The deceased were identified as Vishnu Prajapat, 34, a resident of Keshavpura area and Vijendra Singh, 35, of Basant Vihar area of the city. The duo was returning home from Talera on their motorbike around 9.30pm when their bike reportedly collided against a mini truck coming from opposite direction, police said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-youths-killed-in-kota-road-accident/articleshow/79090439.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to be in Jaipur on November 8-9||JAIPUR: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat will be in Jaipur for two days on November 8-9. This is his second visit to Jaipur in a month’s time. He will attend several meetings of RSS functionaries of North-Western Region. All the meetings will be held at Adarsh Vidya Mandir in Bani Park. The NWR region of RSS consists of Jodhpur, Jaipur and Chittorgarh divisions. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rss-chief-bhagwat-to-be-in-jaipur-on-nov-8-9/articleshow/79090423.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Doubling rate takes hit as Covid-19 cases rise||LUDHIANA: With the rise in Covid-19 cases over the past few days, the doubling rate in Ludhiana district has dropped to the lowest since October 21, after reaching the all-time high of 301 days in the last week of October, according to a government data. The doubling rate is the number of days it would take for the cases to double based on the last seven days’ growth rate. The media bulletin released by the state health department on Thursday put the latest doubling rate for Ludhiana at 251 days, 50 less than 301 days recorded on October 31. It indicates that the Covid situation in the district is once again taking a turn for the worse. However, even as the doubling rate has dropped to 251 days, it is much better than the rate seen between October 8 and 21 when the cases were taking only 106 days to double. An analysis of the data for the past few months suggests that this rate had witnessed a gradual improvement between early July and October-end, though with intermittent drops during the period. On July 9, the doubling rate for the district was 15.7 days, which increased to 18 days by July 17 and dropped to 12 days on July 31. As per the health department data, the doubling rate increased to 16 days from 13 during August 1 to 15, and went up to 18 days on August 17 and to 28 days on August 31. The number of days for the doubling of cases increased further from 37 days on September 2 to 39 on September 15 and then reached 55 days on September 25, while it hit 100 on October 7. The rate remained at 106 days from October 8 to 21 and reached 270 on October 22 before improving further to 303 days on October 31 and then gradually slipped to the latest value. With the doubling rate at 251 days, Ludhiana is at 10th position among the districts of the state on this count, while Tarn Taran occupies the number one slot recording the rate at 649 days. Fatehgarh Sahib at 554 days sits at the number two position, while Fazilka has the worst doubling rate of 101 days. With the doubling rate declining in Ludhiana, health authorities say the people are not taking pandemic seriously now. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said during the festive season, it is all the more necessary to take all precautions and follow the Covid safety norms like wearing masks, and maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene. President of Ludhiana unit of IMA Dr Sunil Katyal said, “The cases are expected to increase during the coming festival time. We should be alert and follow Covid-19 norms even while celebrating the festival to win the fight against the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/doubling-rate-takes-hit-as-covid-19-cases-rise/articleshow/79085079.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘No restrictions on use of firecrackers’||GANDHINAGAR: While states like Delhi, Odisha and neighbouring Rajasthan have banned use of firecrackers due to pollution impact and the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the Gujarat government has said that it has no intention of restricting the use of firecrackers during Diwali and the Gujarati New Year, unless the Centre, NGT or Supreme Court directs otherwise. Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister and spokesperson of the government said, “The state government does not have any intention or plan to restrict use of firecrackers during the Diwali season and New Year. The government has not issued any direction in this regard. There will be no restrictions on use of firecrackers in any part of the state this festive season.” Patel added, “However if the NGT, Supreme Court or government of India gives any specific directions, we will follow.’‘||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-restrictions-on-use-of-firecrackers/articleshow/79089116.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Railways to ‘revalidate’ old monthly tickets||KOLKATA: Those who held valid monthly season tickets (MSTs) when the railways announced suspension of suburban services in March, will not lose their money. The number of days remaining in their MSTs will be added to fresh ones issued before services resume from Wednesday. This revalidation will be done from UTS counters of stations, from where the original MSTs were issued. “All UTS counters will start operating from Wednesday. Commuters can get their old MSTs validated from these counters. To avoid delays and long queues on Wednesday, we may also open counters only for revalidation on Tuesday. No daily tickets will be issued on that day. We shall announce the timings in advance,” said a senior railway official. Those, who purchased MSTs online through an UTS App on their mobile phones, need not fret too. Though the mobile apps are not operating at the moment, Eastern Railway (ER) is likely to approach the Railway Board to restore them by Wednesday. In this way, those having balances in the mobile wallets will also get to utilise the funds. The railway authorities want more people to avail MSTs to avoid queues at ticket counters. A large number of people are expected to use suburban train services once they resume from Wednesday and social distancing may be a tough ask at the counters if MSTs are not revalidated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rlys-to-revalidate-old-monthly-tickets/articleshow/79089120.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 7, 2020||Ajmer||Newborn girl child found on roadside in Ajmer||AJMER: A newborn girl child was found on the road in Bhinai town of the district on Friday morning. Residents who heard the baby crying went to check and found that a girl child was lying there without any clothes on. Police took the baby to the hospital who is now under treatment. It was found that the girl was born just a few hours ago. Police said that the girl was admitted to a local hospital from where she was referred to JLN Hospital in Ajmer. Police said they have registered a case against her mother and trying to find out about girl children born on Thursday night in the region. “We are investigating,” said Bhinai police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/newborn-girl-child-found-on-roadside/articleshow/79090415.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Reconsider extending exemption benefits for MBBS admission: HC to government||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday asked the state government to reconsider extending the benefit of exemption to students who cleared their Class 10 exams from other states for MBBS admission for the year 2020-21. While introducing domicile rules for medical admissions, the law prohibited admission to those students who cleared the board exams from other states in state quota of MBBS seats. However, after introduction of the law in 2017, the government issued two notifications granting exemption to those students who passed Class 10 from other states. A student named Eshika Das was before the high court after clearing her Class 10 exams from Kota in Rajasthan. She requested the HC to direct the government to grant the benefit of exemption to her, though the government did not extend the policy for the third year. A single-judge bench rejected the student’s petition. When she appealed against the order, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala asked the government “to reconsider the entire matter and take an appropriate decision in the larger interest of students”. While asking the government to take the decision in one week, the judges said, “We may only remind the State that here is a case of a bright student aspiring to become a doctor and any decision at this point of time may be a guiding factor so far as the career of the student is concerned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/reconsider-extending-exemption-benefits-for-mbbs-admission-hc-to-govt/articleshow/79089126.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ajmer||Maharashtra couple arrested for assaulting Ajmer beggar||AJMER: A couple from Mumbai was arrested on Friday evening for beating up a woman beggar near dargah in Ajmer. The couple landed in police net after a video of the incident went viral and the beggar’s husband lodged a complaint. In the video, the beggar was seen trying to snatch the bag of a lady and the couple assaulted her for the bid. According to police, Umesh Kishan and his wife Sheetal, residents of Palghar in Maharashtra, came to offer prayers at the dargah. A woman who was begging in dargah bazaar tried to snatch Sheetal’s purse and the couple assaulted her. Husband of the beggar woman Mohammad Fizan, a resident of Salawat Mohalla, registered a complaint on the basis of video. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/maha-couple-arrested-for-assaulting-ajmer-beggar/articleshow/79090451.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Goa||Milind Soman booked for nude run on Varca beach||MARGAO/COLVA: Colva police on Friday booked model Milind Soman for running nude on Varca beach. The offence has been registered under Section 294 (obscene act in a public place) of the IPC and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act. Goa Suraksha Manch, a political outfit formed by former Goa RSS chief Subhash Velingker, filed a complaint and demanded action against Soman for “spoiling the image and insulting the culture of Goa”. Soman had posted a photo on social media showing himself midstride naked on a deserted beach. Though GSM in its complaint didn’t specify the beach, Colva PI Melson Colaco said that the police verified the location as Varca beach. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said that police would sent a notice to Soman to appear before them for questioning. “On November 4, Milind Soman celebrated his 55th birthday in an indecent, obscene, vulgar manner by running nude on a beach in Goa, thereby creating sensational news on social media for cheap publicity,” GSM secretary Samir Khutwalkar said in his complaint. Stating that the act from such a celebrity was unacceptable, GSM said it attracted certain penal provisions and that he should be booked accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/milind-soman-booked-for-nude-run-on-varca-beach/articleshow/79090459.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: SOP for reopening of govt boarding schools issued||DEHRADUN: The state education department has released the Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) for the reopening of the government boarding schools for Classes X and XII in Uttarakhand. The government residential schools are set to reopen after Diwali from November 17 after a long gap due to Covid-19. Like the non-residential schools, only the ones which are located outside the containment zones are going to reopen and the written consent of parents is mandatory before allowing students in the campus. Prior to the reopening, the Covid-19 negative report of the students, not earlier than 72 hours before the date of reopening, and the consent of parents should be presented to the education department. The education department is going to look after the reopening of some of the government boarding schools like Rajiv Gandhi Navodaya Vidyalaya and Kasturba Gandhi Balika Awasiya Vidyalaya from the date. According to the SOP issued in the wake of Covid-19, the chief education officer will inspect the schools along with a city magistrate or SDM to check the implementation of the SOP. The school will go through a complete sanitisation process prior to the date of the reopening. Further, the school will need to make accommodation facilities for the teachers and other staff members inside the school campus. Notably, the SOP for the reopening of the private boarding schools was released last week along with that for the non-residential schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sop-for-reopening-of-govt-boarding-schools-issued/articleshow/79087933.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Adani takes over Ahmedabad airport, to run it for 50 years||AHMEDABAD: If you happen to pass by the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad and see it all lit up, it’s not just the Diwali glitter! The city airport, established in 1937 and run by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), will now be handed over to Adani Ahmedabad International Airport Limited, (AAIAL) which will officially take over the airport operations from Saturday – November 7. The operations, management and development of SVPI airport will now be handled by Adani for a period of 50 years. The Union ministry of civil aviation on October 22, signed a memorandum of understanding with Adani Ahmedabad International Airport Limited, at the AAI headquarters in Delhi. As part of this, provision of services i.e. customs, immigration, plant and animal quarantine, health, MET and security (collectively called Reserved Services) along with CNS-ATM services at the city airport will be taken care of by the AAI, whereas the operations, management and development of Ahmedabad airport will be run through public-private-partnership (PPP) mode as signed in February this year. In February last year, AEL put in a bid of Rs 177 as per passenger fee, to be paid to the AAI and emerged as the largest bidder for the airport. An email query sent to Adani seeking details of the plans for upgradation of the city airport did not elicit a response. SVPI Airport in Ahmedabad clocked a record-high footfall of 1.14 crore passengers in 2019-20 according to data by AAI. So far, no changes in any of the fees has been announced by AEL. Sources confirmed that staffers in other departments of the AAI have been transferred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/adani-takes-over-ahmedabad-airport-to-run-it-for-50-years/articleshow/79089143.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Potato price continues to pinch pockets||Kolkata: Enforcement Branch (EB) of Kolkata Police on Friday raided at least 45 markets to check onion hoarding as per the new order issued by the state. But potatoes, now a free commodity, continued to see price fluctuations. Common Jyoti variety was sold at Rs 40 a kg, while the superior variety, Chandramukhi, was sold at Rs 45 a kg. November is the lean month for potatoes. According to potato traders, given the demand-supply gap, the potato price is all set to rise further.With the depleted stock at the cold-storages and fresh potato crop being a month away, the price is going through the roof. However, the higher price encouraged farmers to increase the acreage of potato farming from 3.8 lakh hectares in 2020 to 4 lakh hectares for the next season, said Pradeep Mazumdar, the agri-advisor to the state government. The new farm laws have left potato traders euphoric. “We can now stock much higher than what we are permitted to do hitherto,” said a trader. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/potato-price-continues-to-pinch-pockets/articleshow/79089127.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: MPT gets pollution board permission to handle more coal||PANAJI: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has allowed Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) to permit two ships per month to load coal not exceeding to 0.2 million tonne per month at mooring dolphins with conditions up to December 31. The board stated that the MPT should obtain environmental clearance for the mooring dolphins 4, 5 and 6. The board stated that coal should be only transported through barges to the plant. The permission was granted after detailed deliberations and discussions on weighing the aspects of the pollution that could be caused in case coal is transported by road. The conditions are that the unit has to ensure that the machinery and equipment operated for handling of cargo should be done by skilled personnel so that cargo spillage is avoided and generally the ship gears are only used for cargo. The pollution board stated that the unit shall ensure that the cargo is fully covered during transportation through barges. It also said the unit shall ensure that while loading and unloading dry bulk cargo, necessary dust suppression system to the extent feasible would be taken up on barges to make the cargo wet so as to reduce the flow of particle carried away with wind. The cargo should be dropped from the lowest possible height within the hatches of ships or barges to control air pollution, if any within the permissible limits, the board has stated. Water sprinkling and mist cannon has to be used to control dust pollution and the unit should provide tarpaulin sheet in between the vessel and the barge to prevent spillage in the sea, the conditions laid out by the board read. The GSPCB has permitted cargo handling operations at wind velocities up to 8m/s and stated that all materials handling operations should be stopped at wind speed beyond 8m/s. Wind monitoring should be carried out at the mooring dolphin. The board has stated that operations may be carried out at either mooring dolphin-3 or mooring dolphin-2 to ensure that particles don’t reach the land due to dispersion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mpt-gets-pollution-board-permission-to-handle-more-coal/articleshow/79090476.cms||Murari Shetye
November 7, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Fill board exam forms, RBSE tells private schools||AJMER: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) has instructed private schools to get the examination forms of students filled up. The board has warned the private schools who showed negligence in filling up the board examination forms of students. The board has assured the parents and students that it will provide appropriate chance for filling up the examination forms. Looking at the agitation of private schools in the state on the matter of fees, the board was getting complaints that schools are not filling examination forms of students. Taking up the issue, the board chairman DP Jalori on Friday said that it is the ethical responsibility of schools to file proper board exam application of students. He said whatever may be the reason behind the private schools’ protest, they should not play with the future of students. The board said that they will not tolerate irregularities in filing the board examination forms by schools. Board said that if any private school, principal or any employee of the school, tries to pressurize the students or parents, then they should contact on the RBSE helpline immediately. The board has opened the link to fill the online board examination 2021forms in the state and these applications will be filed by the school where the students are studying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/fill-board-exam-forms-rbse-tells-pvt-schools/articleshow/79090474.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Rajkot||Jeweller smuggles fake notes to repay debts||RAJKOT: An imitation jewellery maker, who could not find work due to lockdown and had to borrow money for treatment of his ailing son, turned to smuggling counterfeit currency to pay of his debts. Police on Thursday night arrested jeweller Hemant Vatukia (22), with 51 counterfeit currency notes of Rs 2,000 denomination from on Kuvadava Road in Rajkot. MC Vala, inspector with Kuvadava Road police station, said the accused he had bought the notes from a dealer in Madhya Pradesh for Rs 20,000 and intended to sell off them for Rs 50,000. “Prior to the lockdown, Vatukia used to work as an imitation jewellery maker. However, during the lockdown, he did not get any work, and had to borrow money for the treatment of his ailing son. As the mount of debt increased, he felt the urgent need of making quick bucks, following which he resorted to the crime,” said Vala. Vatukia will be arrested after Covid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jeweller-smuggles-fake-notes-to-repay-debts/articleshow/79088806.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ajmer||Resident doctors in Ajmer threaten stir||AJMER: Resident doctors of JLN Medical College on Friday went on protest on Friday. They threatened that if action is not taken against those who misbehaved with doctors, then resident doctors of Rajasthan will go on an indefinite strike from Sunday. On the other hand, a local court here directed police to register a criminal case against doctors for negligence during treatment at JLN Hospital. The court on the application of Sarita, resident of Paharganj, who claimed that her husband Prabash Bhatnager died on October 27 because of the negligence of doctors in JLN Hospital. The resident doctors’ association also registered a case against the relatives and friends of Sarita for misbehaving with doctors during treatment. The association on Friday staged a protest and claimed that the resident doctors’ association of Rajasthan will go on strike if police do not arrest the accused who misbehaved with doctors. Resident doctors claimed that there are many incidents of misbehaving and beating of doctors in hospitals and every time state government assures to bring a law. The president of Ajmer resident doctors’ association claimed that on October 27, relatives and friends of Prabash Bhatnager misbehaved and assaulted doctors. Doctors remained on two-hours symbolic strike at JLN Hospital. Meanwhile, Sarita claimed in her petition that she brought her husband to JLN Hospital for treatment, but there was utter negligence on part of doctors and her husband died because of lack of oxygen cylinder. The court directed to register a case against Dr Khushboo Jain and others under Sections 406, 411,304, 304A, 385, 504, 506 and 120 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/resident-doctors-in-ajmer-threaten-stir/articleshow/79090477.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Vadodara||Cricket betting leads to bogus marksheet scam||VADODARA: Investigation into betting on cricket games have blown the lid off a fake marksheet scam in the city. The prevention of crime branch (PCB) on Friday arrested two persons for making and selling fake marksheets and certificates of Maharashtra State Education Board. Cops suspect that more persons may be involved in the racket. On October 25, police had arrested a man named Adil Cheenwala for placing bets on a cricket match. Police found photos of several marksheets of MSEB in his mobile phone. During questioning, he revealed the name of Noel Pereira, a resident of Akota, who had sent him photos of the marksheets and certificates. On searching Noel’s house, police found three marksheets of Maharashtra Board and Secondary Education. He confessed that his friend Jigar Gogra, a resident of Refinery Road, had made them. Gogra was also caught and the marksheets were sent to the MSEB which informed them that they were bogus. Three marksheets of Class XII , six marksheets and certificates of Rajasthan education board and a couple of school leaving certificates were seized from them. Investigators are now trying to ascertain how Jigar made these fake marksheets and if any gang from other states is involved in this racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cricket-betting-leads-to-bogus-marksheet-scam/articleshow/79087163.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Surat||Firemen give 135 units of blood in two days||SURAT: Besides rescuing people from various natural and man-made calamities, Fire and Emergency personnel of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) are also trying to fight shortage of blood in city’s blood banks by donating their own. The department organized a two-day blood donation camp at its Vesu centre to bridge the demand-supply gap, which had been hugely affected during the pandemic-induced lockdown in the city. “We have learnt that there has been shortage of blood in SMC-run SMIMER Hospital and urged our staff to come forward for donation. In two days, we have collected 135 units,” said Basant Pareek, chief fire officer, SMC. Meanwhile, to pay tributes to late ex-CM Keshubhai Patel, a 24-hour continuous blood donation camp has been organized to help people in need of blood in emergency cases. The donation camp to start from 6 pm on Saturday is being organised by 'Keshubhai Patel Srandhanaji Ayojan samiti at Saurashtra Patel Bhavan in Mini Bazaar in Varachha area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/firemen-give-135-units-of-blood-in-two-days/articleshow/79087921.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Bainsla sets 12-hour deadline for Rajasthan govt to meet demands||JAIPUR: On the sixth day of Gujjar agitation, convener of Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti Kirori Singh Bainsla gave an ultimatum of 12 hours to state government to fulfil their demands on the issue of backlog in jobs and recruitments that are under process. He also invited sports minister Ashok Chandna for talks and said, “He is our very own. We expect him to bring something from the government tomorrow (Saturday).” Bainsla also said, situation may turn serious if the demands are not fulfilled within 12 hours. He also thanked the people of Gujjar community at the railway track in Pilukapura for accepting his son Vijay Bainsla as the leader of the agitation. As on Friday, the sixth day of agitation, around 40 trains have been diverted via Bandikui-Jaipur and around 200 buses in Gujjar-dominated areas across the state have been affected. Himmat Singh, who belongs to the breakaway group of 41 Gujjar leaders, said, “Now that Bainslaji has declared his son as the leader of the agitation, which was the sole purpose of it, they should now give relief to the people of the state and call off the agitation.” Sports minister Ashok Chandna on Thursday had urged Bainsla and other members of the samiti to call off the agitation and had invited them for a dialogue with the state government. Chandna further said, “Repeated agitations damage the image of the whole community.” The minister said police cases filed during agitations become an obstacle for youths in finding jobs later, which is “painful”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bainsla-sets-12-hr-deadline-for-govt-to-meet-demands/articleshow/79090504.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Marriage registrations move online in further digital push||PANAJI: From now on, people who want to register their marriages will not be required to stand in a queue at the sub-registrar’s office to submit applications. On Friday, the law department issued an order mandating that applications for marriage registrations be accepted and processed online only. It will be effective from November 16. Under-secretary Amir Parab issued directions to department that all such applications should be processed through the online mode only and that even supporting documents will be accepted online only. After paying the fees online, an appointment date and time will be generated through the electronic system and applicants will be intimated through SMS. In Goa 11,000 marriages are registered annually. In 2017 there were 11,426 marriages registered and in 2018 there were 10,689 registered. This step of moving the application process online by the the law department is to ensure the digitisation of the functions and services of the sub-registrar’s offices. Last year the department digitised marriage documents of the past 100 years. Barring few, most offices of the sub-registrars are small and see large crowds during office hours. In the existing system applicants are required to make more than a trip to the sub-registrar’s office to apply for marriage registrations and to check the status of their application. With the process moving online, frequent trips to offices will be done away with which will also reduce congestion at the sub-registrars’ offices across Goa. The law department’s plan to move the sub-registrar’s offices into larger and better offices hasn’t moved ahead yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/marriage-registrations-move-online-in-further-digital-push/articleshow/79090506.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Early detection saves 50% animals battling Big C||MUMBAI: Sheroo, a stray dog, was “really bad” five years ago when he was diagnosed with cancer. With a bump on his right hind leg, residents of the building in Juhu where he lives thought he would not survive. Today, three surgeries later, he is a healthy 14-year-old cancer survivor. “Back then, we thought we would lose Sheroo,” says Jasjeet Babbar who looks after the canine. Sheroo’s cancer survival heralds a new trend of awareness among pet owners that has helped detect and treat the ailment before things spiral out of control, say veterinarians on the eve of National Cancer Awareness Day on Saturday, November 7. “True that the incidence of cancer in animals is on the rise, but so is awareness among laypersons. Owners often bring pets to the clinic well in time,” says Dr Pradip Chaudhari, vet cancer specialist at ACTREC (Advanced Centre for Treatment Research & Education of Cancer), Tata Memorial Centre, Kharghar, Navi Mumbai. Roughly, 40-50% of cases have been cured due to timely diagnosis, he adds. Awareness of symptoms of cancer in humans could have helped the cause of pets, says Dr Chaudhari. “Earlier, with diagnosis of cancer, many would urge doctors to put the pet to sleep due to the suffering. But today, many share an emotional bond with their pets” This view is echoed by Dr Sangeeta Vengsarkar, director of Animal Cancer Clinic, Juhu. “Yes, today pets are like family for many, especially in cities. So, regular visits to the vet are routine. Often, I’ve ended up detecting quite a few cancer cases during such routine visits where the owner got the pet, suspecting it could have cancer,” says Dr Vengsarkar, a practising vet for 32 years. The last few decades have seen much progress in terms of veterinary cancer treatment in India, say vets. Dr Noopur Desai, who runs the Juhu cancer clinic, is a US board-certified veterinary oncologist. “Treatment facilities available abroad are more advanced than what we have in India. Also, with no specialization in oncology available here, many of our vets go abroad and return with specialized knowledge,” says Dr Desai. Her advice to people is to rush to a vet without losing time if they find something wrong with their pet. “Early diagnosis of cancer can help save a life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/early-detection-saves-50-animals-battling-big-c/articleshow/79088887.cms||Alex Fernandes
November 7, 2020||Ludhiana||‘We have vacated tracks, rly stns & shifted our protest to parks’||Coming from a farming family and being into farm agitations for the last more than 15 years, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Lakhowal, general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal (54) has seen it all. BKU Lakhowal is also on the forefront of the current farmers’ protest against the recent farming laws passed by the Union government. He talked to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on various aspects of the ongoing agitation. As of now the Union government doesn’t seem to give into pressure from farmers organisations. What next for farmers’ organisations? A: We are trying to add more groups in the ongoing agitation and are in talks with such groups in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana to garner more support for the fight. This will help us in exerting more pressure on the government to repeal the recently passed farm laws. However, we are already getting good support from these states in our fight for the cause of farmers. If the central government calls you again for talks on the issue. Will you go? If a minister of the Union government calls us, then we will go. However, if officers invite us for a meeting, we will not go as they don’t have the decision making power on the matter. Talks can be held with the minister who can take a decision on our demands. Do you think that the central government is serious about ending impasse on the issue? They are trying to put blame on us for people’s problems due to blockade on railway tracks. However, we want to put this on record that we have already vacated the railway tracks and even the stations where we were sitting on protest. As of now, no farmers are there at these places and we have already shifted our protest to parks outside the railway stations. We have asked the Punjab government to give it in writing that we are no longer blocking tracks. However, we have made it clear that we will allow only goods trains to run and not passenger trains. Why you are not allowing passenger trains and only goods trains to operate? We had held a meeting with the representatives from the industry after which we decided to allow only goods trains to run. However, we are clear about that if the government agrees to our demands, we will also allow passenger trains as well. As the government is not even talking to us, we will continue to build pressure on it. If we don’t do it, the government will not take action in the matter. Various groups are protesting at various places. Is there coordination between farmers’ organisations as far as agitation is concerned? There are diverse groups which are carrying out various activities as part of the agitation. So, we believe that the groups may be protesting individually but they are fighting for a common cause. Do you support any political party? We support political parties on the basis of what they did and what they promise to do. For example, we supported the Congress as Amarinder Singh promised debt waiver for farmers whereas Parkash Singh Badal (former chief minister) had assured power bills waiver. For us, farmers’ interest are important and if we feel that none of the parties have done much for farmers, we leave the decision to the people to support whosoever they want in elections. What is your next course of action? We have decided to hold a meeting in Chandigarh on November 18, wherein we will decide on various aspects of our protest programme in Delhi on November 25 and 26. Our next course of action will be decided there. As farmers will get free from farming activity in the next 15-20 days, we will intensify our agitation till the Union government revokes the newly passed farming laws. As of now, we have decided to continue blocking passenger trains, not giving toll at toll plazas, protesting outside fuel pumps of a corporate group and gheraoing BJP leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/we-have-vacated-tracks-rly-stns-shifted-our-protest-to-parks/articleshow/79085183.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Business||China’s penetration in telecom sector is extensive: Govt||NEW DELHI: Home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Friday said the government was yet to take a decision on allowing Chinese telecom companies to be part of 5G trials in India but acknowledged that the neighbour’s “penetration in the existing telecom hardware and software was too extensive”. Bhalla said the government was making special safeguards to ensure safety and security of the country’s communication network. “On 5G, the government in any case has not taken any call. Discussions are still on... when it will be allowed and who are the people to be allowed. Point is very valid. The penetration of existing telecom hardware and software is too extensive,” he said in reply to a question on participation of Chinese telecom players in India’s 5G trials. He was speaking at the Diamond Jubilee webinar organised by the National Defence College. The home secretary said unless India got a substitute, the existing facilities could not be closed down abruptly. “Unless we have a substitute available, we just can’t switch off and say that this will not be allowed. But the government can definitely make special safeguards and ensure the safety and security of the system of communication of the country. That we are having and we are developing and we will definitely be able to deal with that,” he said. The US has banned Huawei over concerns of security and Washington has been putting pressure on other countries to restrict operations of the Chinese telecom firm. India, however, is yet to take a decision on whether it intends to place curbs on Huawei or allow the Chinese telecom equipment maker to participate in the upcoming 5G trials. Watch 'China’s penetration in telecom sector is extensive'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinas-penetration-in-telecom-sector-is-extensive-govt/articleshow/79092026.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ludhiana||More than 75% voters turn up to elect dist bar body representatives in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Voters in good numbers turned up despite Covid-19 for the District Bar Association (DBA) elections on Friday. The elections were held for the office bearers of DBA, for the posts of president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary and executive members. The candidate for finance secretary post was elected unopposed, as his rival had withdrawn his candidature ahead of voting. Assistant returning officer (ARO) for elections, advocate Lalita Jain said till 3.30pm, about 2,000 voters of the 3,111 had cast their votes. She added that by the end of the voting time at 5 pm, 2,348 voters had cast their votes indicating voting percentage of 75.5%. According to the election officer, voting went on smoothly. Returning officer (RO) for the elections, advocate Amardeep Bhatia said they had set up 10 booths, five each in library and bar room, to ensure voting without crowding. He added that separate booths were set up for senior citizens. RO further said election timings was between 9am and 5pm and counting of votes started after the polling. He added that counting is likely to be completed by 10pm. Meanwhile, some advocates, on terms of anonymity, did speak of lack of social distancing and alleged that many voters were not wearing masks. “Huge rush is seen outside voting halls. No doubt most of advocates cast their votes but none bothered about social distancing. Most had not worn masks even. The situation was not much different inside halls. Now judges or government should seriously think about opening courts,” senior advocate Rakesh Gandhi wrote on a Facebook page. Many advocates said issues that came up for debate during DBA election campaigning were mostly related to infrastructure. “Among the issues discussed during DBA elections were shortage of chambers for advocates, parking problem and demand for construction of multi-level parking for advocates on the pattern of mini secretariat. The conduct of judges with the lawyers and the welfare of advocates, including insurance were also discussed,” said advocate Amit Tandon. Already declared Gautam Rishi had already been declared finance secretary as Yadwinder Singh Sadiora withdrew his candidature for the post||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/more-than-75-voters-turn-up-to-elect-dist-bar-body-representatives-in-ludhiana/articleshow/79085212.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Osmania University adopts harsher anti-plagiarism norms to raise the bar of research standards||HYDERABAD: Plagiarism of over 10 per cent in PhD thesis, dissertations, academic and research publications at Osmania University (OU) will invite trouble for students and faculty members as the varsity has adopted University Grants Commission’s new anti-plagiarism regulations. In July 2018, OU became the first state university in Telangana to introduce anti-plagiarism software. Annually, the university receives 900 thesis for verification. Till date, the university’s permissible similarity percentage stood at 25 per cent. Now, with the university approving the University Grants Commission’s promotion of academic integrity and prevention of plagiarism in higher education institutions regulations, 2018 in the standing committee meeting, similarities of up to only 10 per cent will be permitted. “Until now, we used to verify each and every document of the submitted research document. But now, we will be randomly verifying parts of the document in order to check the similarity percentage,” said AS Chakravarthy, assistant professor and coordinator of anti-plagiarism activities at OU. Reportedly, almost 200 of 900 PhDs submitted at OU every year have plagiarised content of up to 50 per cent. In some cases, similarity index is as high as 75-90 per cent. With the new regulations having been enforced from November 1, similarity percentage above 60 per cent will cost research scholars their registration as well. “Many students end up have more plagiarised content in review of literature. The regulation enforced by the university will certainly put an end to these plagiarism activities,” said Prof D Ravinder, principal of OU Arts College, adding that software should also be updated as per the new regulations and exclude those bibliography, generic terms, quoted word as mentioned in UGC norms. Even faculty members will not be spared from the plagiarism regulations as they too fall under the ambit of academic and research publications. Faculty members having similarity of above 40 per cent will be asked to withdraw manuscript, denied right to annual increments and wont be allowed to supervise new masters, MPhil, PhD students/scholars for two to three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-adopts-harsher-anti-plagiarism-norms-to-raise-the-bar-of-research-standards/articleshow/79089275.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘16,000 RT-PCR tests daily, more will delay results’||NEW DELHI: The number of new cases Covid-19 cases has been hovering around 7,000 every day since Tuesday. Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain told TOI that the surge in cases was due to more aggressive contact tracing and testing being carried out by Delhi government. He was confident that the latest spike would start dipping soon. “What we are seeing are intermittent spikes and anything can trigger a spike. We have witnessed spikes in June, September and now in November. A spike can come at any time and doesn't last for more than a week,” Jain told TOI. “We have been recording nearly 7,000 new cases a day. From experience, I can say that the spike cannot sustain at such a level and will slide slowly.” TOI had talked to Jain earlier in the day, before Friday’s health bulletin was issued by the Delhi government. Jain said cases have been on the higher side since September because Delhi government had focused on the active contacts of those who test positive. “That is why more cases are coming. Also, we are carrying out around 60,000 tests a day,” Jain said, adding that apart from the high number of tests, the chances of detecting positive cases was higher now due to aggressive contact tracing. “Sometimes it happens that we have tested one family and five or seven people of the family have tested positive. This is why the numbers seem high but if we get afraid of the numbers, what would be the benefit?” he added, In a recent Covid review meeting, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had said that the capital was conducting more rapid antigen tests than the more reliable RT-PCR tests. “From around 7,000 RT-PCR tests daily, we are doing more than 15,000 RT-PCR tests a day. If we do more tests, the results would come after a week. What would be the benefit of that?” Jain said. “We want the results to come within 24 hours because if the report comes late, that is also a very big issue.” Jain added that a patient would have recovered by the time test results arrive after a week. Jain assured there were adequate number of Covid beds in hospitals and the government had gone to Supreme Court to vacate the Delhi High Court stay on reserving 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid patients. He said that for the festive season, aggressive testing has started in markets and busy public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/16k-rt-pcr-tests-daily-more-will-delay-results/articleshow/79090596.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Sanitation staff oppose checking by superintendents, hold protest||LUDHIANA: In order to ensure proper sanitation in city areas the municipal corporation had started cross checking of sanitation staff’s location with the help of superintendents, but this system seems to have backfired as sanitation staff have started raising voice against it. On Friday, a protest took place in zone B against joint commissioner Swati Tiwana for adopting new measures to check the sanitation staff. However, the residents in many localities have been complaining against sweepers as they remain absent from duty. The sweepers under the banner of Samooh Balmiki Samaj protested at MC’s zone B office. They came with sticks and hunter to be gifted to zonal commissioner Swati Tiwana. They asked her to start beating the sanitation staff and bring back the old system, where poor people used to be slaves and were beaten up badly. They also showed resentment against officials for issuing show-cause notices to 10 class IV employees. Vipan Kalyan, who was heading the protest, said the officials from other branches have been told to check the attendance and that too after every hour. He said these sweepers worked hard for improving ranking in Swachhta Survekshan and then during the pandemic period too they worked hard in various localities without caring for their safety and instead of giving them any reward the officials started checking them. He said they do not mind checking but it should be by health branch officials and not outsiders and one time should be fixed instead of doing it after every hour. Meanwhile, requesting anonymity one of the officials said they were checking attendance twice a day and not after every hour and moreover, this checking would prove beneficial for them as sweepers complaint against too much work at one time and when they would remain in their respective areas, they would not have to work outside. He said this would help in keeping a check on the movement of sanitation staff. However, a resident of Guru Nanak Colony, Poonam Bedi, complained that sweepers had last came to their locality near Dussehra when they had to take money from the residents and now they would again come near Divali. She said even sweeping does not take place on a regular basis in the area. She said checking of these employees was a must, only then they would become accountable. Another resident from Laxmi Nagar Simran Kaur said they had not seen any sweeper for quite some time in the area as they only come when they want to. She said sweeping in the streets was must and it should be done on regular basis. Former MC commissioner KP Brar had also proposed smart watches for the sanitation staff and by wearing these watches the location of employees could be checked any time. However, even at that time employees had protested and this proposal could not be implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sanitation-staff-oppose-checking-by-superintendents-hold-protest/articleshow/79085205.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||At 50, teacher gets second valve and third life||Nagpur: When he was just 35-year-old, Om Singh Prabhakar Dhange, a teacher from Pulgaon, had undergone open heart surgery in May 2004. In 2020, he started experiencing breathlessness and fatigue more often. Doctors told him that the valve fixed 16 years ago had developed leakage. Thanks to latest advancements in the medical field, Dhange did not undergo one more open heart surgery. A new valve was placed inside the leaked valve in his heart through a non-surgical, minimal invasive way of treatment at Viveka Hospital. “At 35, I got my second life with a valve inserted through open heart surgery. At 50, doctors gave me third life by placing another valve, that too without surgery,” said Dhange. The process is well known by now as valve in valve intervention. More than 100 such processes are performed yearly in India. As far as Nagpur is concerned, some of the leading hospitals in city have performed the valve in valve replacements in recent years. But, more often, the patient whose valve becomes old enough to get replaced are precisely senior citizens. Dhange’s case was rare because he got the valve in valve done at a comparatively young age of 50. He has at least 20 years of life ahead and the new valve has enabled him to live a normal life during this phase. “Younger patient is one of the special features of this case. As the patient is just 50, we decided to place a valve with supraannular design which has better longevity,” said Dr Prashant Jagtap, who led the team at Viveka Hospital. Dr Jayprassana, Dr Gopal Thakre, Dr Piyush Choudalwar and Dr Khandait were in the team. Technically, it was a challenging process because the first valve was placed through open heart surgery. Moreover, it was of larger size of 25mm. It would have been a great risk if doctors had to perform another open heart surgery. Minimally invasive technology gifted another lease of life to the patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-50-teacher-gets-second-valve-and-third-life/articleshow/79088128.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Date extended to apply for CIC post for 5th time||JAIPUR: The state government has extended the date for applying for the post of Chief Information Commissioner (CIC) and two posts of information commissioners for the fifth time in the last nearly two years. The extended new date is November 13. At present, there are only two members left in the five-member commission. The term of Ashutosh Sharma, who was holding the additional charge of CIC for the last one year for being the senior-most member, ended on November 5. The administrative department on Friday issued orders giving additional charge of CIC to Rajendra Prasad Barwar, the senior most member, till the appointment of the CIC. The other member left in the commission is Laxman Singh Rathore. There was no regular CIC in the commission ever since the retirement of Suresh Chaudhary in December 25, 2018. The state government advertised for the post four time in the past from January 21, 2019 to September 23 this year triggering speculation that former chief secretary D B Gupta could be appointed to the post. But the chief minister made him as one of his advisors though he had applied for the post. Now, it is expected that the last date has been extended to accommodate former chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup who was denied an extension by the Centre to the post despite the state government recommendation to apply to the post of CIC. The order issued by the administrative reforms department (ARD) said, “Due to the pandemic many of the persons could not apply to the post state chief information commissioner and information commissioners. To provide them last opportunity, fresh applications are invited to fill up these posts. It said those who had applied earlier need not required afresh for consideration as their applications will be valid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/date-extended-to-apply-for-cic-post-for-5th-time/articleshow/79090633.cms||Joychen Joseph
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: ‘Student’ misses flight to dupe travellers, held||HYDERABAD: CISF personnel intercepted a fraudster at Rajiv Gandhi International (RGI) Airport on Friday and handed him over to local police. He was arrested earlier in Bengaluru. The accused dupes passengers at the airport posing as a student who missed the flight and takes money from them. The accused is MV Dinesh Kumar (21) from AP’s Guntur district. On October 30, Dr Shyju of Coimbatore lodged a complaint with police and CISF personnel saying that Dinesh duped her of Rs 10,000 and he also duped some other passengers. “Dinesh purchases cheaper domestic airlines ticket and deliberately misses the flight. He then loiters in the departure terminal introducing himself as a student who missed the flight. He convinces other passengers to buy him flight ticket and also give some money by promising to transfer the same after reaching his destination,” RGIA police SI Venkateshwarulu said. Based on the complaint of Dr Shyju, CISF personnel kept a watch on the movements of Dinesh and apprehended him on Thursday evening when he arrived from Mumbai to go to Bengaluru. “Dinesh carries a fake ID card of a university and a student NCC ID. He was earlier arrested by Bengaluru airport police on August 16 for a similar fraud. We have registered a case against him under sections 406 and 420 of the IPC. Dinesh confessed that he likes travelling in flights and enjoys the money given by passenger. He has been sent to judicial remand,” the SI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-misses-flight-to-dupe-travellers-held/articleshow/79089288.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Language barrier affects functioning of Dakshin Kannada police||Mangaluru: Locals in Dakshina Kannada (DK) are not able to interact properly with personnel at the lower level in police stations here, as about 85% of them are from outside. The first person anyone meets at a police station is a constable. Locals face the issue of a language barrier. According to data, in DK district police limits, only 21.5% of the personnel are locals, and in Mangaluru city commissionerate, the number is abysmally low at 5%. Vinay Gaonkar, DCP (crime and traffic), Mangaluru, said the prime reason why locals do not get selected for constable posts, is as they fail miserably when it comes to physical endurance tests. Gaonkar, who served in the city for a longer duration, attributes it to the lifestyle, where one looks physically fit, but are not active compared to their counterparts from other districts. “During the physical tests I have noticed that compared to their counterparts from other districts, candidates from Dakshina Kannada put up a poor show. There is no chance to get selected if one does not perform well in the physical test. Apart from it, youths are not keen to join the police in lower posts, because of graveyard shifts,” he said. “We (senior police officials) had carried out a campaign to attract local youths to join the police force. We even promised to train them for the physical endurance test using resources available in the district. It did not yield any positive response. As a result, more non-locals are employed as police constables here,” he said. Kishor Kumar, a head police constable hailing from Mangaluru backs his superior’s statement, and says that candidates from other districts practise to pass the physical endurance test, but locals do not. “Non-locals run like a horses on the race track. Another reason for locals being disinterested in joining is long working hours, due to which they have to sacrifice personal and family time,” he added. It’s just not people from DK alone who fail in the physical endurance test, but non-locals do too, said Kiran K, a police personnel who hails from Chikkamagaluru. However, the number of non-locals fail in less numbers, he said. “The difference is that outsiders practice well before they hit the track,” he said. In DK police limits there are 202 local head constables against 23 non-locals, similarly with ASIs, where there are only four non-locals, the rest of the 72 are residents of DK. The widely spoken languages in the region are Tulu, Beary and Konkani. Most of the police personnel, starting from constable to senior officials come from other districts, where these languages are not spoken. Due to this barrier, they fail to deliver their best in the line of duty. On the other side, locals cooperate with police only when they converse in their mother tongue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/language-barrier-affects-functioning-of-dk-police/articleshow/79088073.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen upbeat over resumption of goods trains||LUDHIANA: City businessmen have heaved a sigh of relief after the farmer organisations have softened their stand on the blockade of rail tracks in Punjab and it is likely that by Saturday evening or Sunday, the goods train will resume the services from Punjab. Preparations for the resumption of trains has already started and on Friday, Punjab Police started the checking drives at railway stations and tracks with the purpose of ensuring safety measures in place before running of the trains. Meanwhile, reacting to the report of some farmer organisations declaring that goods trains will be allowed to run temporarily, businessmen have appealed to the farmers that they allow these trains to run without setting any such deadline. According to Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club (SMDC), “The industry has suffered huge losses due to non-movement of trains to and from Punjab as supply of raw material to factories of Ludhiana and supply of finished goods from here to other states was completely halted. We are thankful to the farmers for their concern over the crisis being faced by the industry and deciding to lift ‘rail roko andolan’. But at the same time we request them to allow permanent movement of trains rather than fixing a certain date for the same.” According to Nitin Sharma, member of Auto Parts Manufacturers Association, “This is nothing less than a big relief for the entire trade and industry of Punjab, particularly for Ludhiana. Already, we were facing huge problems as on one side we were unable to despatch our orders to the other states due to non-movement of trains as we are highly dependent on the train network for the despatch of goods to far-off states.” Atul Saggar, general secretary of Apparel Manufacturers Association of Ludhiana, added that, “Garment industry has suffered a big blow due to non-movement of trains as whether it were manufacturers who sell their products locally within India or the exporters, all are highly dependant on the rail network for supply of their goods within India and abroad. Due to non-running of trains we had to use the road transport, which is very costly and at the same time very time consuming. On the other hand, exporters were unable to send their goods to ports sans cargo trains and a huge number of containers have piled up at dry ports because of this. We are happy that finally the goods trains will start soon. However, we are concerned about the development of some farmer organisations announcing that trains will be allowed to run temporarily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-upbeat-over-resumption-of-goods-trains/articleshow/79085221.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: UGC issues new guidelines for reopening of universities||HYDERABAD: Only 50 per cent students will be able to resume academic activities in universities on a rotation basis with the University Grants Commission (UGC) giving nod on reopening higher educational institutions. By issuing detailed guidelines on reopening of universities and colleges post lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, the UGC, on Thursday, has set the ball rolling for commencement of physical classes for the academic year 2020-21. Although the guidelines have to be adopted as per local conditions and state government directives, it sets an agenda for reopening of campuses. “Reopening of universities and colleges will relieve the students from uncertainties regarding their career, mode of functioning of universities and colleges, including the conduct of physical classes. Also, it will relieve teaching and other staff from any uncertainty regarding the continuity of their services and salary etc,” stated the UGC. As per the guidelines, colleges and universities may plan phased reopening of campuses by maintaining physical distancing, use of face mask and other protective measures. Institutions have to follow a six-day schedule and consider reducing the class size and break them in multiple sections to maintain physical distancing during the classes. “Chief secretary (education) Chitra Ramchandran will convene a meeting with all the stakeholders on November 9 to discuss reopening of universities and colleges in Telangana,” said Papi Reddy, chairman, TS Council of Higher Education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ugc-issues-new-guidelines-for-reopening-of-universities/articleshow/79089281.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Rajkot||Project manager’s murder in Rajula: Assailant arrested||RAJKOT: The Amreli police on Friday arrested Pradyumansinh Gohil, who had allegedly stabbed to death project manager of a private firm after a petty fight in the coastal Rajula town on Wednesday night. Gohil had repeatedly stabbed Shubhodeep Bhadra, a native of Kolkata, on Wednesday night. Bhadra was working as a project manager with Mumbai-based pipeline construction firm contracted by Gujarat State Petronet Ltd. (GSPL). Talking to TOI, RM Zala, police inspector, Rajula said “Bhadra’s father arrived in Amreli on Friday with some relatives and performed his last rites. His mother died a few years ago and he was unmarried.” Meanwhile, the condition of Bhadra’s two subordinates - Ankit Sanodiya and Shabdar Khan - who also suffered stab wounds. are now out of danger. Gohil was booked under IPC sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 324 and 447. According to the FIR lodged by Bhadra’s colleague, Gohil had come to their rented house in Dev Residency on Chhatadiya Road and picked up a fight asking why Sanodia and Nizamuddin were overspeeding in their SUV. The duo had gone to drop Bhadra’s guest a hotel and returning home. Gohil was standing by the roadside when he saw them driving in speed. Bhadra, who was stabbed multiple times, died before reaching the hospital. The police had booked Gohil on the complaint of Bhadra’s colleague and had deployed cops at Rajula Civil Hospital where Gohil was admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/project-managers-murder-in-rajula-assailant-arrested/articleshow/79088819.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Drinking water unit installed under overhead tank raises questions||MANDYA: In apparent disregard for safety norms, a drinking water plant has been installed right underneath an overhead tank in Besagarahalli, roughly 20km from Mandya city. The plant in question has been installed by the Besagarahalli GP authorities with funds allocated under the ‘Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana’ initiative. Sources said that the drinking water unit had been set up without either the public works or the environment department issuing a safety clearance certificate. Sumalatha is scheduled to inaugurate the drinking water unit on Saturday. Holes drilled into the pillars supporting the overhead tank have raised the hackles of the residents and government authorities, who fear the damage it may cause to the stability of the tank. In violation of safety rules The rules pertaining to the setting up of a drinking water unit clearly stipulate that any connection to a tap from an overhead tank must be at least 300ft from the structure. This norm is in place in order to prevent dust flushed out while cleaning of the overhead tank do not accumulate on the valves and tanks, thereby running the risk of the drinking water in the plant getting polluted. Thus, the drinking water unit underneath the overhead tank, is likely to discharge water that may not be entirely safe to drink.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/drinking-water-unit-installed-under-overhead-tank-raises-questions/articleshow/79089023.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Petition to lift ban on firecrackers: Rajasthan HC hearing on November 10||JAIPUR: The hearing of petition filed by a firecrackers association was deferred till November 10 by a single bench of Rajasthan High Court on Friday. The association, seeking lifting of ban from the sale and purchase of firecrackers, will now have to wait and are mulling over moving an application in the Supreme Court. On Friday, the single bench comprising Justice Ashok Kumar Gaur adjourned the hearing till November 10. Thus, these firecracker manufacturers would come to know if the ban would continue only four days prior to Diwali. Counsel for Fire Works Dealer and Manufactures Association R N Mathur said, “We had moved the petition demanding lifting of ban on the firecrackers as it will also create a problem of livelihood to many. It was to be heard on Friday. The court has now given us time for hearing on November 10.” Firecrackers association said that they are planning to move an application in the Supreme Court and will take further legal opinion in this regard. It may be recalled that the state government banned the sale of fireworks and firecrackers till December 31 across the state. Provisions are being made to impose various fines on sale and purchase of firecrackers. Meanwhile, a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking ban on firecrackers was disposed of by the high court saying government has already done. Shweta Pareek, the petitioner, has also moved an application in the court hearing the matter in which firecrackers association have sought lifting of ban. “I have requested the court to make me a party in this case since it was my PIL in which the state government banned the sale and purchase of fireworks and firecrackers,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/petition-to-lift-ban-on-firecrackers-hc-hearing-on-nov-10/articleshow/79090663.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Drive to curb deaths of cattle on railway tracks||JAISALMER: To stop cattle and wildlife getting killed on railway tracks in the districts in western Rajasthan including Jaisalmer and Barmer, the newly appointed DRM Geetika Pandey has made a strategy on ‘Pashudhan bachao’ (save livestock). It is to be mentioned that in Jodhpur division alone, every year more than 300 animals get killed after being mowed down by trains and many get injured. Maximum animals getting killed are from the Jaisalmer sector. With animals suddenly coming on to the tracks, many a times big accidents take place, which also causes damage to the train’s engine, which results in delays in running of trains. Senior public relations officer Gopal Sharma said that Pandey has expressed the need for a campaign to save these animals. Jodhpur rail division has invited suggestions from the concerned parties of railways and volunteers. Even cattle raisers, environmentalists and institutions are helping the government officers. Their ideas will be invited to protect livestock and to save them from getting killed on tracks and to keep them away from rail tracks. A mobile helpline number will be started on which for the first seven days, ideas and suggestions will be taken. Interested people and institutions can contact on 9001198192. Based on the selected suggestions and ideas, a detailed action plan will be made. In western Rajasthan, livestock is the main source of livelihood due to shortage of water and lack of farming. In this drive, a public awareness campaign will also be run and cattle raisers will be persuaded to keep their cattle away from tracks. It is also known that a few days ago, a goods train derailed from track after cattle coming in its way. Sources said that cattle-related accidents on the railway tracks have been increasing. In last three years, more than 32,000 animals have died across the country due to this. Till June this year, 3,479 animals died on railway tracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drive-to-curb-deaths-of-cattle-on-rly-tracks/articleshow/79090655.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Drive to curb deaths of cattle on railway tracks||JAISALMER: To stop cattle and wildlife getting killed on railway tracks in the districts in western Rajasthan including Jaisalmer and Barmer, the newly appointed DRM Geetika Pandey has made a strategy on ‘Pashudhan bachao’ (save livestock). It is to be mentioned that in Jodhpur division alone, every year more than 300 animals get killed after being mowed down by trains and many get injured. Maximum animals getting killed are from the Jaisalmer sector. With animals suddenly coming on to the tracks, many a times big accidents take place, which also causes damage to the train’s engine, which results in delays in running of trains. Senior public relations officer Gopal Sharma said that Pandey has expressed the need for a campaign to save these animals. Jodhpur rail division has invited suggestions from the concerned parties of railways and volunteers. Even cattle raisers, environmentalists and institutions are helping the government officers. Their ideas will be invited to protect livestock and to save them from getting killed on tracks and to keep them away from rail tracks. A mobile helpline number will be started on which for the first seven days, ideas and suggestions will be taken. Interested people and institutions can contact on 9001198192. Based on the selected suggestions and ideas, a detailed action plan will be made. In western Rajasthan, livestock is the main source of livelihood due to shortage of water and lack of farming. In this drive, a public awareness campaign will also be run and cattle raisers will be persuaded to keep their cattle away from tracks. It is also known that a few days ago, a goods train derailed from track after cattle coming in its way. Sources said that cattle-related accidents on the railway tracks have been increasing. In last three years, more than 32,000 animals have died across the country due to this. Till June this year, 3,479 animals died on railway tracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/drive-to-curb-deaths-of-cattle-on-rly-tracks/articleshow/79095212.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Graduates have time till December 31 to enrol, says EC||HYDERABAD: Election Commission of India on Friday informed the high court that all graduates in the state have time till December 31 to enrol themselves as voters to remain eligible to vote in March 2021 graduates constituency MLC elections. Its counsel Avinash Desai informed this to a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy when the case filed by advocate TV Ramesh came up for hearing. The petitioner questioned the November 6 deadline to enrol and brought to the notice of the court about lack of any information about this deadline. “Scores of graduates did not know about this last date,” he sad. The bench too turned critical and questioned the methods of ECI that was citing rules even during the pandemic. The ECI counsel said that the enrolment could go on simultaneously even as the commisison continues with the publication of the draft voters list by December 1. “But, there can be additions till the end of December 2020,” he said. The bench closed the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/graduates-havetime-till-dec-31to-enrol-ec/articleshow/79089318.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Credit society scam: Key accused arrested by Balotara cops||JAISALMER: Vikram Singh Indroi, the main culprit involved in the Rs 1,100 crore scam and accused of siphoning off savings of innocent people, was arrested by Balotara police and produced in the court on Friday which sent him to two-day police remand. Earlier, Indroi, CMD of Sanjeevani Credit Cooperative Society Limited, was arrested by the SOG team after which information was taken from the victim consumers from Rajasthan and Gujarat. On September 30, the SOG team collected details from victims at Balotara Dak Bunglow in which more than 20 consumers lodged their complaint. The arrest was made based on the case lodged by one Pappuram Soni. By offering more interest on the savings, the society cheated people and SOG is investigating the case. When the team was inquiring the victims at Dak Bunglow, society agent Ashok Gupta told the team about embezzling Rs 7 lakh. It was the first credit society in Barmer which was started in 2007. At that time, there was a boom in oil gas, lignite and farmers had got crores of rupees on acquisition of their land in Barmer district. The society trapped the people by offering huge interest on deposits and thousands of investors got lured and made huge deposits with the society. The society opened its branch in Balotara in 2008. The number of investors increased and in 2018-19, the society started getting Rs 15-17 lakh per day as deposits. In the initial days, the society was paying money on time which built the faith of agents and investors. Slowly, the branches started closing and people lost their money. SP Anand Sharma said that SOG had earlier arrested Indroi and at present he is in judicial custody in Jodhpur Central Jail. Balotara police arrested him on production warrant and produced him in the court. He was sent to two-day police remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/credit-society-scam-key-accused-arrested/articleshow/79090662.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Exhibition of Diwali items made by disabled pupils||Kolhapur: Over 100 students with disabilities of 20 schools run by the Kolhapur zilla parishad have made decorative items for an exhibition ahead of Diwali.The ZP runs seven workshop centres for students with disabilities above the age of 18 years. Since the last year, the ZP has started the initiative to train them in preparing various utility and decorative items like rakhis. Ahead of Diwali, they have made lanterns, diyas of various designs, utane (herbal powder used with scented oil ) and gift packages.Aman Mittal, the ZP CEO, said, “From November 9 to 11, an exhibition of the decorative items made by students with disabilities will be held in the ZP premise. I appeal to the citizens to buy these items. It will boost their confidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/exhibition-of-diwali-items-made-by-disabled-pupils/articleshow/79086139.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: B Ramalinga Raju denies giving nod to Netflix to make documentary on him||HYDERABAD: Satyam Computers founder B Ramalinga Raju on Friday said he did not give any consent to Netflix to make a documentary film on him. According to him, it was Minnow Films and its representatives who obtained some photographs and documents from him and made him believe that they were making a documentary on India’s economic boom and its billionaires. Senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy said in the high court that Raju was never informed that they were doing all this for Netflix. “It was only after seeing the teaser that we came to know that they made the series with a title ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’ and used phrases like fraud and greed against Raju,” he said while arguing for Raju and for restraining Netflix from releasing the episode on Raju. The bench posted the case to November 20 to hear the version of Netflix. Following an urgent plea from Raju, it can be recalled a civil court in Hyderabad had stopped the release of the episode on September 4. Netflix approached high court urging it to vacate the restraint order and allow it to air the episode. Equating Netflix with a hoarding, Niranjan told a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy that the rights available to writers, directors and producers under freedom of expression are not available to OTT platforms. The trial court’s ex parte injunction order had protected Raju from being unduly defamed. “By issuing an injunction order, the trial court caused some delay which may result in some financial loss to Netflix. But if the injunction was not given, I would have been defamed and the resultant damages cannot be compensated by money. So, the balance of convenience was in favour of Raju,” the senior counsel said. “Netflix obtained Raju’s consent through dubious methods. In fact, the consent was given by Hari, who once was an employee with Raju. The conversations he had with Netflix cannot be seen as consent conveyed by Raju,” Niranjan said. He argued that the right of commercial speech being exercised by Netflix is a lesser right when compared to Raju’s right to privacy which was guaranteed by the Constitution. “Hari worked with ‘Call Health’ firm and is not with Raju now,” he said. Netflix made a documentary on four of India’s biggest corporate frauds, including the Satyam scam perpetrated by Raju.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/raju-denies-giving-nod-to-netflix-to-make-docu-on-him/articleshow/79089324.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||Drunk driving cases can get arms licence revoked||Nagpur: Repeated cases of drunk driving may now lead to cancellation of the owner’s arms licence. Show cause notices were issued to around eight persons, including two prominent businessmen, after offences were registered against them. In a first of its kind initiative, city police chief Amitesh Kumar held a ‘junta darbar’ for holders of arms licence at Police Gymkhana. He disposed of nearly 258 cases which remained unresolved since several months. They were related to the renewal of licences, issuing new ones and transferring them. Kumar has now made it a norm for police officials to ensure that verifications and other formalities of the arms licences of senior citizens are conducted at their doorsteps. The basic objective of conducting the ‘junta durbar’ for arms licences revolved around transparency and prompt disposals. “Orders for renewal of some licences were issued and a few instructions were also given for show cause notices too. We are contemplating revocation of arms licences of owners with serious offences,” said Kumar. Sounding a warning, Kumar said, “We are not considering political offences and regular traffic violations but the ones having more than one drunk driving case may lose our trust. We may consider revocation of the arms licence of a drunk driver.” Several ex-servicemen, security providing agencies, petrol pump owners, doctors and businessmen were present at the camp to voice their grievances related to arms licences. Kumar decided on each case after hearing the updates from the concerned police station personnel and staffers from the arms licence branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/drunk-driving-cases-can-get-arms-licence-revoked/articleshow/79088173.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court okays release of Ram Gopal Varma film||HYDERABAD: Film director Ram Gopal Varma got a relief when Telangana high court on Friday accorded conditional permission for the release of his new movie ‘Murder’. Following apprehensions that the film depicted the love story of Pranay and Amritha from Miryalaguda in Nalgonda district, a trial court in Nalgonda earlier granted an injunction against the release of the film. The filmmakers filed an appeal challenging the trial court’s order. A bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Amarnath Goud directed the filmmakers to remove the names of Amritha, Pranay and Maruthi Rao if they were used in ‘Murder’ film. “Also, add a disclaimer that this story is not on anyone’s real lifestory,” the judges said. “Amritha, the petitioner, before the trial court has a right to privacy and it should not be disturbed. We will drag the filmmakers to the court if they violate the court order,” her counsel V Raghunath said. Amritha was apprehensive that the movie was based on her love story. Her father Maruthi Rao did not approve her marriage with Pranay and allegedly got him killed through hired assassins. Later, Maruthi Rao himself committed suicide. “Making a film on such sensitive subject without obtaining the consent of Amritha and that too at a time when the trial in the case is still pending is wrong,” she contended before the trial court which stalled the release of the movie. The high court has now imposed certain conditions and allowed the release of the film.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-court-okays-release-of-rgv-film/articleshow/79089328.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 7, 2020||India||Jailed over rape & murder, Dera chief got day’s parole ‘secretly’||CHANDIGARH/ROHTAK: Haryana’s BJP-JJP coalition government, led by CM Manohar Lal Khattar, granted Gurmeet Ram Rahim, the controversial head of Dera Sacha Sauda, a day’s parole on October 24. The dera chief — at present imprisoned in Rohtak after his conviction in cases of rape and murder — was granted parole to meet his ailing mother who is hospitalised in Gurgaon, highly-placed sources said. The dera chief was taken under heavy security from Sunaria jail to the Gurgaon hospital on October 24 and stayed with his mother till the evening. Sources told TOI that three companies of the Haryana police — one company has 80-100 jawans — were involved. The dera chief was transported from jail and back in a police vehicle with curtains. In Gurgaon, police vehicles were parked in the basement of the hospital and the entire floor where his mother was under treatment was vacated. “We had received a request from the jail superintendent seeking security for Ram Rahim’s visit to Gurgaon. We had provided the security during his transportation from sunrise to sunset on October 24. Everything remained peaceful,” Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma confirmed to TOI. Only the CM and a few senior Haryana government officials had information about the exercise, which was apparently carried out on the instructions of BJP top brass. Even the jawans were not aware of the identity of the person they were escorting. According to experts, by granting parole in such a manner, the Haryana authorities have created permanent grounds for him to seek release on parole in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jailed-over-rape-murder-dera-chief-got-days-parole-secretly/articleshow/79092020.cms||Ajay Sura
November 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: A dozen law graduates get over 100% in final semester exams||MUMBAI: Niki Bindra makes for a compelling story. A student of Government Law College, she has breached the ultimate exam barrier by scoring more than 100%. Her final semester marks add up to 410 out of 400 as she was awarded an additional 10 marks for participating in the department of lifelong learning and extension programme. That works out to an impossible 102%—a double leap from her Semester Nine score of 56%. As Mumbai University released the five-year law programme’s results on Friday, Niki was joined by several other batchmates such as Nidhi Dedhia who upped her scores from 205/400 in Semester Nine to 410/400 in the final exam. Afshana Shah who scored 214 in Semester Nine went on to bag 410 this time around. And like them, there are at least nine more students who bagged more than cent per cent as their overall final exam percentage. “It’s all magical. Online multiple choice question (MCQ) exams have made students geniuses,” said Sachin Pawar, president, Student Law Council. Of the 1,962 candidates who took the 10th semester exam, 60 had at least one backlog in the ninth semester, but now have gone on to score a perfect 100/100 in one or more subjects. While Paper 1 (Alternate Dispute Resolution System) and 2 (Law of Evidence) are compulsory, they saw 163 students bagging 100/100; the count for such ‘ultimate scorers’ was 105 for Paper 2. The two optional papers saw 150 and 185 candidates bag a perfect 100/100. “Ultimately, recruiters are not going to buy these scores. When they interview a student, they are going to know their real worth. That is every candidate’s real test,” said a principal. Principals joked about the result, stating they were definitely “positive”. The marklist on the Government Law College Notice Board is peppered with 297 instances of full 100 marks, with many students securing 100/100 in more than one subject. This year, 1,224 students have secured a first class, and 111 a second class. The remaining have not been awarded a class as they had a backlog in the ninth semester exam. Compare that with 2019 when a total of merely 96 secured a first class and 770 got second class.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/a-dozen-law-graduates-get-over-100-in-final-semester-exams/articleshow/79088960.cms||Hemali Chhapia
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid can make you forget other things, literally!||Ahmedabad: Alkesh Kumar (75), a resident of Vastrapur, reported difficulty in putting names to persons’ faces. He also had a difficulty in simple maths when he went to the market to buy supplies. “Kumar was discharged after getting hospitalized for 14 days due to Covid-19. His Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) score was below 24, indicating a slight cognitive impairment. He had also reported fatigue. In our parlance, this condition is identified as viral encephalopathy (brain disease that alters brain function). He was put on neuroprotectants and vitamin supplements,” said Dr Arvind Sharma, head of neurology department at a city-based private hospital. While the impact of Covid-19 after hospital discharge in terms of fibrosis in lungs and thrombosis in blood stream are well-documented, the city-based experts are also reporting neural impact of the viral infection among the discharged patients. Dr Shalin Shah, consultant neuro physician at SVP Hospital, said that both young and old patients were reporting memory loss. “A 50-year-old patient who recovered from an aggressive Covid infection reported difficulty in finding words while speaking and felt mental dullness. He would also forget when the family had decided to go to a certain place or do certain work. We term it as an episodic memory loss,” he explained. “One of our former students, currently working as a faculty in a prestigious institute, had a difficulty in finding her way to the college — even as she has lived on the campus for the past two years,” said Prof Dileep Mavalankar, director of IIPH-G, adding that she now plays games such as Scrabble to keep her cognitive abilities intact. Dr Malav Gadani, a city-based neuro physician, said that viral encephalopathy can affect 40-50% of the Covid-19 patients with high viral load.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-can-make-you-forget-other-things-literally/articleshow/79089538.cms||Parth Shastri
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||Man thrashes 73-year-old mom-in-law with bat||Nagpur: A 52-year-old man, identified as Dilip Bukne, kept on thrashing his 73-year-old mother-in-law Kasabai Khawale with his son’s cricket bat until it broke into two pieces in Shreekrushna Nagar under the jurisdiction of Mankapur police on Thursday. Bukne disliked Kasabai’s staying with them at his residence and also doubted wife Varsha’s character. Varsha, a government employee, too, was seriously injured when she tried to rescue her mother who fell unconscious as her enraged son-in-law continued to rain blows on the duo until the cricket bat was broken. When Bukne went out to get another hard object to continue his murderous assault, an injured Varsha imediately bolted the door from inside and raised an alarm. The couple, who has grown up sons, used to have a regular bickering among themselves over the issue. On the day of incident, Bukne had started objecting to his mother-in-law’s staying with them. He had, in the beginning, picked up a fight with her. Varsha, who had gone to market, too had joined the heated arguments after returning home. The neighbours and some of their relatives, staying in the vicinity, had rushed to rescue the women and also shift them to hospital. Bukne, who had managed to flee from the place, was arrested by Mankapur police in the wee hours of Friday. He has been charged with attempt to murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-thrashes-73-year-old-mom-in-law-with-bat/articleshow/79088199.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 7, 2020||Surat||One killed in factory blast in Dahej SEZ||SURAT: One person succumbed to severe burns following a major fire at an agrochemical factory in Dahej SEZ on Friday morning. The deceased Ramkumar Jaykishore Chaudhary (40), a resident of Dahej, was employed at Hemani Industries limited, an agrochemical manufacturing company in Dahej SEZ. The incident occurred at about 11 am following a short-circuit to in the electric motor of the multi-effect evaporator (MEE) section of the effluent treatment plant (ETP) in the company premises. The motor had exploded due to the short-circuit, injuring Chaudhary. The victim was standing near to the ETP and got engulfed in fire and later succumbed to the injuries on Friday afternoon during treatment. The Dahej police rushed to the spot along with the fire tenders. The fire was brought under control within two hours. AC Gohil, police inspector of Dahej police station told TOI, “We have registered a case of accidental death. There was a short circuit in the electric motor at the MEE section of the ETP, which caused a major fire. While other workers rushed to the safety, Chaudhary got caught in the blaze and died in the hospital.” Gohil added, “The body of the deceased has been handed over to his relatives after the process was completed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-killed-in-factory-blast-in-dahej-sez/articleshow/79087003.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shaktisinh Gohil tests Covid positive||Gandhinagar: Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament and All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar, Shaktisnh Gohil, has tested positive for Covid-19. The senior Congress leader has announced that he has been infected with coronavirus, on social media. His personal assistant informed that after coming to Ahmedabad from Delhi, Gohil experienced Covid-19-like symptoms and opted for a test, which turned out to be positive. He has requested all those who have come in contact with him in the past few days to get tested for Covid-19 if they experience any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shaktisinh-gohil-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/79089518.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolhapur||10 heritage buildings picked for conservation in Kolhapur city||Kolhapur: The civic body in Kolhapur has shortlisted 10 heritage buildings in the city that will be protected and conserved with public participation.Recently, mayor Nilofer Ajrekar had asked the civic officials to finalise the 10 heritage buildings. Accordingly, out of 74 heritage buildings, one grade-II and nine grade-I heritage buildings were finalised for the protection and conservation plan.The grade-1 buildings selected are the collectors’ office, Kagalkar Wada, Keshavrao Bhosale Natyagruha, Bhavani Mandap, CPR hospital, Town Hall museum, Panchaganga ghat, All Saints church and Vitthal mandir. The treasury office is the only grade-II building chosen for the plan. Some of these buildings are currently under the government’s ownership, one is under the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the rest are used by trusts.“We are initiating a massive drive focusing on conservation awareness. The administration has selected the buildings based on their importance. We are going to start a drive to make these structures visible by removing hoardings and unwanted bushes that have grown around them. We will draft a plan to get people to contribute and participate in our conservation efforts. Moreover, we will seek funds from the state government to develop amenities for the tourists visiting these structures,” said Ajrekar.There have been several past attempts to conserve the heritage structures. However, lack of funds and will of the corporators have been the roadblocks. Local activists said these heritage buildings have great tourism potential. “All activities under the conservation efforts will be planned with the help of the experts. We will develop a self-sustainable model to keeping the conservation efforts going,” added Ajrekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/10-heritage-buildings-picked-for-conservation-in-kolhapur-city/articleshow/79086148.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC tests shopkeepers, vendors ahead of festivals||Ahmedabad: Just ahead of the festivities, the health department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has embarked on a major Covid testing drive across shops, sweet marts, vegetable vending areas and super markets in the city. In Bodakdev area, of the 250-odd vegetable vendors and shop keepers who were tested, seven tested positive. In Ambli, of the 230-odd shopkeepers and vendors who were tested, 13 tested positive. In the north zone, of the 317 who were tested, five tested positive. The municipal health department has warned that these are initial indication of the Covid infection spread and that citizens must be aware of the viral presence. “As temperature dips and humidity decreases there are chances that the viral spread will increase. One needs to be careful now, especially those who had caught infections in May, June or July months as they are vulnerable to another round of infection,” said a senior AMC health official. The civic body is on the verge of completing another round of serosurveillance that will help it decipher the prevalence of a repeat infection. “Some 1,200 shopkeepers, vendors and supermarket personnel have been tested, of them 30 tested Covid-19 positive. More results are awaited on Saturday,” said the official. Municipal officials pointed out that the measurement of viral load of those infected was critical. “When we perform RT-PCR tests, the cycle threshold value tells us the viral load of a person. If the load is more, the person has greater chances of spreading the virus to more people. These people are to be isolated to slow down the infection spread,” explained the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-tests-shopkeepers-vendors-ahead-of-festivals/articleshow/79089517.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mangaluru||CM sanctions Rs 125 crore, MCC still owes Rs 70 crore to contractors||MANGALURU: Though chief minister BS Yediyurappa had announced Rs 125 crore to the MCC, the city corporation is yet to take a decision on the huge amount of pending dues of contractors, who had taken up various development works in the city. Yediyurappa, who was in the city on Thursday, while announcing Rs 125 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi Nagar Vikas Yojana (MGNVY), had said that he has already ordered the release of Rs 50 crore to the MCC. However, the city corporation must clear pending dues of contractors to the tune of Rs 70 crore. Premanand Shetty, chief whip of the ruling BJP, told TOI that the government has already sanctioned Rs 125 crore for the MCC and the funds will be released soon. “Very soon, a meeting will be convened by MLA D Vedavyas Kamath and mayor Diwakar to discuss about future plans with regard to the funds sanctioned under the MGNVY. While all existing development works will be expedited, new projects will be taken up through the funds. Meanwhile, the pending bills to the tune of Rs 70 crore that the city corporation owes to contractors towards works taken up in the previous years also have to be cleared. However, a final decision will be taken at the meeting to be chaired by the MLA,” he said. Meanwhile, opposition leader in the council Abdul Ravoof said the Rs 125 crore under the MGNVY was announced by the then urban development minister UT Khader in 2018. “It was the then minister UT Khader announced the funds under the scheme, but due to political developments and Covid-19 pandemic, funds were not released. The funds under the scheme can be utilised only for specific development projects and it cannot be used to clear pending dues the city corporation. The city corporation should either clear pending bills on its own or the government should announce special sanctions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cm-sanctions-rs-125-cr-mcc-still-owes-rs-70-cr-to-contractors/articleshow/79088196.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar lineman electrocuted despite power shutdown, dies||Muzaffarnagar: A 45-year-old lineman was electrocuted while repairing a fault in a high-tension (H-T) power supply cable in Muzaffarnagar on Friday morning. The accident happened when despite power supply being shut down for the repair work, it resumed in the line suddenly, killing the lineman on the spot. Soon, villagers sat in protest with his body outside the powerhouse, and were only pacified after authorities assured the family of financial help.According to sources, the incident happened in an area under New Mandi police station. Private lineman of the power department, Karan Pal Singh, was working to fix an electrical fault in H-T wire. However, power supply was suddenly restored from the power station, giving him a heavy jolt that killed him on the spot.After being informed of the mishap, family and relatives of the deceased gathered on spot and created ruckus, demanding compensation and other benefits. The son of the deceased, Shubham Kumar, said, “We need compensation, a job in the power department and pension for my mother.”Police and power department officials rushed to the spot and pacified the protestors after giving assurance that compensation will be provide and probe carried out in the matter.City magistrate Abhishek Singh said, “Rs 5 lakh compensation has released by the power department. Other demands of the family of the deceased are also being considered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/muzaffarnagar-lineman-electrocuted-despite-power-shutdown-dies/articleshow/79088188.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 7, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP-JJP, Congress MLAs come together for space in complex, meet Punjab governor||CHANDIGARH: Divided over the farm laws and other issues, legislators from the incumbent BJP-JJP alliance and the Congress joined hands to press for Haryana’s demand for legitimate share of space in the assembly complex. A delegation of BJP, JJP and Congress MLAs, led by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta, on Friday met Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore at Punjab Raj Bhawan. Apart from Khattar and Gupta, Haryana leader of opposition Bhupinder Hooda, former speaker Raghuvir Singh Kadian and former CLP leader Kiran Choudhry were part of the delegation. Reiterating that Punjab was yet to give Haryana its rightful share of space in the common assembly complex, Haryana speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Wednesday asserted that they were not begging but claiming the state’s right. In August, Gupta had written to his Punjab counterpart to vacate 20 rooms so that Haryana could get is 40% space as provided for in the Punjab Reorganization Act of 1966. He had said the Haryana assembly was operating from only 27% of the space in assembly premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-jjp-cong-mlas-come-together-for-space-in-complex-meet-pb-guv/articleshow/79089343.cms||---
November 7, 2020||---||Leg 3 today: Chirag Paswan, Owaisi and Pappu Yadav to heat up NDA-GA race||PATNA: Altogether 78 constituencies, across 15 districts in north Bihar, will go to the polls in the third and knock-out phase of the state assembly election to be held today. These constituencies span from Kishanganj in the East to West Champaran bordering Nepal. The third phase, too, is bracing for a tough contest between the two major alliances-- the ruling NDA and the Mahagathbandhan — but smaller parties such as the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM and former MP Pappu Yadav-led JAP-L may turn the contest triangular in some constituencies in their respective areas of influence. For instance, the AIMIM has visible influence in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region comprising four districts of Kishanganj, Katihar, Araria and Purnia; its candidates may make a dent in the minority support base of the Mahagathbandhan candidates. Of the total 24 seats that form Seemanchal, the Mahagathbandhan in its present form (RJD, Congress and Left parties) holds 12 seats, the NDA (11) and the AIMIM has one. The AIMIM won its lone Kishanganj seat in the 2019 by-election. In the current election, the AIMIM is contesting 15 of the 24 Seemanchal seats. “Owaisi’s party is in a winning position in two to three Seemanchal seats, while it is in a contest in other three seats in the region,” a Kishanganj-based senior journalist told TOI on Friday. “Of the total 16 seats the AIMIM is contesting in the third phase, 15 are in the Seemanchal region. We are contesting only one seat, Chhatapur out of the Seemanchal, in the third phase,” the AIMIM leader Aadil Hasan told TOI on Friday. He said the AIMIM might not win too many seats, but the party has made people feel its presence in all parts of Seemanchal in this election. Similarly, Pappu Yadav’s JAP-L candidates can make the contest triangular in some seats in the Kosi region. Pappu himself is contesting from Madhepura. Chirag’s LJP also has made the contest triangular in at least 10 of the 78 seats in the third phase. “We are in a tough contest with other major parties at least in Gaighat, Bihariganj, Rupauli, Narkatiyaganj, Manihari, Narkatiya, Bochahan, Mahua, Samastipur and Morwa constituencies,” LJP functionary Shrawan Kumar Agarwal told TOI. Party-wise, a maximum 46 candidates of the RJD are in the fray in the third phase, followed by LJP (42), JDU (37), BJP (35), Congress (25), RLSP (25), BSP (20), AIMIM (16), VIP (5), CPI-ML (5), CPI (2) and HAMS (one seat). In the 2015 assembly polls, JD(U) had won 23 seats out of third phase’s 78, followed by BJP (20), RJD (20), Congress (11), RLSP (one), CPI-ML (one) and Independents (two seats). Of the total 78 seats, a close fight is expected in the 10 seats where winning margins were less than 5,000 votes in the 2015 election. These seats are Banmankhi, Kasba, Sikta, Raxaul, Gaighat, Harlakhi, Parihar, Chiraia, Jale and Benipatti. As the composition of two major alliances has completely changed in the current election, these seats might see tougher contests. However, some heavyweight candidates in these seats may change the pattern of the result this year. In 2015 polls, the BJP-led NDA had won six of these 10 seats. The then grand alliance comprising RJD, JD(U) and Congress had won four seats. The state’s tourism minister Krishna Kumar Rishi from Banmankhi (SC) seat was among the 10 winners, who won his seat with the lowest victory margin of 708 votes. Polling in 71 seats in the first phase and 94 seats in the second phase has already been completed with voter turnout at 54.26% and 54.05%, respectively. The results for all three phases will come out on November 10. Though CM Nitish Kumar, who is seeking re-election as the NDA’s CM face, on Thursday said “this is my last election”, his party JD(U) is trying its best to secure so many seats so that it can comfortably claim the CM’s chair. The Mahagathbandhan is contesting this election projecting Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as their CM face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/leg-3-today-chirag-paswan-owaisi-and-pappu-yadav-to-heat-up-nda-ga-race/articleshow/79094235.cms||Madan Kumar
November 7, 2020||Surat||Abducted Jharkhand teenager rescued from Surat railway station||SURAT: A 17-year-old Jharkhand girl was kidnapped from near her tuition classes in Daltonganj area and was brought to Surat. However, the plucky teen could escape from her abductors’ captivity and somehow reached Udhna railways station, where she was seen distressed and in dire need of help. Thankfully, some Good Samaritan took mercy upon her and called up the women’s helpline Abhayam in Surat seeking help for the lost girl. The team in Surat city soon reached the station, found the girl and after getting initial information on her family members and how she reached Surat, has initiated a process to send her back to her family. Talking to TOI, an official from Abhayam team said that the girl is a Class XII student while her father runs dance classes. She has three siblings, two sisters and a brother, and the family lives in Daltonganj in Jharkhand. “The girl told us that she was kidnapped by unknown persons including a woman on November 2 who brought her to Surat. She had gone to her tuition classes on that day and after it was over, was waiting near a college for some vehicle to reach home. Here, a woman approached her with a request to let her use the teen’s mobile phone, which she gave. The woman started chit-chatting with the girl, asking her about where she wanted to go, and where she stayed etc. In the meantime, a car reached the spot and the woman asked the girl if she would want a lift and the girl agreed,” the official said. The girl was given some substances which rendered her unconscious and she was brought to Surat where she was kept in a room, the teen told Abhayam team. Here, she tried to call up her parents but the kidnappers allegedly snatched away her cellphone. But on Friday, she got a chance to escape in the morning. “She does not know where she was kept in Surat. We have contacted her family in Jharkhand as her parents had filed her missing report on November 2 in a local police station. Her family members will come to Surat to take back their daughter soon. Right now, she is being provided shelter at Sakhi One stop Centre in Surat,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/abducted-jharkhand-teenager-rescued-from-surat-rly-station/articleshow/79087043.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rape-accused escapes from Mehsana hospital||PALANPUR: An undertrial prisoner escaped from police custody from the civil hospital in Mehsana where he was undergoing treatment on Friday. The prisoner Kiritkumar Thakor (26), who is accused of raping a minor, was admitted to the hospital on Thursday after he fainted in his prison cell. Thakor had been in jail since April 27. He is resident of Ramosana village near Mehsana. According to police, on Thursday Thakor suddenly fainted in his cell and was rushed to the civil hospital, said jailer K J Chaudhary. According to B B Goswami, police inspector with A Division police station, “Thakor managed to escape when both the guards went to toilet. The accused somehow managed to get his wrist out of the handcuffs and escaped, she said. A search operation was on to nab the escaped prisoner. However, no disciplinary action was initiated against the erring cops on duty at the civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rape-accused-escapes-from-mehsana-hospital/articleshow/79088833.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||Contractual doctors end strike after minister’s assurance||Nagpur: Doctors working on 120 or 360-day contract in government medical colleges joined back duties from Friday after three days of strike. Minister of medical education Amit Deshmukh assured to consider their demands of payments as per the 7th pay commission and accommodating them into services on permanent basis, said Dr Sameer Golawar, general secretary of Maharashtra State Medical Teachers’ Association (Central Body). “We had a meeting with the minister on Thursday. Deshmukh was positive about all our demands. He assured that proposal for the 7th pay commission has already been forwarded to the finance department on November 3,” said Dr Golawar. The prime demand of these doctors is to include them in permanent services. Deshmukh has assured to start the process. “I was a part of the delegation that had a meeting with minister Deshmukh on Thursday. Earlier, we had submitted a memorandum of our demands addressed to CM Uddhav Thackeray. These demands were forwarded through MLA Vikas Thakre,” said Dr Golawar. There are over 450 such doctors in Maharashtra working in government medical colleges (GMCs) on contract basis. As far as Nagpur is concerned, more than 50 doctors are working on contract at the two GMCs in city. Some of them have been appointed back in 2009 and are working since 11 years on regular renewal of their contracts. As per government norms, doctors who work in GMCHs as professors should be appointed through Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examinations. In case GMCs don’t get them through MPSC, they form a committee led by respective deans and appoint doctors on contract basis. During Covid-19 pandemic situation, all these doctors have been working tirelessly as front-line Covid warriors. Being experienced in both clinical and academic fields, they were holding key responsibilities in Covid wards. To press their long pending demand of permanent appointment, they had observed two-day strike in October. From November 2, they had started indefinite strike. As far as Nagpur is concerned, only 53 doctors went on strike, so the work at both GMCHs remained largely unaffected during these days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/contractual-doctors-end-strike-after-ministers-assurance/articleshow/79088222.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 7, 2020||Patna||Leg 3 today: Chirag Paswan, Owaisi and Pappu Yadav to heat up NDA-GA race||PATNA: Altogether 78 constituencies, across 15 districts in north Bihar, will go to the polls in the third and knock-out phase of the state assembly election to be held today. These constituencies span from Kishanganj in the East to West Champaran bordering Nepal. The third phase, too, is bracing for a tough contest between the two major alliances-- the ruling NDA and the Mahagathbandhan — but smaller parties such as the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM and former MP Pappu Yadav-led JAP-L may turn the contest triangular in some constituencies in their respective areas of influence. For instance, the AIMIM has visible influence in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region comprising four districts of Kishanganj, Katihar, Araria and Purnia; its candidates may make a dent in the minority support base of the Mahagathbandhan candidates. Of the total 24 seats that form Seemanchal, the Mahagathbandhan in its present form (RJD, Congress and Left parties) holds 12 seats, the NDA (11) and the AIMIM has one. The AIMIM won its lone Kishanganj seat in the 2019 by-election. In the current election, the AIMIM is contesting 15 of the 24 Seemanchal seats. “Owaisi’s party is in a winning position in two to three Seemanchal seats, while it is in a contest in other three seats in the region,” a Kishanganj-based senior journalist told TOI on Friday. “Of the total 16 seats the AIMIM is contesting in the third phase, 15 are in the Seemanchal region. We are contesting only one seat, Chhatapur out of the Seemanchal, in the third phase,” the AIMIM leader Aadil Hasan told TOI on Friday. He said the AIMIM might not win too many seats, but the party has made people feel its presence in all parts of Seemanchal in this election. Similarly, Pappu Yadav’s JAP-L candidates can make the contest triangular in some seats in the Kosi region. Pappu himself is contesting from Madhepura. Chirag’s LJP also has made the contest triangular in at least 10 of the 78 seats in the third phase. “We are in a tough contest with other major parties at least in Gaighat, Bihariganj, Rupauli, Narkatiyaganj, Manihari, Narkatiya, Bochahan, Mahua, Samastipur and Morwa constituencies,” LJP functionary Shrawan Kumar Agarwal told TOI. Party-wise, a maximum 46 candidates of the RJD are in the fray in the third phase, followed by LJP (42), JDU (37), BJP (35), Congress (25), RLSP (25), BSP (20), AIMIM (16), VIP (5), CPI-ML (5), CPI (2) and HAMS (one seat). In the 2015 assembly polls, JD(U) had won 23 seats out of third phase’s 78, followed by BJP (20), RJD (20), Congress (11), RLSP (one), CPI-ML (one) and Independents (two seats). Of the total 78 seats, a close fight is expected in the 10 seats where winning margins were less than 5,000 votes in the 2015 election. These seats are Banmankhi, Kasba, Sikta, Raxaul, Gaighat, Harlakhi, Parihar, Chiraia, Jale and Benipatti. As the composition of two major alliances has completely changed in the current election, these seats might see tougher contests. However, some heavyweight candidates in these seats may change the pattern of the result this year. In 2015 polls, the BJP-led NDA had won six of these 10 seats. The then grand alliance comprising RJD, JD(U) and Congress had won four seats. The state’s tourism minister Krishna Kumar Rishi from Banmankhi (SC) seat was among the 10 winners, who won his seat with the lowest victory margin of 708 votes. Polling in 71 seats in the first phase and 94 seats in the second phase has already been completed with voter turnout at 54.26% and 54.05%, respectively. The results for all three phases will come out on November 10. Though CM Nitish Kumar, who is seeking re-election as the NDA’s CM face, on Thursday said “this is my last election”, his party JD(U) is trying its best to secure so many seats so that it can comfortably claim the CM’s chair. The Mahagathbandhan is contesting this election projecting Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as their CM face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/leg-3-today-chirag-paswan-owaisi-and-pappu-yadav-to-heat-up-nda-ga-race/articleshow/79089387.cms||Madan Kumar
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Paldi woman cheated of Rs 19L||Ahmedabad: Shalini Thakar, 35, of Parag Society in Paldi lodged a complaint at cybercrime police station on Thusday alleging that since June 2020 till date, a duo had cheated her of Rs 18.91 lakh by luring her to invest in their share-broker firm, Promoter Broking Ltd. Thakar stated that one of the duo introduced himself as Karanji and the other as Pavitra Srivastava. She stated in the FIR that the duo took her identity documents along with the money to open a trading account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paldi-woman-cheated-of-rs-19l/articleshow/79089556.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Six illegal chemical godowns sealed in Lambha area||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Friday sealed six warehouses that were illegally operating in Lambha area in the eastern part of the city. The AMC officials said that after the Pirana incident, the labour and employment department had asked the AMC commissioner and the city police commissioner to form joint teams and carry out raids. The officials said the checking was conducted at Revakaka Estate and Nanukaka Estate which house several chemical godowns. The estate, the town planning and solid waste departments carried out a joint operation in Lambha area. During the checking the teams found that the six godowns had no license, no valid no objection certificate and no permission for trading. The sealed godowns included Sundarkumar M Agarwal (1,200 sq mt), Omkar chemicals (1,000 sq mt), Shah Ware House (950 sq mt), Pankaj Jain (450 sq mt), Gayatri Marketing (400 sq mt) and Subhash Agarwal (50 sq mt). “The labour and employment department, in a letter to all the municipal commissioners in the state, has asked them to identify unauthorized warehouses and places where hazardous chemicals are stored or processed,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/six-illegal-chemical-godowns-sealed-in-lambha-area/articleshow/79089515.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Stalled common admission process tests std XI pupils||AURANGABAD: The centralised admission process (CAP) for Class XI in Aurangabad and other cities across the state continues to remain suspended for almost two months now. This is leading to severe anxiety among more than 12,000 students in Aurangabad alone. While the process has been withheld after the Supreme Court granted an interim stay on Maratha reservation on September 9, affected students and parents fear an irrevocable academic loss. They said some colleges has started online classes for students who have already taken admissions. Acting deputy director of education M K Deshmukh on Friday said around 12,000 students from Aurangabad are yet to be allotted colleges through CAP. “Over 17,000 students are part of the CAP for the academic year 2020-21. Of them, over 4,000 have been allotted college seats as per their choice in a centralised manner in the first round. We are awaiting directives from the state government on further continuation of the admission process,” he said. C M Mahajan, a parent of one of the affected students, said a period of two months is too long a time to suspend the admission process. “The government cannot hold students from other communities at ransom in order to protect the interest of one particular community. Online classes in a section of junior colleges have already started. The government is to be blamed for students’ academic loss,” he said. As per official record, a total of 116 colleges are part of centralised admission process for the academic year 2020-21 with combined intake capacity of 31,465 seats. Notably, the CAP for Class XI begins in May every year, but it got delayed this time due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Student activist Umakant Panchal said the suspended admissions hints at “policy paralysis” at the level of the state government. “The affected students and parents are running out of patience now. The government should take an immediate call on CAP and adjust the academic schedule in keeping with the delayed admissions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/stalled-common-admission-process-tests-std-xi-pupils/articleshow/79086166.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Goa||Intra-semester postgraduate exam online, semester-end test physical: Goa University||PANAJI: Goa University said, in a circular issued on Friday, that for the postgraduate programmes the intra-semester exam (ISA) for 2020-21 should be held through the online mode, while the semester-end assessment (SEA) should be held physically. The physical examinations have to be conducted by putting in place all Covid-19-related precautionary norms, GU said. “The ISA shall be held in online mode for Semester I and III students through a suitable platform (Google Classroom, Eklavvya, etc). The SEA for Semester III for MA, MCom, MSc, MLISC., MBA (FS), IMBA, MBA programmes and Semester V in case of the MCA programme shall be held in physical mode,” the circular stated. However, for same programmes like MA, MCom, MSc, etc, the Semester I SEA can be held in the online mode, preferably using Eklavvya, the varsity stated. The SEA will begin from December 28 as per the academic terms issued earlier, Goa University said. “The duration of each SEA shall be maximum of two hours. In case of examinations conducted for a shorter duration, the marks shall be suitably scaled up to meet the requirement. All arrangements for examinations shall be made by maintaining social distancing and all other precautions as per Covid-19 norms,” the GU circular stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/intra-sem-pg-exam-online-sem-end-test-physical-gu/articleshow/79089405.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Experts warn of second Covid-19 wave in winter, festive season||HYDERABAD: With the festive season still on and the arrival of winter soon, experts are worried that there could be a second wave of infections. Experts say that with the onset of winter, countries across Europe are seeing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases, and warn that there could be a similar situation in the state too if the protocols are not followed. However, they say that there is a difference between ‘spike in cases’ and ‘second wave’. Explaining the difference, Dr Subodh Kandamuthan, professor and director, Centre for Health Care Management, Administrative College of India (ASCI), said that when a state or country sees a spike in Covid-19 cases, there will be increase in the number of cases for a few days after which the numbers will be back to normal. “But in a wave-like scenario, the numbers will go on increasing, and that is where we have to be careful,” he said. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-certified biomedical researcher Dr Kiran Madala said that a second wave, even if it occurs, may not be as dangerous as the first one. “Since we have better medical protocols in place and a high recovery rate, the fatality rate may be less, but it is better to avoid a wave-like situation,” he said. With Delhi witnessing a third wave of infections and Kerala reporting a second wave-like situation, authorities are treading cautiously. Delhi had reported a second wave two months ago, while Kerala has reported a spike in the number of cases post Onam, and it is now anticipated that the spike in cases could well be the second wave. Considering the time period and the spike in the number of cases in Delhi and Kerala, experts suggest that a second wave can occur in Telangana somewhere around January as other states have reported similar trends eight months after reporting the first case. “Cases are very much under control now, although there is a slight spike in cases. But we cannot leave our guard down. There is no complete flattening of cases either,” Dr Srinivas Rao, director, health department said. He said that Telangana has become a role model as the spike in cases post festivals has been very low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-warn-of-2nd-covid-19-wave-in-winter-festive-season/articleshow/79089478.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: NGT pulls up coastal body for ‘lax’ attitude||Panaji: We do not understand why such attitude is being adopted by the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA), the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has said in an order, after the former failed to file a reply for five years in a case. The matter relates to three structures alleged to be in No Development Zone of CRZ on the Utorda beach stretch. The tribunal has also rejected GCZMA’s plea to review an earlier order, where NGT asked Goa officials to deposit Rs 25,000 per case. “The tribunal noted that in spite of notice and repeated opportunities, GCZMA had not given reply for which there was no justification. Prayer for further adjournment for filing reply was granted subject to payment of Rs 25,000 per case to be deposited with the Central Pollution Control Board. When we have taken up the matter today, we are informed the cost has not been paid,” the NGT has said. The tribunal has told GCZMA to first deposit the cost and only then its reply will be considered. “The order was passed in the presence of the parties. There is no ground for review. There is no justification shown in the application why reply could not be filed in the last five years. Only contention raised is that there were no sufficient particulars of the CRZ violations and it is stated that the reply has been now filed on October 30, 2020 without payment of cost, required to be paid within one week of the last order,” NGT has noted. The tribunal has now listed the matter for January 21, 2021. “Even without cost, reply filed has not been filed in time but only one working day before hearing, which also shows lack of bonafides. We do not find any substance in the review application which stands rejected. On account of reply being filed so late, the same could not be placed in the file or circulated for hearing which requires further adjournment. We do not follow why such attitude is being adopted by GCZMA,” NGT has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngt-pulls-up-coastal-body-for-lax-attitude/articleshow/79089367.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Consul general of Israel calls on Vijai Sardesai||MARGAO: Consul general of Israel Yaakov Finkelstein on Friday called on Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai at his residence at Fatorda. Sardesai said Finkelstein discussed various initiatives which were initiated by him in the agriculture sector in Goa during his stint as the agriculture minister, specifically about the proposed state of the art Centre of Excellence for Organic Farming in Goa. “Israel happens to be the global leader in agriculture and our discussion back then was to adopt certain techniques which are favourable in Goa and to improve productivity and profitability of Goan produce and Goan farmers,” Sardesai said. During his visit to Israel in 2019, Sardesai said, he also discussed certain means and methods to improve productivity of fish which would allow providing subsidised fish to the people of Goa. “I hope the present government still pursues these projects and implements them as these would be beneficial to Goemkars,” Sardesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/consul-general-of-israel-calls-on-sardesai/articleshow/79089447.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Will take call on constitutional breakdown in Andhra, says HC||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday said it will decide if there is constitutional breakdown in the state after taking a considerate view on various aspects including the social media cases targeting judges, along with a batch of habeas corpus petitions. The bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi made the observations during the hearing on a batch of habeas corpus petitions. The judges said that the state government had proposed to abolish the legislative council as Bills intended for trifurcation of the state capital were referred to a select committee. The state government has also targeted the state election commission and now it seems the third target is the high court, the bench observed. The bench asked the advocates representing the petitioners to assist the court in establishing whether constitutional breakdown had taken place or not. Expressing displeasure over the status report submitted by the CBI regarding the investigation of the cases in which the high court ordered inquiry, the bench said that they would summon the joint director if they failed to make progress in the investigation. The bench observed that the police did not register a case even after the high court registrar-general lodged a complaint. It was only after two days, 10 FIRs were registered by omitting all the key persons. Resuming the arguments in a petition pertaining to illegal detention of a couple, the government special advocate, SS Prasad, told the bench that as the allegations made by the petitioners were not proven. He said the petitioners have a criminal record and they were produced before a lower court and hence there is no need for a CBI inquiry. He also said the judicial inquiry report had some flaws and hence the high court should not take any action based on the report. He said that the searches at the advocate’s house are not connected to this case. The petitioner’s counsel P Ravi Teja said that the police detained his clients even before a case was registered which was illegal and violated fundamental rights. When fundamental rights of a person are violated, the high court can take up the matter, he said. Ravi Teja further argued that the police admitted that they have searched the house of the petitioner's advocate and now they are trying to mislead the court by creating a false story. If the judicial inquiry report is flawed, why the DGP took action against some of the police officers based on that report, he questioned. It was only after the high court’s directions that the SHO had registered a case against the errant officials, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-take-call-on-constitutional-breakdown-in-andhra-says-hc/articleshow/79089510.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Heritage sites get a clean-up as part of ‘Love Aurangabad’||Aurangabad: Different historic gates in Aurangabad city, among other local heritage sites, are the focus of the ongoing mega-cleanliness drive, which is a part of the ‘Love Aurangabad’ campaign launched by the local civic body and the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL).The drive, which covered local heritage structures in Zones I to Zone IX within the municipal limits, saw citizens, including veterans, joining hands with the civic squads in cleaning the sites and their premises.“Shrubs, bushes, creepers, climbers and other unwanted vegetation have grown on or around the heritage sites and premises during the monsoon. Such vegetation not just gives an ugly look to the monuments, but also weakens their structural strength. These weeds are removed during the drive apart from the collection of garbage and other unwanted items,” civic authorities concerned said on Friday.Kala Darwaja, Makai Gate, Bhadkal Gate, Barapulla Gate, Paithan Gate, Jafar Gate, Roshan Gate, Damdi Mahal, Delhi Gate, Rangeen Darwaja and Khandoba temple in Satara are some of the identified heritage sites to be covered under the cleanliness drive that has already covered parts of the city, including different government offices, so far.Initiated on October 31, the mega-drive is scheduled to continue till November 13. Participating citizens will get certificates from the local civic body. Stating that it is impossible for the civic authorities to bring the change and develop the city without the participation of the citizens, AMC and ASCDCL have appealed to the public at large to join hands with the administration for the desired success of the ‘Love Aurangabad’ campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/heritage-sites-get-a-clean-up-as-part-of-love-aurangabad/articleshow/79086175.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pirana-Piplaj blasts: Kin refuse to accept body||Ahmedabad: Twelve workers including five women were charred to death in the fire from blasts in Sahil Enterprise on Wednesday. Blasts from the unit owned by Hetal Sutaria affected Nanu Kaka Estate owned by Nanu Bharwad and Motakaka Esatate owned by Pradeep Bharwad alias Buta Bharwad, located on the outskirts of the city on Pirana- Piplaj Road. All three were arrested after an FIR was lodged at Narol police station on Thursday evening. However, at that time relatives of four of the deceased were not ready to accept the dead bodies. Police said relatives of three of those dead in the explosion have now accepted their bodies while one body has still not been accepted by the relatives who are demanding the compensation to be raised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pirana-piplaj-blasts-kin-refuse-to-accept-body/articleshow/79089552.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal against grain diversion||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Friday warned that he would not tolerate any attempt to sell goods meant for the beneficiaries of the public distribution system into the grey market. Bhujbal, who was in Yeola taluka to inaugurate road construction and power line works, said he had taken strong note of the incident where a shopkeeper had diverted goods from the ration shop. “My orders are clear. I will not tolerate such corrupt practices across the state,” said Bhujbal, who is also the civil supplies and consumer affairs minister. On Thursday, the Ghoti police station registered a case after they found a truck laden with eight quintals of wheat meant for the PDS being diverted into the open market. Meanwhile, Bhujbal also said the demand to open temples across the state was politically motivated, but assured that the state government would soon take a decision on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-against-grain-diversion/articleshow/79086190.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 7, 2020||Goa||Three held for theft of motors at Margao||MARAGO: The Margao town police on Friday arrested three persons in connection with the case of burglary reported at a storeroom of a businessman located at Calconda, Margao, in which several motors worth Rs two lakh were stolen. Ghanashayam Kokodkar had on Thursday complained to the police that the theft occurred between October 30 and November 5. “Police received reliable information that one Sahil Patil and one Rupesh Saha, both from old station road area, were seen loitering near the storeroom. Accordingly, both the persons were picked up and interrogated, wherein they disclosed their involvement,” South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said. Patil and Saha were arrested and all the stolen property recovered from them. Their sustained interrogation led to the arrest of the third accused, Sanath Kumar, a resident of old station road Margao and native of Suratkal Mangaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-held-for-theft-of-motors-at-margao/articleshow/79089503.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Survivor to give statement before magistrate||Ahmedabad: After the gang rape complaint of a 20-year-old woman against four persons — builder Pragnesh Patel alias Pragnesh Gota, Jitendragiri Goswami, Maldev Bharwad and Jaymin Patel — was transferred to city crime branch on Thursday night, investigators have initiated the process to recording her statement before a magistrate, under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Crime branch sources said while Pragnesh Patel and Jitendragiri Goswami are in judicial custody over a land grabbing case, they will soon summon the other accused for questioning. Inspector D B Barad of city crime branch said they are also going to question Pragnesh Patel’s wife, Neelam Patel. Jaymin Patel is accused of facilitating the crime but not of committing rape. The rape survivor lodged a complaint at woman’s police station (west) alleging that after she lost her job due to Covid-19 pandemic, the accused raped her at various locations after promising her a job. She also alleged that Neelam Patel had taken her passport and threatened her. She alleged that Bharwad contacted her in August 2020 after she got his phone number from a common friend and promised to get her work. “Bharwad then intoduced her to Pragnesh and Goswami. They took her to a five star hotel in Udaipur and raped her after sedating her with a spiked cold drink,” said a crime branch official. She alleged that they took her compromising pictures of her and used them to blackmail her and exploit her further,” added a crime branch official. Pragnesh Patel’s political connections? Crime branch sources said Pragnesh Patel has political connections. “He has good relations with the brother of an MLA from Saurashtra. But regardless of who he is connected to, we are going to file a tight chargesheet against the accused,” said a senior crime branch official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/survivor-to-give-statement-before-magistrate/articleshow/79089615.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Cracker traders in Bengaluru say they anticipated restrictions||BENGALURU: Retail merchants are not surprised by the state government’s decision to restrict sale to only green crackers this Deepavali. Traders say they were wary about getting into the business this year, given the Covid-19 situation and, in fact, foresaw restrictions if not an outright ban. City police meanwhile can hope for less workload amid pandemic duties this festive season, thanks to the government diktat. Sale of firecrackers is a highly regulated affair in Bengaluru and allowed only in open playgrounds since 1980s, after a wholesale firecracker hub caught fire in 1979 in KR Market area. The fire lasted a couple of days and claimed more than a dozen lives. As per current norms, BBMP identifies open playgrounds for sale and notifies the city police commissioner and deputy commissioner of police (admin), who can then accept applications. Accordingly, police issue a circular asking those interested to apply with a DD for Rs 3,500. For those who get the licence, the Rs 3,500 becomes a security deposit, while the others are refunded the amount. Shops having permission are allowed to run for three to four days, depending on the government order. "Each year we would receive around 3,000 applications. DCPs of different jurisdictions would be directed to check the antecedents of the applicants, including the place where they proposed to set up shop. In 2019, we received 2,400 applications and licences were granted to around 1,950," a senior police officer said. Mahalakshmi Layout resident Nagendra Kumar, who has been setting up a firecracker shop at Kamallamana Gundi for the last eight years, said the retrictions has come too late. "...But we had anticipated this. Else we would have placed orders for crackers at least three months earlier. We usually start making preparations from June itself. Investment varies from place to place. Here, we invest around Rs 5 lakh each, while shops at Rajajinagar Ram Mandir invest around Rs 20 lakh. But any investment can be risky. In 2016, it rained continuously during Deepavali and most shop owners suffered losses," he said. Kumar said some traders were still hoping regular crackers would be allowed in limited scale and had made advance payments to purchase stock. Ramakrishna TR, a businessman from Malleswaram selling crackers for the last 15 years, said he wouldn’t have set up shop even if the government had permitted sale. "It would have been too risky to invest in this Covid-19 scenario," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cracker-traders-in-bengaluru-say-they-anticipated-restrictions/articleshow/79088266.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 1,600 new infections||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Friday reported 1,602 new Covid- 19 positive cases and four deaths, raising the caseload to 2,47,284, as authorities said there was a slight spike in cases. While the toll reached 1366, the total number of recoveries touched the mark of 2, 26,646 with 982 more novel coronavirus patients recovering in the last 24 hours. The health department tested 46,970 samples, taking the cumulative tests to 45, 31,153 so far, as results of 676 samples are awaited The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) reported 295 cases followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (137) and Ranga Reddy (118).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-reports-1600-new-infections/articleshow/79089545.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: K Chandrasekhar Rao to hold mid-term review||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will conduct a review meet on Saturday on the financial losses incurred by the state on account of the pandemic.  He will also conduct a mid-term review on 2020-2021 annual budget and discuss measures to be taken in the backdrop of the pandemic, issues to be revised and other related matters of the budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-hold-mid-term-review/articleshow/79089596.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt tells shops, business ventures to test staff for coronavirus||HYDERABAD: Concerned over a possible spike due to increased movement of people in the festive season, the health department has asked all the commercial establishments and business houses, especially in the city, to test the staff for coronavirus every alternate week. This is already being implemented in the national capital where a third wave is now underway. “Though the situation is under control in the state, the commercial establishments should ask their staff to get themselves tested for Covid-19,” Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, told TOI.  He said they have increased the testing. “We want to conduct 60,000 tests per day. That’s the target. We are also arranging mobile testing,” he said. Senior officials said shops and other establishments should also get their workers and employees tested. “This will only help contain the virus spread. We are asking them to exercise caution,” an official said. Thankfully, there have been no super-spreaders from any commercial establishment in the state or city, officials said and added that caution should be maintained for some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-tells-shops-biz-ventures-to-test-staff-for-coronavirus/articleshow/79089604.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 7, 2020||Bengaluru||‘Warm vaccine’ researchers are working on may be a game changer||BENGALURU: In what could be a game changer in the immunisation drive against Covid-19, a group of scientists led by IISc Prof Raghavan Varadarajan has found “good results” on a ‘warm vaccine’ — one that would not require cold storage during transportation. This is extremely important in India where cold storage units are out of range of hundreds of villages. Almost all SARS CoV-2 vaccines currently being clinically tested are stored in a refrigerated or frozen state and must be transported at cold temperatures prior to use since exposure to high temperatures affects their potency. Researchers say this is a major impediment to “deployment in resource-poor settings”. Varadarajan collaborated with researchers from IISER Trivandrum, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI) Faridabad, and the IISc-incubated startup Mynvax and the group’s paper has been accepted for publication in the Journal of Biological Chemistry, a peer-reviewed scientific journal published by the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. TOI has accessed the preprint version. The group was able to synthesise a fragment/sequence of the S-Protein found on the surface of SARS CoV-2, and found it to be thermo-tolerant. However, instead of synthesising the whole S-Protein, the group synthesised only a sequence/fragment derived from the receptor binding domain (RBD). The RBD helps the virus attach itself to the host cell, leading to infection. The researchers found that this fragment, when freeze-dried, is highly stable. It can be stored for more than a month at 37 degrees Celsius besides being able to withstand transient exposure to temperatures as high as 100 degrees Celsius, suggesting a cold-chain would not be required. “We have got good results, but are still far away from a vaccine per se,” Varadarajan told TOI. Antibodies are primarily directed against the virus’s RBD, the researchers said, adding that now that there is a thermo-tolerant RBD, further studies will test how it can it be tried as a vaccine candidate. In their study, the authors used guinea pigs for initial immunisation. After two doses, their tests showed significant levels of RBD-blocking antibodies. Now, the researchers are testing if the formulation can protect animals from infectious virus. They will conduct safety and toxicity assessments prior to testing it on humans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/warm-vaccine-researchers-are-working-on-may-be-a-game-changer/articleshow/79088306.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Drugs worth Rs 24.5 lakh hidden in mascara sticks seized at Kempegowda International Airport||BENGALURU: A total of 84 mascara sticks imported from South Africa and containing 490 gram of methaqualone, a banned recreational drug, were detected at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) cargo section. A South African national was arrested on Thursday for allegedly smuggling the drug, worth Rs 24.5 lakh, through air courier on the pretext of importing cosmetics. Sources with the Cargo Intelligence Unit (CIU) of Bangalore customs said the consignment with the mascaras that reached KIA on October 28 was scanned as part of the usual courier-clearing process. “We noticed an unusual cavity on the heads of all 84 mascara or eye-liner pieces. We dismantled them to find small quantities of white powdery substance hidden inside. The substance was sent for lab examination, which revealed it was methaqualone, a sedative used as a party drug and banned in India,” said a customs investigating officer. Following the seizure, sleuths began a probe to reach the person, who had imported the cosmetics to Bengaluru. On Thursday, the investigators went to a location in MS Palya, Jalahalli east in the guise of delivery personnel and the suspect turned up to receive the consignment. “The man suspected to have ordered the courier from South African, reached a location near a college. We ascertained it was the right person and apprehended him,” the officer added. The suspect was later identified as Navid Thomas, 36, a South African national, who had been residing in Rachenahalli for the last three years in the guise of dealing in garment imports. He was booked for narcotics smuggling, remanded in judicial custody and sent to Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara on Friday, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drugs-worth-rs-24-5l-hidden-in-mascara-sticks-seized-at-kia/articleshow/79088321.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Surat||Surat textile biz hit by stir in northern states||SURAT: After a long lull Rajnish Lilah, a textile trader was hoping to recover his losses during lockdown with the demand for saris and dress material picking up ahead of Diwali festive season. However, his hopes were short-lived. The ongoing Gurjar agitation in Rajasthan and the farmers’ agitation in Punjab and Haryana has cast a dark shadow on his plans. The buyers in Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab have started cancelling orders fearing the agitation and also the transporters are not willing to take risk of delivering goods. Lilah is not an isolated case. The Gurjar and farmers’ agitation have taken sheen out of the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) wholesale market in Surat. Industry experts said that the Northern states including Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan account for nearly 45% of the total turnover—Rs 36 crore per day--of the textile fabrics supplied from Surat. Pankaj Goyal, a textile trader dealing in low-cost saris and kurtis in Raghukul market of city told TOI, “In the last four days, our half a dozen-odd buyers in Punjab and Haryana have cancelled orders to the tune of Rs 10 lakh due to the farmers’ agitation. They don’t want to take any risk with the goods supplied in transport vehicles. This year’s Diwali looks bleak.” Narendra Saboo, president of Surat Mercantile Association (SMA) told TOI, “Diwali festive season was the only hope to recover business lost due to coronavirus pandemic. But, the farmers’ protest and Gurjar agitation has literally destroyed the textile trade. Only few days are left for the festival and the supply of goods from Surat has almost stopped.” Champalal Bothra, secretary of Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) said, “Had there been no protests in Rajasthan and Punjab, textile traders would have done brisk business during Diwali. Transporters in Surat have completely stopped taking the delivery orders to the northern states due to the ongoing agitations, roadblocks and protests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-textile-biz-hit-by-stir-in-northern-states/articleshow/79087896.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Rajkot||Two elderly women duped of jewellery worth Rs 3 lakh in separate cases||RAJKOT: Six persons were booked on Thursday night for duping two elderly women of their jewellery worth Rs 3 lakh in Porbandar and Gondal town of Rajkot district. In Porbandar, two men approached Chandrakala Mamtora (74), saying that she could be robbed if she when ahead wearing all the gold ornaments. “The accused asked Mamtora to remove her four gold bangles and a gold chain worth Rs 1.95 lakh and put them in a purse. One of the accused asked her to put her jewellery on a piece of paper. Later when Mamtora opened the folded paper, she found that her jewellery was missing,” said an official from Kamlabaugh police station. She later registered complaint with the Prbandar police against two unidentified persons. In Gondal, four men waylaid Farida Harmal (70), posing as cops. “The accused told Harmal that a murder had happened near the spot and that there was a threat to those who were wearing jewellery. They asked her to remove her two gold bangles and a gold ring, all worth Rs 1.05 lakh, and put them in a purse. Then they asked Harmal to show her purse for checking, during which they hoodwinked the woman and stole the jewellery,” said an official from Gondal city police station. Harmal lodged a complaint with the Gondal police which is probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-elderly-women-duped-of-jewellery-worth-rs-3l-in-separate-cases/articleshow/79088844.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hubballi||Court hands over custody of Vinay Kulkarni to CBI for three days||DHARWAD: Former minister and senior Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni was on Friday remanded in the custody of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) by the second additional district court in Dharwad. The judge, who had on Thursday ordered a one-day judicial custody for the former minister on trial in the Yogeeshgouda Goudar murder case, continued the hearing on Friday. Kulkarni was subsequently taken to Hindalga Jail in Belagavi. The CBI’s counsel sought Kulkarni’s custody for three days, citing the need to extract key information about the case from the former minister. On the other hand, Kulkarni’s lawyer pointed out that his client had been cooperating with the CBI, by appearing promptly for questioning on Thursday, and questioned the need for him to be remanded in custody. Judge Panchakshari M on Friday directed the team of CBI officials investigating the case to produce Kulkarni before the court on Monday. Former minister Vinay Kulkarni, in a Facebook post, said that he had seen many upheavals on both his personal and political fronts, adding that he would not allow the current crisis to depress him. “I firmly believe that truth will emerge triumphant in the end, and this drama orchestrated by my political enemies will end soon,” he wrote on Facebook. Kulkarni’s brother, relative and PA quizzed Vinay Kulkarni’s brother Vijay Kulkarni, meanwhile, was subjected to quizzing by CBI sleuths for the second consecutive day on Friday. Vijay, along with relative Chandrashekar Indi from Vijayapura district and former minister’s personal assistant Somshekar Nemagouda, was quizzed by CBI sleuths for more than 10 hours at the Dharwad suburban police station. Seer calls on former minister’s family Seer of Kudalasangama Basava Peetha Jayamrutyunjaya Swamiji, meanwhile, called on the members of Vinay Kulkarni’s household in the time of crisis, and offered his sympathy. “I have come to support the former minister’s family during such a hard time. The law will take its own course, and the truth will prevail,” the seer told mediapersons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/court-hands-over-custody-of-vinay-kulkarni-to-cbi-for-three-days/articleshow/79088769.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Vadodara||Rs 50 reward: This Gujarat tribal village starts unique drive for swachhata||VADODARA: Click your neighbour littering in public place and earn Rs 50! A tribal village in Narmada district has come up with an innovative idea to ensure that its surroundings remain free of garbage. The panchayat of Wadiya village in Nandod taluka began the drive two days ago and it is already getting the results. “We have launched the campaign wherein people are being asked to click photographs of those littering public places. We have made public a WhatsApp number on which people can send the photos. We will award Rs 50 to those who click photos of public littering,” said Mahesh Rajwadi, sarpanch of the village. Also, a decision has been taken to impose a penalty of Rs 200 on those who are caught disposing garbage in public places or near their house. “We have a door-to-door garbage picking van service that began two years ago under PM’s Swachchta Abhiyan drive. Also, a dustbin was given in every house. But we noticed that many people used to dispose garbage out in the open. It didn’t just spoil the look of our village but also increased the risk of diseases,” Rajwadi told TOI. Interestingly, most residents of this village that has a population of about 3,500 accepted the new penalty system. The panchayat has begun pasting posters warning people not to litter in public places across the village. “Locals have already started clicking photos and sending them in on the WhatsApp number. On Wednesday, we penalized a banana trader after we received a photo of him disposing waste in a public place,” said Devendra Joshi, talati of the village. “The idea is to send a message to the villagers that they are being watched. This drive will help a lot in changing their habits for the better. We have also instructed the garbage van driver to pick up waste from every house at convenient time,” Talati added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rs-50-reward-this-gujarat-tribal-village-starts-unique-drive-for-swachhata/articleshow/79087871.cms||Tushar Tere
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman held for Dharani land portal misuse||HYDERABAD: In one of the first instances of Dharani portal being misused, a woman transferred land on her daughter’s name a year after she had sold the same piece of land to another person in Pedda Adisharlapalli mandal in Nalgonda district. Nalgonda SP AV Ranganath on Friday said a cheating case was filed against Vijayalaxmi and arrested. After Vijayalaxmi sold the land of one acre 32 guntas on August 14, 2019, Kotla Jagadeesh, who purchased it, made plots and sold them. However, much to his shock when he was checking the Dharani portal, he saw the land being in the name of Vijayalaxmi’s daughter Priyanka. Vijayalaxmi got the land transferred on to her daughter’s name on November 4 on the Dharani portal and got the related documents from the officials concerned.  When Jagadeesh approached tahsildar Devadas, he was told that the land was still in Vijayalaxmi’s name and that they could only go by the official records. After the land had been sold to Jagadeesh, the mutation process had not taken place to get the land in his name in the land records. Collector Prashant Patil and Ranganath warned people against indulging in frauds as the purpose of Dharani portal itself was to show clear records of land ownership. In a related issue about land conversion pertaining to same piece of land a few years ago, a former VRO MD Niranjan and a girdavar (revenue staff) Ramanjaneyulu involved in wrong-doing were suspended by collector. Article of charges have also been framed against then tahsildar of Pedda Adisharlapalli mandal Mohammed Samad and sent to the CCLA for further action to be taken against the retired official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-held-for-dharani-land-portal-misuse/articleshow/79089614.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Post unlock, Namma Metro ridership yet to touch 1 lakh||BENGALURU: Two months after it resumed operations, Namma Metro’s daily ridership is yet to reach the 1-lakh mark. The highest footfall post-lockdown was recorded on November 2 when 68,371 passengers availed of the service. The daily ridership was around 5 lakh before March 22, when BMRCL suspended services following the lockdown. It restarted operations on September 7. BMRCL records show 7.3 lakh passengers travelled between September 7 and 30 and an average of 47,848 used the services per day last month. TOI takes a look at why the figure remains low despite most establishments having opened up. 5 REASONS FOR POOR PATRONAGE * Smartcard-based travel BMRCL has discontinued token sales at counters to ensure contactless and cashless travel amid the pandemic. Before lockdown, 41% of Metro passengers purchased tokens by paying cash at the counters. A minimum balance of Rs 50 is needed to travel in Metro and discount for smartcard users is only 5%. Those who aren’t regular users or come to the city on a short visit don’t want to purchase smartcards. A new user needs at least Rs 150 to travel in Metro — a new smartcard would cost Rs 50, another Rs 50 is needed for minimum balance and he/she will have to load at least Rs 50 for travel fare. Counters at stations don’t accept cash and they will have to pay through Paytm or debit/credit cards. * Poor frequency, less duration BMRCL has reduced train frequency and operational hours. It used to operate services at four-minute frequency during peak hours and 10 minutes during non-peak hours before lockdown. The frequency is 5-12 minutes now due to less passengers. The timings have also changed: Metro is operational from 7am to 9pm as opposed to 5am and 12am earlier. *Card glitches, limited recharge options It takes more than an hour for the recharge amount to reflect on the smartcard. In some cases, it takes even longer. Also, passengers have to validate the recharge within seven days at AFC gates in Metro stations. BMRCL is yet to allow users to recharge through e-wallets like Paytm and PhonePe. They can do so only via the BMRCL website and mobile app and many face technical glitches while recharging smartcards. However, customer-redressal mechanisms are poor. *Virus scare, WFH A majority of Metro passengers are techies working in IT hubs like Outer Ring Road and Whitefield. But the work-from-home norm has reduced the number of officegoers travelling in Metro. Many are scared to take the trains due to the closed air-conditioned environment. Officials say Metro travel is safe as wearing of masks and thermal screening are mandatory. The number of shoppers, diners and tourists has also dipped. Those going out mostly use their own vehicle to avoid public transport. * Poor first-and last-mile connectivity Inadequate BMTC feeder buses to and from Metro stations is a hurdle for first-and last-mile connectivity. Most stations don’t have sufficient parking facilities. In fact, many bus and railway stations in the city are not yet connected to nearby Metro stations for passengers to shift from one mode to another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/post-unlock-namma-metro-ridership-yet-to-touch-1l/articleshow/79088299.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru police clueless on Kavoor senior citizen’s murder||MANGALURU: City police investigating the murder of a senior citizen in Kavoor police station limits are still clueless about the miscreants as well as the motive behind the killing. Special team of police involved in the investigation said that so far there has been no breakthrough in the case. “It was a meticulously planned murder and assailants haven’t left much clue behind,” said a police, who wished to remain anonymous. Police added they have recovered cellphone of the victim, found near Kudroli area, about 10kms away from the murder spot and are verifying CCTV footage. On November 3, businessman Surendran, 60, was stabbed to death by miscreants at his house in Malli Layout. The victim, who hailed from Kerala, was staying along with his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/police-clueless-on-kavoor-senior-citizens-murder/articleshow/79088297.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar, Mandya districts register steep fall in active Covid cases||MYSURU/ MANDYA: Chamarajanagar had managed to keep the novel coronavirus at bay almost throughout the period when the lockdown remained in force. However, the cases surged with the lifting of the restrictions, and the proverbial bell curve has now collapsed yet again, with just 283 fresh Covid-19 cases having been reported in the border district in the past 10 days. Experts and officials have attributed this drastic drop in the number of cases to the adherence to safety norms by the public. In all, as many as 6,016 people in Chamarajanagar tested positive for the novel coronavirus, of whom 5,712 have already recovered from the infection – an impressive recovery rate of 96%. The number of active cases in the district as on Thursday is just 200. With positivity rate – number of people testing positive for the infection against the number of people being tested –falling in the district, life in Chamarajanagar appears to be limping back to normalcy, with the average number of fresh cases being reported daily in the past ten days hovering in the 20 to 30 range. Chamarajanagar district health officer Dr MC Ravi said that, in view of the decline in the number of fresh cases, the authorities were drawing up a plan to treat patients at the district Covid hospital, and the Covid Care Centres in Santhemarahalli, Gundlupet and Begur, and close the remaining facilities currently housing infected patients. Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner MR Ravi, however, told TOI, “But the district administration is prepared to handle if the cases surge after the Deepavali festival, and during winter in December and January.” The DC, while sounding cheerful about the drop in the number of active cases, called on the people not to let their guard down. “People with influenza-like-illnesses (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) must be very careful about their health given the onset of winter, coupled with the lack of restrictions in movement of people,” Ravi said. Positivity rate drops to 2-3% in Mandya It was in the immediate aftermath of the lifting of the lockdown that Mandya district witnessed a massive surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. The spike, the district administration attributed to the return of residents from across India, particularly those returning from Mumbai and Maharashtra. The positivity rate, which was around 11% a couple of weeks ago, has now dropped to just 2% to 3%. Mandya district surveillance officer Dr Dhananjay said that the average number of fresh cases being reported in the district had fallen to around 60, where it had been hovering around the 200-mark barely a week ago. “When the caseload peaked in the district, the number of fresh cases reported each day was more than 250. But the positivity rate has dropped, not to mention the large number of patients who have recovered from the infection,” Dr Dhananjay said. As on Thursday, 17,075 Covid-19 cases had been reported in Mandya district, with 16,110 having successfully beaten the infection, and 114 having succumbed to it. However, the district administration appears to have succeeded in flattening the curve, said Dr Dhananjay. “We are not facing any major logistical problems such as shortage of beds, ventilators, et al owing to the drop in the number of active cases,” said a doctor at the Mandya Medical College hospital. The public, however, have been advised against being lax in observing safety procedures. “The pandemic will strike back, and we will be left dealing with another surge if we fail to observe safety norms,” said Dr Shashidhar, who runs a private clinic in Keragodu in Mandya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chamarajanagar-mandya-districts-register-steep-fall-in-active-covid-cases/articleshow/79088894.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP cadres seek permission to take out Vetrivel Yatra||Coimbatore: Hundreds of BJP cadres sat in front of the party office on VKK Menon Road here on Friday and urged the state government to grant permission for Vetrivel Yatra.The cadres, led by BJP district president R Nandakumar, chanted Kanda Shashti Kavacham and sang devotional songs. One side of the road was barricaded and hundreds of police officers were deployed there.Police threatened to arrest the protesters if they conducted the yatra. “The Tamil Nadu government had earlier told us to obtain permission from district authorities. Though they have changed their stance, BJP won’t. Vetrivel Yatra will be conducted successfully,” said BJP state treasurer S R Sekar. “If 144 CrPC is implemented properly, no one can gather in public places. But AIADMK cadres gathered in many places, fearing no action. We believe that the AIADMK government is afraid of the opposition party. The government acted based on the opposition party’s demand.”The cadres started the rally, only to be intercepted near the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) bus stand at Gandhipuram, where they dispersed.Meanwhile, the rural police arrested more than 350 BJP cadres, who staged a protest in Pollachi seeking permission to conduct Vetrivel Yatra. They were kept at a marriage hall and were later let off.In Tirupur, the city police dispersed a group of 200 BJP cadres, who held a protest near the new bus terminus. After a protester, who was holding a BJP flag, climbed atop a cellphone tower, police held talks with the man and made him climb down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-cadres-seek-permission-to-take-out-vetrivel-yatra/articleshow/79089623.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Corporator quits TRS, to join BJP||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the GHMC election, Mailardevpally ward corporator T Srinivas Reddy resigned from the TRS on Friday, saying that he is joining the BJP. “I will join BJP soon. Before the TRS came to power, there was an exclusive budget for GHMC corporators but there is no such provision now,” he said. The rivalry between Reddy and Rajendranagar MLA T Prakash Goud is said to be the reason behind the development. “Goud was in TDP but later joined TRS. I had filed a nomination against him during assembly polls,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-quits-trs-to-join-bjp/articleshow/79089622.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Order inquiry into flood relief, urges N Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Friday urged governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to order a high-level inquiry into the irregularities in the distribution of flood relief in Greater Hyderabad. Uttam spoke to the governor over the telephone and brought to her notice several instances of misappropriation of funds meant for distribution among people affected by recent heavy rains and floods. “”It appears that the ruling TRS is trying to buy votes for the GHMC elections using public money,” he alleged. He termed the flood relief operation as an ‘open loot in broad daylight’ by the ruling TRS. If needed, a judicial inquiry should be ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/order-inquiry-into-flood-relief-cong/articleshow/79089624.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: TRS begins candidate selection||HYDERABAD: TRS has started the exercise of shortlisting the candidates for the forthcoming elections to GHMC. In addition to the surveys being conducted by the party to know the winning prospects of various candidates in each of the 150 divisions, the ruling party is also seeking feedback directly from sitting corporators and aspirants. ‘Why do you think you deserve the ticket? What is the work done by you in the division in the last five years? Do you have any plans about development of this division?’ are some of the questions being posed to the corporators and aspirants by the party senior leaders who have been made in-charges of the respective divisions. The fact that none other than TRS working president and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao himself had expressed his displeasure over the performance of 15 to 30 corporators at a party meeting over a month ago had led to all the sitting corporators becoming jittery over their prospects of getting the tickets. “After the recent heavy rains that led to flooding of colonies and slums, the TRS is being doubly careful in finalising its candidates. The performance of corporators and aspirants among other factors are being taken into consideration in shortlisting the candidates,” said a TRS leader. On Friday, corporators and aspirants from various divisions in Rajendranagar were called to the local party office and asked to put their case strongly for the party ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-begins-candidate-selection/articleshow/79089618.cms||Roushan Ali
November 7, 2020||Aurangabad||SPI gets nod for cadet orientation||Aurangabad: The Services Preparatory Institute (SPI) in Aurangabad, which prepares students for premier defence institutions in the country, has received the nod from the district administration to conduct cadet orientation. SPI director Col Amit Dalvi said the cadet orientation programme is scheduled to start from November 18. “The orientation programme will see participation of 65 cadets. These students belong to the 41st, 42nd and 43rd batch of SPI and qualified the necessary UPSC examination. These cadets need further orientation to clear the screening process of the Service Selection Board (SSB) to get recruited in the armed forces of the country,” he said. The four-day orientation programme will involve different training modules including that needed to prove the physical fitness. “All Covid-19 prevention norms will be in place during the orientation. While we have planned all necessary measures at our end, cadets have been also told ensure the personal safety during travel and stay here at SPI during the current pandemic,” Dalvi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/spi-gets-nod-for-cadet-orientation/articleshow/79086218.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Foresters work on curbing man, animal conflicts||Udhagamandalam: A week after a man and a woman were killed by wild elephants in the Gudalur division, the forest department is laying stress on anti-depredation and awareness creation.As part of the anti-depredation programme, forest guards will be present throughout the day and two hours during the night, district forest officer Sumesh Soman said. “A team of forest staff will interact with at least five villagers a day and create awareness about not venturing out during night hours. Range officers will be present in their respective fields from 5am to 7am and 8pm to 10 pm, which are the most vulnerable hours.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/foresters-work-on-curbing-man-animal-conflicts/articleshow/79089619.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur’s CFR second highest among state’s 5 most populated districts||NAGPUR: Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) of Nagpur district is the second highest, after Mumbai, among the five most populated districts in the state. Number of deaths and CFR of Nagpur district is double that of Nashik, despite the latter’s population being more. As per the central government’s 2011 population census, the population of Nagpur district was 46.53 lakh. The district was fifth among 35 districts in the state, after Thane, Pune, Mumbai Suburban and Nashik. As on Thursday, the CFR of Nagpur district was 3.31% with 3,447 deaths from 1,04,177 cases. The CFR is slightly less than Mumbai, which had 3.96% CFR with 10,377 fatalities from 2,61,681 positive cases. CFR of Nagpur and Mumbai districts is higher compared to state (2.63%), India (1.49%) and world (2.6%). The CFR of Thane district, including Palghar, was 2.27% with 6,118 deaths as against 2,69,504 cases. Pune district’s CFR was 2.07% with 6,990 deaths in 3,36,982 cases. The population of Nashik district in 2011 was 61.07 lakh, which is 14.53 lakh more than Nagpur district. The CFR of Nashik district was 1.65% with 1,597 fatalities as against 96,985 positive cases. Cases and deaths were higher in municipal corporation areas, and Nagpur district has only one municipal corporation while Nashik district has two municipal corporation areas. Still, CFR of Nagpur district is double that of Nashik. Number of deaths in Nagpur district is 2.16 times Nashik. Nagpur district registered the first 100 deaths on July 29, when Nashik district had 447 deaths. In the last three months, Nagpur had more deaths. Comparing number of deaths and total population, percentage of Nagpur district is at par with Pune at second position, after Mumbai on first. Thane is at fourth and Nashik at fifth position. When it comes to number of positive cases, Nagpur district is on fourth position with 2.24% of the population infected. Pune district is on top with 3.57% followed by Mumbai 2.80%, Thane including Palghar at 2.44% and Nashik 1.59%. Admitting the high mortality in the district, guardian minister Nitin Raut told TOI, “There are reasons why fatalities increased in last three months. Late testing and reporting to Covid hospitals was high in Nagpur district. A large number of patients reached dead, and many died within couple of days of hospitalization due to late detection and treatment.” Raut added overall deaths in the district have been on the rise in last couple of years. “Comorbid, especially senior citizens, were detected with Covid-19 when admitted for other diseases or old age,” he said. Raut also said Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is responsible to some extent. “Late testing and reporting at Covid hospitals indicates improper awareness and inefficient contact tracing and testing. But we initiated measures to bring down fatalities, which worked to a great extent,” he said. Private hospitals were also engaged in Covid service only after steep rise in cases from first week of August. Till then, treatment was limited to three government-run Covid Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurs-cfr-2nd-highest-among-states-5-most-populated-districts/articleshow/79088326.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Toilets for prison visitors inaugurated||Coimbatore: MP P R Natarajan inaugurated new toilets and a borewell at the visitors’ area of the central prison here on Friday. The facilities were constructed at a cost of Rs 14.22 lakh from the MP’s fund. The prison which has 2,000 inmates, has visiting days thrice a week. Visitors and advocates had complained that it lacks basic amenities like toilets, drinking water, benches and chairs. As a result, pregnant women and women who come with infants suffered the most. Several petitions were submitted to the police department and district administration, demanding more facilities. Two months ago, Natarajan inaugurated a building for an anganwadi at Idigarai, which was constructed at a cost of Rs 9.5 lakh from the MP’s fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/toilets-for-prison-visitors-inaugurated/articleshow/79089637.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Bengaluru||After lockdown woes, jeweller robbed of Rs 1 crore ornaments in Chikkamagaluru city||CHIKKAMAGALURU: A jeweller in Chikkamagaluru city lost gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 1 crore when burglars broke into his house and fled with the loot. Suresh, who owns Swarnanjali Jewellers located on MG Road in the city, had shut his shop after incurring huge debts during the nationwide lockdown. He is in the process of converting it into a commercial complex and had kept the ornaments at home. Last week, he and his family had gone to Hassan to get his daughter married and when they returned on Tuesday this week, they found their house had been broken into and jewellery worth more than Rs 1 crore missing. Suresh immediately filed a complaint with Chikkamagaluru SP Hakay Akshay Machhindra and a case was registered at Chikkamagaluru city police station. Machhindra visited Suresh’s house on Thursday evening and inspected the premises. “The thieves seem to have kept a close watch on the house,” the SP told reporters. “They got in to the compound through a huge drain flowing behind the house to avoid CCTV cameras and entered through a rear door. The house owner says 3kg gold and silver items are missing. The incident happened last week.” A special team has been formed to investigate the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-lockdown-woes-jeweller-robbed-of-rs-1-cr-ornaments/articleshow/79088334.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Officials visit secretary site for inspection||HYDERABAD: Roads and Buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy along with chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Friday visited the old secretariat site and inspected the arrangements being made by Shapoorji Pallonji to commence the construction of the new secretariat complex. Sources said that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to visit the secretariat site on an auspicious day after which the full-fledged works on construction of the complex will begin. The contractor, Shapoorji Pallonji in this case, has to complete the project in 12 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-visit-sectt-site-for-inspection/articleshow/79089628.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Visually challenged woman who cleared TNPSC not given posting||Chennai: K Thamarai, a visually challenged woman who cleared the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (Group IV) exam earlier this year is still waiting for her joining order. She and those who cleared the exam received their selection orders in February but the pandemic delayed their joining. Though 18 of the 19 received an intimation to join in August, Thamarai did not get any. Ever since she has been running from pillar to post seeking an answer. “I went to the office again this Thursday, for the tenth time, to enquire about the order. The authorities said since I was blind I should look for other options. They asked me to get out and never return,” she said. According to the selection order, she was selected provisionally for appointment by direct recruitment for the post of junior assistant in the stationery and printing department. Subsequently, the department issued her an appointment order on August 7. But, she claimed when she went to the department they refused to accept the order. “They told me that I did not possess any technical certifications and was not qualified to carry out bookbinding work. They said the posts reserved for the disabled were already occupied and there is no vacancy. But my post has nothing to do with this,” she said. Repeated insults and humiliations from the department officials are breaking her spirit, said Thamarai. “They bluntly said to my face that I’m blind and this is not the place for me. And they cannot learn Braille to keep up with me,” she said. “Growing up, my parents never differentiated me from my brothers because I am blind. This is the first time I’m getting disappointed with myself. It’s taking a toll on my mental state,” she said. Thamarai lives in Nedungamudi in Thiruvannamalai with her husband and two children. Her husband is also blind and currently jobless. The family is now depending on their relatives and handouts. “This job would make our lives so much better. That’s why I worked so hard and cleared the exam on merit with 202 marks. I deserve to get what I earned,” she said. A Suganthi, commissioner of the stationery and printing department said, “Her papers are under consideration and I cannot talk about it.” Johny Tom Varghese, the state commissioner for persons with disabilities said, “Thamarai has sent a petition today. We will send the notice to the department concerned seeking an explanation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/visually-challenged-woman-who-cleared-tnpsc-not-given-posting/articleshow/79088335.cms||Aditi R
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||7.5% quota not for govt-aided school students, says CM||Coimbatore: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami came down heavily on DMK president M K Stalin charging that the opposition leader had no moral right to speak about the release of seven convicts in Rajiv Gandhi assassination case.Talking to reporters on the sidelines of a Covid review meeting in Tirupur on Friday, EPS alleged double standards on the part of DMK in the issue, ‘in a bid to deceive’ people.Earlier responding to a query in Nilgiris on 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical colleges for government school students, EPS clarified that the quota was only for students of state run schools and not meant for students from government-aided schools.In Tirupur, he noted that when DMK was in power in 2000, the cabinet chaired by late chief minister M Karunanidhi had passed a resolution demanding the commutation of death sentence of only Nalini, while choosing to be silent on the other six convicts. “All of them were facing the death sentence. When the demand was for commuting the death sentence of Nalini alone, it meant that DMK was not bothered about the lives of the remaining six,’’ EPS said. “So, Stalin has no right to point fingers at us for the delay in the release of the seven,’’ he said. Alleging that DMK’s double standards in the issue was exposed, EPS questioned whether the DMK granted parole for one of the convicts, Perarivalan, when the opposition party was in power. “They did not even grant him parole. It was AIADMK which gave him parole twice,’’ EPS said.On Covid management, EPS said the state government had managed to bring down Covid incidence compared to neighbouring states due to concerted efforts. “Due to presence of industrial units, cases are marginally high in Tirupur. But the spread had been controlled and guest workers from garment units who left for their native states are slowly returning,’’ he said.EPS laid foundation stones for various projects and inaugurated a few that were completed. He listed out government projects implemented in Tirupur like Avinashi–Athikadavu project, a government medical college and hospital, a veterinary college and research centre, Smart City work in Tirupur corporation done with Centre’s financial support which included a new bus stand, convention centre, integrated market and a multi-level car parking. “Tirupur will don a new look once these projects are completed,’’ he said.EPS said that a statue of a famed Kangayam bull would be set up in Kangayam town in the district.Earlier industry representatives, farmers and SHG members met EPS and explained their expectations from the government. Apparel Export Promotion Council chairman A Sakthivel met the CM and submitted a memorandum seeking a separate export policy for Tamil Nadu, development of port infrastructure, operation of more direct flights from Coimbatore, expansion of metro rail project till Tirupur and establishment of textile parks and an exclusive sewing machinery park in Tirupur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/7-5-quota-not-for-govt-aided-school-students-says-cm/articleshow/79089626.cms||Mayilvaganan
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Man caught with 15kg ganja gets two years jail||Chennai: A city court has sentenced a ganja peddler to two years imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 20,000 on him. He was among six booked by the Tondiarpet police in July 2018 after they caught the gang near a corporation school bus stop with 15kg of ganja. While the accomplices were acquitted, the main accused, 54-year-old M Selvam, was convicted and given the sentence. The counsel for the accused argued that police did not possess any warrant, which was struck down by the court as the seizure was made in a public place. The counsel for the accused then argued that the seized property had been belatedly produced before the court and that the person who took the sample to the lab has not been examined as witness. “It is true that the constable who took the sample to the lab has not been cited as witness. However, there is no complaint of tampering of case properties. The sample was received by the lab intact. The evidence of chemical analyst proves the same. There is no enormous delay in production of the property before the court,” the court noted and dismissed the arguments. After perusing all evidence, the court held that there is enough evidence to convict Selvam and acquitted the five others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-caught-with-15kg-ganja-gets-two-years-jail/articleshow/79088347.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Muslim outfit conducts anti-Macron protest||Coimbatore: Members of India Thowheed Jamaath (INTJ) on Friday staged a protest at Athupalam here against the French government and President Emmanuel Macron.The protesters stood on the photos of Macron and condemned him for insulting Prophet Muhammad. They also raised slogans against the French government.Under Macron’s leadership, there has been an increase in the number of hate campaigns against Islam and the Prophet, INTJ president Bakkar told the protesters.“French satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo had published a cartoon to dishonour the Prophet in 2015. Several nations, including Islamic countries, condemned the magazine and the French government for the hate campaign against Islam. In the name of freedom of expression, French teacher Samuel Paty showed the caricature of the Prophet to students. INTJ condemns the incident,” a press release said.INTJ condemned Macron for saying that France will not give up the cartoons on the Prophet. “The French government is trying to spur communal clash and Macron will lead to the destruction of the country,” it said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/muslim-outfit-conducts-anti-macron-protest/articleshow/79089629.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC to fine owners for letting dogs & cattle out on Kolhapur roads||KOLHAPUR: The civic body is going to slap fines on owners for letting their unattended pets (especially dogs) and cattle out on the roads in Kolhapur city. Kolhapur Municipal Corporation chief Kadambari Balkawade has set up teams to catch the strays. Some NGOs are also going to assist the KMC in catching the animals. Balkawade said many citizens have complaints of accidents and traffic congestions caused due to stray animals obstructing the roads. “The stray cattle are taken to Panjarpol and Siddhgiri Mutt. The stray dogs are taken to the dog centre. We have found that many owners let their cattle and pets roam around on the streets. We will fine such owners,” said Balkawade. On the first day, seven cattle were caught and taken to Panjarpol, a cattle rearing centre. Cattle also cause nuisance by spilling waste from the garbage bins. Stray dogs, on the other hand, can turn violent and attack the passersby. Now, since the festive season is on, most market places are open till late at night. Women, children and senior citizens are vulnerable to such stray dogs. The administration is planning to hire dog experts and veterinary doctors to carry out a sterilisation programme to limit the population of stray dogs. “Additional staff and vehicles will be allocated to intensify the drive. I appeal to the citizens to let us know of any stray animal in their locality,” added Balkawade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-to-fine-owners-for-letting-dogs-cattle-out-on-city-roads/articleshow/79086244.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: No festive push for South Central Railway’s revenues this year||HYDERABAD: The usual hustle and bustle of the festive season is sorely missing this year at all the major railway stations in the twin cities.  Despite organising 23 special trains to clear the festival rush, the number of passengers making use of the facility has come down to a mere 52000 this year from around 13 lakh. This also resulted in the drop in revenue from 13-15 crore in the previous years to 2.52 crore this year, informed the SCR officials on condition of anonymity. Moreover, since the entry into the stations was restricted only to passengers, the revenue earned from platform tickets was also badly hit. However, SCR’s freight operations and loading in October surpassed the figures recorded for the same month last year. The zone has recorded freight loading of 8.489 MT in October 2020 as against 8.224 MT in October 2019 despite the Covid-19 pandemic. “Business development units have been instrumental in strengthening freight traffic and they generated new traffic. Regular interactions with customers were held to make them aware of the advantages of loading,” said SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-festive-push-for-scrs-revenues-this-yr/articleshow/79089633.cms||Moulika.KV
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme stopped temporarily||Coimbatore: Within a few days of implementing the ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme, the state government has stopped it temporarily after it was found to be time consuming. Officials from the Tamil Nadu public distribution system (TNPDS) have restored the previous method of distributing dry rations by swiping the smart card of beneficiaries. Under the scheme, cardholders could buy their monthly entitlement of dry rations from any electronic point of sale (ePoS) enabled ration shops in the country. It should be bought only by a person whose name is included in the card. While rice is distributed free of cost, other products, including sugar and dal, are sold at subsidized price to the cardholders. People from other states could avail only two products – rice, which is priced at Rs 3 per kg, and wheat, which is priced at Rs 2 per kg. The scheme was implemented on a pilot basis at 135 ration shops in the south taluk of Coimbatore on October 1 and two weeks later, TNPDS had decided to extend it to all the 1,419 ration shops in the district. The district has 10.37 lakh cardholders. Of them, 9.40 lakh are rice cardholders. An official from the office of district supply officer (DSO) said, “The software is linked to the master database where Aadhaar card details of the cardholders are stored. Whenever a person collects ration products at the shop, he/she will have to give their fingerprint and it in turn should match with the fingerprint in the database. Only then ration products will be handed over to them.” In the place of distributing ration products to about 150 people per day at a shop, we could attend only 40 people at the maximum and it takes us at least 30 minutes to deliver the products to a person, the official said. The delay in processing the information and matching the fingerprints in the master database is due to poor network and low server capacity. “As we have been receiving a lot of complaints from the public, the state government has stopped it temporarily and have been taking steps, including upgrading the software, to reduce the time consumption,” the official said. The scheme is likely to resume within a few weeks. Meanwhile, the TNPDS have restarted distributing the rations to the people just by swiping their cards at all the ration shops and it is to ensure that people are not affected during the festival season, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-stopped-temporarily/articleshow/79089663.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Security tightened at police school to curb chain snatching||Coimbatore: The city police have tightened security at the five entry points to the Police Recruit School (PRS) on Dr Balasundaram Road after two chain snatching incidents were reported from the premises recently. Kanagam, 75, mother of Rajendran, a police constable attached to the city armed reserve police, had ventured out for a walk on Sunday around 6.30pm, when a man on a motorcycle snatched her five-sovereign gold chain. Two weeks ago, an unidentified person snatched a 10-sovereign gold chain from a cop’s 70-year-old mother.Following the snatching incidents, police installed a new check post at the main entrance on the Avinashi Road. Cops will be deployed at another entrance in front of the police hospital soon, said a police officer.Security has been tightened at the two main entrances to the school. “Family members of cops often visit the PRS premises to buy groceries from the police canteen. People visit the police canteen for lunch and dinner. Hereafter, cops will collect the details of the outside visitors,” said a police officer.The PRS premise has another entrance on the Kattoor Road at Pappanaickenpalayam, where a gate will be installed. “We will install CCTV cameras at the five entrances very soon,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/security-tightened-at-police-school-to-curb-chain-snatching/articleshow/79089658.cms||A Subburaj
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Active cases in dist may fall below 1,000-mark soon||Coimbatore: The district recorded 222 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the tally to 44,676. However, the number of active cases dipped further to 1,001 with 233 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. The number of people recovered from Covid-19 stands at 43,104 in the district, where the recovery rate has touched 96.4%. The toll, meanwhile, shot up by two to 571. Both the deceased were men in their 70s and diabetic. One of them, who was aged 72, died of pneumonia and respiratory failure in the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Wednesday, while the other one, aged 75, succumbed to the virus on Thursday. Meanwhile, more people, who are exposed to positive patients, are undergoing antibody test after a week or two of quarantine. A private laboratory at RS Puram said at least 10 to 15 people were coming for the SARS-CoV2 igm/igg antibody test daily. While igm antibodies show the virus is still active, igg antibodies usually signify that the virus is inactive. Another laboratory on Cowley Brown Road said it was mostly doctors and their family members, who were opting for the antibody test. “Many doctors bring their families two months after they have recovered to check if they still have antibodies, because they know about the test,” said a lab representative. Government officials, however, said the usefulness of antibodies was yet to be proven. “We are realizing that many asymptomatic Covid-19 patients don’t have antibodies. Even symptomatic patients don’t have antibodies after a little over two months. We do not know how long igg antibodies for Covid-19 would last and if the presence of antibodies would help prevent reinfection,” said Siva Chandran, a senior epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-cases-in-dist-may-fall-below-1000-mark-soon/articleshow/79089672.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Ahead of reopening, colleges plan special timetables, blend of learning||BENGALURU: With the University Grants Commission (UGC), on Thursday, issuing ‘unlock’ guidelines for colleges to function and the state government already mandating institutions must give students the option of attending regular classes from November 17 or sticking to online mode, colleges in the state are mulling ways to offer a blended form of learning. Some colleges plan to live-stream classes so that students can avoid coming to campuses. “We are ready with the equipment to stream classes live so that those who want to join through virtual mode can do so,” said MS Santosh, joint registrar, Jain deemed-to-be University. “Outstation students are apprehensive of travel and accommodation. For others who are keen on coming, we plan to hold regular classes on alternate days/weeks for each batch. However, classes will continue online for engineering courses.” Colleges have launched surveys to seek students’ preferences. “We will call one batch on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and another batch the rest of the days,” said R Kavyashree, principal, Oxford College of Science. “We can live-stream classes in some cases. Or, while some teachers hold classes for online students, others can conduct regular classes.” UGC guidelines state only 50% students can be on campus at any time and colleges are drawing up special timetables. “We have almost completed theory portions and only practicals are left,” said Suryaprasad J, vice-chancellor, PES University. “We need a timetable so that 30% of a batch can attend lab on one day. We will try and cover more than the usual in each session. We will also deploy ‘marshals’ in hostels to ensure students follow social distancing.” Colleges are also readying hostels. “We have decided on single occupancy. Even for the mess, we will allow students to choose a time slot to have their meals,” said Christo Joseph, director, strategy and planning, Garden City University. “This will be made possible through an application which we have been experimenting with prior to Covid striking.” The biggest fear for colleges is ensuring social distancing. “Even during exams, we found it difficult to control students. For youngsters, friends are their life and social distancing is a challenge,” said a principal of a college affiliated to Bengaluru City University. Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore, which currently has on campus students who face internet network issues at home and National Law School of India University revealed they will continue with the online format, while Christ deemed-to-be University and Mount Carmel College said they have scheduled online exams from November 17. “Our end-semester exams will be held online and we do not expect students on campus till January 4, when the next semester begins,” said VN Raghu, public relations officer, MCC. Many colleges are awaiting state guidelines. The department of collegiate education has asked lecturers to prepare e-content for each session and upload it on college websites. This includes videos, PPTs, study materials and mock tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ahead-of-reopening-colleges-plan-special-timetables-blend-of-learning/articleshow/79088366.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Special drive to check boozing near liquor shops||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow police commissionerate started a special two-month drive against those found consuming alcohol outside liquor shops and drunken driving from Friday. Police commissioner Sujeet Pandey said the aim is not only to prevent fights outside liquor shops but also to curb road accidents. Pandey said DCP headquarters Swapnil Mamgain has been made the nodal head of entire commissionerate. “All the DCP zones will submit a report of action taken to DCP headquarters on a daily basis,” he said. Mamgain said CCTVs have to be installed in all liquor shops and daily patrolling will have to be done outside liquor shops by additional SHOs wearing body cameras. He said that each zone will be given 25 breath analysers to check drivers for intoxication. If found drunk, police will book them and seize their vehicles. People can share information or videos about drunkards outside shops on WhatsApp number 9454401508 .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/special-drive-to-check-boozing-near-liquor-shops/articleshow/79090895.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chennai||1,000-yr-old missing idol puts museum staff, cops in trouble||Chennai: A 1,000-year-old Chola-era idol, which was recovered from an old temple on the city’s outskirts more than a decade ago and displayed at the Government Museum at Egmore for a short period before going missing, remains untraced, putting police and museum authorities in a spot. The five-headed Sadasiva Moorthy idol was one of a bunch of artefacts retrieved from temples in and around Pallavaram and Tambaram. The idol, one of 25 forms of Lord Shiva with five heads and 10 hands, has been estimated by archaeological experts as belonging to the Chola period of the 11th century AD-12th century AD. An official of the department of museums said the Egmore museum received it from the idol wing police in 2006 or 2007 and it was displayed there for a brief period. “In 2008, the idol wing police took the idol to be handed over to the court. Since it was a case property, it was not registered in the museum’s accession book and there is no record available with the museum with regards to the artefact,” he said. The museum authorities conducted an inquiry in this regard a month ago, he added. An image of the idol that appears to have been shot at the museum, with at least three hands broken, has gone viral on WhatsApp groups. When contacted, officials of the idol wing CID said, the court concerned had handed over the idols including the missing artefact to them and that they in turn gave them to the museum authorities. Several documents including those regarding the current case at the idol wing CID office in Guindy were damaged in the December 2015 floods and the court concerned was informed, they said. “We will share the details once we receive the documents pertaining to the missing idol,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1000-yr-old-missing-idol-puts-museum-staff-cops-in-trouble/articleshow/79088372.cms||A Selvaraj
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Pvt firm to repay Rs 6.4L with interest to bizman for defective machines||Coimbatore: The district consumer disputes redressal commission has directed a private company in the city to repay Rs 6.42 lakh with interest to a businessman for selling defective oil milling machines.According to a source with the forum, the complainant, J Vimal Kumar, had started a marachekku oil business in Tiruvallur under the central government’s new entrepreneur cum enterprise development scheme in 2018.He had bought three oil milling machines with wooden milling chambers and 20kg capacity motor from the Sri Krishnaswamy Metal Works at Ganapathy in the city at a cost of Rs 6.42 lakh in November 2018.“The machines were found to be defective while assembling them. The size of the wooden milling chambers was different and plungers did not fit properly. The plungers were broken to pieces on the first attempt itself as they were of substandard quality. One of the employees clicked the pictures and escalated the issue with the company.”The firm agreed to replace the defective machines with new ones immediately, but it only couriered a plunger to the buyer on December 31, 2018, another one on April 10, 2019, and the third one on July 23, 2019. But the firm did not replace the machines, the source said. “As it was the only source of income for the complainant, who incurred a huge loss in the business, the commission directed the firm to return the cost of the three defective machines with 9% interest per annum from the date of the compliant.”The firm was also directed to pay Rs 75,000 with 9% interest per annum from the date of complaint for causing mental agony to the complainant and another Rs 3,000 towards the cost of litigation within two months. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pvt-firm-to-repay-rs-6-4l-with-interest-to-bizman-for-defective-machines/articleshow/79089668.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Active cases in dist may fall below 1,000-mark soon||Coimbatore: The district recorded 222 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the tally to 44,676. However, the number of active cases dipped further to 1,001 with 233 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. The number of people recovered from Covid-19 stands at 43,104 in the district, where the recovery rate has touched 96.4%.The toll, meanwhile, shot up by two to 571. Both the deceased were men in their 70s and diabetic. One of them, who was aged 72, died of pneumonia and respiratory failure in the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Wednesday, while the other one, aged 75, succumbed to the virus on Thursday.Meanwhile, more people, who are exposed to positive patients, are undergoing antibody test after a week or two of quarantine. A private laboratory at RS Puram said at least 10 to 15 people were coming for the SARS-CoV2 igm/igg antibody test daily. While igm antibodies show the virus is still active, igg antibodies usually signify that the virus is inactive.Another laboratory on Cowley Brown Road said it was mostly doctors and their family members, who were opting for the antibody test. “Many doctors bring their families two months after they have recovered to check if they still have antibodies, because they know about the test,” said a lab representative.Government officials, however, said the usefulness of antibodies was yet to be proven. “We are realizing that many asymptomatic Covid-19 patients don’t have antibodies. Even symptomatic patients don’t have antibodies after a little over two months. We do not know how long igg antibodies for Covid-19 would last and if the presence of antibodies would help prevent reinfection,” said Siva Chandran, a senior epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-cases-in-dist-may-fall-below-1000-mark-soon/articleshow/79089670.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||436 spl buses to ease rush||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) will operate 436 additional buses from November 12 to 16 to ease festival rush.According to a TNSTC official, 186 buses from Coimbatore district, 50 from the Nilgiris, 110 from Erode and 90 from Tirupur will be operated during the festival season, apart from 616 town buses and 1,066 mofussil buses.The special buses will also be operated on November 17 if required, the official said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/436-spl-buses-to-ease-rush/articleshow/79089665.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Speeding Audi kills youth on way to police recruitment exam||JAIPUR: In a tragic accident, a candidate who was to appear for the constable recruitment exam on Friday was killed after a luxury Audi car hit him on Sodala elevated road at 8am in the morning. The victim was on his way to the examination centre, police said. The force of the accident threw him off the flyover and he landed 150 metres below on the roof of a house. The deceased has been identified as 22-year-old Mada Ram from Pali. “He was walking on the flyover when the car, which was driven by a woman, hit him from behind. Mada Ram was thrown off the bridge and he landed on the roof of the house below. The accident was so severe that he died on the spot,” said an officer with the accident police station (south). The victim’s limbs were severed in the collision. Police detained two women, including driver Neha Soni, a resident of Moti Doongri area in the city. They said that she had a valid driving licence. Sources also confirmed to TOI that the vehicle was registered in the name of Soni Hospital and the accused was the daughter-in-law of its owner Vimal Soni. “It happened around 8am when the deceased was on his way to the examination centre. The women were on their way to Ajmer Road. It appears to be a case of speeding. The vehicle went completely out of control. After hitting Mada Ram, the driver could not control the car and it hit a pole. We have seized the vehicle,” the officer said. The pole also was uprooted and fell below the elevated road. The car’s airbags had opened from the collision. A case under IPC sections 304 A (causing death by negligence) as well as 279 (rash driving) has been registered against Soni who was questioned by the police. No one has been arrested yet and the accused was allowed to go home. IPC section 304 A is a bailable offence and the offender can get bail from the police station itself. The victim’s post-mortem was done on Friday evening. Mada Ram was the youngest of seven siblings in his family and had reached Jaipur from Jodhpur on Friday around 5.30am. Speaking to TOI, his brother-in-law, Raja Ram said, “For the last many years, Mada Ram was preparing for competitive exams. He had previously appeared for patwari and forest department exams but was not selected. He had worked hard to clear this exam.” He also said that the victim's family was not financially sound. “My father-in-law had mortgaged his land so as to help Mada Ram take coaching for exams. His elder brothers work as labourers and do not earn much. We had hoped to see Mada Ram in uniform and it is difficult to come to terms with his death. The guilty must be punished,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/speeding-audi-kills-youth-on-way-to-police-recruitment-exam/articleshow/79090963.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 7, 2020||Agra||Five farmers held for stubble burning in Mainpuri||AGRA: Five farmers were arrested on Thursday for burning paddy stubble in their fields in UP's Mainpuri, despite orders against the practice. All of them were booked under section 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of CrPC and remanded to judicial custody. A photograph purportedly of a police personnel taking one of the farmers with him by his collar went viral on social media. Kishni police station incharge Ajit Singh said the farmer tried to escape from the field. Mainpuri DM Mahendra Bahadur Singh said that all five farmers were spotted burning stubble in their fields when district officials and police were taking rounds of the village to monitor the same. He added that all district officials and police station in-charges have been asked to strictly follow the Supreme Court directions in this regard. Singh told TOI that so far 34 such incidents have been reported in the district and FIRs have been lodged against the farmers. He said, “A penalty of Rs 92,500 have also been imposed and of this Rs 30,000 have been recovered.” An official statement quoted the chief minister as saying, “The farmers should be made aware of impacts of stubble burning on the environment and pollution caused by it and asked the agriculture department to run awareness programmes. It should be ensured that farmers should not be misbehaved with or harassed while taking action against stubble burning.” Meanwhile, several cities across UP recorded Air Quality Index (AQI) as “very poor to severe” category in the past 24 hours on Friday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Experts attributed the severe pollution levels to drop in temperature, stubble burning and increasing traffic due to the festive season. Out of 12 cities in UP monitored by CPCB, eight were found in “severe” category which means — affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases. These cities include Moradabad (457), Lucknow (447), Kanpur (441), Ghaziabad (433), Greater Noida (421), Noida (406), Baghpat (403) and Bulandshahr (401). Cities which recorded “very poor” category status were Varanasi (317), Muzaffarnagar (321), Meerut (342), and Agra (399).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/five-farmers-held-for-stubble-burning-in-mainpuri/articleshow/79087160.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Protests in Lucknow University over revised postgraduate merit list||LUCKNOW: Revised merit lists for admissions in four postgraduate courses — MSc botany, MSc zoology, MSc maths and LLM — were declared by Lucknow University on Friday after anomalies were detected in the first merit list declared earlier. This led to angry protests by candidates who had scored high rank in the first list but found their names lower down the order in the revised one. The entrance exams based on multiple choice question format were held last month. Thereafter, LU had declared provisional merit lists of every course along with the answer keys on the basis of which answer copies were evaluated from the candidates. Based on the feedback it was found that some of the answer keys had some anomalies following which LU re-evaluated the answer copies and declared revised lists. However, the revision did not go down well with the candidates whose ranks have now dropped. Alleging anomalies in the admission process, many candidates converged outside the administrative block and staged protest. LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said the previous merit list was provisional and subject to corrections. “We timely detected the flaws and corrected the answer keys and declared revised merit lists. This means that admissions are being done in a fair manner,” he added. However, the entire episode raised question on LU’s efficiency. Officials said answers of 1-4 questions were wrong in the answer keys of the four courses. The goof up occurred because there were several sets of question papers and inadvertently answer keys of a different set were applied on another, they added. Describing the negligence as a blunder that will impact their future, some candidates threatened to launch an agitation. Mahendra Yadav, an LLM aspirant, said he will challenge LU’s decision in the court. “My name was in the top 200 in the provisional merit list, but now near 500. I was confident about admission here and left several other options, but now no chance at LU, said MSc Zoology candidate Abhay Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/protests-in-lu-over-revised-pg-merit-list/articleshow/79090923.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Red sanders smuggler held in city||Coimbatore: The Kadapa district police from Andhra Pradesh arrested A Hakkim Basha alias Basha Bhai, 41, a notorious red sanders smuggler, in the city on Friday. Basha, a resident of Kaveri Nagar at Kuniyamuthur in the city, is facing several red sanders smuggling cases in Kadapa. He has been operating a gang from the city to smuggle red sanders for the last two years. Basha was hiding in the city on the pretext of running a cloth business. The Kadapa district police learned about Basha when they arrested two red sanders smugglers from Salem on Kadapa-Tadipatri road on Monday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/red-sanders-smuggler-held-in-city/articleshow/79089683.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 7, 2020||Agra||Hathras: CBI team visits crime spot for third time, recreates scene again||AGRA: On their third visit to the crime spot since they took over investigation three weeks ago, CBI recreated the scene of the alleged Hathras gang-rape and questioned the victim’s family again. “My mother and brother were taken to the crime spot, where an officer lied down at the spot where my sister was found. They were then asked questions about what happened, how far away my mother was when the crime happened, what she saw when she finally spotted my sister,” the girl’s younger brother, who was not present at the spot, told TOI. “My mother broke down then. She told me all those questions brought back harrowing memories from the day.” The 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in a field where she was collecting fodder with her mother on September 14. Dragged by her neck, she sustained severe spinal cord injuries. She died three weeks later at a hospital in Delhi, after which she was “hurriedly” cremated without consent from her family past midnight. After angry protests seeking proper investigation, the case was handed over to the CBI which began its field investigation on October 13. On Friday, the CBI team questioned the girl’s mother for about an hour and the brother for about half an hour. After that, the team left and spoke to the chief medical superintendent of the district hospital, where the girl had first been taken from the police station. The CBI team, which has been camping at Hathras, has visited the victim’s family several times. The line of questioning, the family told the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, seemed to inch towards the honour killing claim that the accused and their families have been making. The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court had asked the CBI to file a status report on November 25 and provide a timeline for when the investigation will be complete. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cbi-team-visits-hathras-crime-spot-for-3rd-time-recreates-scene-again/articleshow/79087174.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 7, 2020||Chennai||5 years on, Tambaram Sanatorium subway still leaky, no FoB in sight||Chennai: Cracked roof and leaky walls are the usual sight at the Tambaram Sanatorium railway station pedestrian subway every monsoon. Residents' request to build a foot overbridge has been long pending and on Friday, a resident who tweeted the sorry state of the facility, received a reply that the FOB will be ready soon. S Sudarshan, a resident of Chitlapakkam, said the pedestrian subway is the only short route for many people like him to reach the GST Road as there is no other pedestrian crossing in the vicinity. It is the safest way to cross from Chitlapakkam east to west and from Tambaram east to the arterial GST Road. It is only the access point to Tambaram Sanatorium suburban station, bus stand, MEPZ, Siddha hospital and the court. Often during northeast monsoon, the subway is flooded after a heavy spell and remains unfit for use for a few days. On Friday morning too, the walls were leaking after the early morning rain. But residents said it gets worse after continuous rainfall. “It was flooded when it rained heavily in early October. The water doesn’t drain for two or three days and we are all forced to walk on the flyover sometimes,” said Sudarshan, who walks through the subway every day to board a bus to his workplace from GST Road. “At times, when I return after work at 3am, the subway is not lit. I end up using the flyover to walk back home,” he added. Residents said the subway opened in 2006, with trains running above, slowly began developing cracks and some patches of concrete started falling, revealing the reinforcement inside. Angry residents had been petitioning the railways to construct a foot overbridge for nearly five years. “We started seeing leaks everywhere by 2015. Since 2016, I have been sending petitions after petitions. But I received no response since I was an individual petitioner. When we sent a grievance letter to the then member of Parliament in 2017, we received a reply that an FOB will be built,” said Dayanand Krishnan, a Chitlapakkam resident. Tenders for the FOB closed in June 2020, but Krishnan said the construction FOB, which was to be ready in nine months, never commenced. On Friday, Krishnan tweeted the images of the cracks in the subway tagging the railway minister and soon he received a reply from Indian Railways Seva, following which a complaint was registered. “They sent a message that the FOB will be completed by 2020-21 year. We have just four more months for the financial year to end,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5-years-on-tambaram-sanatorium-subway-still-leaky-no-fob-in-sight/articleshow/79088440.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Agra||374-year-old tradition broken, Uttar Pradesh cattle fair called off because of Covid-19||AGRA Every year since 1646, the ancient village of Bateshwar by the Yamuna comes alive before Diwali. But for the first time, the Bateshwar Mela, one of north India’s biggest animal fairs, has been cancelled because of the pandemic. “The district council has been informed that permission for organising the Bateshwar Mela could not be granted in keeping with Covid-19 guidelines. Lakhs from across northern India visit the fair every year. That kind of gathering could turn into a spreader event. So, in public interest, the historic fair will not be organised this year,” district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said. The fair goes back to the reign of Raja Badan Singh when, legend goes, he built a dam to divert the Yamuna so it would always flow by a temple he built for the area’s presiding deity, Bateshwar Mahadev, a form of Shiva. The temple complex has more than 100 temples dedicated to Shiva, lined up along the crescent-shaped curve of the riverfront. The fair is meant to coincide with what is considered the most auspicious period for praying at Bateshwar, also the birthplace of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Besides the animal trade, the fair is a big draw for religious reasons as well. The district administration has allowed the temple management to conduct religious rituals, but without people in attendance. “It starts a few days before Diwali and continues for about three weeks. The animal fair is organised in the first week, when cattle, camels, horses, donkeys and goats are traded. Then, various species of birds and pet animals are brought in. Finally, in the last week, the fair opens up to more general trade and rides,” district council president Rakesh Baghel said. The fair is significant for economic reasons as well. In the past, the fair has generated revenue between Rs 25 lakh and Rs 58 lakh, TOI had reported earlier. Locals said that is where it will hurt this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/374-year-old-tradition-broken-up-cattle-fair-called-off-because-of-covid/articleshow/79087179.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat must have its own heart failure registry, say experts||Ahmedabad: City-based medical experts recently advocated setting up of a heart failure registry for early identification of possible victims and early intervention. The doctors were speaking at a virtual event organized as part of the Beat Heart Failure Initiative by The Times of India. The panellists included health & family welfare principal secretary Jayanti Ravi and health commissioner Jai Prakash Shivahare from the state government; founder of Apex Heart Institute Dr Tejas Patel, founder of Epic Hospital Dr Anil Jain, senior interventional cardiologist Dr Kamal Sharma, and professor (cardiology) at UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology & Research Centre (UNMICRC) Dr Sibasis Sahoo, who represented the medical fraternity. Dr Patel said that the first step towards understanding the prevalence of the disease is proper research and data collection. "Gujarat must have its own heart failure registry. Without a proper registry, it’s difficult to ascertain the magnitude of the problem," he said, adding that the media can play a big role in dissemination of information related to heart failure prevention. "The Trivendrum Heart Failure Registry was the first such initiative in the country. Different countries use different scoring systems for identification of potential patients, and we can develop our own system which is most practical and implementable," said Dr Jain. Both Ravi and Shivahare welcomed the idea and said that they would seek help from the subject experts to take it further. "We can meet the experts again and chalk out a plan," said Ravi in her concluding remarks. They also pointed at the efficacy of initiatives such as PM-JAY in covering the vulnerable population and upgrading of UNMICRC in the direction of covering non-communicable diseases (NCDs). Dr Sharma advocated primordial prevention of the disease. "Studies indicate that about 50-60% of the population harbour hidden heart failure due to lack of diagnosis. The signs of heart failure should be disseminated and should be checked through methods such as identifying vulnerable population with hypertension, diabetes, anemia, etc. and analysis of biomarkers," he said. "Along with the lifestyle related issues, heart failure can also be a result of congenital heart disease, and thus screening of children with heart issues should be done early," said Dr Sahoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-must-have-its-own-heart-failure-registry-say-experts/articleshow/79089749.cms||Parth Shastri
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Checking voter list details is easy||Here is a guide for citizens to add, delete or correct their details in the voter list November 7: Preparation of draft electoral rolls and its display for inspection by general public People can check their names on www.NVSP.in or https://ceotelangana.nic.in/ User visiting https://ceotelangana.nic.in/ to check the name will be directed to www.NVSP.in How to check: Go to ‘search in electoral rolls’ on www.NVSP.in home page Enter details to check name Those who have enrolled for first time can check their details by entering name, constituency details Applicants whose name already exists can search for details using their name or by entering their EPIC number (voter card) number Users need to register with NVSP portal before checking their details or enrolling their name in electoral rolls Inclusion, deletion & correction: For inclusion of name in electoral roll click on option ‘Forms’ on www.NVSP.in on home page After clicking on ‘Forms’, the user is directed to a page and the option Form 6 is available on the left side of the screen For inclusion of name, Form 6 needs to be clicked and details need to be entered. The details include name, address The applicant will also be directed to Form 6 web page https://www.nvsp.in/Forms For deletion of name, in case change of state or death of a person , select Form 7 (https://www.nvsp.in/Forms) Deletions can also be reported using Form 7 For correction of entries in electoral rolls, select Form 8 and enter details Once the option Form 8 is clicked users are directed to a page which rolls out all details in the rolls and the applicant can select details that need to be changed If the applicant has moved house within the constituency, select Form 8A For replacement of elector’s photo identity card (EPIC) select Form 001 Quote: “The ward-wise draft roll will be handed over to recognised political party representatives, claims and objection will be accepted from November 8 to November 11. Final publication of ward wise photo electoral rolls is scheduled on November 13,” —C Partha Sarathi, Telangana state election commissioner Text: Nabinder Bommala||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/checking-voter-list-details-is-easy/articleshow/79089694.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government launches helpline to register complaints about online classes||BENGALURU: The education department has launched a helpline — 18004257302 and WhatsApp 9483045130 — to enable parents register complaints against schools that do not adhere to prescribed online class timings. The government had set maximum hours for classes for each grade. However, many schools are taking extra classes to cover the syllabus. Parents say this is a strain on their children since they have to stare at laptops or mobile phones for long hours. “Schools cannot conduct classes for as long as they want,” said S Suresh Kumar, minister for primary and secondary education. “They have to adhere to government rules which are based on a scientific report from an expert committee. Officials at the block and cluster level have to track these issues.” A nodal officer will be appointed at the office of the commissioner and deputy directors of public instruction at the district level. A meeting will be held on Saturday to review issues and complaints.  Meanwhile, the final customised version of the National Education Policy for Karnataka will be submitted to the government on Saturday. The recommendations will be used to give education a new direction in the state and will make Karnataka the first to implement NEP in the country, said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-launches-helpline-to-register-complaints-about-online-classes/articleshow/79088453.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Want to avoid joint replacement? Watch for signs of osteoarthritis||LUCKNOW: Check your weight in the younger years, especially in your 30s and 40s, walk regularly over jumping and jogging and look for early signs of pain in joints, if osteoarthritis has to be kept at bay. Observing November 6 as National Osteoarthritis Day, experts in the fields of orthopaedics, rheumatology and physiotherapy under the aegis of Society for Osteoarthritis Research (SOAR) addressed patients via video messages to spread awareness about the disease and its risk factors. Osteoarthritis is the fourth most common cause of disability in India and research in the field is hugely required for diagnostic measures to be devised, they said. “Once osteoarthritis is diagnosed, nothing much can be done in terms of treatment other than pain medication and joint replacement which too is neither inexpensive nor simple. It is important to be aware of its signs much in advance,” said president of SOAR Dr Siddharth Das. “Being obese adds pressure on the joints, so keep your weight in check. Do at least 15 minutes of walking at normal speed and keep jogging and jumping to a minimum, as it puts sudden pressure on the joints,” added Dr Das, who was formerly head of rheumatology department at KGMU. Women above the age of 50 years are susceptible to osteoarthritis and doctors said that a knee injury be it during sports or following a surgery, almost always leads to osteoarthritis. “If one experiences consistent pain, nodules or widening of bones in joints and hips, it can be because of osteoarthritis. In such a situation, it is very important to see a doctor at the earliest so that advance stage of joint replacement can be avoided,” said rheumatologist Dr Kiran Seth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/want-to-avoid-joint-replacement-watch-for-signs-of-osteoarthritis/articleshow/79090973.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||CM announces tea testing lab for Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: A tea testing lab will be set up in the Nilgiris and at least five Indco (Industrial cooperative) tea factories in the district will be upgraded with new machineries at the cost of Rs 17.68 crore, said chief minister Edappadi K Palanisamy who was here on Friday. He also hinted at availability of air-ambulance for emergency cases in the hills. After inaugurating 67 completed government projects at the cost of Rs 189.35 crore and laying foundation for as many as 123 newly proposed government projects for Rs 131.57crore, Palanisamy held Covid-19 review meeting with the district administration at Tamizhagam, government guest house in Ooty. The CM introduced six new varieties of teas produced by the Indco tea factories and launched five mobile Indcoserve tea vans. Indco factories of Kaikatty, Kundha, Manjoor, Pandalur and Salisbury will be upgraded by replacing the old machineries at the cost of Rs 17.68 crore by borrowing from NABARD. He also announced a tea testing lab in the Nilgiris after the representatives of the industry made a plea to him. Palanisamy also interacted with representatives of farmers’ producers groups, women self-help groups and members of the tea industry in the Nilgiris in a separate session while distributing welfare measures to beneficiaries. Addressing the press, Palanisamy said, “With all possible efforts by the government, the spread of Covid-19 cases has been brought under control in the state”. Pointing out that the daily Covid tests conducted in the state is around 70,000, he said, “Only around 2500 test positive in a day which is a great improvement.” When asked about the ‘Vel’ procession by BJP, Palanisamy said, “Law will take its own course”. Palanisamy who came to Ooty via Mettupalayam-Kotagiri-Ooty road was greeted by party people at least at six places along the way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cm-announces-tea-testing-lab-for-nilgiris/articleshow/79089692.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Gomti riverfront-like facelift for Kukrail drain||LUCKNOW: Banks of Kukrail drain will get a facelift on the lines of Gomti riverfront with green belts on both sides of the drain. In addition, traffic management and roads development in the city will be done with the Smart City vision. These directions were issued by state urban development minister, Ashutosh Tandon, on Friday in a meeting with the officials of civic and urban development agencies. Tandon directed officials to prepare an action plan for a sewage treatment plant (STP) for treating Kukrail drain water and diversion of drains that fall in it. He also asked them to work on the beautification of Kukrail banks on the lines of Gomti riverfront. It will include green belts on both sides of the drain and removal of encroachment. The green belt will have antations and parks with benches for people to spend leisure time. The minister also said that in order to reduce vehicular traffic pressure in the city, roads on both sides of the Gomti river need to be connected to IIM via Shaheed Path. He directed officials to get an artist’s impression of the project at the earliest. He also said that all the main roads in the city where diversions are not upto the mark should be identified and rectified to ensure smooth flow of the traffic. Officers were also told to prepare a detailed presentation of the development plan for presenting it before the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gomti-riverfront-like-facelift-for-kukrail-drain/articleshow/79090944.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||Shah plays CAA card in poll-bound Bengal||KOLKATA: Senior BJP functionary and Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday said there was no need for President’s Rule in West Bengal as he was confident of the saffron party’s victory in 2021 assembly polls. Addressing a press conference here on the second day of his Bengal visit, Shah also dropped hints that BJP would like to stick to the “Modi-Mamata binary” instead of projecting a new face (the chief ministerial candidate) months ahead of the polls. “There are states like Uttar Pradesh, where we won the elections without projecting a CM face,” he said. “There is no point talking about Article 356 (President’s rule due to failure of constitutional machinery in a state) when we are going to form the government in April (next year),” Shah told reporters. “You (voters) gave chances to Congress, the Communists and Trinamool to rule Bengal. Give us one chance. We will offer you good rule,” he said. Shah said he could sense the “public anger” against the present government. The BJP brass wants to focus on this “anger” to garner votes for the party. The home minister reiterated the Centre’s commitment to give citizenship to non-Muslim refugees from neighbouring countries. Earlier in the day, he promised as much to Matua community member Nabin Biswas of Baguiati’s Adarsha Pally, where he had lunch with Biswas’s family. Matuas are a subsect of the Hindu Namashudra community, who had migrated to Bengal from the erstwhile East Pakistan. Shah, however, did not say whether the refugees would get citizenship before the polls. “I have a commitment to implement CAA in Bengal,” he said, adding: “The process of framing rules for CAA got delayed due to corona. We are committed to it.” Prior to the lunch, Shah also went to the Matua Mahasangha Mandir at Gouranganagar, where he asked the community members to increase ground activity in support of CAA. Based on the feedback of more than 180 BJP workers, who he met in Bankura and Kolkata, and conversations he had with a cross-section of people in the last two days, Shah hit out at the Trinamool government with three Ts: Tushtikaran (appeasement), tanasahi (autocracy) and tolabazi (extortion). “Administration is politicised, there has been criminalisation of politics and corruption has been institutionalised,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shah-plays-caa-card-in-poll-bound-bengal/articleshow/79092039.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Court orders notice to govt as PIL seeks grama sabha meetings||Chennai: The Madras high court on Friday directed the state government to respond to a PIL moved by a retired IPS officer, an office-bearer of Makkal Needhi Maiam, seeking to conduct grama sabha meetings of village panchayats throughout the state. A division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha passed the order while admitting the plea moved by A G Mourya, who is the general secretary (north and east) of MNM. The petitioner wanted the court to direct the state government to conduct grama sabha meetings as per the Tamil Nadu Grama Sabha (Quorum and Procedure for Convening and Conducting of meetings) Rules, 1998. According to the petitioner, though the government on September 26 granted permission to conduct the meetings with strict compliance of Covid-19 protocol, it was revoked on October 1, a day before the scheduled meetings. Claiming that the last-minute cancellation of meetings throughout the state would amount to violation of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act and rules, the petitioner has moved the present plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-orders-notice-to-govt-as-pil-seeks-grama-sabha-meetings/articleshow/79088459.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Misty nights are here||Coimbatore: The city was cloaked in mist in the past three nights, especially between 9pm and 12am. Weathermen attributed the untimely mist to the encountering of humid easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal and cold northerly winds, causing moisture to condense into droplets. They warned against riding through the mist unnecessarily, as it gets dense when it comes in contact with smoke, vehicular pollution or dust particles. Many parts of the city such as Gandhipuram flyover, Avinashi flyover and Valankulam bridge were enveloped in mist on Tuesday and Wednesday night. While water droplets covered the vehicles, the mist was not dense enough to affect the vehicular visibility. Pointing out that the northeast monsoon wind has begun entering the district, Mahesh Palawat, meteorologist, Skymet Weather Services, says, “Mist forms when the moisture in the humid wind from the Bay of Bengal condenses it. This occurs only when there is no rain.” The mist, says D Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, becomes more greyish or thicker when it comes into contact with dust particles or smoke. “There won’t be mist when rain begins to lash, as it would wash away all the dust particles in the air.” The district has been receiving monsoon showers since Monday, but only in the early hours of the day. The days remain slightly cloudy and humid. While the mist is not dense enough to affect the motorists’ visibility, experts have advised against riding through it. “The humid moisture bearing wind condenses only when it crosses extremely cold wind. It can give joggers and cyclists nose blocks and even cold,” said a doctor with the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/misty-nights-are-here/articleshow/79089706.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Now, domestic tourists to keep POW chugging||JAIPUR: For nearly four decades since 1982, the luxury train, Palace On Wheels (POW), pampered foreign tourists and made them feel like kings and queens. But now, it wants to woo natives and give them a royal ride, coursing through historic landmarks and wildlife parks in Rajasthan, including Taj Mahal in Agra. With the Covid-19 pandemic freezing all international travel, the luxury train had stopped service from the last week of March. So, it has no other option but to depend on domestic tourists to keep it chugging and remain economically viable. “We have started a dialogue with booking agents on resuming the train. Since the focus is on reaching out to domestic travellers, we need a new strategy that includes offering flexible itineraries, pricing and marketing,” said Alok Gupta, principal secretary, department of tourism, and MD of the Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC), which runs the train. “We will be working on several fronts, but it will take time to work out details,” Gupta added. Senior RTDC officials said that they have already prepared two itineraries, but even a custom-made route can only be considered if a group books over 50% of seats. The train has 82 berths. “We do not want to run the train if we feel a trip will make losses. Even if there is scope for marginal profit, we will run the service. If the occupancies are higher, we can consider lowering the rates too,” said the official. The luxury train had to cancel its trips in March and April this year due to the outbreak of coronavirus. Over 90% of passengers using the train are usually foreign nationals. But even after the tourist season has started, POW is unable to start operations due to Covid. However, looking at the decline in new infections, RTDC is expecting that it can run a few trips for domestic tourists if there is demand. The official said they were hoping to start in January. But there are a lot of uncertainties that need to be cleared. The corporation is planning to open the train to various segments of domestic groups like schoolchildren, doctors and also provide corporate incentive tours. POW is one of the few profit making ventures of RTDC. Several of its hotels are making losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-domestic-touriststo-keep-pow-chugging/articleshow/79090974.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Cowdung products to light up Diwali this year||LUCKNOW: To give a boost to MSMEs during festive season, the government has roped in self-help groups (SHGs) for production and sale of ‘gomai’ (cowdung) products. As part of an initiative of UP Gau Seva Aayog, diyas made of ‘gomai’ will be lit to brighten Diwali this year not only in Lucknow but also at other places of religious importance like Ayodhya, Kashi, Mathura and Chitrakoot. On the eve of Diwali (November 13), one lakh ‘gomai’ diyas will be lit at Jhulelal Vatika as a joint initiative of the Aayog and Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC). These diyas will be made with the help of SHGs which will help every woman member earn Rs 300-500 per day. Chairman, UP Gau Seva Aayog, Shyam Nandan Singh said, “‘Gomai’ idols of Lakshmi-Ganesh and Lord Hanuman will also be available this Diwali.” “Cow dung is used to make various products right from biogas to manure, pots, diyas, incense sticks, puja material and handicraft. Farmers and other families involved in the trade are making extra income out of it,” he added. “These products will be linked to MSMEs to increase employment opportunities. At the same time, handicrafts will also be exported,” Singh said. The Aayog has also written to National Kamdhenu Commission and UP government to cover ‘gomai’ products under various schemes meant for farmers so that people making these products get benefitted. Due to the efforts of the Ayog, electricity for tubewells in ‘gaushalas’ has been subsidised. It is now trying to get equipment used in making ‘gomai’ and other products subsidised. The Ayog has invited suggestions and help from people on conservation of cows and diversification of products made at ‘gaushalas’ to help people increase their earning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cowdung-products-to-light-up-diwali-this-yr/articleshow/79090998.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Govt can’t legislate to trifurcate capital||VIJAYAWADA: The twin Bills intended for trifurcation of the state capital were brought with mala fide intentions, said advocate Unnam Muralidhar Rao. Arguing on behalf of the farmers, who moved high court challenging Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Act and Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, he said the state government has no power to make legislation to trifurcate the capital. On the fourth day of daily hearing on a batch of petitions filed against the capital trifurcation, Muralidhar Rao argued on behalf of farmers D Sambasiva Rao and T Srinivasa Rao who also challenged the expert committee report on the capital. Rao said the government cannot go back on legitimate promises it made under land pooling scheme. He said farmers gave their land as the government promised them returnable plots in the capital. He said the farmers did not give their land not in lieu of mere developed plots but with a legitimate expectation of getting plots in a capital city that would be developed according to the notified master plan. Now, in the name of decentralisation, the government cannot break those legitimate promises made to the farmers, he said adding that it would be violation of General Clauses Act. Any deviation from notified master plan would result in value erosion of the plots which is violation of fundamental rights of farmers who gave the land, he said. Rao further said the government does not have powers to change the capital as it was decided according to Section 94 of Andhra Pradesh State Reorganisation Act. The Union has given funds under this provision for developing the capital. He said the principal seat of the high court was notified by the President of India under Section 31(2) of the same Act and shifting judicial capital to Kurnool will be another violation. To further buttress his arguments, Rao said the Union denotified degraded forest land for the construction of capital and it has notified the capital Amaravati in the political map of India and hence changing the capital is not in the ambit of state government as the Union is also a stakeholder. As the arguments ended inconclusively, the high court posted the matter for further hearing on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-cant-legislate-to-trifurcate-capital/articleshow/79087217.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Court extends Perarivalan’s parole by two more weeks||Chennai: The Madras high court on Friday extended by two weeks the parole granted to A G Perarivalan, one of seven life convicts in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination case. The 30-day ordinary leave he came out on expires on November 9. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice D Krishnakumar granted the extension while allowing an application moved by Perarivalan’s mother Arputham. On September 24, another division bench headed by Justice N Kirubakaran granted the 30-day leave to Perarivalan after the state government refused him parole under exemption available in the prison rules. “In view of the undisputed facts regarding multiple comorbid illnesses the petitioner’s son suffers from, his chances of getting infected being higher in prison, him not being given proper treatment due to pandemic situation, the ripe age and illness of his parents who are away from him for the past 29 years, it is appropriate to direct the government to grant 30 days leave to the petitioner’s son,” the bench said. The issue pertains to a habeas corpus plea moved by Arputham seeking 90 days parole for her son on medical grounds. Since he needed some more time to take care of his health, Arputham moved the present plea seeking extension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-extends-perarivalans-parole-by-two-more-weeks/articleshow/79088551.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Another Delhi doctor on contract falls to Covid||NEW DELHI: The death of another doctor working on contract has yet again put the focus on health benefits being given by Delhi government to such healthcare personnel, who have been requesting for facilities during this time of Covid for months now. Dr Hitesh Gupta (43), who was posted at Karkardooma dispensary, tested positive for Covid-19 and passed away on November 3. Barely a month ago, on October 8, Gupta had been given a certificate of appreciation by Delhi government for his outstanding work in Krishna Nagar in the fight against the viral disease. Gupta’s wife, Surabhi, a teacher with a private school, said, “We were largely dependent on him. What is the point of calling him a Corona Warrior when there are no benefits? He would always tell that he wanted our eight-year-old daughter to be a doctor and be in this noble profession. My father-in-law is also no more. My mother-in-law is old. How can we take care of the family? If there were incentives, then his savings would have been used on other things instead of his treatment.” On October 29, Gupta had developed breathing issues. His oxygen level kept dropping and eventually he passed away on November 3 due to Covid-19. “He did not take leaves and regularly went to the dispensary where people were being tested for the virus. He also maintained a distance from the family to avoid infection. In such tough times, the least the government can do is give health benefits. What we have lost can’t be returned, but other doctors suffering like this should be supported,” said Surabhi. Dr Alka Choudhary, president of National Health Mission Doctors’ Welfare Association, Delhi, told TOI, “Other states are giving Covid incentives and we have been requesting the same from the health minister. We met him on Friday and he assured us that something would be done for us. Several doctors got infected while working and, sadly, we lost two of them. We don’t wish to lose anyone else and want incentives. Another doctor is battling for her life at a hospital, but her family is facing financial constraints. We have asked the health minister to provide them help and he has agreed to do so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/another-city-doctor-on-contract-falls-to-covid/articleshow/79091032.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Cops turn bee-keepers in Barabanki||LUCKNOW: In a first of its kind initiative, police stations in Barabanki have started bee-keeping as well. A brainchild of SP Barabanki Arvind Chaturvedi the initiative will generate revenue and prove to be a creative activity for the cops. Chaturvedi said bee-keeping has many advantages — it’s easy to do, provides honey, bee-wax is used for multiple purposes, gives a compound called propolis which is used in medicines and boosts immunity. Bee-pollen is a rich source of nutrition, the SP said, adding that bee-keeping would be done under the ‘garden fund’. Chaturvedi said that at the core of the initiative is Nimit Singh, popularly known as madhumakhiwala (bee-keeper), who will serve as the manager and contact persons for this initiative. In the first phase, bee-keeping has been started in 27 police stations of the district where 270 boxes have been installed for it. “We spent Rs 40,000 on 10 boxes which will give us revenue between Rs 75,000 and Rs 1 lakh,” Chaturvedi said. The project was inaugurated by ADG, Lucknow zone, SN Sabat. He said if it proves to be successful, then all police stations in the zone will be asked to start bee-keeping after six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-turn-bee-keepers-in-barabanki/articleshow/79091027.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanth: Set up night shelters across Uttar Pradesh in three days||LUCKNOW: In view of the consistently falling temperatures, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanth has directed the relief commissioner’s office to set up night shelters across the state within the next three days. Yogi has said that all shelters should have proper arrangements and a guard should be deputed at each shelter. He has asked city magistrates, tehsildars and station officers to ensure that anyone sleeping on footpaths is shifted to these shelters. Night shelters should also be set up in hospitals for attendants of patients. The CM directed officials to carry out distribution of blankets and material for bonfires so that people do not have to suffer in the cold. The revenue department has already released funds for relief work related to the cold. Each district has been given Rs 5 lakh per tehsil for blanket distribution and Rs 50,000 per tehsil for material for bonfires. The department has released a total of Rs 19.25 crore. Chief secretary RK Tiwari also took a meeting on preparations for the cold weather and asked district officials and the police to regularly patrol roads and ensure that nobody is sleeping out in the open. All such persons have to be sent to shelters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/set-up-night-shelters-across-state-in-3-days/articleshow/79091019.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||Jostling within parties begins for graduate constituency polls||NAGPUR: After declaration of schedule for graduates’ constituency polls in the city, political parties and outfits have started efforts to field their candidates. Though not officially announced, Congress is likely to back Adv Abhijit Wanjari, son of former MLA Govindrao Wanjari. He had confirmed to TOI that he would be contesting. Though other candidates like Jayant Jambhulkar are also making efforts and had submitted their claims for contesting the elections, Wanjari is frontrunner as he was preparing for it since years, as per the party activists. On the other hand, there are multiple candidates in the BJP who could get the ticket. Anil Sole, who was fielded last time, has staked his claim again while mayor Sandip Joshi has also started preparations, as per party workers. Sahakar Aghadi’s Sanjay Bhende is also believed to have staked his claim for BJP ticket, making it a three-pronged battle in the saffron party. According to BJP activists, BJP state president Chandrakant Patil had already clarified that the name would be finalized at Delhi after an online meeting with senior leaders. Sole’s term ended on July 19 along with other MLCs from the teachers constituency like Satish Chavan from Aurangabad, Shrikant Deshpande from Amravati and Dattatraya Sawant from Pune. Two other constituents of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government are yet to decide on whether to support Wanjari’s candidature or field their separate candidates. Shiv Sena’s communication head Dushyant Chaturvedi, also the MLC, said they were waiting for directives from the party. “The party is yet to decide on its strategy for the polls. If they ask us to support Wanjari, we will. If party decides to field its own candidate, we will work for him,” he told TOI. Statehood activist Ronghe to contest The organizations fighting for Vidarbha’s statehood have also decided to enter into a fray of graduates' constituency elections. Maha Vidarbha Janjagran coordinator Nitin Ronghe has already confirmed his plans to contest. “I would be fighting on the statehood plan and would raise various issues pertaining to the region in the upper house,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jostling-within-parties-begins-for-graduate-constituency-polls/articleshow/79088530.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 7, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Man gets 10-year jail for raping cousin||BAREILLY: A man has been awarded 10 years of imprisonment on Friday for raping his 18-year-old cousin in Shergarh area about five years ago. The sentence was given by the court of Additional District and Sessions judge (ADJ). A fine of Rs 20,000 has also been slapped on the accused. The incident was reported on December 4, 2015, when the age of the accused was 20. The girl had come to live with her mother's elder sister during holidays when her cousin raped her. She was alone at her aunt's house and her cousin confined her in a room. The girl was physically assaulted and threatened to remain quiet after the act. District Government Council (DGC) Suneet Kumar Pathak told TOI, “The accused was booked under the sections of wrongful confinement, rape and physical assault and a charge-sheet was filed in January 2018. Additional DGC Suresh Sahu produced various witnesses and evidence in the case and the accused was found guilty." Pathak added, "Other than the jail term, and a Rs 20,000 fine, an amount of Rs 10,000 must be given to the girl as compensation. The judgement was pronounced by ADJ fast track court Arvind Shukla." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-gets-10-year-jail-for-raping-cousin/articleshow/79087274.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Sikhs lose court battle to get recorded as ethnic group in next UK census||London: Sikhs will not be recorded as an ethnic group in the 2021 UK census, as the community group has lost its long-drawn out battle in the London high court to challenge the ethnicity responses incurring £150,000 (Rs 145 lakh) in legal fees. Handing down judgment remotely on Friday, Justice Choudhury rejected the third judicial review claim brought by Sikh Federation UK (SFUK) chair Amrik Singh Gill, seeking a court order quashing the census. Gill’s contention was that the census was unlawful as it was based on recommendations made by the Office of National Statistics (ONS) that were reached following an unlawful evaluation process. The federation claims the lack of a Sikh ethnic tick-box option in the 10-yearly census has led to a substantial undercounting of the Sikh population in Britain. Choudhury dismissed the arguments, namely that the ONS failed to follow its own published policy on evaluating new tick-boxes and that it applied secret unpublished evaluation criteria instead. He said that even if he had found any errors of law, “it is highly likely” that he would have refused to quash the census order “because of the very serious detriment to good administration that would result”. He referred to the £250m (Rs 2,425 crore) costs the cabinet office claimed it would incur if the census was deferred to March 2022, saying policy decisions would then be based on increasingly out of date data. Choudhury referred to the findings of focus groups that a company called Kantar conducted into the tick-box commissioned by the ONS. The Kantar report said: “A Sikh tick-box was not viewed as acceptable to participants. Specifically, younger second-generation participants, whose parents were born in India or the Punjab, raised concerns that Sikhism was not an ‘ethnic identity’. Its inclusion under ‘Asian’ may also cause confusion for participants feeling they had to ‘choose’ between an Indian and Sikh tick-box.”  He also referred to a March 2009 ONS paper which said if there was an Indian and a Sikh tick-box in the ethnic section, Sikhs would be confused about which to tick and may tick both or responses may be split “giving a misleadingly low count for both groups.” Leigh Day solicitor Rosa Curling, who represented the claimants, said her clients would continue their campaign “through political channels” and fight to rectify any disadvantages their community faces from a lack of data. The federation’s second judicial review was withdrawn while the first was dismissed in 2019. Dabinderjit Singh OBE, principle adviser to the SFUK, said, “We are not going to appeal... We will continue our battle as this was always about public bodies being able to monitor Sikhs and consider them when making policies and providing services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sikhs-lose-court-battle-to-get-recorded-as-ethnic-group-in-next-uk-census/articleshow/79089793.cms||NAOMI CANTON
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Diwali bonanza for provincial police services, 52 promoted||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced a Diwali bonanza by promoting 52 officers of provincial police services (PPS) cadre to higher grade along with a pay hike. This comes a day after government announced a 30-day bonus for 15 lakh employees, including non-gazetted employees, teachers of assisted colleges, teachers and staff of technical education institutes, employees of local bodies and daily wagers. Ten additional superintendents of police (ASPs) got promoted to a higher grade in the pay scale of Rs 10,000, while 21 ASPs got promoted to Grade 1 in the pay scale of Rs 8,700-8,900 and another 21 officers got promoted to Grade 2 in the pay scale of Rs 7,600-8,700. Talking to TOI, president of Uttar Pradesh Provincial Police Services Dinesh Yadav thanked chief minister Yogi and said, “This would encourage senior officers to perform better and send a positive message in the force”. He also said, there are four grades of an ASP-rank officer. First, is a simple rank in Rs 7,600 pay grade. Then the same officer moves to Grade 2 in the same rank, but at a higher salary and then reaches Grade 1. Currently, there are 262 ASPs in UP Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/diwali-bonanza-for-pps-52-promoted/articleshow/79091033.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Bursting crackers during Diwali, Kali Puja may land you in jail||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court order banning all firecrackers will lead to penal action — including a six-month jail term — against anyone selling, buying or bursting crackers, senior legal experts said on Friday. The state pollution control board (PCB) and police have indicated they will also seek legal advice from state advocate-general Kishore Dutta on their prosecuting powers in the backdrop of the HC order. Earlier, cops used to prosecute those charged with using banned firecrackers under provisions of CrPC and in Kolkata, under the Kolkata Police Act. Since 2019, police had in some cases slapped a more stringent 188 IPC. The HC order now makes prosecution against anyone using any form of firecrackers binding, experts said. The HC said, “The police should maintain a strict vigil to ensure there is no sale or purchase of firecrackers of any form in the state between now and the end of the month. The police should make every effort to confiscate firecrackers and any kind of like material which have the potential to pollute the air. Immediate measures must be taken by the police against those seeking to act in contravention of these directions.” “The HC order is binding and very specific,” said Sekhar Basu, senior lawyer. “Unless said otherwise, it covers all forms of firecrackers emitting light and sound,” said Milon Mukherjee, another senior lawyer. “Given the pandemic, I would urge the state to make guidelines giving prosecuting agencies more power to slap fines instead of penal cases for such offences,” argued lawyer Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee. Although a formal directive has not yet been issued by Lalbazar, there is a consensus to follow the “one action, one response” formula across the city to reign in those who burst crackers. The directive would include the added areas that contribute to over 60% of all official complaints in the city. Cops in the south and southwest divisions have begun visiting gated communities and informing residents about the legal implications. Bidhannagar police have initiated a drive to seize crackers entering the commissionerate area from last Wednesday. “We have set up checkpoints at multiple entry-exit spots and are checking vehicles,” said an officer. On Saturday, the Bidhannagar Commissionerate has called a multi-agency meeting mostly to discuss the plan to curb the influx of firecrackers within the area and their sale and use. “We will meet representatives of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, state fire and emergency department, officers of local police stations and other agencies to discuss the plan of action before and during the puja. We will take all relevant steps needed to follow the HC order,” said Surya Pratap Yadav, the deputy commissioner (headquarter) of Bidhannagar City Police. Yadav added they have started local-level sensitization drives. “On Wednesday, a meeting was organized at Narayanpur with several local puja committees, club members, the BMC deputy commissioner and the New Town DCP, asking all clubs and puja organizers to maintain caution and ensure no crackers are burst during the festive days,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bursting-crackers-during-diwali-kali-puja-may-land-you-in-jail/articleshow/79088545.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||‘Reduced intake of toxins can make a difference’||KOLKATA: On Diwali night, the PM2.5 concentration in city’s air, a West Bengal Pollution Control Board study in 2018 revealed, rises to 1,200µg/m³ on an average. This was equivalent to smoking 42 cigarettes in a short span of time. The thumb rule is: inhaling 29µg/m3 PM2.5 for a day is equivalent to smoking one cigarette. Particles of heavy metal in the air pushes up the pollution level by a few more notches during Kali Puja and Diwali. Track the pollution level in your cityExperts warn that children who indulge in bursting fireworks get exposed to a much higher PM2.5 level. A benign — so it seems apparently — snake tablet emits 64,500µg/m³ PM2.5 particles. “It is no wonder why there is a sudden spike in asthma and COPD cases post-Diwali night,” said Sushmita Roy Chowdhury, consultant pulmonologist with Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. TimesViewImplementing the Calcutta High Court’s order is in the interests of everyone, including the cracker industry. Trade, commerce and industry (which includes the cracker industry) cannot thrive if a large part of society is in poor health.Roy Chowdhury is relieved to see fewer asthma patients after lockdown improved the air quality. But her relief was short-lived, with the queue of patients with breathing distress getting longer with air quality declining as the nation unlocked gradually. “The mixture of particulate matter, heavy metal particles and noxious fumes is a deadly combination. It is a far more serious issue than controlling pandal-hopping to restrict the infection,” said Arup Haldar, consultant pulmonologist, Columbia Asia and Woodlands Hospitals. Particulate matter of PM2.5 size, which is 30 times finer than a human hair, is considered dangerous to humans since it can reach the deepest portions of lungs. It is declared as Class I carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer and is also linked to heart disease and respiratory ailments. Due to its tiny size and ability to accumulate in human organs and blood, it plays havoc with vital organs like heart, lungs and stomach. “In the background of an ongoing pandemic, it is of utmost importance for us to realize the need to limit air pollution this Kali Puja-Diwali as it would only aggravate the suffering all around and increase the death toll,” said Soirindhri Banerjee of radiation oncology, IPGMER & SSKM Hospital. “Crackers contain chemicals such as salts of potassium, sulphur, manganese, sodium, aluminium, iron, strontium, barium and charcoal. When crackers are fired, there is an instant increase in levels of ozone, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, particulate matter, black carbon and polyaromatic hydrocarbons in the atmosphere. All these are very dangerous for human health and can trigger a chain reaction of ailments,” said a senior scientist. “The debate over allowing green-crackers is absolutely misplaced. There is no infrastructure or methodology to determine between green and non-green fireworks. Moreover, green fireworks only reduces pollution by 30%. Can we afford to pollute our ambient air by 70%?” questioned environment activist Subhas Datta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/reduced-intake-of-toxins-can-make-a-difference/articleshow/79088555.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt moves SC over ICU bed quota||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has moved the Supreme Court against the high court order staying its decision to reserve 80% of ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals in the capital for Covid-19 patients. Pointing out that novel coronavirus infections have been increasing in Delhi, the government pleaded that number of ICU beds needed to be increased to meet the “alarming” situation. It said there are more than 160 private hospitals in the city and there was nothing wrong in reserving ICU beds for Covid patients in 33 of them. There are 168 registered private hospitals in Delhi with capacity of 25 or more beds. In these hospitals, a total of 3,239 ICU beds are available. “The number of cases recorded daily in the last fortnight has been increasing steadily, and the number of cases recorded on November 3 was 6,842, which is the highest so far. As per the recommendations in the 3rd report of the Empowered Group, a total of 20,604 beds will be required for managing the disease burden requiring an escalation of 4,891 beds from the current strength of 15,713 beds,” the petition said. The appeal filed by advocate Chirag Shroff said Delhi government’s decision takes care of the health requirement of non-Covid patients equally as it allows hospitals to increase 30% ICU beds. “This essentially means that the hospitals can increase their Covid ICU beds without decreasing/disturbing non-Covid ICU beds to observe the 80% criteria as mandated,” it said. “Delhi is known for its good quality healthcare facilities and particularly acts as a magnet for people residing in neighbouring states, who wish to avail these facilities. Covid patients from outside Delhi are regularly coming and are availing the health facilities available in Delhi. Even on November 3, of the total Covid hospitalisation cases, 14% pertained to outside Delhi. If a Covid-19 patient is referred to Delhi and does not get an ICU bed, it will be against his fundamental right to equality and access to proper healthcare and, therefore, reserving ICU beds for Covid patients was a befitting decision,” the appeal said. The high court had on September 22 stayed Delhi government’s September 13 decision, saying that asking 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80% of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients would violate the fundamental rights of those having other health conditions. Delhi, so far, has had over four lakh Covid-19 patients and out of them, 3.6 lakh people have recovered and 6,652 have succumbed to the deadly virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-moves-sc-over-icu-bed-quota/articleshow/79091038.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad Cantonment residents had filth in their homes for days||SECUNDERABAD: For three-four days in October, those living around the Ramannakunta Lake in Secunderabad Cantonment, had to put up with sewerage water flowing through their homes. Not only did they suffer severe damage to their property, they had to put up with a nauseating stench too. Residents say, the thought of the recent floods – result of a rapidly shrinking water body – still gives them the chills. “Nearly Rs 1 lakh worth of household goods and essential commodities were damaged due to the inundation. My family had to spend three days in the sewer water, which entered our colony,” said P Sridevi a resident of Lakshmi Nagar Colony. She added: “I have been living here for the past 20 years but have never experienced something like this.” Others agree that the lake, which has now become a cesspool, was once a pride of the area when it was a clean and irrigation tank providing water to nearly 100 acres of agricultural land. The lake, today, is completely covered in hyacinth. “People have built high-rises by encroaching the bund portion of the lake and deviating from the original layout plans that were approved by the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB),” an SCB engineering official told TOI. And the proof lies in SCB records, which show that the lake originally spread over an area of 7.2-acres is now only 6-acres big. Worse, the sewer outlet lines connected to the lake have completely vanished and officials have no idea about the lake’s full tank level. M Devender, senior superintendent (SWM), SCB said, “The state government has already sanctioned Rs 2.95 crore to lay underground sewer pipeline parallel to the lake and, thereby, prevent sewage water from entering the lake. However, the work was halted due to the rainy season. It will commence in a week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cantt-residents-had-filth-in-their-homes-for-days/articleshow/79089810.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya: Women empowerment to be pivotal theme of Deepotsav||AYODHYA: Despite the pandemic shadow on festivities, the fourth Deepotsav celebration in Ayodhya will be historic and memorable, marking the beginning of Ram temple construction with women’s empowerment being the pivotal theme. The pristine Saryu banks would be illuminated with a record 5.51 lakh diyas by select volunteers and a mammoth 3D virtual platform will be set up for every citizen to illuminate the banks by a simple swipe on their mobiles from comfort of their homes. However, the seven-day celebrations launched by chief minister since he took over reins of government in 2017, will be curtailed to three days this year in keeping with Covid curbs, said a government official. Grand cultural evenings will be organised in celebration of Lord Ram’s return from exile and women artists and volunteers will hold centrestage to promote the government’s ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign that seeks to catapult women into the forefront while protecting their dignity and honour. In the culture department’s roadmap for Deepotsav, women from UP and other states will for the first time organise Ramlila at Ram Katha Park and maximum women volunteers will be deployed for lighting diyas along the Saryu banks, which will hold the spotlight. More than 30 women artists from Balod district of Chhattisgarh have reached Ayodhya and will be enacting the Shabri act of Ramayana during the three-day Ramlila event, said Ram Teerath, manager, culture department's Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan. Talking to TOI, Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha, said, “Preparations are in full swing to celebrate Deepotsav, which will promote ‘Mission Shakti’ through cultural programmes. At least 5.51lakh earthen lamps will illuminate Ayodhya surpassing last year’s record. Entry of seers and guests will be strictly by invitation and district administration is taking all steps to adhere to Covid protocols.” Managements of over 200 temples will be asked to light diyas on their campus and atop roofs and 3,000 security personnel deployed at Ramjanmabhoomi will be told to light diyas in the premises, said a senior official of Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan. A procession will be taken out from Saket College to Saryu banks to celebrate the coronation ceremony of Lord Ram in which select 200 seers would participate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/women-empowerment-to-be-pivotal-theme-of-deepotsav/articleshow/79091035.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 7, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur: E-commerce centre robbery cracked, 10 people arrested, looted cash recovered||RAMPUR: Ten people were arrested in two raids on Thursday in connection with the robbery of an e-commerce firm on November 1. Rs 1.68 lakh of the looted cash as well as arms used in the robbery were recovered from them. The company is engaged in delivery of products sold online inside the city. In the evening of November 1, five masked men allegedly forced their way into the delivery centre of the retail e-com giant in Rampur’s Jwalanagar area under Civil Lines police station, held up the staff and guards at gunpoint, and fled with the cash box. Company manager Anmol Kashyap lodged an FIR against unidentified masked robbers at Civil Lines police station, alleging they had looted Rs 7 lakh at gunpoint. Rampur SP Shagun Gautam rushed to the spot along with crime branch officials, and immediately launched an investigation into the robbery. IGP (Moradabad range) Ramit Sharma also visited the crime scene and demanded swift resolution of the case. On Thursday, police arrested seven accused from Krishna Vihar locality and three others from the state roadways bus stand, and recovered part of the cash loot, three country-made firearms and 10 live cartridges from them. Addressing the media, the SP said, “During preliminary probe, it was found that the company manager had given false information about the looted cash. When an audit was carried out, it was found that the armed assailants had looted Rs 1.2 lakh from the company cash box, while another Rs 88,000 had been embezzled by employees.” She also said, “Police also recovered the bike and clothes used by the robbers during the heist,” and added, “The looted cash has been recovered. The police team that cracked the case will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 50,000.” The arrested accused were identified as Sonu Sharma, Dhanraj, Govind, Anmol, Deepak, Sonu Saini, Ravi Singh, Jaideep, Salman and Yaseen. Police said two more members of the gang involved in the robbery, identified as Ravindra and Ravi alias Tiger, are still at large. A manhunt has been launched to arrest them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/e-com-centre-robbery-cracked-10-people-arrested-looted-cash-recovered/articleshow/79087324.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Corpn plans fish mkt on west of Loop Rd||Chennai: The Greater Chennai Corporation has identified two acres facing the beach on Loop road to build a modern fish market to end traffic congestion on the stretch and ensure hygiene of the fish sold, but the local fishermen are unhappy about shifting to the western side of the road. On Friday morning, corporation Commissioner G Prakash and Chennai police commissioner Mahesh Aggarwal did a site recce with senior officials. Prakash told reporters local fishermen now sold their catch by setting up stalls on both sides of the road in a haphazard manner. Those who crowd to buy the fish, park their vehicles all over the road causing traffic congestion. The fish market will have 300 shops, each of 15sqft with a water connection and a roof, like the one opened recently at Kasimedu harbour. GCC engineers say they are looking to recreate designs of foreign fish markets including those in Singapore. The market would move all the fishermen to the western side of the road. “We shall be constructing a parking facility which will be able to host a few hundred two- and four- wheelers. This is to ensure that there is no congestion on the road,” Prakash said. Once this is constructed, the police and corporation team would crack down on haphazard parking. However, local fishermen are unhappy and see the move to shift the market to the western side of the road as an encroachment of their traditional space. Members of the community said the corporation and police had conducted three meetings with them and the fishermen had demanded construction of the market on the eastern side of the road, where the beach is. The fishermen claim that then they do not need to cross the road with their catch and will be safe from speeding vehicles. GCC officials said the project would be completed in four months and that the file has gone for getting CRZ (coastal regulation zone) clearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-plans-fish-mkt-on-west-of-loop-rd/articleshow/79088568.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: SC to hear contempt petitions on November 16||VIJAYAWADA: The Supreme Court will hear the contempt petitions moved against chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on November 16. Three petitions were moved against Jagan Mohan Reddy after he wrote a letter to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde making allegations against judges of the Supreme Court and the high court. The contents of the letter were released to the media. Three public interest litigation (PIL) petitions moved by GS Mani, Sunil Kumar Singh and Anti Corruption Council of India Trust were listed to be heard before the bench comprising Justice U U Lalit, Justice Vineet Saran and Justice S Ravindra Bhat. It was argued in the petitions that making allegations against sitting judges without any basis and evidence comes under the Contempt of Courts Act. Sunil Kumar Singh sought directions from the apex court to issue show cause notice to Jagan Mohan Reddy as to why action should not be taken against him for making baseless allegations against the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sc-to-hear-contempt-petitions-on-nov-16/articleshow/79087282.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Trichy||Police distribute masks to BJP cadre before arresting them||Trichy: The Pudukottai district police on Friday distributed masks before arresting a group of BJP cadre who staged a protest to condemn the Tamil Nadu government’s denial to give permission for the party’s Vetrivel Yatra.Close to 500 BJP functionaries gathered near the Pudukottai district collectorate for the protest. “As many of them were not wearing masks, we distributed masks to them,” said superintendent of police L Balaji Saravanan. The move was also aimed at protecting the police personnel who were talking to the protesters. A total 232 BJP members were arrested after they refused to call off the protest. “We knew that we would have to come in close contact with them to arrest them. By wearing masks, we could ensure safety of police and the protesters,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-distribute-masks-to-bjp-cadre-before-arresting-them/articleshow/79091056.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Fingers crossed for Kolkata's Subhas Sarobar||KOLKATA: It doesn’t share the same status as Rabindra Sarobar. Nor is it a part of the Union National Lake Conservation Plan. But Subhas Sarobar off Bypass has been crying for the same attention — be spared the Chhath revelry. The Calcutta High Court on Thursday observed that the state should consider keeping Chhath rituals away from both the 192-acre Rabindra Sarobar and the 40-acre Subhas Sarobar. Antara Acharya, CEO, Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority, the custodian of both lakes, said, “We shall abide by the court order.” IT professional and bird-lover Sudip Ghosh said, “Subhas Sarobar plays an important role in maintaining the city’s environmental balance. It was also ravaged by Amphan. So we should let it heal. Otherwise, scores of animals, amphibians and fish will be adversely affected when worshippers perform Chhath rituals.” According to green activist S M Ghosh, after Chhath, Subhas Sarobar is left littered with plastic, flowers, bamboo shafts and remnants of burnt crackers. “The water is polluted by the dumped items and the oxygen content is reduced. Hope Chhath devotees won’t be allowed in Subhas Sarobar this time,” Ghosh said. Mani Prasad Singh, president of Bihari Samaj, however, said, “The Beliaghata lake is the most convenient for scores of worshippers from Maniktala, Sealdah, Ultadanga and other parts of north Kolkata. Closing the doors to Subhas Sarobar will inconvenience them. We are also opposed to firecrackers and loud music, and these will not be allowed this time. But Chhath Puja is a religious affair. Why stop devotees from performing puja?” Rajeev Biswal, a Subhas Sarobar regular, said, “This time, we had hoped Covid would have prevented revellers from thronging to Subhas Sarobar. Now there is the HC order as well. We have to wait and watch now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fingers-crossed-for-subhas-sarobar/articleshow/79088593.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Awanish Awasthi hails banks’ role in expressway||LUCKNOW: With the Canara Bank joining the consortium of banks for the Bundelkhand Expressway, the corpus for the project has risen to Rs 6,400 crore. Thanking the Canara Bank for joining the consortium, chief executive officer of the UPEIDA Awanish Awasthi said that he was grateful to banks for their contribution in the development of the state in general and for the Bundelkhand e-way project in particular. The way the banks have extended their assistance by ensuring free flow of funds to the project is really commendable, he said adding that with the inclusion of Canara Bank the consortium now has a total seven banks. On Friday, the Canara Bank sanctioned a Rs 500 crore loan for the Bundelkhand Expressway. Awasthi said that with the special support of the banks, around 22 per cent of work has been completed. He said he was fully confident of the completion of the Bundelkhand expressway project in the stipulated time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/awasthi-hails-banks-role-in-e-way/articleshow/79091045.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Focus on local ghats after KMC-KMDA meet||KOLKATA: The state will start talking to Chhath devotees to encourage them to visit the ghats in their respective localities and spare Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. The decision was taken at a meeting between senior officials of Kolkata Metropolitan Develop Authority (KMDA) and Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Friday. KMDA is the custodian of both water bodies. KMDA’s CEO Antara Acharya told TOI, “Today we had a meeting with KMC, and locally, devotees will be asked to perform puja at the nearby ghats. We are pro-actively preparing the infrastructure so that people don’t have to visit Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar.” Acharya added, “We have identified and set up 44 new ghats in 16 water bodies in different locations in south Kolkata, including in Nonadanga, Baishnabghata and Patuli, Jodhpur Park, Katju Nagar near Jadavpur, Golf Green, Bijoygarh, Taratala and Kasba. Concrete steps have been built at most of the ghats to help devotees go down to the water.” Mani Prasad Singh, the president of Bihari Samaj that represents a section of Chhath devotees, said, “When the government authorities meet us, we will explain to them that Chhath will be observed following all Covid protocols and we have no intention of messing up Rabindra Sarobar or Subhas Sarobar, which are centrally located and convenient for the devotees.” While hearing a case relating to the ban on firecrackers during Covid times, Calcutta High Court on Thursday observed that the state should consider keeping Chhath rituals away from Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. Both lakes have been reopened for four hours from 5.30am and from 3pm to 6pm. Acharya said, “These two lakes have been reopened as per the gradual unlock norms and this has nothing to with Chhath. The matter of preventing Chhath rituals at the two lakes is pending in the Supreme Court and we shall abide by whatever it says.” KMDA has filed a petition in the apex court requesting permission for Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, which includes a 73-acre water body. The hearing is due on November 16. KMDA had earlier moved the NGT seeking a relaxation on the ban on all pujas on the Sarobar premises. NGT refused to hear the plea to allow Chhath Puja when the matter came up for hearing on September 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/focus-on-local-ghats-after-kmc-kmda-meet/articleshow/79088572.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Mobile labs to test food quality ahead of Diwali||Chennai: Get ready to eat healthy when you eat out as the ‘food safety on wheels’ — a van that checks the quality of food and its ingredients out on the streets — was launched by the food safety department in Chennai on Friday. The van with all modern equipment can test the quality of oil, ghee, water, milk, sweets and savouries. Of the 33 samples from 17 food vendors, including hotels and sweet manufacturers in and around T Nagar, tested on Friday, one ghee sample was found substandard and adulterated with vegetable fat. The sample will be tested further in a lab and based on the report, action will be taken against the ghee manufacturer. While the van will test samples from sweet shops in various localities till Diwali, after the festival, residents can get samples from their homes tested in the mobile labs too. Samples from shops such as Adyar Ananda Bhavan, Venkateshwara Boli Stall, Gomathi Shankar Bhavan, The Grand Sweets and Snacks, Hot and Spot, Sri Kasturi Sweets, Gandhiji Hot Chips and Sweets, Balaji Bhavan, Hotel Virudunagar Aiyanar, Saravana Bhavan, Shri Ganesh Bhavan and Murugan Idli Shop were collected and analysed. The certificates were also provided to them immediately. “From now, the van will go to various neighbourhoods and commercial areas six days a week and about 30 samples will be picked up daily. We have given them equipment such as refractometer and reagents to run quality tests on oil, ghee, milk, water and sweets,” said A Ramakrishnan, food safety officer. The food safety department has predefined standards to check the quality of different types of oil. When the oil is put into the refractrometer and the refractive index varies from the preset guide values, it means the oil is impure and adulterated. Ghee collected will be melted in an oven and then tested. The range for ghee should be between 41 and 44 and if it is not so, it means there could be vanaspathi or other adulterants added. For water, the TDS (total dissolved solids) and Ph are checked. TDS should not be higher than 500 and Ph should be between 6 and 8.5 for safe drinking water. For milk adulteration with water, presence of urea and other chemicals are tested. Sweets and savouries are tested for the quality of oil and ghee used as well as the colouring agents. The van will stop at Mylapore on Saturday to collect samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mobile-labs-to-test-food-quality-ahead-of-diwali/articleshow/79088615.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana’s largest FDI of Rs 20,000 crore in city delivered via Amazon||HYDERABAD: Tech giant Amazon has given Telangana an early Diwali gift by bringing in what is the state’s single largest foreign direct investment (FDI) pegged at $2.77 billion (Rs 20,761 crore). The blockbuster investment will be pumped in by the company’s cloud-based service, Amazon Web Services’ (AWS). It will set up its second Asia Pacific Region centre at Hyderabad after Mumbai. This is the 11th in the APAC region after Australia, Greater China, Japan, Korea and Singapore. While Amazon did not divulge investment details, Telangana’s IT & industries minister KT Rama Rao tweeted that it was the “largest FDI in the history of Telangana” to set up multiple data centres in the state. He also tweeted the amount. However, if one takes into account the operating expenditure of the project as well then the total investment by Amazon in the project could be in the region of Rs 25,000 crore, top Telangana government officials said. Sources added that the proposed AWS region at Hyderabad will have three availability zones spread over 130 acres at Shamshabad, Chandanvelli and Maheshwaram, and is slated to become operational by mid-2022. It is expected to create more than 1,200 jobs, government officials said. The availability zones will house multiple data centres that are engineered to be independent and have their own power, cooling, security and connections via a low latency network. Puneet Chandok, (president) commercial business, Amazon Internet Services Private Limited, AWS India and South Asia, said they zeroed in on Hyderabad because the city has a vibrant startup and enterprise ecosystem that demands the best cloud infrastructure and availability of skilled talent. It also offers good connectivity to four of the largest Indian cities — Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai, has good availability of stable infrastructure and a proactive and committed state government. The big-ticket announcement catapults Hyderabad into the big league as far as the data centre sector is concerned. The city is already home to multiple data centres operated by homegrown tier IV player CtrlS, apart from a host of captive data centres. Adani group too has been eyeing a hyperscale project here, while in July this year National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI), the umbrella organisation for operating retail payments and settlement systems in India, announced plans to set up its own tier IV, smart data centre for Rs 500 crore at Narsingi. Once operational, AWS Hyderabad region centre is expected to enable more developers, startups, and enterprises as well as government, education, and non-profit organisations to run their applications and serve end-users and help increase operations of sectors such as e-commerce, public sector, banking and financial services (BFSI), IT, among others, AWS said. The AWS Asia Pacific (Mumbai) Region was rolled out in June 2016 with two availability zones and it was expanded in May 2019 to add a third availability zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ts-largest-fdi-of-rs-20k-cr-in-city-delivered-via-amazon/articleshow/79091835.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
November 7, 2020||Delhi||‘Teachers unpaid despite Delhi govt releasing Rs 960 crore’||NEW DELHI: In a letter written to the mayors of north,east and south Delhi Municipal Corporations, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has said that though Delhi government has given Rs 960 crore to the municipal corporations as a grant for education, the corporations are still not paying the salaries of their teachers. “I am writing this letter with much anguish and disappointment over your actions as the three mayors of Delhi with regard to the non-payment of salaries to teachers in MCD schools,” Sisodia wrote in the letter. Sisodia said that over the past many years, not only had Delhi government paid MCDs their due share of taxes, but it also paid a large sum over and above as loan and the total outstanding amount was Rs 6,008 crore, including Rs 3,243 crore from North DMC, Rs 1,977 crore from East DMC and Rs 788 crore from South DMC. The letter also mentions that as per the Fifth Delhi Finance Commission calculations, the entire due amount of Rs 960 crore until December 31, 2020 under the salary component of education sector has been paid to the three civic bodies in full. Responding to Sisodia’s letter, north corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that it “showed the frustration of the deputy chief minister.” “Delhi government owes Rs 13,500 crore to the three corporations, out of which Rs 6,550 crore belongs to North DMC alone as per 3rd, 4th and 5th DFC recommendations,” the mayor said, adding “Sisodia must explain when they are releasing our due amount and if they have ever given loan to assist local bodies since their party came into power.” East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said that the letter aimed at misleading the public. “Delhi government has to still pay us dues. Out of Rs 1,257 crore supposed to be paid to us in the first two quarters of this financial year, only Rs 536 crore has been transferred and Rs 721 crore is still pending under plan head and basic tax assignment. They have deducted Rs 216 crore as loan instalment and interest even in this time of pandemic. As far as the issue of non-payment of teachers’ salaries is concerned, I want to clarify that teachers’ salaries till September 2020 have already been cleared and the October salary will be disbursed in next two-three days,” said Jain. South Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Anamika Mithlesh said that they were supposed to receive a grant of about Rs 1,100 crore in the year 2020-21, but the government had only given Rs 275.4 crore so far. “Delhi government wants to financially cripple the corporations by continuously cutting their funds and by not giving the outstanding funds. We will make every effort to take our dues,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teachers-unpaid-despite-delhi-govt-releasing-rs-960cr/articleshow/79091080.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt nod to prosecute Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is learnt to have given Delhi Police the sanction to prosecute former student of Jawaharlal Nehru University Umar Khalid and its PhD student Sharjeel Imam in the Delhi riots case under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Apart from the duo, the sanction has also been given against Faizan Khan, who is a co-accused in the case. Now, the Special Cell is likely to file a supplementary chargesheet in the case soon. The first chargesheet in the case was filed mid-September against 15 accused, including Pinjra Tod members. The sanction letter reads: “On a careful perusal of the draft supplementary chargesheet in FIR number 59 — registered at Crime Branch and being investigated by the Special Cell — under Sections 16, 17 and 18 of UAPA and on consideration of the allegations and other material placed on record, and after considering the report of the authority appointed under Section 45(2) of UAPA to review the evidence gathered during investigation, the three accused have prima facie committed the offences under UAPA.” “And whereas it is necessary in the interest of justice that prosecution sanction should be granted against the accused in the court of competent jurisdiction for their trial in respect of the offences they are alleged to have committed,” reads the communication. According to a senior officer, Delhi Police needed sanction from ministry of home affairs to prosecute a person under Section 13 of UAPA, while sanction from Delhi government was required for prosecution under Sections 16,17 and 18 of UAPA. The ministry had earlier given a sanction in the Delhi riots case. Delhi government in an official statement said: “This is a purely procedural matter. The elected government has no role to play in this. Delhi government has not stopped prosecution in any case in the last five years, including those pertaining to AAP MLAs and party members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-nod-to-prosecute-khalid-sharjeel/articleshow/79089901.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Trichy||10,000 tree saplings planted under Miyawaki method on temple land||Trichy: The district revenue department and a group of Trichy-based private organisations have planted 10,000 native tree saplings under Miyawaki method on a temple land in Samayapuram near Trichy on Friday. The land chosen for the drive houses the official shelter of Samayapuram Mariamman temple elephant. Sprawling about 36,200 square feet, the land was cleaned and earmarked to plant 10,000 saplings at the rate of 3-4 saplings for every 11 square feet under Miyawaki method. Initiated by Trichy district collector, S Sivarasu, the plantation drive in Samayapuram was completed by around 200 volunteers. The overall cost of Rs 3 lakh was sponsored by Transforming Trichy group under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) scheme. About 60 tonnes of natural manure including cow dung was also used to enhance the growth of native tree breeds such as neem, guava and Iluppai. An HR&CE employee has been entrusted with maintaining and watering the saplings planted. “The site near Ujjaini Kaliamman temple where a massive number of trees have been planted will offer a forest-like ambience for the elephant,” S Vaithyanathan, RDO, Lalgudi told TOI. Walking space has been provided for the temple elephant to reach its shelter through the trees planted. The Japanese technique is gaining traction in the district in order to raise dense urban forests in a small space. The recent drive in Samayapuram was the fourth such exercise in a series of massive tree plantation drives under Miyawaki method in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/10000-tree-saplings-planted-under-miyawaki-method-on-temple-land/articleshow/79091067.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Trichy||Some Trichy colleges to have 50% students||Trichy: While some arts and science colleges in the city are gearing up for reopening colleges with half the student strength, others have decided to wait for more clarity from the state government on the guidelines issued by UGC on reopening of colleges. Further, most colleges are sceptical about opening hostels as it would not be feasible to ensure social distancing among students by accommodating one student in a room. While many colleges are on the verge of completing theory portions for the odd semester, they have decided to call students to colleges for practical classes which could not be conducted online. Colleges have been asked to accommodate 50% of students after reopening from November 16. This means, the other half will remain at home attending online classes. Cauvery College for Women in Trichy is planning to live stream the classroom session to the rest of the students at home so that classes are taken simultaneously, said principal V Sujatha. “We are sceptical about opening the hostels as maintaining social distancing could be a potential challenge,” she said. “About 85% of the theory portions have already been taught through online classes for second and third year undergraduate students. Online internal tests have also started for these students,” she said. “We are contemplating on the option of calling students of science discipline to attend practical classes”, S Ismail Mohideen, principal of Jamal Mohamed College (JMC) Trichy said. Theory portions for second and third year UG students are about to be completed and there is no necessity for them to come to college under such conditions, he said. The norms for reopening of hostels appear to be more stringent given the financial constraint when students have not paid hostel fee, observed Ismali Mohideen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/some-trichy-colleges-to-have-50-students/articleshow/79091063.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 7, 2020||Chandigarh||UK national Johal gets bail in Baghapurana case||Bathinda: UK national Jagtar Singh Johal alias Jaggi Johal was on Friday granted bail by the Punjab and Haryana high court in a case registered under the Arms Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) over three years ago at Baghapurana in Moga district. He was arrested in the case on November 4, 2017. However, Johal will not be released from the prison as still faces eight other cases related to funding terrorist activities in Punjab and being involved in target killings of leaders of Hindu outfits, including RSS leader Brig Jagdish Gagneja (retd) and Ravinder Gosain, in 2016 and 2017. These cases are being investigated by the National Investigating Agency (NIA). His counsel Jaspal Singh Manjhpur said even though his client was granted bail in the case by Justice Anoop Inder Singh Grewal, Johal would remain in jail as NIA was still investigating eight other cases against him. The UAPA case against Johal was registered at Baghapurana police station on December 17, 2016, and he was picked up from Ramamandi area of Jalandhar almost a year later. In this case, charges have already been framed against him in the court. In the UK, a campaign has been going on for release of Johal, who is lodged in Tihar jail in Delhi. A case under the Arms Act was registered at Bajakhana police station in Faridkot on June 13, 2016, against one Tirlok Singh of Jammu. According to information provided by Tirlok, then Baghapurana SHO sub-inspector Ashok Kumar had seized a countrymade single shot 9MM pistol from near Budh Singh Wala village in Moga on December 17, 2016. The case was registered against Tirlok and later Johal was named in both the cases after police found his involvement procuring weapons. On July 24, 2019, a Faridkot court had discharged five persons — Johal, Taljit Singh Jimmy of Jammu, Jagjit Singh, Gurpreet Singh of Kotkapura and Tirlok — in the Bajakhana case. The court had said the investigations was not carried out in proper manner. Now, Johal has got bail in Baghapurana case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uk-national-johal-gets-bail-in-baghapurana-case/articleshow/79089840.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Karti Chidambaram moves HC to quash action by IT dept||Chennai: Opposing the prosecution initiated against him by the income tax department for alleged non-disclosure of Rs 7 crore income, Sivaganga MP Karti Chidambaram on Friday said it was liable to be quashed for procedural lapse. None of the procedures that has to be followed to initiate such prosecution has been complied with by the department, senior advocate Kapil Sibal representing Karti said. The issue pertains to IT assessment filed by Karti and his wife for the financial year 2015-16. Since the department found non-disclosure of income, it reopened the assessment and initiated criminal prosecution against the couple. Aggrieved, the duo moved the high court seeking to quash the proceeding before the trial court. According to the prosecution, Karti received Rs 6.4 crore in cash while his wife, Srinidhi, received Rs 1.4 crore in cash through sale of a land owned by them near Muttukadu. However, they had neither disclosed the same in their assessment nor paid taxes for the income. When the plea came up for hearing on Friday, Kapil Sibal contended that the prosecution has been initiated for filing of false return which amounts to offence of giving false evidence before a court under the IPC. As per the Income Tax Act, only the proceedings of the assessing officer are deemed to be that of a proceeding of a civil court. But, in the case on hand, a deputy director of investigation has initiated action, he said. Original assessment which has to be set aside before prosecution were not done, he added. Recording the submission, Justice N Sathishkumar adjourned the hearing to November 10 for further arguments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/karti-chidambaram-moves-hc-to-quash-action-by-it-dept/articleshow/79088671.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh cops hunt for absconding IPS officer in Rajasthan||LUCKNOW: A team of UP Police carried out raids in search of absconding IPS officer Manilal Patidar in Dungarpur district of Rajasthan in the wee hours of Friday in search of absconding IPS Manilal Patidar. Police action against the former Mahoba superintendent of police came days after the Allahabad high court dismissed Patidar’s plea seeking quashing of FIR against him. The IPS officer is wanted in connection with a case of abetment to suicide by a Mahoba-based trader Indrakant Triapthi, who had accused Patidar and other cops of extortion. ASP, crime, Prayagraj, Ashutosh Mishra, who is probing the case, said since most of the relatives of Patidar are based in Dungarpur the team was sent to trace him. The raids were carried out on the premises of six acquaintances of Patidar, he said. A team will also be sent to Gujarat where Patidar was found to be lurking, according to sources. On September 8, Indrakant Tripathi had uploaded a video on social media accusing Patidar of extortion. Hours later, Tripathi was found with a gunshot injury on his neck. He was admitted to a hospital where he died on September 13. Patidar was suspended and booked for attempt to murder. On CM Yogi Adityanath’s directive, an SIT was formed. Later, the charges of attempt to murder were changed to abetment to suicide in which Patidar and four others were booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cops-hunt-for-absconding-ips-officer-in-rajasthan/articleshow/79091075.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand mulling law under which 70% jobs in industries would be kept for locals||DEHRADUN: To help local residents find more job opportunities, the state government has decided to come up with a law which will ensure that 70% of jobs in industries would be kept for locals. The issue was recently raised in a labour and employment department review meeting, following which, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat has directed the industry department to draft a proposal, which would be later presented before the cabinet for approval. Notably, during the tenure of N D Tiwari as CM from 2002 to 2007, the then-Congress government had also brought a proposal under which giving 70% jobs to locals in the industrial sector was mandated. However, in the absence of a proper policy, it could not be implemented. Observers say that in the last 20 years since the state was carved out of Uttar Pradesh, industries have become a major source of employment. At present, there are 327 heavy industries and 64,619 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in the state. While heavy industries provide employment to 1.11 lakh people, the MSMEs have hired 3.24 lakh people, taking the total number to over 4.35 lakh. At present, the total investment in heavy industries and MSMEs is Rs 51,511 crore. Earlier, when Uttarakhand was a part of Uttar Pradesh, there were 14,163 MSMEs in the region which were set up with an investment of Rs 700 crore and provided job opportunities to 38,504 people. Similarly, prior to creation of Uttarakhand, there were only 39 heavy industries with an investment of Rs 8,369 crore providing employment of 29,197 as per figures made available to TOI. As per the data, in the last 20 years, 50,456 MSMEs with an investment of Rs 12,916 crore have come up and given jobs to 2.85 lakh people in the state. The heavy industries, too, witnessed a major jump with 288 new units opening in last two decades with an investment of Rs 29,525 crore. During the last 20 years, the new heavy units have provided jobs to 82,024 people. Speaking on the issue, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “ We want our youth to benefit from the high number of industries that have opened in Uttarakhand and to help them get better job opportunities, we have planned to introduce the move. Working in these units, our youth can learn a lot and it will open more doors for them in the future,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-mulling-law-under-which-70-jobs-in-industries-would-be-kept-for-locals/articleshow/79087369.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||NMC mum on Rs 7 crore given for cleaner air||NAGPUR: The central government has released Rs 33 crore to improve the city’s air quality. However, there seems to be no audit of the initial Rs7 crore allocated last year for the same purpose. Based on the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendations, the Union finance ministry has released Rs2,200 crore as the first instalment to 15 states for combating air pollution in their million-plus population cities. Among them, Maharashtra, which has the highest number of non-attainment cities in the country, has received the highest amount of Rs396.5 crore. Of the six cities in the state, Greater Mumbai has received Rs244 crore, Pune Rs67 crore, Nagpur Rs33 crore, Nashik Rs20.5 crore and Aurangabad and Vasai-Virar Rs16 crore each. As per the centre’s notification, the funds are to be utilized for air quality improvement measures, including capacity building of local bodies and meeting additional needs of state pollution control boards. While environment experts have welcomed the funds for the city, they have raised strong doubts over its utilization. Last year, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) had received the first instalment of Rs10 crore under the Union environment ministry’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). Out of this, Rs3.6 crore were allocated to the board and the remaining amount to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). As per board officials, NMC has till date not provided any clarity on where the funds were utilized. As per a letter written by MPCB’s member secretary to municipal commissioner in October last year, Rs1.9 crore were to be used for creating green buffers along traffic corridors, Rs50 lakh for public awareness. Rs2 crore for mechanical street sweepers, and Rs1 crore for installing water sprinklers. “We were allotted Rs3.6 crore for installing and commission three continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations. We have identified the locations and the tendering procedure is almost done. The stations will be ready in coming 6-7 months,” said MPCB’s sub-regional officer Hema Deshpande. Despite sending reminders, the board, however, has not received any information about usage of funds from NMC. Infuriated by the lack of action and transparency, activists have demanded urgent accountability of the money. “There is no coordination between different departments. Also, NMC is the main implementing agency but is not taking any measures mentioned under NCAP. All these years, air quality improvement was neglected due to lack of funds. Now, when NMC is getting money, it is still not acting on it,” said Leena Buddhe, director of Nagpur’s Centre for Sustainable Development. “The Nagpur experience shows that the big challenge even after having finances to take action towards reducing air pollution is capacity, knowledge and willingness of the local authorities. They cannot even take the suggested measures in a time-bound manner on the ground within municipal boundaries, leave aside the airshed approach,” said Sunil Dahiya, analyst with Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air. Environment expert Debi Goenka, who is also a trustee of Conservation Action Trust, said the main onus is on the civic body. “NMC is clearly the implementing agency and it needs to ensure that the funds are utilized for the purpose they are meant. MPCB too has to do more than issuing notices. It should be more persuasive,” he added. “It is very important to have transparency in terms of the aim and goals to be achieved in a year, with interim milestones and transparency in action being taken through public availability of information on these fronts to ensure public scrutiny and accountability,” added Dahiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-mum-on-rs7cr-given-for-cleaner-air/articleshow/79089913.cms||Manka Behl
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||If birds could talk, they would thank lockdown||Kolkata: It took a lockdown for Rabindra Sarobar to woo back the painted storks that had deserted its islands five years ago. In 2015, the storks that had arrived to nest beat a hasty retreat after thousands of people descended on one November evening and created a din. “These elegant sub-Himalayan birds would come to roost and lay eggs in the islands at Rabindra Sarobar. They like the place because of its serenity. Then suddenly, one November evening five years ago, people descended on the banks in thousands, bursting crackers. The frightened storks abandoned the lake,” recounted birder and environment activist Bonani Kakkar. Birders who flock to the lake that attracts a rich variety of avian species were delighted when the painted stork made a return this year. Of the 1,349-odd species of birds found in India, around 145 have been sighted at Rabindra Sarobar over the years. This year, 119 species have been spotted at the lake, up from 94 last year. The first-timers at Rabindra Sarobar include the changeable hawk-eagle, pied harrier, brown headed gull, Swinhoe minivet, grey-backed shrike, Blyth’s paradise flycatcher, blue tailed bee eater, peregrine falcon, hooded pita, little egret, common tern, large hawk-cuckoo, black winged kite, white throated fantail and wedge tailed green pigeon. “Rabindra Sarobar is not just the lungs of south Kolkata and a great place to walk. It is also amazingly rich in bio-diversity. Right in the middle of south Kolkata’s concrete jungle, it hosts birds not found in the entire south Bengal. That’s why it’s a birders’ paradise. It is our responsibility to ensure that the birds reside undisturbed and we maintain the cleanliness and serenity of the lake,” said IT professional and birder Shuvam Biswas. Sujitkumar Mandal, a teacher at Jadavpur University and a regular at the lake for the past 17 years, said he hopes everyone will honour the NGT order and the high court’s observation. “No one is against Chhath. But we are certainly for the preservation of Rabindra Sarobar and its inhabitants,” he said. Ten-year-old Moulik Ghosh, an avid birder, started visiting the lake with his father two years ago and fell in love with the beauty and diversity of the place. “I like the greenery, the water and the birds. We must avoid causing the birds harm. It would be sad to see them all gone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/if-birds-could-talk-they-would-thank-lockdown/articleshow/79088625.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Amritsar||BFUHS revises schedule for MBBS/BDS candidates||BATHINDA: Baba Farid University of Health Sciences has revised the schedule for admission to MBBS Course in its affiliated colleges. The university has extended the date of making corrections. The notice was issued by the university on Friday and read, “...due to various representations received from NEET UG qualified aspirants that they were not able to fill the category/filled the wrong category/did not remit the fee, the university portal is opened for already registered candidates only to make necessary correction in their online application form, if any.” According to the revised schedule, already registered candidates can make corrections till November 8 mid night. The provisional revised lists will be displayed on November 10. The verification of various documents will be held on November 11. The provisional merit list will be displayed on November 12 and objections to provisional merit list could be filed by November 13. The first round of online counselling will be held from November 13 to 15. The result of first counselling will be displayed on November 19 and students will have to join allotted colleges by November 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/bfuhs-revises-schedule-for-mbbs/bds-candidates/articleshow/79089861.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati professor Mahendra Rai makes it to list of global top 2% scientists||AMRAVATI: Mahendra Rai, a senior professor (former head of biotechnology department and UGC-Basic Science Research Faculty, Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University), has been chosen among the world’s top 2% scientists by Stanford University. The report has been published in PLOS Biology, a reputed international journal. Though the list includes majority of the scientists from IITs and IISc, the universities are not behind. The list was prepared on the basis of standard citations index, h-index, co-authorship, and a composite indicator. The research contribution of Rai, hailing from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh and now resident of Amravati, has been considered in nanoscience and nanotechnology category. Professor Rai has to his credit more than 400 research papers in Indian and foreign peer reviewed journals, 61 h-index with 22,882 citations, 60 books published by reputed publishers such as Springer, Elsevier, CRC, Taylor and Francis, Wiley and Scientific Publisher, and more than 102 popular articles. He says nanotechnology is a highly interdisciplinary area and is fast emerging in every field of science. A member of several scientific societies, Rai’s main research interest currently is green synthesis of metal nanoparticles, particularly using fungi, and their applications as nanoantimicrobials against multidrug resistance microbes. He believes that silver nanoparticles are the new generation of antimicrobials because of their potential against human pathogenic microbes and also for possibility of solving the drug resistance problem by using a combination of the silver nanoparticles with different antibiotics. His research is highly interdisciplinary and combines microbial biotechnology with nanotechnology. Recently, he has taken interest in use of nanoparticles for the management of plant diseases. Rai has received several prestigious awards, including the father TA Mathias Award (1989) from the All India Association for Christian Higher Education, and the Medini Award by the Government of India. He has visited Brazil under TWAS-UNESCO Associateship (2002, Italy), was a visiting scientist at the Department of Bioenergetics, University of Geneva, Switzerland (2004), and under Hungarian Scholarship visited the Department of Plant Protection, Debrecen University, Hungary (2006, 2008, 2015). He was a visiting professor at Department of Microbiology, Nicolaus Copernicus University, Torun Poland (2012, 2015) and a visiting scientist, Biological Chemistry Laboratory, State University of Campinas, under Indo-Brazil programme (2009-2012), and in 2013 under FAPESP programme. In 2015 (October- November), he was a visiting scientist at Nanotechnology Centre, VSB Technological University of Ostrava. In 2019, he was a visiting researcher in Federal University of Piaui, Teresina, Brazil. Recently, he has been invited by Nicolaus Copernicus University of Poland. Rai serves as a referee for 20 international journals and is a member of the editorial board of 10 national and international journals. He also serves as associate editor of IET Nanobiotechnology. He has more than three decades of teaching and research experience. Rai has numerous international collaborations, including Argentina, Hungary, Switzerland, Italy, Poland, Germany, Russia, Brazil and USA. “After retirement in 2017, UGC awarded me UGC-BSR fellowship. Polish government has invited me as a visiting researcher. I will visit after pandemic,” Rai told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-professor-rai-makes-it-to-list-of-global-top-2-scientists/articleshow/79088656.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Authorities fail to relay roads in Chennai, victims pay with lives||CHENNAI: Two weeks after two young women riding two-wheeler died after being run over by an MTC bus while they were trying to negotiate a pit dug up for storm-water drain (SWD) in Tambaram, a 29-year-old man died trying to avoid a crater dug up for laying water pipeline at Mudichur near Tambaram on Thursday. The deceased, identified as Jayaram, 29, of Krishna Nagar in West Tambaram, a software engineer at a private firm in Singaperumal Koil, was returning home from office on his two-wheeler around midnight on Wednesday when the accident occurred. Jayaram rammed his vehicle into the median while trying to evade a crater on the Tambaram-Mudichur Road. He suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot, say sources. Police said though Jayaram was wearing a helmet, it came off since he had not locked it properly. Chromepet traffic police retrieved the body and sent it for postmortem to the Chromepet government hospital. Residents said the lethargic attitude of Tambaram municipality officials led to the death as they had failed to close the pit and relay the road even after work was completed almost six months ago. Following the incident, officials hurriedly relaid the road on Thursday morning. “It was dark and there were no warning signs. We all rushed in only to find him bleeding and unconscious,” said a shopkeeper from the locality. Traffic flow was also hampered on the stretch as the pit occupied more than half of the road,” he said. On October 16, Mary Roselyn and Kalaivani from Tambaram were allegedly knocked down and run over by an MTC bus on the Selaiyur-Velachery road where storm water drain work was under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/authorities-fail-to-relay-roads-in-city-victims-pay-with-lives/articleshow/79091078.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Raninder Singh skips ED summons in FEMA case again||LUDHIANA: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh’ son Raninder Singh, who was summoned by Jalandhar-based zonal office of enforcement directorate (ED) on Friday in the alleged Fema (Foreign Exchange Management Act) case, did not appear before it and sought adjournment in the matter on health grounds. These were the second summons issued to Raninder in the last two weeks. He was to appear before ED on October 27, but had had sought an adjournment even then, saying that as president of the national rifle association of India, he had to attend a meeting of the parliamentary standing committee regarding preparations for the 2021 Olympic games. His counsel and Congress national spokesperson Jaiveer Shergil said Raninder had Covid-19-like symptoms and was advised 14-day quarantine by doctors. He said Raninder has given sample for RT-PCR Covid test, report of which is awaited. The ED summons pertained to a case registered by the agency with regard to alleged possession of undisclosed assets abroad. ED had questioned Raninder in the case in 2016 and asked him to explain the alleged movement of funds to Switzerland and creation of a trust and a few subsidiaries in the British Virgin Islands. The alleged instances of possession of properties abroad was first investigated by the income tax department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/raninder-skips-ed-summons-in-fema-case-again/articleshow/79089898.cms||Mohit Behl
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Cracker industry in West Bengal to move SC, seek 2-hour window||KOLKATA: Sara Bangla Atoshbaji Unnayan Samity, an umbrella association of fireworks manufacturers and sellers in the state, has decided to move Supreme Court, seeking a review of Calcutta High Court's order — banning sale and use of fireworks in the state — on Thursday. "We have contacted our lawyer and the petition is being prepared. We will not wait for the National Green Tribunal's order expected on November 9 as time is scarce. We want two-hour windows for celebrations on Kali Puja and Diwali nights with fireworks be reconsidered," association president Babla Roy said. Though historic air quality monitoring data has conclusively proved that pollution shoots up every Kali Puja-Diwali, and doctors and environmentalists have cited this to call for a ban on use of fireworks this festive season given the health concerns amidst Covid where respiratory distress can turn fatal, Roy insisted there was no scientific evidence to prove that use of fireworks caused pollution. "This is a political ploy to embarrass the Trinamool government. The state government had issued an advisory and not a ban. We are hopeful Supreme Court will give us relief. But should there be a hiccup, we will approach the government for relief. There are 20,000 retailers who are directly affected by the ban in addition to the manufacturers," he said, adding that nearly 31 lakh people are associated with the trade. The court had in its order on Thursday said that it will be for the state to consider whether appropriate compensation or other measures can be taken for the fireworks industry. "For the greater good, a small number of people involved in the firecracker business may have to suffer losses. The overwhelming public interest cannot be compromised," the order read. Firework manufacturers took to the streets at Nungi, Champahati, Nilganj, Kanchrapara, Siliguri and several other locations and blocked roads for several hours in the morning to protest against the ban. With the festive period accounting for nearly 80% of the annual sales, they said the ban would be crippling to the sector that is primarily a cottage industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cracker-industry-to-move-sc-seek-2-hour-window/articleshow/79088642.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit Tiger Reserve, World-wide Fund for Nature launch dress-making training scheme for women living near reserve||PILIBHIT: World-wide Fund for Nature (WWF), in collaboration with Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), on Friday launched a programme where self-help groups (SHGs) of women living in PTR’s proximity will be trained in dress-making, with the objective of empowering them through income generation. Officials of WWF and PTR inaugurated three training centres, one each for three SHGs, namely Nari Shakti SHG at village Rajpur, Ma Laxmi SHG at village Selha and Mahaver SHG at village Ramnagra. To equip the SHGs with necessary means, 10 sewing machines, scissors, thread and cloth of different varieties was distributed free to each centre. According to trainee divisional forest officer Vikas Nayak, who led the ceremony, the dresses made by them will be marketed through PTR souvenir shops. “Thousands of Indian and foreign tourists visit the souvenir shops during PTR’s seven-month-long eco-tourism season. The SHGs will get a splendid opportunity to expand their market and maximize turnover,” Nayak said. He added, “The dress-making programme is specifically aimed at addressing financial woes of local communities and to get rewards of these services in the form of inclination and support of local stakeholders in the protection of forests and conservation of wildlife.” WWF project manager Naresh Kumar said one expert trainer has been deputed at each SHG to guide women members achieve perfection in their work. “The programme has multiple phases to make beneficiaries fully adaptable to contemporary designing and stitching of different kinds of dresses, so that they may even outdo market competition,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-wwf-launch-dress-making-training-scheme-for-women-living-near-reserve/articleshow/79087371.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Dissolution of UPSMDC an example for all PSUs||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh State Mineral Development Corporation (UPSMDC) has become the first state public sector undertaking in India that has been dissolved as per law by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). It has laid out a roadmap for several public sector undertakings in UP and elsewhere that have been lying defunct after having accumulated losses, becoming non-productive and yet, their dissolution has not been successful. The petition for winding up this company was filed in NCLT in January 2019, and the order for the same was passed by NCLT on December 19, 2019. The Bench had also appointed the Official Liquidator for this purpose. The OL of Ministry of Corporate Affairs was given one year’s time to complete the process but it completed the task within six months. The Allahabad Bench of NCLT in its order on August 25, 2020, after taking up the matter through video conferencing, pronounced its order through video conferencing, allowing the appeal of dissolution of the company. The company was represented by Aman Kumar Dwivedi in the NCLT proceedings, while the completion of the legal winding-up exercise was assigned by the government and board of the company to Madhukar Singh, general manager. The UPSMDC is registered government company with 100 per cent equity of the government, and was established in 1974 with the objective of survey of major and minor minerals in Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere, undertaking commercial mining activities, development work and establishing mineral processing units. It had not been conducting any business since the year 2000. The UP government had on 29 May 2018 granted permission to wind it up with immediate effect. The major reason behind closing down the company was the closure of the Lambidhar mining project in Dehradun (then a part of UP) following a Supreme Court order. As a corollary, the corporation’s subsidiary company UP Carbides and Chemicals in Dehradun had also to be closed down. Then, a profitable limestone mining project in Lalitpur had also be closed as per a Supreme Court order, and further, following the closure of UP Cement Corporation in Sonbhadra, the UPSMDC limestone mining in Sonbhadra also came to a halt. There was a high level of overstaffing in the company as compared to the work being done, and with the closure of profitable activities, payment of their wages and allowances became difficult, leading to several industrial and legal disputes. Since the order of closing the company, a long and arduous exercise began of settling the employees’ dues, payment of their due wages and allowances, termination of their services, payment of their PF and pension, settlement of various cases pending in courts in UP and elsewhere, settlement of the corporation’s liabilities, and disposal of its assets. All legal actions such as audit too were completed. Valuable assets with a market value of over Rs 100 crore of the company were handed over to government departments and the remainder after all settlement was returned to the government. At that time, senior bureaucrat Raj Pratap Singh was the chairman of the company. Significantly, no loan of any kind, either of the government or any other institution, was pending against the company. This is a unique example in itself when the entire exercise was completed without any kind of financial irregularity, allegations and loss to the government. According to Roshan Jacob, secretary, department of geology and mining and former managing director of UPSMDC, who played a major role in completing the task, “this is a big achievement unparalleled in state government’s public sector so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dissolution-of-upsmdc-an-example-for-all-psus/articleshow/79091083.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 55 woman prisoners to be released next week||VIJAYAWADA: Home minister Mekatoti Sucharita, in a first such move for the state, announced on Friday that the government will soon release 55 convicted woman prisoners. She said the cabinet approved release of the prisoners based on the recommendations of a high-level committee. Of the 147 female life convicts, 55 prisoners who have already completed five years in jail and do not face severe charges, are eligible to be released as per Thursday’s GO (MS No 131) from the home department. Officials said the prisoners would be scrutinised first and then released next week. “The government will support these women after they are released. A total of 55 prisoners will be released next week, of which 21 would be be released from the special prison for women in Rajamahendravaram, 27 from the special prison for women in Kadapa, two from central prison in Vishakhapatnam and five from the Nellore central prison,” the home minister said. “Many woman prisoners are often passive participants in a crime. Many of them often become a victim of circumstances. Most of these released prisoners are equipped with formal education and degrees. Besides, some of them have learnt trades like tailoring, embroidery, baking,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/55-woman-prisoners-to-be-released-next-week/articleshow/79087370.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Organizers rework Kali Puja pandal plans a day after court ban on visitors’ entry||Kolkata: A day after Calcutta High Court barred entry of visitors into Kali Puja pandals, several organizers remodelled their pandals to ensure a better visibility of idols. This apart, a section of puja organizers held meetings with police to ensure that strict social distancing norms were enforced during the festive days. Amherst Street Sarbojanin Kali Puja committee members have sought help from local cops in declaring a strict no-entry zone in and around the pandal. “We will modify the actual pandal plan so that everyone can get a glimpse of the idol,” said a member of the puja committee. Organizers of another famous Kali Puja on Sitaram Ghosh Street are gearing up after the court order to cooperate with police in ensuring a complete ban on entry of visitors in the prohibited zone. “We will earmark a 10-meter distance from the pandal where a handful of visitors will be allowed to stand and have a look at the idol,” said Prabandha Roy, the president of Naba Yubak Sangha Kali Puja (popularly known as Phata Kestor Puja). Roy added they had already taken a decision to open the pandal from Keshab Chandra Sen Street so that visitors can have a glimpse of the idols without entering Sitaram Ghosh Street. As movement of visitors would be restricted, the puja committee will issue special ID passes for local residents. “We know how important it is to restrict visitors from entering the pandal. We will cooperate with police in every possible way. Corona has claimed several people in our neighbourhood and this year we will only concentrate on the pujas and there will be no event that can attract crowds,” Roy said. At Janbazar Sammilita Kali Puja pandal, specially trained volunteers will be doing rounds to ensure that visitors don’t break rules and enter prohibited zones. “We have started training our volunteers who have effectively controlled crowds during the soiree in past years. They will now be engaged in looking after social distancing norms,” said Sandipan Saha, the working president of the puja committee. Saha added that the volunteers will be asked to make sure that visitors stand at least 30 feet from the entrance to the pandal. “We will also reduce the height of the pandal as per the renewed plan,” he said. However, challenging tasks lie ahead for the organizers of Purba Putiary Yubak Samity at Kudghat. Since the pandal has already been erected to accommodate Nabakali idols, the organizers may need to remodel the pandal to make sure that idols can be seen from all directions. “Given the limited scope of inviting visitors anywhere near the pandal, we need to remodel our pandal,” said a member of the puja committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/organizers-rework-kali-puja-pandal-plans-a-day-after-court-ban-on-visitors-entry/articleshow/79088652.cms||Saikat Ray
November 7, 2020||Trichy||Case against five people for threatening land owner||Trichy: Trichy city police registered a case against five people on Thursday for threatening a land owner with dire consequences and trespassing into her premises near the Trichy airport. Airport police booked E R S Kaleeshwaran, Thomas, Arumugam, Rengan and Munusamy on charges of rioting, trespassing into a private property, uttering obscene words against a woman and threatening her with dire consequences based on a complaint from A Nilofer Anisha, 48, of Warner’s Road in Cantonment. Nilofer alleged in her complaint that on November 4, Kaleeswaran and four others trespassed into their 4.35 acres of land at MKT colony in Sembattu where there used to be a tannery run by her family. She complained that the gang asked her to stop the cleaning work and vacate the place. Since she refused to budge, they allegedly issued a murder threat to her group. Alleging that some local goons claiming to be members of political parties tried to usurp the land from her by instigating the local people, Nilofer said that certain people had illegally encroached on and put up mud construction or thatched hut in portions of the vacant land and thereafter obtained electricity connection.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/case-against-five-people-for-threatening-land-owner/articleshow/79091079.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 7, 2020||Nashik||Woolies out as temp dips to 13.7 degrees C||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The mercury dipped below 14 degrees celsius in the city for the first time this season, bringing in the winter chill just days after the monsoon withdrawal. “We can now fell the chill in the air in the morning and night. Considering that this is the best time to maintain physical and mental health, I have started going for morning walks or a quick jog in the pleasant weather,” said Swapnil Patil, who works with a private firm. Nashik city recorded minimum temperature at 13.7 degrees C on Friday, against 16.9 degrees C recorded on the same day last year. The day’s temperature was two degrees below normal. Meanwhile, the grape-growing area of Niphad taluka in the district recorded minimum temperature of 12 degrees C on Friday, while Malegaon taluka recorded minimum temperature of 15.6 degrees C, with departure of one degree from the normal. Jalgaon city recorded the lowest minimum temperature in North Maharashtra at 13.6 degrees C on Friday, which was three degrees below normal. Sources in the India Meteorological Department said the mercury levels are expected to drop further over the next four-five days. The minimum temperature could touch to 12 degrees C over the next couple of days. The city had recorded minimum temperature at 14.6 degrees C on October 30. But the minimum temperature increased up to 18 degrees C on November 2, but there had been gradual drop in the minimum temperature from the next day. In November last year, the lowest temperature of the month was 13.8 degrees celsius on November 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woolies-out-as-temp-dips-to-13-7-degrees-c/articleshow/79089923.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 7, 2020||Nashik||12-yr-old boy dies after falling from tractor||Nashik: A 12-year-old boy died after he fell off the tractor that was being driven by his father and came under its rear wheel in Kolam Budruk village of Yeola taluka on Wednesday evening. The deceased has been identified as Shubham Bhagwan Chavan. Based on the complaint lodged by sarpanch of the village Sopan Chavan, Yeola taluka police have booked Shubham’s father Bhagwan Chavan for death due to negligence. According to the complaint, Chavan—a farmer in Kolam Budruk village—had borrowed a tractor from another villager and went to the farm for some work. After finishing work, he was returning with Shubham, who was seated on the front end of the tractor. There was a small downward incline on the kuccha road going towards their house. Shubham fell down when the tractor was passing over the incline. He came under the rear wheel of the tractor and sustained grievous injuries. He was rushed to a government hospital which declared him brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/12-yr-old-boy-dies-after-falling-from-tractor/articleshow/79089908.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 7, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru city police to scout for Covid wardens||MYSURU: The city police is planning to rope in new police beat committee members as part of its efforts to educate the public of Covid-appropriate behaviour. Following state government’s direction to the police department to focus on educating the public about Covid-appropriate behaviour instead of just penalising them, cops are chalking out strategies to reach out to large numbers of people under each police station limits. As part of the plan, the department is looking for Covid volunteers or warden to bring in Covid discipline among the public, especially during the festival season, on the lines of traffic wardens — citizen volunteers who assist traffic cops in managing traffic at various intersections during peak hours. The volunteers in respective beat areas will help enforce Covid protocols during large public gatherings for festivals or other events. The department has set a target of reaching out to a minimum of 1,000 people in each police station jurisdiction every day and to prepare Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) during every festival season in respective areas where large public gatherings are expected. Speaking to TOI, police commissioner Chandragupta said, “We have plans to rope in beat committee members to reach out to a large number of people so as to create awareness about Covid-appropriate behaviour. It needn’t be a police officer who creates awareness, citizen too can volunteer by joining hands with the cops on this score.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-city-police-to-scout-for-covid-wardens/articleshow/79088951.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 7, 2020||Agra||Gangster Harish Sharma’s property worth Rs 5.03 crore seized in Mathura||AGRA: In a crackdown against criminals in Uttar Pradesh, Mathura police seized assets worth Rs 5.03 crore, including five residential flats and houses, of gangster Harish Sharma on Friday. According to police, Harish Sharma (40), a resident of Kayela Alipur under Refinery police jurisdiction, has 23 criminal cases -- including attempt to murder, abduction, using criminal force to woman with the intent to outrage her modesty -- registered against him in various police stations in Mathura, Agra and Aligarh. Sharma has been actively involved in criminal activities since 1999, said police. The properties and assets earned through criminal activities amounting to Rs 5.03 crore were seized on the orders of the district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/gangster-harish-sharmas-property-worth-rs-5-03-crore-seized-in-mathura/articleshow/79087399.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Trichy||Cities await ‘ease of living’ survey results as delay continues||Trichy: A delay in sharing the results of ease of living (EoL) survey 2019 conducted by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has put several participant cities in a fix. A total of 12 cities from Tamil Nadu including Trichy were preparing for the ranking since February 2019. MoHUA, since 2018, has been conducting the annual EoL exercise to grade the quality of life, sustainability and economic ability as three main pillars to rank Indian cities based on livability conditions. Education, health, safety of citizens and urban transport sectors are scrutinized for ranking the cities. For the year 2019, MoHUA conducted EoL citizen perception survey in February 2020, thousands of citizens submitted their feedback online to register their opinions on their city’s livability conditions. Many of the cities including Trichy, Madurai and Salem accomplished their feedback targets much before the deadline. “We anticipated the results to be shared in October, but so far, we have not received any update,” an official with the civic body said.Official sources said that the Covid-19 pandemic must have delayed the progress of disclosing the survey results. However, Swachh 2020 survey results despite the Covid-19 outbreak, was disclosed in August. It may be recalled that in the ease of living 2018 ranking, Trichy was ranked 12 across the country as the most livable city of Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cities-await-ease-of-living-survey-results-as-delay-continues/articleshow/79091082.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Past govts pushed UPPCL into losses||LUCKNOW: Hours after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra targeted the state government for high power tariff and functioning of electronic meters, energy minister Shrikant Sharma said the faulty policies of Congress and previous governments pushed UPPCL into huge losses. “UPPCL stares at losses of around Rs 90,000 crore. Previous governments misled the people in the name of electricity,” said Sharma. The minister had a marathon video conferencing with the officials of UPPCL and its subsidiary companies on Friday to discuss the roadmap to bring down losses and increase revenue. “Under Congress governments, districts like Amethi and Rae Bareli hardly had any power supply. In last three years, BJP government provided electricity to nearly 1.4 crore households in 1.3 lakh hamlets,” he added. “So far as the claims of fault in meters is concerned, arrangements have been made to check meters immediately on complaints. Comments made by Priyanka Gandhi on UPPCL is politically motivated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/past-govts-pushed-uppcl-into-losses/articleshow/79091090.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hubballi||Fragrance of exotic flowers fills streets in Dharwad locality||DHARWAD: For the first time, six Alstonia Scholaris trees in Gayatripuram Extension near Kelgeri in Dharwad are in full bloom. The beauty and fragrance of the flowers have enhanced the serenity of the city and held residents spellbound. The trees were planted five years ago and this is for the first time that they have flowered. Alstonia Scholaris is an elegant evergreen tree found in many parts of India. The generic name is in memory of distinguished botanist Prof C Alston (1685-1760) of Edinburgh. The species name scholaris is attributed to the fact that the timber of this tree was traditionally used to make wooden slates and pencils for schoolchildren. Also commonly known as Devil Tree, in mythology and popular imagination it is considered to be the abode of the devil. This is an evergreen tropical tree in the family Apocynaceae. It is native to southern China, tropical Asia and Australasia. Harshavardhan Sheelavant, coordinator of Nature Research Center, Dharwad, said it has been the tradition in Vishwa Bharati University to honour the graduates and post-graduates by offering Alstonia Scholaris (Saptaparni) during the annual convocation. The tradition was introduced by Gurudev Ravindranath Tagore who founded the varsity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/fragrance-of-exotic-flowers-fills-streets-in-dharwad-locality/articleshow/79088701.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
November 7, 2020||Dehradun||Two booked for posting obscene videos||Haridwar: A case was registered by the local police under the IT Act and the POCSO Act after obscene videos were uploaded on social media by two unidentified persons in Jwalapur jurisdiction limits. It was revealed, through surveillance, that the mobile number registered for the social media ID belongs to Shastri Nagar area falling under Jwalapur police station. Praveen Singh Koshiyari, SHO of the Jwalapur police station, told TOI that a case has been registered against two unknown persons for uploading child pornography material on a social media platform and further investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-booked-for-posting-obscene-videos/articleshow/79087409.cms||MS Nawaz
November 7, 2020||Shimla||BJP will distort Indian history: Congress on tunnel plaque row||MANALI: Warning the Himachal Pradesh government of state-wide protests, state Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said the BJP governments in Himachal and at the Centre should learn to respect democracy and stop distorting the history for fake self-glorification. Although the state Congress, after lodging an FIR and writing to the chief minister to reinstall the foundation plaque bearing Sonia’s name, is preparing to intensify the agitation, the government has not placed the plaque at the south portal of the tunnel even after a month of its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The war of words is now going personal with Congress blaming the Himachal CM and Modi for distorting the history. After taking out a protest march and forwarding another memorandum to the governor through the Lahaul-Spiti DC, Rathore, said, “This act of the central and state governments is undemocratic, unlawful and unconstitutional. I warn the nation that BJP is trying to distort the history and may change the Indian history if not checked. Modi may rewrite new books where Nathuram Godse may be adored as a freedom fighter, who got freedom to India in 1947.” Lahaul-Spiti former MLA Ravi Thakur said the protest in Lahaul shall continue until the original plaque is reinstalled. Congress is alleging that BJP is trying to remove all evidence of foundation stone laying ceremony of the Atal tunnel by Sonia Gandhi on October 28, 2010 and sees a conspiracy behind the alleged removal of her plaque before the tunnel’s inauguration by Modi on October 3. After giving 15 days’ ultimatum, the party has started protest marches in Kullu and Lahaul, which will continue till Diwali. The Kullu police has, however, said the old plaque is kept safely with the contractors of the tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/bjp-will-distort-indian-history-cong-on-tunnel-plaque-row/articleshow/79089921.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia alleges fraud in use of funds at 5 Delhi colleges||NEW DELHI: Two days after Delhi High Court directed Delhi government to pay the salaries in the colleges funded by it, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia released an audit report of the five colleges to show alleged misappropriation of funds and the anomaly of ghost employees. In a press conference on Friday, Sisodia who is also the education minister, said, “Two major issues have emerged in the special audit: unauthorised payments by the college without the approval of the funding agency and surplus funds contrary to pleas about a financial crisis. The government has been giving the colleges more money than they require.” The Delhi University institutions in which the special audits were carried out were Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Shaheed Sukhdev College, Bhagini Nivedita College and Maharishi Valmiki College. Two others, Aditi Mahavidyalaya and Lakshmibai College, did not consent to the audit, Sisodia said. Elaborating, Sisodia alleged that new posts, both teaching and non-teaching, were created without the approval of Delhi government. “Institutions that accept money from us have to take our permission for these,” said the deputy CM, adding, “And when auditors asked for the account register for these new posts, they found these weren’t maintained. We suspect that these are ghost employees in the colleges.” The audit showed Deen Dayal Upadhyaya toted up expenses of Rs49.9 crore, Keshav Rs29.8 crore, Sukhdev Rs16.5 crore, Bhagini Rs17.2 crore and Maharshi Rs.10.6 crore. The government is liable to pay only the shortfall. “The pattern of assistance requires the grants to be made on net deficit basis, i.e. total revenue minus total expenditure. But these colleges have been collecting and keeping the funds in fixed deposit accounts,” claimed Sisodia. Sisodia also pulled up the directorate of higher education on how it had sanctioned these sums and why the earlier audits hadn’t raised red flags. “We won’t tolerate any work that ignores financial rules,” he asserted. The college principals dismissed the allegations. Terming Sisodia’s disclosure a “bundle of lies”, DDU principal Hem Chand Jain said that the audit report hadn’t been shared with the college and so “making allegations in front of the media before giving colleges a chance to respond is not proper and appears an attempt to malign the image of the college”. Jain also refuted allegation about missing record of new teachers. “In Delhi University, teachers do not need to record attendance,” he said. “If Delhi government wants attendance records, it should ask University Grants Commission to make attendance mandatory for teachers.” The surplus funds, he claimed, were for the Student Fund. Poonam Veram, principal of Shaheed Sukhdev College, said that no college “dares” to create new posts without permission. “All colleges UGC norms and the assistance norms. We recruit staff according to DU rules,” she insisted. Keshav Mahavidyalaya principal Madhu Pruthi wanted to respond in detail only after reading the audit report. “All decisions were taken with the approval of the college's governing body,” she maintained. The principals of Bhagini Nivedita and Maharshi Valmiki colleges did not respond to calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-alleges-fraud-in-use-of-funds-at-5-colleges/articleshow/79089932.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: In move towards prohibition, liquor consumption falls 55%||VIJAYAWADA: Liquor consumption has come down considerably in the state during the current year, when compared to previous years. However, the corresponding dip in revenue has not been as fast or as considerable as fall in consumption, on account of an increase in prices. Consumption, which stood at 190.82 lakh cases of liquor and 170.15 lakh cases of beer in 2019-20, had come down to 85.73 lakh cases of liquor and 23.47 lakh cases of beer during 2020-21 between April and October. This is close to a 55 per cent fall in liquor consumption and an 86 per cent fall in beer consumption. However, revenue from liquor did not fall in the same ratio because of the increase in prices. Total excise revenue which was Rs 12,006.98 crore during 2019-20 had come down to Rs 9,686.12 crore during 2020-21 from April to October. This was just a 19 per cent fall in revenue. “We have brought down the number of outlets from 4,380 during the term of the previous government to 2,934 now, which is a reduction of 33 per cent. The decision to close 40 per cent of the bars is yet to be implemented once the court clears the issue,” D Vasudeva Reddy, managing director of AP State Beverages Corporation Limited (APSBCL), said. Vasudeva Reddy said the excise department has initiated several measures to reduce consumption without necessarily looking to increase revenue. The government has also adopted a number of measures recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to reduce alcohol consumption. “One of the recommendations is to discourage consumption by restricting the availability of liquor. The government has restricted availability by reducing number of outlets and not allowing unauthorised sales. Besides, the government has restricted the availability of brands that consumers prefer,” Vasudeva Reddy said. “The chief minister is for total prohibition and all these measures are aimed at encouraging tipplers to give up the habit,” he added. When asked about the increasing number of smuggling cases, Vasudeva Reddy said the volume of liquor smuggled into the state from border villages or states is comparatively low. However, smuggling will come down with the government reducing the sale price of all brands, besides opening walk-in stores in major towns and cities, he said. “Though a few walk-in stores have been opened, the government is firm on not increasing the number of outlets beyond 2,934,” he said. Meanwhile, the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), which monitors liquor sale and acts against smuggling, said it had noticed smuggling in central Andhra was mostly from Telangana, from Odisha in north Andhra and from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka in the Rayalaseema districts. “Even if there are unnoticed cases, the volume would be not more than what we have seized,” a spokesman of the SEB said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-move-towards-prohibition-liquor-consumption-falls-55/articleshow/79087398.cms||Gopi Dara
November 7, 2020||Nashik||District administration reaches out to families of 255 farmers, offers help||Nashik: The district administration has identified families of as many as 255 farmers, who had committed suicide due to crop loss, and will provide them with help through various means. As per directions from divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game, the administration carried out a survey of the bereaved families in order to figure out their immediate needs and possible help that the government can provide them with. The aim of the project is to bring the families of such farmers back into the mainstream and ensure they are able to support their family members in leading a happy life. The administration officials visited these families and asked them what would they like the government to do for them. The survey was started on October 2, an official said, adding that there would be no special funds from the state government and the help would be provided from the various government schemes. “The situation is very difficult for the families where the only bread-earner took the extreme step due to agricultural problems. In order to ensure that they carry on with their life in a dignified manner, the administration has decided to provide all the government help possible,” the official said. The highest number of families are from Malegaon taluka (53) followed by Baglan (37), Niphad and Dindori (31 each), and Nandgaon (27). “One family each was surveyed from Peth and Surgana talukas of the district,” the official pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/district-administration-reaches-out-to-families-of-255-farmers-offers-help/articleshow/79089931.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 15-member panel to assess impact of anti-stubble solution||NEW DELHI: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday announced the formation of a 15-member “Pusa bio-decomposer impact assessment committee” to analyse how successful the process of turning stubble into manure in Delhi’s agricultural fields had been. The committee, which comprises MLAs and scientists, will submit its report next week. “After getting the report, we will submit the outcomes to the Supreme Court where the hearing on the matter of pollution is going on,” said Rai while welcoming the newly appointed chairman of the central commission headed by MM Kutty. “I also believe that the central commission will approve this technique of converting stubble to manure. I have heard that in Uttar Pradesh, police are arresting farmers for burning stubble but I don’t think that is the solution. The central government should sprinkle this anti-stubble solution across the farmlands, which can happen at a much lesser cost than what they spend today,” added Rai. Rai said while Rs 2 crore budget had been allotted by the Centre to buy machines for farmers, only Rs 20 lakh had been spent by Delhi government to spray this anti-stubble solution. “In around 2,000 acres of land, farming of non-Basmati rice takes place in Delhi and till now, we have sprinkled this bio-composer across 1,800 acres. The remaining farmlands will be covered soon. We began sprinkling the bio-decomposer on October 13 and found that 90%-95% stubble had got converted to manure. However, the 15-member panel will be able to assess the actual impact,” said Rai. Referring to the newly launched ‘Green Delhi’ app, Rai said the government had received around 2,300 complaints, out of which 58 per cent (1,346) had been resolved so far. “From Monday, 14 monitoring teams of Delhi government will directly visit the places to solve the complaints,” he added.The minister further said that while the ban on firecrackers was notified on Friday, Delhi Police, divisional commissioners and the environment department would be meeting on Monday to formulate a Standard Operating Procedure on the implementation of this ban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/15-member-panel-to-assess-impact-of-anti-stubble-solution/articleshow/79091137.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Shimla||Rohtang tunnel open to traffic, not petroleum supplies||MANALI: Even as Atal tunnel has made travel easy, safe and convenient between Manali, Lahaul and Ladakh, the tunnel — which bypasses the high-altitude Rohtang Pass — is still useless for essential supplies like petroleum and other inflammable products, which are not being allowed through it. According to officials, the most modern and safest highway tunnel of the country will take little more time to be safe for vehicles carrying inflammable products. The supplies of petroleum products to tribal areas will be stopped after snowfall on Rohtang Pass. While Lahaul valley was connected with Manali through Atal tunnel after recent snowfall, vehicles carrying petroleum products were stopped in Manali. This resulted in unavailability of petrol in Lahaul valley. Manali SDM Raman Gharsangi said, “Transit of inflammable products is not allowed through the tunnel. The highway via Rohtang Pass is now free of snow. Vehicles carrying petrol, diesel and LPG will be allowed to use the Rohtang highway between 10am and 4pm, during daytime, so that essential items are stocked in Lahaul, Pangi and Ladakh. Other vehicles will not be allowed to go beyond Gulaba,” he said. Atal tunnel management has said vehicles carrying petrol, diesel, lubricants, LPG cylinders, kerosene, explosives and other inflammable products will not be allowed to use the tunnel. Hundreds of trucks carrying petroleum products had to use Rohtang Pass in October and are still using this road which has become very dangerous due to deposit of ice on road surface. A Border Roads Organisation (BRO) official said inflammable products will be allowed through the tunnel after ensuring proper installation and working of safety equipment inside the tunnel. “Once we are sure the tunnel is capable of handling any kind of untoward incident, a notification in this regard will be issued,” he said. According to sources, work on firefighting and ventilation system is still being installed inside the tunnel. The tunnel management had asked Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti administration to deploy fire brigades at the tunnel site, but it was not provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/rohtang-tunnel-open-to-traffic-not-petroleum-supplies/articleshow/79089933.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Trichy||Centre to monitor Trichy real time to come up at corpn office||Trichy: An integrated command control centre (ICCC) to monitor various services real time and address grievances of the residents more effectively, will come up at the main office of the Trichy Corporation. The facility will be established at Rs 12.32 crore on a 5,000sqft space in the corporation’s main office. The ICCC, proposed under smart cities mission will serve as the nerve and brain of the city by incorporating the management and supervision of street lights, drinking water, sewage, transport and law enforcement. The project includes erecting LED smart poles, wi-fi hotspots, CCTV cameras and sensors. Real time data such as air quality and rainfall level will be tracked by the ICCC for chalking policies and proposals for city development. During disasters such as flood and cyclone, the centre will serve as a war-room to tackle the worst-case scenario.The civic body will also place variable messaging boards, public address systems and emergency call boxes in public spots. While the messaging boards and public address system will display and play awareness messages in tracking the crowd in commercial streets during festival days, the call box will help people in distress to alert the police in the command centre for help. “A tender for the ICCC has been floated. An eligible bidder, who will be identified to complete the work in a year will have to maintain the facility for five years. The centre will serve as a common dashboard for monitoring the entire city,” a senior corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/centre-to-monitor-trichy-real-time-to-come-up-at-corpn-office/articleshow/79091086.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Yogi Adityanath restores promotions of 896 PAC constables||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday overturned the decision of UP Police to demote 896 Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) personnel, who were promoted as sub-inspectors and head constables while on deputation to civil police and ordered immediate restoration of their rank. After the CM’s instructions, home department has issued orders in this regard. While banning any future sourcing of deputing PAC jawans to civil police, the CM directed all 896 PAC personnel be officially absorbed into civil police and cancelled the September 10 repatriation order by police establishment board. The chief minister also instructed the home department that those PAC personnel who have been sent to civil police or armed police after November 29, 2004, should be absorbed if they fulfill the eligibility. ADG, PAC, Binod Kumar Singh, said the CM’s decision has boosted the morale of PAC jawans and will further enforce discipline in the force. On November 28, 2019, a four-member committee headed by DySP of Police Establishment Board was constituted to look into promotions of 1,019 constables in civil police. A scrutiny revealed 932 jawans hailed from PAC cadre, while 87 were from parent force.  While 910 PAC personnel were promoted to rank of sub-inspector and head constables, remaining 22 remained constables. Later, 14 personnel either retired or passed away, leaving 896 men in khaki.After the report was tabled, state DGP demoted 896 personnel of PAC cadre and sent them back to parent cadre on September 10. The issue was taken up on September 26 by chief minister Yogi Adityanath who expressed displeasure over the way UP police establishment board decided to recall these jawans and cancel their promotions. He also instructed the DGP to fix responsibility of officers who carried out such an exercise without informing the state government. DGP HC Awasthy immediately rolled back the order and shunted out ADG Establishment Board Piyush Anand to the Railways and brought ADG, Railways, Sanjay Singhal in his place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-restores-promotions-of-896-pac-constables/articleshow/79091099.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Fake BPO busted at Delhi's Rajouri Garden, 2,300 duped of $ 1 million||NEW DELHI: Seventeen people, including the owner and employees of a business process outsourcing firm, were arrested by Cyber Cell of Delhi Police from west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden for duping citizens of US and other countries. The accused would allegedly make calls claiming to be the technical support team of reputed companies like Microsoft and HP and make their targets believe that their computers had been infected with malware. Police have seized 20 computers and are analysing data retrieved from them. Till now, around 2,268 people have been found duped of around a million dollars since October. When the cops raided the call centre, one of the accused was busy laying a trap for duping a woman doctor based in the US. As he had headphones on, he didn’t realise the presence of police. The doctor was then informed of the scam by the sleuths. An FIR was lodged suo motu after police received a tip-off about the alleged illegal activities at the call centre by an informer. DCP (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy said, “Technical analysis of the mobile numbers and the money trail led us to the location of the accused. During the raid, the accused were found calling unsuspecting people in foreign countries and cheating them. The owner, Sahil Dilawari, is a resident of Subhash Nagar and had been operating the call centre for the past three years.” Senior officers said the accused would send pop-ups to the computers of their targets showing that their system had been compromised and they should call on the given number for technical assistance. When the victim called, the accused would pretend to be from Microsoft and make them give remote access to the computer. The victims would then be told that several malicious software were found in their system, while in reality there would be no such issue. The victims would be “cautioned” that their banking credentials may have been compromised and immediate remedial steps needed to be taken. Fearing for their financial security, the victims would agree to pay the amount asked for by the accused. The payments were made to shell companies in US and Canada from where they would be wired to the accused’s bank accounts in India. “Upon receiving the payment, the accused would pretend to clean up the malware, virus, etc and also make the victims sign up for a subscription, sometimes for up to three years,” said Roy. In another variant of the fraud, the accused put up ads on the internet asking people to call on toll-free numbers for support by HP technical team while facing difficulties in printer installation. The accused would then take remote access of the victim’s system and carry out the fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/million-dollar-scam-over-2-2k-duped-in-garb-of-tech-support/articleshow/79089946.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Goa||Jails won’t be enough for protesters: Goa Forward Party||MARGAO: Goa Forward Party (GFP) has strongly condemned the government action of filing police cases on selective activists of Goyant Kollso Naka, an organisation spear heading the anti-coal and anti-double tracking movement in the state. In a press statement, GFP spokesperson Prashant Naik questioned the police action of filing cases on only six activists out of the thousands of people gathered at Chandor railway crossing. “Chief minister Pramod Sawant stands exposed, who condemned the arrest of journalist Arnab Goswami who is a suspect in a criminal case of abetment to suicide, and who has now implicated peaceful protestors in criminal cases,” Naik said in the statement. He further warned the government that “the jails in Goa will not be enough to accommodate the thousands of goemkars opposing the infrastructure projects in the state which are of no benefit to the people of the state but are only pushed through on behalf of the coal lobby of the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jails-wont-be-enough-for-protesters-gfp/articleshow/79091128.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Surat||Surat: Ro-Pax vessel hits technical snag two days before launch||SURAT/RAJKOT: Two days ahead of the much-anticipated flag off, the Ro-Pax ferry vessel to run between Ghogha and Hazira hit a technical snag during the trial run on Friday. The vessel ‘Voyage Symphony’ owned by ferry operator, Indigo Seaways, developed the electronic problem mid-sea and had to be called back to Hazira port. Sources said the system malfunctioned soon after the ship left from Ghogha for Hazira. Chetan Contractor, chairman and managing director of Indigo Seaways, told TOI, “The vessel encountered some electronic problem during the trial run between Gogha and Hazira and had to called back to Hazira port. The problem will be resolved ahead of its official launch on Sunday.” Contractor said that trial runs have been going on for the past two days and this was first time that it developed a fault. The glitch will be set right by Friday night, he added. The ship operator carried out the trial runs between Ghogha and Hazira for nine hours each on Wednesday and Thursday. Incidentally, the service hit the snag on the day when Bhavnagar BJP MP and national vice-president Bharti Shiyal had organized a press conference to appreciate this project. She, however, ducked all queries regarding the technical glitch. The three-deck Ro-Pax vessel has a load capacity of 30 trucks on the main deck, 100 passenger cars on the upper deck and 500 passengers, along with 34 ship crew and hospitality staff on the passenger deck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ro-pax-vessel-hits-technical-snag-two-days-before-launch/articleshow/79087452.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chennai||NGT cuts city port’s fine for damaging mangroves to Rs 4cr||Chennai: The southern bench of National Green Tribunal on Friday directed Chennai Kamarajar Port to pay a compensation of Rs 4 crore for large-scale damage caused to mangroves while dumping dredged material. A review committee used satellite images to prove this. The order passed on Friday was a review of an earlier order of the NGT, wherein it had directed the port to pay a compensation of Rs 8.4 crore for causing destruction to the mangroves by dumping dredged soil. According to a report submitted by an expert committee to the NGT which leaned on satellite images and analysed soil samples from nine locations where dredged soil had been dumped in CRZ notified area, it had not been fully removed from February 9, 2016, to September 11, 2017. “The mangroves in the area may be lost due to dumping in the nine sites. The mangroves in the area are very thin. The port authority has not adopted any scientific methods to remediate the soil or to restore the soil/ mangroves to regional conditions. Though efforts were made to remove the dump falling within CRZ area, it is observed that it is not fully removed,” the report stated. Also, the report also found that soil in the dredged material was highly contaminated with chemical elements and the area had high concentrations of magnesium, iron, calcium, potassium, aluminium, chromium, lead, copper and zinc up to 100cm below the ground. This would also have caused loss of mangroves. The advocates for Kamarajar Port argued that they could not remove the dredged material after September 2017 due to an earlier order of the NGT. Taking this into consideration, the compensation was reduced to Rs 4 crore, to be paid within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngt-cuts-city-ports-fine-for-damaging-mangroves-to-rs-4cr/articleshow/79088681.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Social distancing markings fade, 6ft gap regulation goes for a toss||PUNE: The white and yellow circles and boxes marked outside commercial establishments across the city to ensure social distancing are fading fast and sights of people standing dangerously close to each other, with many of their masks pulled down to the chin or neck, are becoming common. Vendors at Mahatma Phule Mandai used to take pride in being among the first in the city to have markings in front of their stalls to ensure social distancing. But the scene has changed with crowding becoming common in front of the same stalls with the Covid-19 cases showing a downward trend. Even the big supermarket chains that had launched the “token” system to allow the customers in batches inside during the lockdown have let go off the discipline. Times ViewIt is important to follow the social distancing norms, wear masks and use sanitizer to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Winter is approaching and some European countries have gone for a second lockdown following the surge in cases. We cannot afford another lockdown, as the first one has caused great damage to the economy, jobs and livelihoods. Controlling the pandemic is not only the government’s job. Citizens have to equally contribute to the efforts, the key to which is responsible behaviour and self regulation.“Since April, I had to wait in a queue standing within the boxes at every 6ft distance to enter a supermarket near my house. A guard would check whether the safe distance was being maintained and send customers inside in batches. But ever since the ‘unlock’ started, the colours of the boxes faded and the queues gradually vanished. People seem to have forgotten all the precautions,” Old Sangvi resident Kalpesh Jadhav said. Though the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune has issued strict guidelines to all shops about protocols, a trader said, “It is not always possible to maintain social distancing, as that often results in losing a customer. We are left with no option but to entertain one and all.” The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation bus depot at Swargate witnesses chaos everyday with little adherence to social distancing. People can be seen standing close to each other while buying tickets at the counters or waiting for buses. A passenger said, “The Covid-19 cases have reduced now. Moreover, it is not always possible to follow social distancing. Finally, there is no one to see or check.” An official at the depot said, “Everyone knows that social distancing and personal and public hygiene are important to stay safe during the pandemic. But keeping an eye on everyone round the clock is not possible. However, our staffers move around and tell the people to follow norms.” The situation at the Pune railway station, on the other hand, is slightly better. Though crowding can be seen outside the main entrance, personnel from the Railway Protection Force and the Government Railway Police move around and tell people to remain patient and follow all norms. “We are maintaining a very strict watch along the platforms,” a railway official said. Doctors and health experts said awareness and strict enforcement of the protocols have become the need of the hour to prevent a second wave of Covid-19. “The administration has to ensure strict control. Neither the people nor the government are serious about social distancing. There is a need for surprise checks in the markets and provisions for punishment if someone is found flouting the norms,” said Avinash Bhondwe, president of the Indian Medical Association’s Maharashtra chapter. Health activist Abhijit More said aggressive awareness was a must, as the cases might spike after Diwali and during winter. “’Unlock’ has started and we cannot go backwards. The administration should engage with trade associations to ensure rules are followed in the markets,” he said.  Anish Shinde, a working professional, said, “If one is not wearing a mask, the police intercept you and levy fines. But there is nothing for social distancing, which is equally important. Crowds can be seen outside government offices also. We need to ensure strict compliance of social distance, masks and sanitizing to prevent a surge in cases once again.” (With inputs from Joy Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/social-distancing-markings-fade-6ft-gap-regulation-goes-for-a-toss/articleshow/79089928.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 7, 2020||Nashik||26,000 health workers in rural Nashik to get vaccine first||NASHIK: Nearly 26,000 staff and medical professionals working with government and private medical establishments in the rural areas of Nashik district have been identified to receive the Covid-19 vaccine, whenever it is available. The Central government has asked the district administration to prepare the list of persons engaged in healthcare facilities, who will be provided the vaccine on priority. A senior officer from the civil hospital said a drive was carried out in the rural areas to identify the number of vaccine doses required for the healthcare workers. About 19,822 medical and non-medical people from 129 government medical facilities have been identified, along with 2,782 people from 31 establishments under the civil surgeon in rural areas. About 3,334 people from 648 private establishments have been identified. These people have been registered through their Aadhaar card numbers and other details. A QR code has been generated to keep track of the vaccination process and health monitoring of the beneficiaries. “We don’t know whether it is going to be a single dose or double dose vaccine. But the QR code will be used to monitor the health of those given the vaccine,” the officer said. The officer added that the vaccine would only be given to the identified people and not their family members. Asked about the data for the urban areas, the officer said it was being collected and would be ready by November 11. Once the final data has been prepared, it will be sent to the state and the central governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/26k-health-workers-in-rural-areas-to-get-vaccine-first/articleshow/79089937.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 7, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19: 249 cases, seven deaths in district||NASHIK: As many as 249 Covid-19 cases, including 147 from Nashik city, have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours ending on Friday evening, taking the tally of confirmed cases to 95,110. Three of the seven people, who succumbed to the viral infection in the district, were from the city. The death toll stands at 874 in the city and 1,696 in the district. As many as 473 patients were discharged from across the district on Friday, of whom 260 were from the city. Currently, the district has 2,935 active cases, of which 2,042 are in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/249-cases-seven-deaths-in-district/articleshow/79089947.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Amid corona, mourners find comfort in remote rites conducted by priests online||PUNE: Funeral rites are now being conducted on Zoom or Google Meet, with unique meeting codes shared in closed WhatsApp groups by priests for mourners to join. The Santrika-Sanskrit Sanskriti Sanshodhika division of Jnana Prabodhini, a social organisation, has been training priests in technical knowhow about ways to conduct funerals and last rites online. The initiative started late in March, when families realised that they could not hold gatherings for post-funeral rituals due to Covid-induced restrictions. “We have conducted more than a thousand shradh ceremonies online on platforms like Meet, Zoom, or WhatsApp. The priests whom we have trained know how these platforms work. They generate codes for the ceremonies ahead of the schedule time. I have conducted nearly a hundred of these ceremonies,” said Manisha Shete, a priest from the Santrika division of Jnana Prabodhini. She is also a researcher of Indology at the institute. Shete added that due to the ceremonies moving online, people are being able to join from anywhere across the world and pay their last respects to the dead. The priests are also able to conduct shradh ceremonies of someone who has passed away in another part of the world. “This is something that has become easier due to rituals moving online. People used to feel bad earlier for not being able to go and pay their last respects to the departed. Now, they can do so online. There are issues of time zones, but we have adjusted ourselves well to that. For example, I conducted a shradh ceremony a few days back for a person who passed away overseas. As requested by the person’s family, we conducted the rituals at 7am, according to the time in that country, when it was nearly evening in India,” Shete said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/amid-corona-mourners-find-comfort-in-remote-rites-conducted-by-priests-online/articleshow/79089936.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Baba Ka Dhaba: Cheating FIR filed as dhaba tale goes sour||NEW DELHI: Was it a narrative too good to be true? The story of an elderly, embattled couple suffering the repercussion of the Covid lockdown had pulled at heartstring across India. The tale took another turn on Friday when police registered a case of cheating against the man who had recorded the tears of the old food seller and posted it on social media, inspiring many to donate cash to the couple. On October 31, Kanta Prasad, the octogenarian owner of Baba ka Dhaba, complained at the Malviya Nagar police station that he had been cheated by Gaurav Wasan, who had recorded a video in which the old man had wept about the losses he was facing since the outbreak of the pandemic. Atul Thakur, DCP (South) said on Friday, “Wasan posted the video on social media through his account, namely Swad Official, and requested the public to donate money to help the complainant. The complainant alleged that Wasan asked for money in his bank account and those of his family members and that he collected a huge amount of donation but cheated him.” Preliminary investigations show that around Rs 4 lakh had been donated. A moist-eyed Prasad, his lawyer, Prem Joshi, (pro bono) and manager addressed the media on Friday. Joshi said, “After people started trolling Wasan on social media for not giving money to the couple, he gave them a cheque of Rs 2.3 lakh on October 26. Wasan claimed that all payments had been cleared. But we later learnt from police that he transferred Rs 1 lakh and Rs 45,000 to Prasad’s account on October 27 and 28 without intimating the couple. We only want the cops to look at all transactions in the bank accounts of Wasan and his family members.” An emotional Prasad said, “For the first time in my 80 years, people are abusing me and calling me greedy. I only went to the police to demand a probe after Wasan stopped taking my calls and declined to share information on the donations collected in my name.” Denying allegations of fraud, Wasan told TOI, “I am deeply hurt because I went out of the way to help the couple. Things changed for them after my video went viral. But now people are defaming me without any proof. I gave the collected sum to Baba.” Asked about FIR, Wasan said, “I don’t want to say anything because my lawyers are looking into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cheating-fir-filed-as-dhaba-tale-goes-sour/articleshow/79089989.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: ‘My family...’ second round logs 3,888 cases in division||PUNE: As many as 3,888 Covid-19 cases have been identified in the Pune revenue division under the second round of the ‘My family my responsibility’ campaign, which commenced on October 14 and covered 2.08 crore people. Besides, the second phase also helped in identifying more than 1 lakh comorbid people across Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, and Solapur districts. According to Pune divisional commissioner report, among the identified set of comorbid people, swab samples of over 37,000 were collected and sent for testing. Among all those tested, as many as 3,888 came positive for Covid-19 and they were immediately put on treatment. State and district task force committee head Subhash Salunke said the district administration has been recommended sero survey of the Pune city as well as rural areas. Besides, a special survey should be held to identify potential superspreaders, such as people working in security establishments, transportation and labour, to keep track of the infection, he said. “We cannot afford any sort of complacency at the moment, considering the prevalence of the festive and the winter seasons,” he said. Of the total positive patients, as many as 1,260 were found in Sangli, followed by Solapur (864), Satara (840), Pune (582) and Kolhapur (342) districts. Earlier this week, Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune zilla parishad, had said they would be keeping a close watch on the migrants returning from their home towns for work in the Pune rural region. In the first round of the campaign, 2.42 crore people were surveyed from the Pune revenur division, in which 13.47 lakh people were found with comorbidities and 12,989 were found positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/my-family-2nd-round-logs-3888-cases-in-division/articleshow/79089954.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Backlog exams from December 3 for non-final year||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will conduct the backlog examination for pre-final year courses, first-year external students and those opting for class improvement programme from December 3 to 16. The backlog practical examinations for odd semester students in April that were cancelled due to Covid-19 have to be held online manner as instructed in the June circular by the university. The marks of this examination must be uploaded by the respective colleges on the university’s portal by November 30. Mahesh Kakade, director of examination and evaluation at SPPU, said, “These backlog, class improvement, external course exams and the performance improvement examinations for non-final year students would be held exclusively in an online manner from December 3 to 16 by the university during 10 am to 6 pm. The detailed schedule will be released shortly. Students can use their own gadgets such as smartphones and laptops for the examination. Those who do not have the means to access the question papers on their own can contact their own college or a nearby college in order to use the computer facility there.” Meanwhile, there were several complaints from students about the re-examination being conducted by the Pune university for final-year students. The re-examination was scheduled by SPPU from November 5 to 7 for those who faced technical issues in the examination held in October and had filled up a form uploaded by the university stating their grievance. Students also complained that helpline numbers were not working as they were constantly engaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/backlog-exams-from-dec-3-for-non-final-yr/articleshow/79089959.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 7, 2020||Vijayawada||State ties up with Amul in push to dairy economy||Amaravati: Beginning a new chapter in milk procurement sector in the state, dairy giant Amul is making an entry into the state on November 20. Backed with government support, Amul is expected to bring out of debt cooperative dairies in the state operating in the red and provide high returns to milk producers. The entry of Amul is also likely to break the monopoly of private dairies in different districts. Amul is launching procurement in Prakasam, Chittoor and Kadapa districts in the first phase and will extend its services to other districts in the next phase. The government recently signed an MoU with Amul to encourage milk cooperative societies, especially those run by women, and further develop the dairy sector in the state. Speaking to the media here on Friday, animal husbandry and dairy development minister Seediri Appala Raju said nearly 5.6 lakh women, who were provided with financial assistance under the YSR Cheyutha scheme, had come forward to set up mini-dairies in their villages. He said the government has already supplied the women with cattle and buffaloes to manage the dairies. Around 22 lakh litres of milk is expected to be produced by the new mini-dairies, the minister said, and assured that chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy would disburse cheques to the women on November 25. Appala Raju said the government will spend Rs 1,362 crore on infrastructure development by setting up bulk milk chilling units (BMCUs) and milk collection centres in Rythu Bharosa Kendras. “The project will be implemented in a phased manner and in the first phase about 7,121 milk collection centres and 2774 BMCUs will be set up,” said Appala Raju.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-ties-up-with-amul-in-push-to-dairy-economy/articleshow/79087438.cms||Samdani MN
November 7, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune metropolitan region recoveries exceed infections, 26 more dead||PUNE: As many as 658 Covid-19 patients recovered in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, taking its discharge count above 3.07 lakh. In comparison, 598 people tested positive for the virus in the region in the last 24 hours, pushing its tally above 3.27 lakh. More recoveries than new cases were recorded in the PMC limits and the rural parts, while the PCMC limits added more new infections (160) as against discharges (139). So far, the PMC areas have recorded 1.53 lakh recoveries, followed by the PCMC limits (85,213) and the rural as well as cantonment areas (69,604). A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 26 more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours. These included 12 from the PMC limits, 10 from the rural areas and four from the PCMC limits. The region’s death tally reached 8,042 on Friday evening. With higher recoveries, the region’s total active cases further dropped to 11,291 on Friday, including 4,872 patients in hospitals and 6,419 in home isolation. PMC health officials said they had temporarily shut down some Covid care centres in the city due to drop in cases. Health authorities conducted 6,595 tests in PMR on Friday. So far, more than 7.50 lakh tests have been conducted in the PMC limits, followed by over 4.15 lakh test in the PCMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-recoveries-exceed-infections-26-more-dead/articleshow/79089944.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: PCMC to buy 4,000 rapid antigen test kits||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) plans to source 4,000 rapid antigen test kits for Covid-19 testing. The kits, civic body officials said, will prove helpful if there is a spike in the number of cases over the coming days. A rapid antigen test kit can test 25 samples. The civic body will spend Rs5.04 crore to purchase the test kits and the proposal has been submitted to the standing committee. PCMC civic chief Shravan Hardikar told TOI, that the civic body had ordered rapid antigen test kits earlier too but more kits are needed since they have exhausted the stock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-to-buy-4k-rapid-antigen-test-kits/articleshow/79089949.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath: Uttar Pradesh farmers should not be harassed for stubble burning||LUCKNOW: UP government has decided to undertake a major awareness campaign to convince farmers against burning crop residue. The decision has been taken in light of CM Yogi Adityanath’s orders that no farmer in the state should be harassed in the name of stubble burning prevention. National Green Tribunal has made stubble burning a punishable offence, as farm fires across states like Punjab, Haryana and UP lead to a massive spike in air pollution levels during winter when the fall in temperatures results in high concentration of pollutants. High pollution levels are also being help responsible in part for the rise in Covid-19 cases in places like Delhi. “The CM said under no circumstances will any or harassment of farmers be tolerated and therefore, officials should sensitise farmers against the ill-effects of crop burning on environment, on their health and the condition of soil. They should give them alternatives for burning,” an official said. ‘Farmers made crop residue profitable’ A government spokesperson said the government is giving subsidy to farmers for equipment that can help in reducing crop residue in farms. In many places, he said, farmers have made crop residue profitable for themselves. “They will also be told that along with crop residue, by setting their fields on fire they also destroy nitrogen, phosphorous and potash which are crucial for the health of the soil, and good bacteria,” he said. In October, chief secretary RK Tiwari had directed district magistrates and commissioners to ensure that arrangements are made to compost the stubble immediately after harvesting. In addition to this, arrangements should also be made to transport the residue to cow protection centres where it can be used as fodder. Warning of action against officials if crop burning was found in their areas, Tiwari had said that posters, banners and loudspeakers should be used in all villages to create awareness about this issue and that gram pradhans would be held responsible if stubble burning was found in their areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-up-farmers-should-not-be-harassed-for-stubble-burning/articleshow/79091109.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 7, 2020||Pune||ICMR says second virus wave likely if rules are ignored||PUNE: Senior epidemiologists from the Indian Council of Medical Research have warned that states should not disregard the threat from a possible Covid second wave and must focus on strengthening individual protection. The experts said with several regions unlocking and increase in inter-state movement, chances of spikes are now high if citizens ignore precautions. “States cannot, and should not, take it easy. Delhi is seeing its third wave. States such Maharashtra should be on the alert,” said chief scientist and senior epidemiologist Dr Samiran Panda. Dr Panda said regions that may have allowed relaxations without ensuring individual protection are bound to see a rise in cases. “Covid infection waves can be state-specific, considering the precautionary measures that are in place to prevent rise in cases,” he said. Giridhara Babu, of Public Health Foundation of India, said pockets with susceptible people will see outbreaks. Population movement and effective testing are important determinants of detecting outbreaks, he said. A C Mishra, a former director of the National Institute of Virology, said the virus is unique and its biology is yet to be completely understood. Mishra was at the helm during the SARS and swine flu outbreaks. ‘This is more severe than SARS and swine flu. The only way forward is to keep our public health infrastructure — including care facilities for serious cases — in place as we have to learn to live with it,” he said. With unlocks on, Mishra said contact tracing or door-to-door surveillance would be practically impossible to keep up due to high inter-state movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmr-says-second-virus-wave-likely-if-rules-are-ignored/articleshow/79089980.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: At 13.8°C, Shivajinagar almost as cold as cities in north India||PUNE: The city was “almost” as cold as some places in north India, as its minimum temperature plunged to 13.8°C on Friday — the coolest morning so far this season. The city’s maximum temperature was also almost on a par with that in cities like Delhi, Patiala and Chandigarh, hovering around 30°C. The minimum temperature in these north Indian cities was in the range of 10-11°C. Pune’s minimum temperature was, thus, around two degrees higher than those places. The maximum temperature in Shivajinagar on Friday was 30.9°C, while the minimum temperature on Friday early morning was 13.8°C. In Delhi, the day temperature was also 30.9°C on Friday, while its minimum temperature was 11.2°C. In Chandigarh, the maximum temperature was 30°C on Friday. The minimum temperature there was 11.2°C. The day temperature of Patiala on Friday was 31.8°C, higher than Pune. Its minimum temperature was 11.1°C. Shivajinagar was also the coolest spot in Pune, compared to Pashan and Lohegaon, where the minimum temperature was 14.5°C and 15°C, respectively. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “A western disturbance passed recently. It caused a drop in the night temperature in parts of the country and parts of Maharashtra, including Pune. There have also been instances of snowfall in the Himalayan region. Cold northerly and north-easterly winds are currently blowing into parts of Maharashtra, especially Vidarbha and north Maharashtra. The minimum temperature has dropped below normal significantly in Vidarbha, with negative minimum temperature departures ranging from 3-5 degrees. Most places in Maharashtra, including coastal cities, are recording below-normal night temperature currently.” He said the night temperature was likely to be in the same range in parts of the state at least for the next couple of days. Pune would record minimums in the range of 13-15°C, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-13-8c-shivajinagar-almost-as-cold-as-cities-in-north-india/articleshow/79090001.cms||Neha Madaan
November 7, 2020||Pune||Central team to Pune: Don’t dismantle facilities in haste||PUNE: A team that was appointed by the Centre to review Pune’s response to Covid-19 has asked the district and city authorities not to quickly dismantle pandemic facilities even if they are vacant. The experts said their advisory had taken into account possible spikes during the colder months of December, January and February. All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) professor, Dr Arvind Kushwaha, who is part of the central team, said, “Another recommendation was flu vaccination drives among hospital staff and elderly citizens above 65 because drops in temperature mark the start of flu season. This is when a lot of people are prone to viral illnesses, flu-like symptoms and fever. So the flu vaccine has to be prioritized as it will protect people from influenza, which though treatable and preventable, can be dangerous and fatal.” On keeping Covid facilities operational, Dr Kushwaha said, “Most of these facilities are currently vacant, so authorities should not be under pressure to dismantle them in a hurry. It’s fine if some private hospital beds are reconverted into non-Covid units. A bulk of Covid beds are actually in jumbo units and state-run hospitals across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. It’s these beds that have to stay on as Covid beds. And in any case, we don’t expect cases during a second surge to be high enough to exhaust these beds.” The senior doctor added that manpower hired by the civic bodies to tackle Covid could continue on contractual basis until threat from the pandemic fades. The PMC’s health chief, Ashish Bharati, said, “All facilities in government hospitals such as beds, oxygen pipelines and cylinders are being kept as they are. It’s only manpower that is being diverted. This manpower can be brought back to Covid duty if there’s a surge. All new Covid patients are being admitted to the CoEP and Baner jumbo units.” Bharati said if cases spike, the two jumbo units of the PMC have enough beds. “For example, the CoEP jumbo facility — with a capacity of 600 beds — now has a vacancy of more than 50%. Some 200 beds can be immediately added to this number within an hour or two if there’s an emergency,” he said. Bharati added that beds in state-run hospitals, which have stopped admitting new Covid-19 patients, can be redirected to serve pandemic patients within two to three hours, if there are spikes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/central-team-to-pune-dont-dismantle-facilities-in-haste/articleshow/79090003.cms||Neha Madaan
November 7, 2020||Hubballi||‘Stringent punishment will deter those abusing women’||CHITRADURGA: Karnataka State Women’s Commission chairperson R Prameela Naidu said, “It is possible to deter harassment being meted out to women and children by enforcing stringent punishment on the culprits,” said Karnataka State Women’s Commission chairperson R Prameela Naidu. She was speaking after inaugurating a two-day workshop on the role of police and other officials in implementing legal proceedings to protect women’s and children’s rights at the ZP conference hall, here on Friday. She stressed the need for fear to be created in the minds of those committing atrocities against women and children. ‘Separate Covid care centres needed for women’ Following the incidents of sexual harassment against women Covid patients in certain places, there is a need of separate Covid care wards for women, with necessary security arrangements being put in place, Prameela said, and added that she had already spoken with the health department on the issue. 349 child marriage cases recorded by NGO Prameela Naidu expressed her concern over 349 child marriage cases that were recorded this year by Santwana, a Chitradurga-based NGO, apart from more than 10 rape cases. Chitradurga superintendent of police G Radhika said that there is a need to create more awareness about the banning of child marriage, and that those involved in it must need to face the consequences. She added that more child marriages are happening in Molakalmuru and Challakere, the most backward and drought-hit taluks of Chitradurga district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/stringent-punishment-will-deter-those-abusing-women/articleshow/79088498.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Pune||Blaze in cellphone shop; 500 evacuated from building||PUNE: Around 500 occupants of a four-stroied building in Budhwar Peth were evacuated on Thursday night after a fire broke out in a cellphone shop on the second floor. The building houses a large number of electronics shops on the first and the second floor, while there are around 100 residential flats on the third and the fourth floor. The occupants of the building alerted the central fire brigade control room after dense black fumes started emanating from the shop. Kasba Peth sub-fire station officer Sunil Naiknavare said on Friday, “A short circuit in shop number 25 on the second floor triggered the fire around 10.50pm. The blaze started spreading and damaging electronic gadgets. Phone batteries started bursting in the intensity of the heat caused by the fire.” Naiknavare said, “We rushed to the spot with a fire tender and water tanker, and appealed to Samarth Plaza residents to evacuate the premises. The occupants responded to our appeal and rushed to the parking area.” The officer said, “We broke locks of the first floor gate for getting access to the second floor. The shop owner came to the spot after getting information about the incident and opened the shutter locks. We started the firefighting operation and doused off the flames in 15 minutes. We sprayed water for around 90 minutes on neighbouring properties to prevent the fire from spreading.” Another fire officer, Anil Karde, said, “The building has large number of shops but its occupants have not taken security measures like installing fire extinguishers and sand buckets on its premises. We requested the building authorities to take appropriate safety measures. They responded positively to our appeal.” A resident of the building said, “I woke up after my family members complained of breathing problems as fumes entered our flat. As a preventive measure, we rushed downstairs. We returned to the flat after the fire was extinguished.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/blaze-in-cellphone-shop-500-evacuated-from-building/articleshow/79090006.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctors must report all patients with SARI, ILI now||PUNE: Nearly 15,000 private medical practitioners and fever clinics in the city have now been told to report all severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illnesses (ILI) cases to the local administration. These individuals will then be tested for Covid-19. The advisory is part of surveillance guidelines prepared by the state Covid task force that met on Thursday to discuss strategies for the winter. Local administrations, especially in Pune, Mumbai, Thane and Nagpur, have been told to make Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and Influenza-Like Illnesses notifiable, to improve detection of Covid-19 cases. Pune district task force head Dr Subhash Salunke said, “Both conditions, besides being associated with Covid, can also be symptoms of other diseases such as swine flu and seasonal flu. Mandatory SARI and ILI notifications will help us set up a long-term mechanism that will pick up hidden transmissions. This will be a better system than house-to-house surveys.” He said plans for the new system will be finalised by Monday. When implemented, doctors across Pune will be able to report to a single desk. “Focus will be on SARI and ILI cases ahead of the winter,” a local health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-must-report-all-patients-with-sari-ili-now/articleshow/79089999.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 7, 2020||Nashik||Civil hospital shuts down separate isolation ward||NASHIK: As the number of Covid-19 cases being reported across the district is dropping, the administration of the Nashik civil hospital has closed down the separate isolation facility that was created at the onset of the pandemic. The 20-bed isolation facility was set up in a separate building where suspected cases were admitted till their swab sample reports arrived. After the reports came in and the patients tested positive, they were then shifted to the District Covid Hospital (DCH) on the premises of the civil hospital. Civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said that the isolation ward has been shut down and sanitized. If any suspected patient has to be kept in isolation, the first floor of the Covid hospital has been allotted for the same. “This will help in proper utilization of the covid staff as well. In case there is rise in the flow of patients, the isolation ward would be re-opened,” she added. On Friday morning, there were only 48 patients admitted to the Covid hospital. An official from the civil hospital said the occupancy in the 110-bed Covid hospital is consistently dropping. “There was a time when the civil hospital had to arrange additional beds to accommodate the rising number of patients. But things have changed for good now,” he said. “There is now better planning and co-ordination between the Covid hospital at Nashik civil hospital and the dedicated covid health centres (DCHCs) at the taluka level. With availability of oxygen at all DCHCs, patients with moderate symptoms are getting good treatment at the DCHC level itself due to which the flow of patients has reduced at the covid hospital,” Raokhande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civil-hosp-shuts-down-separate-isolation-ward/articleshow/79090005.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 7, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: CM’s decision to ban crackers a blow for dealers||HUBBALLI: The decision of chief minister B S Yediyurappa to ban crackers during Diwali, in order to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, has proved to be a death blow for dealers and sellers of firecrackers in Hubballi and other parts of North Karnataka, who were making arrangements to sell crackers. Many dealers condemned the decision, and said that the CM should have taken a decision to ban crackers at least six months back, instead of at the last minute, when the Diwali festival is round the corner. Vimal Talikoti, secretary, Hubballi-Dharwad Fire Dealers Association, told TOI that the sudden decision of the CM to ban the bursting of crackers has made them face uncertainty, and they expect to incur a huge loss due to the decision. “I have already purchased a huge quantity of crackers from Shivakasi worth over Rs15 lakh, to sell, by taking a loan. Now, I don’t know how to deal with this situation and clear my loan,” he said. Deepak Akalwadi, who is into the firecrackers business since many years in Dharwad, said, “Each dealer has already paid Rs 17,000 to Rs18,000 to the HDMC to allow them to sell firecrackers in Kalabhavan, and they also paid Rs 5,000 to the fire department to get an NOC. “Most of us are entirely dependent on this business for our livelihood. As Covid cases were at their peak during the Ganesh festival, we remained silent when the government banned the sale of crackers. However, now that Covid cases are declining and the situation is almost normal, the government should allow us to sell crackers,” he added. The government had issued a notification on October 14, permitting the sale of crackers by implementing certain guidelines. We were elated due to this, and completed all the formalities to do business during Diwali, but now the CM says that the sale of crackers will be banned during Diwali. “It is a big blow for us,” he said. Prashanth Hebasur, who is also a dealer of firecrackers,said, “As we suffered a huge loss during the Ganesha festival, we were planning to make a profit during Diwali to settle our loan. However, this decision has put us in trouble,” he said. There are more than 500 sellers and dealers of firecrackers in North Karnataka, and each of the smaller ones had invested a minimum of Rs 7- Rs 8 lakh, and big dealers invested Rs 40-Rs 50 lakh by placing bulk orders to buy crackers from factories. Once we placed an order by making a payment, those orders will not be cancelled by the factories in Shivakashi, so we are staring at a huge loss due to this ban. The government should allow us to sell crackers at least for a limited period of time during Diwali, said dealers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cms-decision-to-ban-crackers-a-blow-for-dealers/articleshow/79088250.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
November 7, 2020||Thane||Pune: Doctors must report all patients with SARI, ILI now||PUNE: Nearly 15,000 private medical practitioners and fever clinics in the city have now been told to report all severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illnesses (ILI) cases to the local administration. These individuals will then be tested for Covid-19. The advisory is part of surveillance guidelines prepared by the state Covid task force that met on Thursday to discuss strategies for the winter. Local administrations, especially in Pune, Mumbai, Thane and Nagpur, have been told to make Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and Influenza-Like Illnesses notifiable, to improve detection of Covid-19 cases. Pune district task force head Dr Subhash Salunke said, “Both conditions, besides being associated with Covid, can also be symptoms of other diseases such as swine flu and seasonal flu. Mandatory SARI and ILI notifications will help us set up a long-term mechanism that will pick up hidden transmissions. This will be a better system than house-to-house surveys.” He said plans for the new system will be finalised by Monday. When implemented, doctors across Pune will be able to report to a single desk. “Focus will be on SARI and ILI cases ahead of the winter,” a local health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/doctors-must-report-all-patients-with-sari-ili-now/articleshow/79095795.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 7, 2020||Mysuru||Officials raid quarry units at Baby Betta||MANDYA: Officials of the department of geology and mining raided illegal quarry units at Baby Betta and seized vehicles used for mining activities. The team led by TV Pushpa, district senior geologist, raided mines that belonged to Muruga, Eswhara and Puttaraju. The team seized an earthmover, compressor, truck and other mining equipment. Police officers provided protection to the team to carry out the raids. Mining is completely banned in and around Baby Betta since it poses threat to the stability of the KRS reservoir. Based on the scientific report of Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, the district administration imposed ban on all mining activities in the area. Recently, deputy commissioner MV Venkatesh stated that the district administration will seek assistance from Karnataka Sate Remote Sensing Applications Centre (KSRSAC) for mapping Babybetta area to provide 2D and 3D photos on weekly basis, so that any change in landscape due to illegal mining can be easily detected. However, this idea is yet to be implemented. Meanwhile, villagers in the region have urged the authorities to take strict action against those involved in mining and take steps to stop mining activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/officials-raid-quarry-units-at-baby-betta/articleshow/79088984.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Pune||Two held for abducting car seller||Pune: The Market Yard police on Friday arrested two men and rescued a car seller from Sangli, a day after he was abducted over a money dispute. Police said three men had abducted Ravikant More (45) of Shivdarshan from Market Yard around 12.30pm. More’s wife Bhagyashree (42) registered an FIR with the police. Sub-inspector Amol Kadam from the Market Yard police said, “A dispute arose between More and the suspects over the issue of not clearing their dues after selling the car of a prospective customer. The arrested include Shrikant Kumbhar (25) and Basappa Kumbhar (55) from Sangli.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-held-for-abducting-car-seller/articleshow/79090011.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Flyover work on fast track, locals seek lane to curb chaos||PUNE: Residents from the Sus-Pashan Link Road area sought a separate lane with provision for U-turn for local vehicles, a pedestrian facility to cross the road, besides ducts to lay water pipeline and storm water channels in a joint meeting with corporators and officials on the construction of flyovers over the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. Local corporator Jyoti Kalamkar said, “Residents suggested a U-turn and a separate lane for local vehicles to avoid chaos, and adequate arrangements to avoid waterlogging. We have urged officials to consider all the demands,” Kalamkar said. Activist Ganesh Kalamkar said, “The civic authorities assured in the meeting of all stakeholders on Thursday evening that most demands of the residents would be met with. We visited the work site to see how the issues could be addressed.” Two parallel flyovers are coming up at the junction where the Sus-Pashan Link Road crosses the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. The PMC has allotted Rs45 crore for the project and the deadline for completion is August 2021. Another local corporator, Baburao Chandere, said project was proposed a few years ago and funds were allotted during his tenure as the chairman of PMC’s standing committee. Over 40% civil work of the project has been completed. The civic administration is planning to complete the remaining work in a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyover-work-on-fast-track-locals-seek-lane-to-curb-chaos/articleshow/79090008.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 7, 2020||Nashik||Dy labour commissioner warns of legal action against shopkeepers||Nashik: Deputy labour commissioner of Nashik division G Dabahde has directed all the shopkeepers in the city to follow the Covid-related safety guidelines and not to allow more than five customers at a time on their premises. The shopkeepers have also been instructed to display a banner or board at the entrance saying: No mask, No entry. The customers should also be adviced to keep a minimum distance of six feet among themselves when inside the shop. The deputy labour commissioner has issued a circular in this regard after the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) decided to start the No Mask, No Entry drive in markets across the city during Diwali. Civic chief Kailas Jadhav has already made wearing of masks mandatory in market places across the city in order to curb the spread of the virus. Moreover, the state government has also projected a second wave of Covid-19 during winter in November and December. Hence, the civic body is ensuring that the citizens and shopkeepers follow the guidelines. Dabhade has also warned of legal action against the shopkeepers who are found flouting the norms. Moreover, shopkeepers will have to use hand wash, sanitizer, masks and hand-gloves while selling goods to the customers. An official from the office of the deputy labour commissioner said they will conduct surprise checks in major markets during Diwali to ensure that shopkeepers are not selling goods to the customers who are not wearing masks. “We will also check whether the social distancing are maintained and only five customers are allowed inside the shop at one time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dy-labour-commissioner-warns-of-legal-action-against-shopkeepers/articleshow/79090013.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Pandharpur admin imposes curfew||Kolhapur: Normal life in the holy town of Pandharpur has been partially affected owing to the curfew imposed by the district administration ahead of a march organized by Maratha organizations. Solapur district collector Milind Shambarkar imposed the curfew on Thursday night and it will remain in force till Saturday midnight. Earlier, Maratha organizations had announced a long march from Pandharpur to Mantralaya in Mumbai from Saturday. The curfew has been announced as large number of Covid-19 patients have been reported across Pandharpur and the large gathering that is expected for the march. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has also stopped its bus services following the curfew order. Heavy police force has been deployed at all entry points of Pandharpur to stop entry of outsiders. All roads leading to the temple have been blocked as participants of the long march have announced that they would proceed to Mantralaya after paying obeisance at the Lord Vitthal temple in Pandharpur. Meanwhile, the administration has warned of stringent legal action against anybody found violating the orders. Dhananjay Sakhalkar, coordinator of Maratha Kranti Thok Morcha, said lot of activists from various parts of state will be coming to Pandharpur to join the march. He also alleged that the government deliberately kept Maratha reservation issue unresolved like Kashmir problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pandharpur-admin-imposes-curfew/articleshow/79090019.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Masked men cut open ATM, steal Rs 22 lakh||PUNE: Four masked men cut open the dispensing unit of a private bank ATM in Pimple Jagtap and made away with Rs22 lakh in the early hours of Thursday. The CCTV camera footage from a nearby restaurant showed that the suspects reached the ATM kiosk around 4am in a white car. The bank’s manager lodged an FIR with the Shikrapur police after the theft came to light in the morning. An officer from the Shikrapur police said the suspects had blackened the CCTV cameras inside the ATM kiosk with a spray. They then cut open the cash dispensing unit with a gas cutter and stole Rs22 lakh. The Shikrapur police have formed teams to trace the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-masked-men-cut-open-atm-steal-rs-22-lakh/articleshow/79090015.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Garbage stabilization to start soon||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) intends to restart the garbage stabilization process at Uruli-Phursungi depot. The process had been halted for two months. The civic body will seek permission from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) in this context. The biomining of 400 tonne garbage was stopped following opposition by local residents as the garbage stabilization process was not carried out. The process is mandatory before garbage disposal. PMC officials said they have sought MPCB’s permission to utilize space at the depot. The garbage will have to be stored there for at least 45 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/garbage-stabilization-to-start-soon/articleshow/79090017.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
November 7, 2020||Pune||Teen detained on sodomy charge||PUNE: The police on Friday detained a 13-year-old boy on the charge of sodomizing two boys in the age group of 7-8 years on the pretext of playing with them at Ramnagar on November 4. The detained boy is a Std IX student, while the two victims are primary school students, the police said. Senior inspector Macchindra Pandit from the Warje Malwadi police station said, “We have detained the boy following a complaint filed by one of the boy’s mother under relevant sections of the IPC and POCSO Act.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teen-detained-on-sodomy-charge/articleshow/79090009.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Plastic ban drive to resume||Kolhapur: The drive to ban plastic, which was initiated by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) last year, will be resumed soon, the administration authorities have said. The KMC had passed a resolution to ban plastic irrespective of its size. The administration had set target to make the city plastic free by March this year; however, the plan was halted owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Civic chief Kadambari Balkawade has, however, decided to resume the drive and has appointed teams of the officials and staff to carry out surprise visits to market places and commercial establishments and seize plastic bags. She has also asked officials to fine vendors who are found using plastic bags. The move comes in view of several complaints made by activists over the last few days stating that traders have been excessively using plastic bags. Balkawade said, “The teams have been asked to seize the plastic and thermocol items from the shops. As per the plastic ban law, the traders will be fined Rs 5,000 for the first offence, Rs 10,000 for second offence and Rs 25,000 for the third offence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/plastic-ban-drive-to-resume/articleshow/79090023.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Three murder suspects in net after 175km chase||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Friday arrested three men from Sinnar in Nashik district on the charge of hacking a 27-year-old man to death over a year-old dispute at Indori village near Talegaon Dabhade on Wednesday night. Crime branch assistant inspector Ram Gomare and his team chased Devendra Jadhav (23), Mayur Shinde (21) and Shubham Bharkar (21) for about 175km till Sinnar before nabbing them. The officer said, “The three men were on the run since the murder of Gurudas Telang. They admitted to the crime.” Telang was returning home on his motorcycle around 10pm on Wednesday when the three men stopped and assaulted him with sharp weapons, Gomare said. A badly injured Telang was taken to a nearby hospital where the doctors pronounced him dead. Telang’s brother had suspected the involvement of the victim’s three friends in the murder.” Gomare said, “Cellphone data and tower location showed that the three men were heading towards Nashik. We arrested them from Sinnar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-murder-suspects-in-net-after-175km-chase/articleshow/79090016.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fifteen stolen bicycles seized from 3 minors||PUNE: The Nigdi police on Thursday recovered 15 stolen bicycles worth Rs1 lakh from three minors, detained following a tip-off recently. “The trio, aged around 14 years, would steal bicycles for joyrides,” assistant inspector Laxman Sonawane said. During questioning, the duo admitted that they had stolen the bicycle from Pradhikaran with their accomplice’s help. “We detained the third minor too. The trio had stolen bicycles from Nigdi, Sane Chowk and More Vasti areas. They had kept the bicycles in a Chikhali slum,” Sonawane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fifteen-stolen-bicycles-seized-from-3-minors/articleshow/79090018.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Hubballi||Five child labourers rescued in Ballari||BALLARI: A team of officials from National Child Labour Project Scheme, revenue, labour, education departments, district child protection unit, police and BDDS Child Line conducted a surprise raid on various shops and business establishments in Ballari on Friday and rescued five children working as labourers. The team raided shops on Dr Rajkumar Road, and searched mechanic shops, wood works shops, tinkering shops and hotels. Of the five rescued children, one child was handed over to the parents and the others were sent to a government boys rehabilitation centre. The shop owners who employed these children were served notices under Labour Act, said a release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/five-child-labourers-rescued-in-ballari/articleshow/79088675.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district adds 205 cases||Kolhapur: Satata district has reported 205 fresh Covid-19 patients and seven deaths due to the infection since Thursday late night, taking the total number of cases to 47,609. The death toll has now risen to 1,592. As many as 43,278 patients have recovered from the contagion while 2,739 patients are undergoing treatment. Satara tehsil reported 51 of the fresh cases, which includes 22 from Satara town. Karad tehsil reported 16 cases. Koregaon tehsil registered 38 new cases, Phaltan tehsil reported 11 cases, Khatav tehsil recorded 22 cases, one person tested positive in Mahabaleshwar tehsil, Jawli added 22 cases, nine people tested positive in Khandala tehsil and three cases were reported in Wai tehsil among others. Of the deceased, including six men, all were elderly. Satara tehsil recorded four deaths while one death each was reported in Khatav, Phaltan and Karad tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-adds-205-cases/articleshow/79090025.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Goa||Anti-coal protest: Goencho Ekvott flays govt for FIRs||MARGAO: Goencho Ekvott, an organisation leading the movement against coal and the Railways track doubling work, on Friday condemned the government for filing FIRs against executive members of Goencho Ekvott and Goyant Kollso Naka. Addressing reporters, the forum members said that the people’s movement will not be suppressed by the “intimidatory tactics.” “Far from it. If the government doesn't agree to the people's demands there will be over a lakh of people for protests in the future,” they warned. Orville Dourado Rodrigues, Royla Fernandes, Ella Mascarenhas, Creson Antao, Jose Cabral, and others were present for the press briefing. Demanding cancellation of the FIRs against the protestors, filed on what they called “frivolous charges”, Dourado charged the government with stifling the voice of the people. Antao said that the protestors won’t rest until all of their demands - scraping of the land acquisition process for track doubling work, excluding MPT from the Major Ports Authority Bill 2020, scrapping satellite port at Betul and the three linear projects through Goa. Cabral appealed to all NGOs, individuals, and political parties to join Goencho Ekvott in their fight against coal. Goencho Ekvott has been holding awareness campaigns across villages of South Goa to drum up support for the anti-coal agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anti-coal-protest-goencho-ekvott-flays-govt-for-firs/articleshow/79091140.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur rural adds 159 Covid cases||KOLHAPUR: Solapur rural reported 159 fresh Covid cases while 101 patients were discharged on Friday. Seven deaths were also reported.  Solapur rural has 31,951 patients, of whom, 948 have succumbed to Covid, 29,179 patients have recovered and 1,824 are undergoing treatment. Solapur city recorded 36 new cases and 32 patients were discharged. Not a single death was reported in the city. Of the total 9,759 patients, 542 patients succumbed to the infection, 8,781 patients have recovered and 436 are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-rural-adds-159-cases/articleshow/79090040.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19: Kolhapur district reports 35 cases & 3 deaths||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 35 fresh Covid-19 patients and three deaths due to the infection on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 48,408. The death toll has risen to 1,654. As many as 46,014 patients have recovered from the contagion. Kolhapur city reported 12 of the fresh cases on Friday. The total number of cases in the city has reached 14,672. Social distancing goes for a toss The market places in major towns and cities in Kolhapur district have been witnessing huge crowds in the evening. The people are not maintaing social distancing though most of them are wearing masks. Kolhapur civic chief Kadambari Balkawade has asked the staff to intensify the drive of slapping fines for not wearing masks. The traders’ association has assured that additional staff will be given the task to ensure social distancing and follow ‘no mask, no goods’ rule outside the shops. Sangli adds 68 cases Sangli district reported 68 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, which is the lowest number of cases recorded in a single day. Two deaths were also reported. The number of active cases has dropped to 1,067 after 232 patients were discharged. The total number of patients has reached 45,639, of whom 1,660 have succumbed to Covid and 42,912 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-reports-35-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/79090058.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Independents queer pitch for Congress, BJP in civic polls||JAIPUR: Independent candidates played a major spoilsport for the Congress and the BJP in the recently concluded municipal elections. Most of these independents were aware of their loss, but they contested the election to take up the vote share of strong candidates. Khem Chandra Sharma, who contested on BJP ticket from Ward number 121 of Jaipur Greater and lost, put the blame on independent candidates for his defeat. “There were 11 independent candidates contested from my ward the highest in the city. Around 7,000 people voted and more than 4,000 votes were garnered by independents. These contenders were made to contest by rival party to reduce my vote share and I lost,” said Sharma. Similarly, Mahendra Sharma from Ward 102 in JMC Greater won election by just three votes blamed nine independents in his wards. “There were nine independents in my wards and many of whom got 500, 450 or 200 votes. I could have done better without this,” said Sharma. Although independents contest in every election, but in municipal elections with only 3,000 to 10,000 voters in every ward, 100 vote cuts can be disastrous for any party. Ashok Parnami, former BJP MLA from Adarsh Nagar constituency, said that after delimitation, independents now have a great impact in municipal elections. “Earlier with 30,000 voters in a ward independents didn’t have much role to play unless he was a mass leader but now any one getting 2,000 votes is a winner. It is easier to get 500 votes in small wards which may impact any candidate’s fate,” said Parnami. Pushpendra Bhardhwaj, looking after the Congress in Sanganer constituency, said that many of his candidates lost due to independents. “Rival party supports people to contest independent to lower our chances to victory. Many of our candidates lost by 40 to 100 votes. In smaller wards, every vote matters,” said Bhardhwaj. Archana Sharma, Congress spokesperson, however, said that many of these independents are deserving candidates who were not given tickets by their party due to internal politics. “Due to internal politics, many of deserving candidates were not given tickets although they are known in the area. Hence, they contest independent. But most of them just contest elections for any grudges or to lower the vote margin,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/independents-queer-pitch-for-cong-bjp-in-civic-polls/articleshow/79090080.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur bribe case: ACB seizes Rs 48 lakh from house of accused||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) seized approximately Rs 48 lakh from the house of the accused who was arrested on Thursday. The accused had asked for a bribe of Rs 50,000 and is an official of ministry of road and transport. Officials will look into his bank accounts as well to find the disproportionate income. An executive engineer and a technical officer of Union ministry of road transport were arrested by ACB sleuths for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 50,000. A complainant had filed a complaint with ACB on October 4 and said both the officers were demanding bribe in lieu of releasing an NOC required for a petrol pump in Nokha town of Bikaner. A trap was laid in which Daan Singh, the executive engineer who graduated from IIT Mumbai, and Sitaram Verma, the technical assistant, were arrested for accepting the bribe. Cops searched Verma’s residence in Jaipur and recovered cash for which the accused had no explanation. “We found Rs 47.75 lakh from Verma’s house and it was hidden in a locker in the base of the almirah. No one keeps such a huge amount of cash at home and that too hidden in a manner that it cannot be found easily. We are trying to find if this money was acquired in form of bribes. We will check into his bank accounts as well,” said an official of ACB. Both the officials were on deputation with National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and were arrested from their Ajmer Road situated office, he added. The complainant was issued the NOC for the petrol pump. Apart from the cash, cops found three cars, one locker key as well as details and documents of several bank accounts in the accused’s four-storied house. They also found that he was getting construction done in a nearby plot as well. Officials will question the accused further to find others involved in corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bribe-case-acb-seizes-rs-48l-from-house-of-accused/articleshow/79090087.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR: Public transport, power plant norms key to panel’s success, say experts||NEW DELHI: Experts on Friday welcomed the appointment of members of the newly formed Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR by the Centre on Friday and said that the body needed to look into strengthening the pollution control boards and work on a number of key sectoral issues, including scaling up of public transport and implementing norms for power plants. Track the pollution level in your cityAnumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said, “Setting up of the commission shows the intent of the government to give the issue of pollution the attention it deserves. This is the right time and opportunity to dive deep and take action in several sectors.” “The priority areas include implementation of power plant standards and access to reliable electricity, affordable clean fuels, scaling up of public transport, municipal infrastructure for waste management and elimination of solid fuels in households and open eateries. This will have to be achieved on a regional scale, which will require a strong compliance framework,” Roy Chowdhury added. Karthik Ganesan, fellow at Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, “Delhi Pollution Control Committee and state pollution control boards need to be given a free hand to build scientific and human resource capacity to ensure compliance from large emitters. The commission must find a way of coordinating across multiple agencies responsible for acting against polluting activities, direct staff and provide necessary financial resources.” Environment minister Gopal Rai asked for stubble burning to be made a priority issue and consider using the bio-decomposer solution developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute in Delhi’s neighbouring states. “We welcome the expert commission set up by the central government under MM Kutty to monitor air pollution. Around 44% of Delhi’s pollution is due to stubble burning in the neighbouring states. The commission should approve the technique of converting stubble into manure. While this year’s farm fires have largely come to an end, this technique could be considered next year,” said Rai. Aarti Khosla, director at Climate Trends, said the appointments had come at the right time, but there should have been representation from the public health sector. “Air pollution levels are once again hazardous. At this juncture, not having representation from the public health sector or a doctor seems misdirected. If key ministries, like industry, transport and road, are not aligned in their action, what will this commission achieve in the fight for clean air?” asked Khosla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/public-transport-power-plant-norms-key-to-panels-success-say-experts/articleshow/79091142.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid centres with no patients to be shut: Civic chief||Kolhapur: Kolhapur civic chief Kadambari Balkawade said all the covid care centres in the city with no patients will be temporarily shut. Of the 12 Covid centres in the city, six have been already shut. Three centres do not have any Covid patient and the rest have very few patients undergoing treatment. They will likely be discharged in the next couple of day. There are very few critical patients in the city and most of the 150 active patients are home isolated. The number of Covid cases reported daily has dropped below 20 in the city. Since the last couple of weeks, the number of deaths has also remained zero or one. Balkawade said, “The oxygen supply set up and other machinery in the Covid centres will be kept intact while the centres will be closed. The machinery can be activated if needed. Though the number of cases has come down, the threat still exists. Therefore, it is wise for citizens to take precautions.” “We are, however, continuing with our efforts to trace and test the suspect patients of Covid, mainly those with pre-existing health conditions,” she added. There are 180 beds with oxygen in these Covid centres, of which only 15 are occupied. Of the 240 beds without oxygen, 26 are occupied. All the beds with ventilators are vacant as there are no critical patients in the centres The centres have doctors, nurses and other health staffers, who are now needed in the civic body’s non-Covid hospitals such as 11 urban health centres, family welfare centres and major hospitals The staff from the centres will now be recalled to their previous place of work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-centres-with-no-patients-to-be-shut-civic-chief/articleshow/79090076.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP finalises candidates for PS polls||JAIPUR: State BJP’s core committee has decided to contest panchayat samiti polls in 21 districts on the plank of the three legislations introduced in the agriculture sector by the Union government. The four-phase polling will take place from November 23. The committee members including three Union ministers — Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Kailash Choudhary, Arjun Ram Meghwal — and national general secretary V Satish concluded its two-day meeting on Friday. In the last two days, the core committee finalised the tickets for candidates contesting the panchayat samiti and municipal polls in 18 districts out of 21. The core committee will meet for some more hours to finalise the remaining districts on Saturday. The announcement of these candidates will be done by district party heads. “During the day, the core committee members held a series of meetings with district presidents of poll-bound districts. Candidates with RSS background have been given preference over others and the same formula has been followed which gave us spectacular victory in the recently concluded local body polls in Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur,” said a BJP leader. BJP state president Satish Poonia, while attending the meeting via video conferencing from a private hospital in Gurugram, said candidates in the panel will be given the tickets. “Priority is given to candidates who have shown resolve and commitment to work for the welfare of the people,” said Poonia. During the meeting, Poonia said the farmers’ community is angry on the state government for attempting to block the passage of the three agriculture reforms. BJP during its statewide campaign in favour of the agriculture reforms reached out to all the gram panchayats hoping that the reforms will help them in winning majority of the panchayat samitis. Meanwhile, Poonia has accused the Congress of winning the polls by following the policy of appeasement. In a series of tweets, he questioned the manner in which single corporations were divided into two corporations keeping its vote bank in mind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-finalises-candidates-for-panchayat-samiti-polls/articleshow/79090086.cms||---
November 7, 2020||---||Will Owaisi, Pappu Yadav play spoilers for RJD in Phase 3?||If there is one phase of the Bihar elections in which RJD will feel it has little to lose vis-a-vis five years ago and a lot to gain, it is the third and final phase that polls on Saturday. Covering districts with the highest concentration of Muslims in the state and parts in which the Yadavs are a sizeable presence, this is fertile territory for the party’s much-talked about ‘M-Y’ formula. In the last elections, the alliance with JD(U) and Congress meant RJD had to cede most seats to its allies. As a result, it ended up winning just 20 of the 78 seats, though the alliance won 54 seats, with JD(U) picking up 23 and Congress 11. RJD will hope it can improve on that tally this time round. What would worry the party though as much as the combined strength of BJP and JD(U) is the presence of two potential spoilers in these parts. One is Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) led by former RJD strongman Pappu Yadav who wields influence in the Purnea belt. The other is the alliance of Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM with BSP and RLSP. While each of these parties by itself may not be much of a factor in Bihar, could their combined strength do enough to damage the Mahagathbandhan’s prospects? Reports from the ground suggest the alliance is not gaining too much traction but even a few thousand votes can be enough to play spoiler. That is why RJD would hope that Congress will be able to carry its weight at least in this phase. More on Bihar pollsComplete coverageNitish MeterData HubThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again ...30 years of 25 CMs or 30 years of 3 CMs: Bihar keeps getting poorerWhile it may seem obvious that BJP would do worse in Muslim-dominated areas, which is not necessarily true. Even contesting against the combined might of RJD and JD(U) in 2015, the party managed to win four of the 25 seats here with significant Muslim presence, evidently because of a counter-consolidation of non-Muslim votes in its favour. Overall, the party won 20 seats in this part of the state last time. It would hope that the arithmetic advantage of having JD(U) as an ally this time will outweigh any negative effects of anti-incumbency that come with it. JD(U) too would hope that what it loses out among the Muslims because of its alliance with BJP would be more than offset by adding the saffron party’s votes to its own. That is, of course, provided that the transfer of votes is smooth. Watch Bihar elections phase 3: AIMIM hopes to replicate 2019 by-elections result||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/will-owaisi-pappu-yadav-play-spoilers-for-rjd-in-phase-3/articleshow/79092044.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Local market sheds Covid blues ahead of Diwali||Aurangabad: The local consumer market, automobile and real estate sector, among other business fields have been witnessing boom ahead of Diwali, say market players, highlighting that the lean phase due to Covid-19 is over. Notably, while the pandemic situation had offered a setback to the local economy post March, stakeholders are now saying that there is a separate Covid-driven demand of buyers in addition to regular buying and purchasing. City-based Ajay Shah, who is the state vice-president of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Friday said that there is huge movement of customers in the market currently first time since the outbreak of Covid-19. “Besides regular inquiries and demands, the Covid-19 has triggered the sale of many items such as washing-machines, dish-washers, irons that can reduce dependability of families on maids and other such workforce. The current encouraging customer flow in the market is set to reach peak next week before Diwali,” said Shah. The automobile showrooms said they have already overachieved the sale targets for Diwali. “The Covid 19 has triggered the demand for personal transport as many still do not find public transportation safe out of their experience with the pandemic,” said Ramdas Jadhav, general manager at Soham Motors Private Limited. Sachin Bhalerao, sales manager at Pagariya Auto Arena, said that the vehicle sale this year during Diwali has already surpassed the figures of last year. “There was waiting period for a few popular petrol-operated vehicles this Diwali. Those who could not buy their dream vehicle during Gudi Padwa earlier due to Covid are now grabbing on all discount and other attractive offers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/local-market-sheds-covid-blues-ahead-of-diwali/articleshow/79090098.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 4.3 lakh appear for constable exam, 11 proxy candidates held||JAIPUR: Over 5 lakh candidates appeared for the police constable recruitment examination which commenced on Friday across the state. In the three days that the examination will be held, over 17 lakh candidates will appear for it. Eleven proxy candidates were arrested from Jaipur’s Nahargarh and officials claimed that they have a list of other candidates who will be nabbed soon. Ajay Pal Lamba, ACP (crime), said, “During routine checking, we found the candidates who were travelling in a Delhi registered vehicle and were carrying books. Search of the vehicle revealed identity cards and on being questioned, they could not give satisfactory replies. In further investigation, we found that they were to appear for someone else in the examination.” The arrested persons hailed from Bihar and Delhi. Rajasthan’s Special Operation Group (SOG) also detained three persons from Bhiwadi’s Bansur out of which one was a dummy candidate while one was the original candidate and the third person the handler. Cops had received information about this gang and are questioning them to get details about the network. There is a likelihood that the accused were involved in paper leaks as well, claimed officials. Govind Gupta, ADG (recruitment) said, “All preparations were in place and on the first day of the examination, no untoward incidents were reported. We had 30 police personnel per 500 candidates and all safety measures were taken.” Keeping in mind the pandemic, the centres were sanitised and those candidates who showed any symptoms of the virus were made to give the examination in isolation. While trains and buses were plying in the state, in areas where the Gujjar agitation was being held, candidates were asked to plan their travel well in advance. “We received no calls from any candidate regarding lack of transportation and we had asked the candidates to plan their travel intelligently,” added the official. The examination is being held in 55 cities of Rajasthan in 518 centres. Officials also said that the candidates need to be doubly sure about their centres as they cannot appear for the examination if they reach the wrong centre. CCTV cameras were installed at all examination centres, though Internet will not be shut and jammers were placed to ensure that the candidates cannot use internet for cheating. It was also instructed that when the answersheets are being kept at the storage units, videography of the same will be done. In 2018, the examination was cancelled after the Special Operations Group (SOG) busted gangs involved in facilitating cheating in the examination by various modus operandi in which over two dozen persons were arrested. The gangs helped in cheating by taking the computer used in the examination on remote and also by thumbprint cloning. Box Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat took to Twitter and wrote: The government’s order for the candidates to use personal vehicles due to Gujjar agitation shows the state of disorganization and mismanagement. Either change the exam dates or make adequate travel arrangements. Why should people pay for government’s negligence?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-5l-appear-for-constable-exam-11-proxy-candidates-held/articleshow/79090110.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mysuru||Theatre plays a pivotal role in society, says Prakash Belawadi||MYSURU: Theatre artist and filmmaker Prakash Belawadi on Friday highlighted the pivotal role being played by theatre in the prevention of crimes, corruption and wars, and establishment of peace and tranquillity in the society. Speaking at Rangayana after launching Bharathiya Rangashikshan Kendra Theatre Training school academic activities for the year 2020-21, he said theatre and cinema provide entirely different experiences to the audience. “Theatre gives a lot of experiences — it educates, entertains, it informs and it also cultivates imagination. Additionally, audience give instant reactions in theatre unlike in cinema,” he said. He also advised the budding theatre artists and students to always be active in theatre activities even while eking out a living through cinema, tele-serial, advertisements and other sectors. Speaking on the occasion, Karnataka State Dr Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University in-charge vice- chancellor Nagesh Bettakote said, “This is India’s second varsity which is exclusively involved in promotion of performing arts. It has inked an MoU with Bharathiya Rangashikshan Kendra for theatre training activities and to provide a platform to budding talents by introducing this diploma course.” “As many as 200 students had applied for this one year diploma theatre training course this academic year. Of this, 20 have been selected from 60 shortlisted candidates for interviews. We hope to extend this course to two years from next year which will include a tour and experimental theatre classes,” said Rangayana director Addanda C Cariyappa. Rangayana joint director VN Mallikarjunaswamy and Rangashikshana Kendra head S Ramanath were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/theatre-plays-a-pivotal-role-in-society-says-prakash-belawadi/articleshow/79088800.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: New power tariff notified, bills likely to be higher in December||PANAJI: The fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) charges have been revised and consumers will have to pay 32.5 paise per unit if the consumption is more than 200 units per month. The state government on Friday notified the FPPCA charges on power bills that will be reflected in the December bills. The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) for the State of Goa and union territories had reviewed the existing FPPCA in May 2020. The computations of FPPCA for the 2nd quarter of the FY 2020-21 (July to September) to be levied for the energy consumption of October to December have been tabulated and notified. Sources said that the charges have been increased and the bills will be marginally higher. In the domestic category, for consumption of 101-200 units, the FPPCA charges will be 24 paise per unit while for 301-400 units it will be 39.6 paise and above 400 units consumers it will be 43.8 paise per unit For the commercial category, the charges will be 45.2 paise per unit if consumption is between 101-200 units, 52.2 paise for 201-400 units and above 400, 56.6 paise per unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-power-tariff-notified-bills-likely-to-be-higher-in-december/articleshow/79091143.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Kin claim pressure to withdraw case||CLEARED SKHER Aurangabad: The family of a building contractor, who was kidnapped on Wednesday, has claimed that they are under pressure to withdraw the complaint. Nadim Pathan, a 30-year-old building contractor, was shot in the thigh and kidnapped by three suspects on Wednesday morning from a construction site in Devanagari area falling under the limits of Satara area police station. He was later released on a highway. Pathan was taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital and is underwent a surgery. He is said to be out of danger. One of his family members claimed, “One of our acquaintances contacted us suggesting that we withdraw our complaint as the suspects have criminal background and may go to any extent.” The person added that they have already brought this development to the notice of the police. Those privy to the investigation said that while the suspects were fleeing with the kidnapped person, their car ran out of fuel and abandon the car. They left the contractor on the highway before fleeing from the spot. When contacted, senior inspector Surendra Malale said, “Not taking any chance about the safety of the victim and his family, we have deployed two men outside their house during day as well as at night. The suspects have criminal record and to avoid any act of pressurising complainant, we have deployed policemen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kin-claim-pressure-to-withdraw-case/articleshow/79090117.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 7, 2020||Business||Consumer products boost Bajaj Electricals Q2 net||Kolkata: Bajaj Electricals has posted a profit after tax of Rs 53 crore in the second quarter from Rs 33 crore loss in the corresponding quarter of the last financial year. For the second quarter of 2020-21, the company has achieved income from operations of Rs 1,218 crore against Rs 1,096 crre, an increase of 11.1% over the second quarter of the previous year. For the quarter, consumer products (CP) segment of the company has earned total revenue of Rs 792 crore against Rs 702 crore, a growth of 12.9% over the corresponding quarter of the previous year. EPC segment has achieved a total revenue of Rs 425 crore against Rs 394 crore. Shekhar Bajaj, CMD, Bajaj Electricals, said: “The consumer products business has shown signs of very strong recovery in this quarter and delivered our highest ever quarterly EBIT of Rs 85 crore. Our EPC segment has also recovered strongly in this quarter after being adversely affected due to hold up of project execution and billings.” However, he also pointed out that this performance is not maintainable because it has been achieved by drastically cutting some costs like promotional cost, travelling along with others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/consumer-products-boost-bajaj-electricals-q2-net/articleshow/79091672.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Demolition work of Palarivattom flyover likely to be over in 2 months||KOCHI: Demolition works of the Palarivattom flyover have been progressing at a fast pace. The Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) the contractor of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for the demolition and reconstruction of the flyover is hopeful that they would be able to complete the entire demolition process within two months. Though shortage of labour is a concern at the construction site since the outbreak of Covid-19, officials said that the work of the flyover was given high priority and they take every measure to ensure that works take place as per the schedule. “As this is a high priority project, we bring in labourers from other sites where we have undertaken work. Both guest and local labourers are being engaged at the site of Palarivattom flyover,” said an engineer with ULCCS. Speaking on the availability of labour force at various construction sites in the state he said that though there has been no significant reduction in the wages paid to labourers, expenses of contractors have gone up. “It is mainly because contractors have to bear the cost of transporting labourers from their native states, ensure quarantine facilities, conduct Covid tests and other expenses related to implementation of Covid-19 protocols,” he said. Regarding the Palarivattom flyover, ULCCS maintained that they have pulled down nine of the 17 spans. At the Muttom yard, 22 pre-cast girders are ready. They have completed cutting five pier caps and jacketing of four piers. Works are simultaneously being carried out at the yard and at the site at Palarivattom Junction. “We are doing everything that is needed to strengthen the structure. The girders are prestressed and the size of the pier cap has been increased,” he added. The state government aims to reconstruct the defunct flyover within eight months. The city police said that all measures are taken to avoid any traffic congestion due to the construction and demolition works. The works are being carried out day and night. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to open Vyttila and Kundanoor flyovers on NH-66 for traffic in December.It is pointed out that opening of Palarivattom flyover is equally significant for addressing the traffic blocks on NH-66 as well as to ease down traffic flow through Kochi city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/demolition-work-of-flyover-likely-to-be-over-in-2-months/articleshow/79087526.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||‘Of 739 budget announcements, 274 fulfilled’||JAIPUR: Chief secretary Niranjan Kumar Arya reviewed the progress of budget announcements through video conference on Friday. He said that immediately after the budget announcements, financial resources have come under pressure due to the corona pandemic, which has now started improving. Naveen Jain, secretary, planning department said that out of 739 budget announcements, 274 have been fulfiled and 228 are in progress. For 160 announcements, tasks have been initiated to fulfil them, he said. Arya appreciated the departmental officers for the budget announcements that have been carried out so far and directed to complete the remaining announcements in the next four-and-a-half months of this fiscal. He directed to update the progress of budget announcements on the CMIS portal and to speed up the works in coordination with other departments. He said the announcements in which the budget is not required from the finance department should be taken up immediately. Chief secretary directed to coordinate with Rajasthan Staff Selection Commission and Rajasthan Staff Selection Board for getting the recruitment of staff/ officers to the vacancies in the departments soon. He asked the rural development and panchayati raj department to start preparing the master plan of the villages. Principal secretary of finance department Akhil Arora said that the budget announcements on which work has not started yet and send the phase-wise action plan for budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/of-739-budget-announcements-274-fulfilled/articleshow/79090118.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jodhpur||BJP, Congress alert amid poaching fear in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: In spite of clear mandate for making boards in North and South municipal corporations in Jodhpur, both the Congress and the BJP respectively, are not willing to leave anything to chances. Apprehending horse-trading, both the sides have taken adequate precautions and have taken their candidates out of town to be taken back only on the day of voting for the mayors. BJP, however, had taken all its 160 candidates to Ambaji in Gujarat very next day of polling and according to the sources, they will be taken direct to the place of voting for mayors on November 10. According to the information, seeing the differences and infighting in the BJP, the Congress has intensified its efforts to break in and take advantage of their differences. Former JDA chairman Rajendra Solnki has claimed to have a Congress mayor in South also despite the BJP having a majority. This activeness of Congress and an Independent staking claim for mayor’s seat in South, the BJP has got into alert mode and taken the phones of all its candidates, who have won election, into custody so that they could not be contacted by any outsider. The party leaders present in Ambaji have been providing their phones to the councilors for the communication with their family members. On the other hand, the Congress also sent all 29 councillors from North to Jaisalmer on Friday afternoon by bus. Party leaders, however, claimed that they have been sent there for training. With more than one candidate staking their claim for the mayor's seat in both the parties, independents candidates have turned out to be very crucial for both the parties. Congress, however, appears to have taken lead over its rival in winning support of these independent candidates, which has cautioned the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bjp-cong-alert-amid-poaching-fear-in-jodhpur/articleshow/79090121.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Dehradun||State Foundation Day celebrations: CM Rawat to inaugurate hot air balloon festival in Mussoorie||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will inaugurate the day-long hot air balloon festival that will be organised by the Uttarakhand Tourism Development Development Board (UTDB) in collaboration with The Times Of India in Mussoorie on this Sunday (November 8). This free-for-all hot air balloon festival is a part of the celebration of the State Foundation Day (November 9). Tourism department officials have confirmed that the hot air balloon festival will be organised at George Everest Estate, Hathi Paon, in Mussoorie from 10 am to 5 pm on Sunday. Anyone can participate in the event. Also, people can win two free hot air balloon rides by participating in the contests that will be held on the occasion. “To participate in the contest, one will have to write a slogan on Uttarakhand from the point of view of a tourist or share one’s favourite memories related to travel destinations in the state. Participants can also share their memorable pictures clicked anywhere in Uttarakhand. A participant must post any of the above on social media, tag the Uttarakhand tourism department in the post, and send the screenshots at — respontimesofindia@gmail.com — to enter the contest and avail the free hot air balloon ride,” added the official. “Apart from the hot air balloon festival, the UTBD is also organising “Heal With Wheels” and “Majestic Uttarakhand” photo exhibitions as part of the celebration of foundation day,” said Dilip Jawalkar, secretary tourism. He added that the aim of these events is to promote adventure tourism in the state. Notably, the “Heal with Wheels” has been receiving overwhelming response from the participants with a total of 200 registrations recorded till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-foundation-day-celebrations-cm-rawat-to-inaugurate-hot-air-balloon-festival-in-mussoorie/articleshow/79087539.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Liquor permit hurdle to mediclaim removed||AHMEDABAD: A septuagenarian, Sureshchanra Shah, was denied mediclaim by his insurer because he was holding a liquor permit. A consumer court intervened to secure for Shah his expenses after his intestinal surgery, with the observation that there was no alcohol abuse reported and the insurance company cannot refuse reimbursement under the pretext of alcoholism and pre-existing diseases. The case is from Jamnagar town. Seventy-two-year old Shah had a Rs 5 lakh medical insurance cover from the Oriental Insurance Co Ltd since 2012. In May 2019, he underwent intestine surgery at a private hospital in Rajkot and incurred Rs 2.86 lakh expenditure. He claimed reimbursement from the insurer. In August 2019, the insurer rejected Shah’s claim stating that he had hid his hypertension and diabetes as well as his habit of drinking liquor and that he was holding a liquor permit since 2013. Shah dragged the insurer to the Jamnagar District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, where he argued that he had supplied all information the insurance company sought from him. Moreover, the insurance company was wrong in linking his health complication to liquor because there was no alcohol abuse reported in his case. Before the consumer court, the insurance company relied on the hospital’s discharge summary and asserted that Shah had the complication of hypertension for 20 years and diabetes for the last two years. It was his alcohol abuse that led to the health complications and his surgery. After hearing the case, the consumer court concluded that there was no evidence to establish alcohol abuse by Shah. There was also no link established to show that alcohol consumption led to the surgery. There was a deficiency in service on the part of the insurer in rejecting the mediclaim on this ground. The insurance company has been ordered to reimburse the medical bill along with 6% interest and pay Rs 3,000 extra to Shah as compensation for mental harassment and legal expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/liquor-permit-hurdle-to-mediclaim-removed/articleshow/79088848.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Make MSP must for 4 crops to revive Rajasthan's economy: Forum||JAIPUR: The Kisan Mahapanchayat has sought minimum support price (MSP) for four crops primarily grown in Rajasthan as a measure to benefit farmers and revive the state’s economy. In a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot — with a copy marked to PM Narendra Modi — the Mahapanchayat has urged the governments not to be obsessed with foreign investments and look for avenues to boost the economy through internal restructuring like infusing money in the agriculture sector. The Mahapanchayat reasons that more than 40% of the country’s bajra (millet), moong (green gram), jau (barley) and sarson (mustard) are produced in Rajasthan and if the state government makes MSP mandatory for these crops, farmers here would get over Rs 6,000 crore without the state losing its agriculture trade to others. “Rajasthan farmers are losing over Rs 4,000 crore as bajra is being sold for at least Rs 1,000 per quintal below the MSP. This is reducing their purchasing power and the state should be concerned about it and not worry just for foreign investments,” said Rampal Jat, national president of Kisan Mahapanchayat. “If the government makes MSP mandatory for the four crops, the traders will still buy from Rajasthan as other states produce bajra, moong, jau and sarson enough only for own consumption,” he added. The Mahapanchayat said Rajasthan produced country’s 48.2% moong, 47% jau, 44.3% sarson and 43.9% bajra. “Rajasthan leads in production of other crops, too, for which MSP is not declared. It produces country’s 83.61% guar (cluster bean), 85% moth (dew bean), 80% mehandi (henna), 66% dhaniya (coriander), 87% methi (fenugreek), 50% jeera (cumin), 40% saunf (fennel or anise) and 40% isabgol (psyllium husk). If MSP is declared for these crops as is done in Kerala, the state’s farmers will benefit and the economy will grow strong,” said Jat. The Mahapanchayat has reiterated that the state government should amend the Rajasthan Agriculture Produce Market Committee Act, 1961, and its Rules of 1963 to guarantee MSP for the four crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/make-msp-must-for-four-crops-to-revive-economy-kisan-mahapanchayat/articleshow/79090126.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's air quality remains ‘severe’ for second consecutive day||NEW DELHI: The capital’s air quality remained in ‘severe’ category for second consecutive day on Friday, with a reading of 406 recorded on the index, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. Track the pollution level in your cityThough the Air Quality Index (AQI) of the capital was in the higher end of ‘very poor’ category till Friday morning and below the 400-mark, it was back to ‘severe’ range by afternoon. High farm fires count, low wind speed and temperature caused deterioration of the air quality. This was the second severe air quality day of this winter season. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, UP, Uttarakhand and neighboring areas stood at 3,225 for Thursday. SAFAR said the share of stubble burning to Delhi’s air was 21% on Friday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The pollutants have accumulated in the last two days and due to unfavourable meteorological factors, their dispersion is taking place at a very slow rate.” Met officials said the average wind speed recorded on Friday was 8-10 kmph and as the wind direction was north-westerly, the pollutants of stubble burning transferred to the city. The minimum temperature stood at 11.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, while the maximum temperature was 30.9 degrees Celsius on Friday. The low temperature slows down the dispersion of pollutants, said Srivastava. CPCB data showed that the average PM10 level at 7pm was 430.8 micrograms per cubic metre while PM2.5 level at the same time was 240.7 micrograms per cubic metre against a safe limit of 60 micrograms per cubic metre. SAFAR on Friday identified five pollution hotspots- Rohini, Jahangirpuri, GT road, Bawana and Noida- for Saturday as they likely to have high concentration of PM2.5. Even 19 out of 38 monitoring stations in Delhi continued to remain in ‘severe’ category by 7pm with an AQI reading of more than 400. According to Air Quality Earth Warning System, a body under ministry of earth sciences, AQI is likely to enter ‘very poor’ category on Saturday and Sunday. “Not so calm surface winds are forecasted for the next two days favoring dispersion of pollutants. Further deterioration in air quality is expected by the late November 8 towards the higher end of very poor,” said SAFAR. Watch Delhi's air quality remains ‘severe’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-quality-remains-severe-for-second-consecutive-day/articleshow/79091157.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 7, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: District’s popular tourist spots limp back to normal||KOCHI: Increase in footfalls in four tourism destinations in the district — Ezhattumugham, Bhoothathankettu, Cherai and Munambam — witnessed last Sunday, is being seen as a positive sign by tourism administrators, who hope this would give a fillip to domestic tourism, which sees an uptick during Diwali season. Ezhattumugham, a picturesque spot in Ayyampuzha panchayat, saw 1,500 visitors on Sunday and around 500 on Monday, said S Vijayakumar, secretary, district tourism promotion council. In Bhoothathankettu, visitors on Sunday numbered 940 but the count dropped to 75 on Monday. “Cherai also had around 900 visitors on Sunday. On Monday it dropped to 150,” he said. Munambam had 500 footwalls on Sunday and 50 on Monday. Ezhattumugham is getting visitors from nearby districts like Thrissur and Malappuram as well. For destinations which don’t have controlled access, like beaches and walkways, tourism department has issued several guidelines, including presence of officials at designated checkpoints, thermal checks and use of sanitizers. Boards with do’s and don’ts for Covid-19 protocols have been installed at these spots. “People are wholeheartedly following protocols and maintaining social distancing, which has made our life easier. In Cherai, when we felt the number of visitors were high we directed them to nearby beaches like Munambam and Rakteswari and they obliged,” said Vijayakumar. Kudumbashree workers and life guards have been deployed at the sites for efficient monitoring of crowds. “We also sanitize areas like handrails and toilets through fumigation,” he said. Vijayakumar said they have received queries from people from other states, but it has not resulted in bookings. “Normally, domestic tourist arrivals pick up during Diwali and we are seeing an inclination in people to travel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/districts-popular-tourist-spots-limp-back-to-normal/articleshow/79087551.cms||Binu Karunakaran
November 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed collector asks banks not to harass people for loan recovery||AURANGABAD: Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar, citing communication from Reserve Bank of India, has issued a circular to banks as well as financial institutions in the district asking them not to harass people mentally, physically or financially for recovering outstanding loans. Earlier, the district administrations, citing the government directives, had asked the financial institutions not to bother people for the sake of recovering loans. After the breaking out of the pandemic, RBI had asked the banks to grant deferment of EMI as well as payments to customers who have availed loans. But, with the easing of lockdown and the state allowing reopening of businesses and industries one after the other, the banks have started taking all out measures for recovery of loans. The circular by Rekhawar states, “Due to the effects of Covid-19, businesses and economy are witnessing a slump and many youth have lost jobs. Similarly, businesses, industries have been closed and small time traders have ended up in difficult situation. Even the farming community is facing economic crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-collector-asks-banks-not-to-harass-people-for-loan-recovery/articleshow/79090124.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 830 candidates file nominations for panchayat samiti, zila parishad polls||JAIPUR: On the third day of filing nominations, 830 candidates filed 900 nominations for the posts of panchayat samiti members and 112 nomination papers were filed for the posts of zila parishad members on Friday. In all, 973 candidates have filed nominations for the posts of panchayat samiti members and 139 candidates have filed papers for the posts of zila parishad members. The elections to zila parishad and panchayat samiti will be held in 21 districts. There are 4,371 constituencies for panchayat samiti members and 636 constituencies for zila parishad members in 21 districts. The districts include Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur. The elections will be held in four phases starting from November 23. The second phase will be on November 27, third phase on December 1 and the fourth phase will be on December 5. The counting of votes will be done on December 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/830-candidates-file-nominations-for-panchayat-samiti-zila-parishad-polls/articleshow/79090129.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Dehradun||Probe against MMC chairman initiated||Mussoorie: Several elected members of the Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC), in a press conference on Friday, levied serious allegations of irregularities against MMC Chairman Anuj Gupta. A probe has now been initiated against Gupta by the commissioner of Garhwal. Addressing mediapersons, Jasbeer Kaur, a member of the MMC, alleged that over the past two years, several financial and other irregularities have taken place in the MMC at the behest of chairman Gupta. “We had written to the chief minister, commissioner of Garhwal, and the district magistrate regarding the matter. Now, an enquiry has been initiated by the sub-divisional magistrate,” Kaur told mediapersons. In a letter addressed to the commissioner of Garhwal, the MMC members have alleged irregularities in the construction of a parking at Masonic Lodge, in the tender of eco-tax barrier at Kolhu Khet, and in several other matters. Manish Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate of Mussoorie, told TOI that he had been instructed by the district magistrate to conduct a probe into this matter but on Friday, he was informed that the office of the commissioner of Garhwal is conducting the investigation. Meanwhile, MMC chairman Anuj Gupta dismissed all allegations as baseless. “These allegations are false and baseless. The MMC is ready for any kind of probe into these allegations,” Gupta said. He added that the members are making false complaints as the MMC is taking action against land-grabbers who are illegally occupying the MMC land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/probe-against-mmc-chairman-initiated/articleshow/79087560.cms||Anmol Jain
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Transmission cos have absolute power to lay lines: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: In an important order, the Gujarat high court held that district collectors do not have any power to interfere with the alignment of power transmission lines as decided by transmission companies, whether on private or public land. A farmer from Gandhinagar district objected to the Gujarat State Energy Transmission Corporation Ltd (GETCO) laying a transmission line and erecting poles on his farm on the grounds that the district collector did not hear his objection and suggestion of re-alignment. A single judge stayed GETCO’s work and an appeal was filed before division bench. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said that the Telegraph Act confers powers to the authority to determine the property over which lines are to pass or posts are to be erected. The court said that the district collector’s power is confined to the extent of exercising his discretion in granting permission to execute the work when the licence holder company applies for it. His power is nothing beyond this and the district collector cannot interfere in the process of alignment and realignment of transmission lines. The HC further said that the law gives “legal sanction to the licensing authority to enter any property to lay poles or posts or draw electric lines”. But the company has to see that the damage to the land is minimum. “Once the power is conferred on the licencee or any other competent authority, there can be no objection to the implementation of the scheme, on the principles of natural justice or on the grounds of unauthorised use of the land,” the HC observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/transmission-cos-have-absolute-power-to-lay-lines-hc/articleshow/79088857.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Wife gets vaginal infection, man ‘gives her triple talaq’||AHMEDABAD: A 24-year-old woman from Kheda town filed a complaint against her husband alleging that he gave her a “triple talaq” or instant divorce by saying “talaq” thrice after she suffered a severe vaginal infection during her pregnancy. In her FIR filed with Kheda town police on October 31, Shabana Syed, an arts graduate, stated that she married Siddique Ali Syed on May 2, 2019, according to the wishes of her family. Soon after their wedding, her husband, who works for a private firm, started badly treating and taunting her over petty issues and threatened to abandon her for small mistakes. In July, Shabana learned after a medical examination that she was pregnant, and her gynecologist told her to maintain proper hygiene. She could not follow her doctor’s advice properly as she used to be busy with her domestic chores and developed an infection. She told her husband but he avoided taking her to the doctor. A month ago, she began vomiting blood and suffered a constant high fever. After this, her parents took her to a doctor where she was diagnosed with a severe vaginal infection. She was hospitalized for four days and as soon as was diagnosed with a vaginal infection, her husband left the hospital and did not return to see her, the FIR states. Her parents took her to their home where she remained on medication. On October 27, her husband came to her house in Goblaj village in Kheda and started abusing her and her family members, demanding Rs 1.50 lakh from them to marry another woman. As Shabana was sleeping that the time, her husband shouted “talaq” thrice in front of her parents and sister and left. When she woke up, she learned from her family members that she had been given ‘triple talaq’ by Siddique. She then approached police and filed a complaint under the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act against Siddique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-gets-vaginal-infection-man-gives-her-triple-talaq/articleshow/79088875.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Dehradun||Govt to pay roadways workers’ salary for June in next 4 days||Nainital: The state government, on Friday, gave an undertaking in the Uttarakhand high court (HC) that it will pay the salaries of the workers of the Uttarakhand Roadways in the next four days. The roadways workers have not received salaries since the month of June and the government has said that it will pay the salary for that month first. The government’s undertaking was taken on record by the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice NS Dhanik while it was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by Uttarakhand Roadways Karamchari Union. The union had approached the court last year alleging that the state government has failed over the years to pay their salaries on time. “The counsel appearing for the state informed the court that he has received instructions from the government that the salaries of the workers will be paid in a few days. The counsel then gave an undertaking saying that the salary for the month of June will be paid in the next four days,” said MC Pant, the counsel appearing for workers’ union. Pant added that even if the workers receive June’s salary, the government would owe them money for the next four months. “We are, however, grateful to the HC that the workers are getting a month’s salary before Diwali,” Pant said. The court has now listed the case for further hearing after Diwali on November 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-to-pay-roadways-workers-salary-for-june-in-next-4-days/articleshow/79087581.cms||Prashant Jha
November 7, 2020||Dehradun||Gen Naravane meets Nepalese PM Oli, discusses bilateral relations; Oli says 'issues between India and Nepal will be resolved through dialogue'||Dehradun/Kathmandu: Indian Army chief General MM Naravane on Friday, the last day of his three-day visit to Nepal, met Nepalese prime minister KP Sharma Oli -- who is also currently holding the defence portfolio -- at the latter’s official residence at Baluwatar in Kathmandu. During the meeting, in which Indian ambassador to Nepal, Vinay M Kwatra was also present, bilateral relations between the two countries were discussed, according to a communique issued by the Indian embassy in Kathmandu. “General Naravane reaffirmed that he would work to further strengthen the defence co-operation between the two countries and conveyed the best wishes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and the people of Nepal,” the communique said. Rajan Bhattarai, foreign affairs advisor to the Nepal PM, was quoted by news agency ANI as saying that “during the meeting, prime minister Oli said that Nepal and India have a long-standing and special relationship.”“Prime Minister expressed confidence that there was a good friendship between Nepal and India and that the issues between the two countries would be resolved through dialogue," Bhattarai was quoted by ANI as saying. Earlier in the day, General Naravane undertook a mountain flight during which he had a brief stopover at Syangboche airport, the gateway to the world’s highest peak, Mount Everest, according to information provided by the Nepali Army. The Chief of Army Staff also addressed middle-level student officers and faculty members at the Army Command and Staff College at Shivapuri on the outskirts of Kathmandu. During the interaction, as per a tweet posted by the Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) of the Indian Army, the General “recalled the historical linkages between both countries and stated that these transcend professional exchanges & annual joint exercises.” Before the conclusion of his visit, General Naravane visited the Indian embassy in Kathmandu where he was briefed about the welfare activities being carried out for roughly over two lakh thirty thousand Indian Army veterans and their families in Nepal. During the visit, Gen Naravane also presented a welfare grant to Havildar Dil Bahadur Chhettri (retired), a winner of Maha Vir Chakra, the second highest gallantry award of India. General Naravane’s visit was being closely watched by people on both sides of the border since it is the first high-level visit from India to Kathmandu ever since ties between the two neighbours came under strain in May. Nepal had protested after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an almost 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal claimed that the road passed through its territory. Days later, it came out with a new map showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura areas of Uttarakhand as its territories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gen-naravane-meets-nepalese-pm-oli-discusses-bilateral-relations-oli-says-issues-between-india-and-nepal-will-be-resolved-through-dialogue/articleshow/79087598.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 7, 2020||Noida||Former Delhi chief secretary M M Kutty will head panel on air quality||NEW DELHI: The Centre has set up the commission for air quality management in Delhi-NCR and adjacent areas with former Delhi chief secretary M M Kutty as the new body's first chairperson under the provisions of the ordinance issued with the concurrence of the Supreme Court. A 1985-batch IAS officer, Kutty retired in April as secretary, ministry of petroleum and natural gas. His tenure in the commission will be for three years. Prof Mukesh Khare of IIT-Delhi and K J Ramesh, ex-director general, India Meteorological Department, will be two full-time ‘technical’ members of the commission. Joint secretary in environment ministry A K Nautiyal will be another full-time member. TERI director general Ajay Mathur and Ashish Dhawan of Air Pollution Action Group will be members from the NGO sector. Dhawan, private equity investor and philanthropist, is founder of Ashoka University. Besides them, there will be nine ex-officio members — representing Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Niti Aayog, Isro, CPCB and the environment ministry. Senior officials representing Isro and CPCB will also be technical members. Sources in the environment ministry, which notified the appointment of chairperson and members late on Thursday, said three more members, including one from an NGO, would be inducted into the commission in due course. The overarching body is intended to pursue pollution mitigation measures through the year and has powers to implement its decisions and impose fines. It is hoped that with representation of states, measures will be more fully implemented than was the case in the past when things did not translate on the ground despite consensus in Centre-state discussions. The commission, which replaces all earlier committees including the Supreme Court-backed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, has power to issue directions and orders suo moto and entertain complaints under any existing law such as the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. It will also have power to prohibit activities that are likely to cause or increase air pollution in the NCR and adjoining areas. “Actions and orders of the EPCA will, however, continue to be effective. New working rules under the ordinance will also be framed,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/ex-chief-secy-kutty-will-head-panel-on-air-quality/articleshow/79092333.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Faridabad||Former Delhi chief secretary M M Kutty will head panel on air quality||NEW DELHI: The Centre has set up the commission for air quality management in Delhi-NCR and adjacent areas with former Delhi chief secretary M M Kutty as the new body's first chairperson under the provisions of the ordinance issued with the concurrence of the Supreme Court. A 1985-batch IAS officer, Kutty retired in April as secretary, ministry of petroleum and natural gas. His tenure in the commission will be for three years. Prof Mukesh Khare of IIT-Delhi and K J Ramesh, ex-director general, India Meteorological Department, will be two full-time ‘technical’ members of the commission. Joint secretary in environment ministry A K Nautiyal will be another full-time member. TERI director general Ajay Mathur and Ashish Dhawan of Air Pollution Action Group will be members from the NGO sector. Dhawan, private equity investor and philanthropist, is founder of Ashoka University. Besides them, there will be nine ex-officio members — representing Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Niti Aayog, Isro, CPCB and the environment ministry. Senior officials representing Isro and CPCB will also be technical members. Sources in the environment ministry, which notified the appointment of chairperson and members late on Thursday, said three more members, including one from an NGO, would be inducted into the commission in due course. The overarching body is intended to pursue pollution mitigation measures through the year and has powers to implement its decisions and impose fines. It is hoped that with representation of states, measures will be more fully implemented than was the case in the past when things did not translate on the ground despite consensus in Centre-state discussions. The commission, which replaces all earlier committees including the Supreme Court-backed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, has power to issue directions and orders suo moto and entertain complaints under any existing law such as the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. It will also have power to prohibit activities that are likely to cause or increase air pollution in the NCR and adjoining areas. “Actions and orders of the EPCA will, however, continue to be effective. New working rules under the ordinance will also be framed,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/ex-chief-secy-kutty-will-head-panel-on-air-quality/articleshow/79092335.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on action against officials who helped mining||Madurai: The Madras high court sought response from the state government on the action taken against officials who facilitated illegal sand mining activities at Therku Kallidaikuruchi village in Tirunelveli district.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by B Sivasankar, who sought for a direction to the authorities to restrain a person from involving in illegal sand mining activities at the village. A division bench said that it was informed that a penalty of Rs 9.57 crore was imposed on a person named Manual George who was involved in illegal mining by misusing his licence issued for stock yard. It was also informed that a criminal case was registered against the person. Pursuant to an earlier directions, police officials and officials from the geology and mining department appeared before the court along with the documents pertaining to this case. The judges observed that it appears during the course of investigation, certain materials were collected by the investigation agency, which reveals the nexus between the officials and the accused, who have indulged in the commission of offence. George, a resident of Kerala, without having any quarry in the state and any land in that area, obtained permission from the authorities to establish a stock yard for storing minerals, but exploited the same by quarrying the river sand from a nearby check dam.The judges noted that the assistant engineer of the agricultural engineering department has also facilitated the offence by creating seven farm ponds at the village. The farm ponds are created for the benefit of farmers for supplying the water with a government subsidy, but the same has been misused by the government officials, for exploiting the sand.The status report says so far nine accused were arrested but George, who is the first accused is yet to be arrested as there are interim orders in the anticipatory bail application filed before the sessions court. The judges observed that a register has also been seized from one of the accused during the course of the investigation, wherein, the details as to the disbursal of amount to various officers has been recorded, but the same has not been investigated so far. The judges said that though law has been set in motion against George and 22 others, no action has been taken as against the concerned officials, who have facilitated George to commit the offence. Since the state government sought time, the judges sought a further status report with details about the involvement of officials; action taken against them and the register recovered during the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-action-against-officials-who-helped-mining/articleshow/79090152.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 7, 2020||Madurai||Can a separate wing remove encroachments: HC to govt||Madurai: Observing that all people including the policy makers are responsible for the shrinking water bodies, the Madras high court asked whether a separate wing could be created by the government for removal of encroachments on public land, including water bodies across the state, and sought a response on the same. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi also said that the wing would not only be in-charge for removal of encroachments but would also to prevent them.The court was hearing a batch of petitions with regard to removal of encroachments made in public land parcels and water bodies.The judges observed that during the earlier days, the kings had created water bodies such as tanks and ponds in order to store water for drinking water and agriculture purposes. Over the years, they have turned into residential areas, educational institutions and government offices.The judges said that a number of cases pending before this court pertain to encroachments. The state government had enacted a legislation called the Tamil Nadu Protection of Tanks and Eviction of Encroachment Act, 2007. As per provisions under the Act, the boundaries of the tanks should be demarcated and a report should be filed. It is not known whether such an excise was carried out, said the judges.“Unless the water bodies are preserved and the water channels are kept free from encroachments, water could not be preserved for drinking or agricultural purposes. If we fail to safeguard the water bodies, then the future generation would face problems for drinking water and agriculture,” they said.Appointing an advocate as amicus curiae to assist the court in these cases, the judges put forth several queries: Number of water bodies including tanks, ponds, lakes available in the state during 1980; number of water bodies presently available; whether a survey was conducted and boundaries of the water bodies were demarcated; and whether geo-tagging could be used. The judges also sought details on the encroachments inside the water bodies along with details; and the number of proceedings initiated to clear the encroachments.The judges directed the state government to submit a comprehensive report in this regard and adjourned the case to November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/can-a-separate-wing-remove-encroachments-hc-to-govt/articleshow/79090160.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Path for other professionals to enrol as lawyers cleared by Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday cleared path for other professionals having LLB degree to be enrolled with the Bar Council of Gujarat for provisional license to practice law and to have eligibility to appear in the All India Bar’s test to qualify to become a lawyer. They will not have to give up their current profession before applying for enrolment. A bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala junked specific rules – Rule 1 and 2 of the Bar Council of Gujarat (Enrolment) Rules, which prohibit any person, if she is engaged in any other profession or business, from enrolling with the Bar. However, they will have to promise and then give up their other profession after starting to practise law. The case involved Twinkle Mangaonkar, an LLB degree holder engaged with some other profession. Being a single earning member of the family, she could not afford to give up her present profession before she qualified as an advocate to practice law after clearing All India Bar exam. She gave an undertaking before the HC to give up her present job once she clears the exam. However, the petitioner faced certain issues with the procedure. The high court observed that she is in a helpless situation. “If she gives up her job being a single mother, and god forbid if she is unable to clear the All India Bar examination, then she would be left without any means of livelihood. The judges questioned the objective of these rules, “Why such a restriction is sought to be imposed? Why the statute does not permit a person enrolled as an advocate with any particular Bar Council of the state from taking up any other vocation?” The HC finally quashed the Bar Council rules making way clear for all professionals having a law degree to enrol with BCG. It directed the Bar Council to admit them as advocates, but their enrolment would remain withheld and their provisional sanad will lie in deposit with the Bar council until they clear the All India Bar exam and give up their current profession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/path-for-other-professionals-to-enrol-as-lawyers-cleared-by-hc/articleshow/79088893.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: After almost a week, govt issues standard operating procedure for casino operations||PANAJI: The state government on Friday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for casinos, directing them not to let anyone in who isn’t wearing a face mask. The new rules also mandate sanisitising hands, temperature checks, and strict observance of 50% capacity. The SOP, issued by additional home secretary Amarsen Rane, stated that handbags, purses and other items to be carried inside the premises must be appropriately sanitised before entry. Casinos in the state were permitted to operate from November 1. “A sufficient number of hand sanitising dispensers should be placed at multiple spots and at gaming tables... for frequent use by guests and staff, (who) shall be encouraged to do so,” the SOP stated. It also mandated “regular cleaning and disinfecting of licensed premises, tables, chairs, railings, slot machines, common areas, employee rooms, front and back offices, etc.” The rules state that appropriate social distancing should be maintained by limiting the numbers (and spacing) of chairs/playing stations, and also that the reception and cashier areas should have floor signages to avoid crowding. The SOP has suggested that wherever possible, casinos must use contactless check-in and digital menus. It also asked the establishments to “meticulously” follow protocols laid down by the department of health services from time to time. “The guidelines shall be strictly complied with by all casino licensees, and the same are in addition to the various instructions and guidelines (as part of) SOPs issued from time to time by other competent authorities,” the rules stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-almost-a-week-govt-issues-sop-for-casino-operations/articleshow/79091166.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Former Delhi chief secretary M M Kutty will head panel on air quality||NEW DELHI: The Centre has set up the commission for air quality management in Delhi-NCR and adjacent areas with former Delhi chief secretary M M Kutty as the new body's first chairperson under the provisions of the ordinance issued with the concurrence of the Supreme Court. A 1985-batch IAS officer, Kutty retired in April as secretary, ministry of petroleum and natural gas. His tenure in the commission will be for three years. Prof Mukesh Khare of IIT-Delhi and K J Ramesh, ex-director general, India Meteorological Department, will be two full-time ‘technical’ members of the commission. Joint secretary in environment ministry A K Nautiyal will be another full-time member. TERI director general Ajay Mathur and Ashish Dhawan of Air Pollution Action Group will be members from the NGO sector. Dhawan, private equity investor and philanthropist, is founder of Ashoka University. Besides them, there will be nine ex-officio members — representing Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Niti Aayog, Isro, CPCB and the environment ministry. Senior officials representing Isro and CPCB will also be technical members. Sources in the environment ministry, which notified the appointment of chairperson and members late on Thursday, said three more members, including one from an NGO, would be inducted into the commission in due course. The overarching body is intended to pursue pollution mitigation measures through the year and has powers to implement its decisions and impose fines. It is hoped that with representation of states, measures will be more fully implemented than was the case in the past when things did not translate on the ground despite consensus in Centre-state discussions. The commission, which replaces all earlier committees including the Supreme Court-backed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, has power to issue directions and orders suo moto and entertain complaints under any existing law such as the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. It will also have power to prohibit activities that are likely to cause or increase air pollution in the NCR and adjoining areas. “Actions and orders of the EPCA will, however, continue to be effective. New working rules under the ordinance will also be framed,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ex-chief-secy-kutty-will-head-panel-on-air-quality/articleshow/79091164.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ghaziabad||Former Delhi chief secretary M M Kutty will head panel on air quality||NEW DELHI: The Centre has set up the commission for air quality management in Delhi-NCR and adjacent areas with former Delhi chief secretary M M Kutty as the new body's first chairperson under the provisions of the ordinance issued with the concurrence of the Supreme Court. A 1985-batch IAS officer, Kutty retired in April as secretary, ministry of petroleum and natural gas. His tenure in the commission will be for three years. Prof Mukesh Khare of IIT-Delhi and K J Ramesh, ex-director general, India Meteorological Department, will be two full-time ‘technical’ members of the commission. Joint secretary in environment ministry A K Nautiyal will be another full-time member. TERI director general Ajay Mathur and Ashish Dhawan of Air Pollution Action Group will be members from the NGO sector. Dhawan, private equity investor and philanthropist, is founder of Ashoka University. Besides them, there will be nine ex-officio members — representing Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Niti Aayog, Isro, CPCB and the environment ministry. Senior officials representing Isro and CPCB will also be technical members. Sources in the environment ministry, which notified the appointment of chairperson and members late on Thursday, said three more members, including one from an NGO, would be inducted into the commission in due course. The overarching body is intended to pursue pollution mitigation measures through the year and has powers to implement its decisions and impose fines. It is hoped that with representation of states, measures will be more fully implemented than was the case in the past when things did not translate on the ground despite consensus in Centre-state discussions. The commission, which replaces all earlier committees including the Supreme Court-backed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, has power to issue directions and orders suo moto and entertain complaints under any existing law such as the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. It will also have power to prohibit activities that are likely to cause or increase air pollution in the NCR and adjoining areas. “Actions and orders of the EPCA will, however, continue to be effective. New working rules under the ordinance will also be framed,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ex-chief-secy-kutty-will-head-panel-on-air-quality/articleshow/79092334.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ranchi||Elderly farmer injured in wild jumbo attack in Dhanbad||DHANBAD: A wild elephant attacked a 71-year-old farmer while he was taking a walk near his home at Laghata in Dhanbad’s Nirsa block on Friday. The elephant had entered Nirsa from the adjoining Jamtara district. The forest department has initiated the process to provide compensation to the victim and are searching for the elephant. Passers-by rushed to the site when they heard Ravilal Marandi screaming and chased away the elephant. Ravilal sustained serious head injuries and was admitted to a private nursing home, where doctors referred him to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). He is now out of danger, hospital authorities said. Dhanabad divisional forest officer Bimal Lakra said, “The man was fortunate as elephants generally kill people they attack. A herd of around 20 elephants is in Tundi and we are keeping a watch on their movement, but this elephant might have entered at night and remained unnoticed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/elderly-farmer-injured-in-wild-jumbo-attack/articleshow/79089260.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: BJP accuses gathbandhan govt of shielding top leaders||RANCHI: A day after the state government decided to revoke the general consent accorded to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to operate or start investigating within Jharkhand without prior permission, BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi on Friday said that the decision was taken to protect some government leaders from being probed by the central agency. Speaking to reporters at the party office here, Marandi hot out at chief minister Hemant Soren and said, “I am surprised that the CM, who often talks about a neutral investigation into suspicious cases, suddenly disallowed CBI from conducting a probe without prior permission.” He cited the example of Ranchi-based realtor and “Hemant’s right hand man” Amit Agarwal, whose office in Kolkata was raided by the I-T officials last month, and said perhaps the raid had something to do with the government withdrawing its consent. “Amit is known to be Hemant’s shadow in the political corridors and during a recent raid at his addresses in Kolkata, some documents and a diary were confiscated. May be the CM is nervous that when the investigation proceeds further, CBI sleuths may catch him and in order to prevent that, he decided to withdraw the general consent,” he said. “If the CM has nothing to hide, then why is he shying away from an inquiry?” he questioned. Marandi also refuted government claims of the BJP-led Union government misusing CBI and other central agencies. He said, “It is because of CBI that the fodder scam was exposed and today, the culprits are behind bars.” When asked about the government’s recent decision to register a case against former CM Raghubar Das and others with the Anti-Corruption Bureau in connection with the appointment of Meinhardt as a consultant for an urban drainage and sewerage system in Ranchi, he said, “We are ready for all sorts of investigations, provided they are done without any prejudice.” Meanwhile, Marandi attacked the government “for the deteriorating law and order situation in Jharkhand”. He said, “During BJP’s rule, Maoists were eradicated from Jharkhand, but soon after the mahagathbandhan government came to power, incidents of naxalism started resurfacing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-accuses-gathbandhan-govt-of-shielding-top-leaders/articleshow/79089201.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ranchi||Woman commits suicide in Ranchi, footage on CCTV||RANCHI: A woman working with Doordarshan committed suicide by hanging herself from a tree on the premises of a temple at Aryapuri locality under Sukhdeonagar police station area. Madhu Kumari (30) was a casual employee with the national broadcaster and the reason for her taking her own life is yet to be ascertained, police said, adding that a case of unnatural death will be registered. Kotwali DSP Yashodhara said, “During investigation, police came across CCTV footage showing the woman arriving at around 8pm on Thursday and having a long conversation with someone on her mobile phone before ending her life.” The temple priest noticed the body when he entered the premises in the morning. The woman’s two-wheeler and the phone have been found from the spot. In another incident, daily wager Mahabir Nayak was hacked to death by an axe in Koirebeda village under the Namkum police station area. Police said that investigation is going and no one has been arrested so far. Rural SP said, “We have got the names of some suspects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-commits-suicide-in-ranchi-footage-on-cctv/articleshow/79089284.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ranchi||Dumka treasury case: Lalu Prasad bail hearing deferred to November 27||RANCHI: RJD president Lalu Prasad will not be released from jail before the conclusion of the Bihar assembly elections as the Jharkhand high court on Friday deferred the hearing of his plea for suspension of his sentence in a fodder scam related to fraudulent withdrawal worth Rs 3.13 crore from the Dumka treasury. The court of justice Aparesh Kumar Singh has ordered the CBI to file a counter affidavit in the matter. The petition, which was scheduled to be heard on November 9, a day before the poll results are to be announced, was postponed to November 27 after the CBI sought more time to file a written reply in the matter. During campaigns, leader of opposition in Bihar and Lalu’s younger son Tejashwi Yadav, who will also celebrate his birthday on November 9, had claimed that his father will walk free soon. Last month, the high court granted bail to Lalu in a fodder scam case related to Chaibasa treasury, observing that he has served half of the five-year sentence awarded to him. He had earlier been granted relief in Ranchi and Deoghar cases as well. The conviction in the Dumka case is the only one in which he has not been granted bail yet. A Special CBI Court found him guilty of the charges and sentenced him to seven years rigorous imprisonment. Lalu’s counsel Prabhat Kumar said that they believe the CBI is politically motivated to deliberately delay the hearing. “We had requested early mention of the case on October 22 and the court agreed to hear it. However, CBI did not file its counter affidavit on time even though it had enough time,” he said. Tejashwi had expressed confidence that his father, who has served more than half of his term in most fodder cases will be released once the matter is heard by the court. Addressing a public rally in Dehri-on-Sone on October 21 and in Kaimur the next day, he said, “Lalu ji will come out (of jail) on my birthday and witness the formation of an RJD government on November 10.” RJD’s Jharkhand president Abhay Kumar Singh abstained from commenting on Tejashwi’s statement or deferment of the hearing. “The matter is being heard by the court and I will not make any comment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lalu-bail-hearing-deferred-to-nov-27/articleshow/79089215.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
November 7, 2020||Ranchi||Lone Covid death in Dhanbad, active cases fall further||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded one Covid death (in Dhanbad), 356 new infections and 501 recoveries, taking the number of active cases down to 4,639. The state’s cumulative case stood at 1,03,899 cases, of which 98,365 have recovered and 895 have died. Ranchi continued to report the highest number of fresh infections with 91 cases, followed by Jamtara with 39 and East Singhbhum with 38. The spurt in Jamtara, one of the least affected districts, is the highest since it biggest one-day spike on September 18, when it recorded 51 cases. In just one day, the district known as the cybercrime hub reported seven more cases than the tally last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lone-cov-death-in-dhanbad-active-cases-fall-further/articleshow/79089149.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 7, 2020||Ranchi||Reconsider decision to stop admissions to new medical colleges: Jharkhand CM to NMC||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren has urged the in a letter to the National Medical Commission (NMC) to reconsider its decision to stop fresh admissions at the three new medical colleges in Palamu, Hazaribag and Dumka in view of lack of necessary infrastructure and faculty. In a letter, Hemant assured NMC chairman Dr Suresh Chandra Sharma that the state government will fulfil all requirements by November 30. NMC is India’s new medical education regulator that replaced the Medical Council of India (MCI) recently The letter read, “The NEET 2020-21 results are out and the admission process has commenced. But as NMC has not allowed fresh admissions citing infrastructure and faculty deficiencies, aspiring medical students are in a shock in this poor, backward tribal state. The aspiring students were hopeful and excited after the inauguration of these colleges by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year.” The medical colleges were a part of the centrally-sponsored scheme of the ministry of health and family welfare rolled out in 2019. Assuring a resolution of the problems, the letter further read, “The vacant positions of senior and junior resident doctors and other paramedical staff will also be filled by the end of this month. The state government faced some difficulties in filling the positions of associate professors and professors as eligible candidates weren’t willing to work in these districts. However, we are in the process of making certain amendments to the recruitment policy and will be filling up the vacancies at the earliest.” State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “We are committed to fulfil all the deficiencies by the end of this month and we would like them to allow fresh admissions for MBBS in 100 seats at each of the three colleges for the 2020-21 session.” The medical colleges were started in 2019 and 100 seats each were allocated by the Medical Council Of India (MCI) for the inaugural batch after Modi inaugurated the colleges in February 2019 after the chief secretary of the state had submitted an affidavit at the Supreme Court of India for making necessary arrangements required for running medical colleges in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/reconsider-decision-to-stop-admissions-to-new-med-colleges-cm-to-nmc/articleshow/79089081.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Ranchi||Proposal to divide Gola to pave way for new block soon||RAMGARH: The state rural development department proposed to bifurcate Gola block in Ramgarh district to create Barlanga block with four panchayats — Upper Barga (under which falls chief minister Hemant Soren’s native house in Nemra), Barlanga, Saragdih and Navadih. Block pramukh of Gola, Jaleshwar Mahto said, “The 31-member committee passed a resolution to induct four panchayats while induction Betulkala, Sangrampur and Chokad panchayats were opposed to.” Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh said the district has been asked to prepare a report for the proposed block. “We will send the report to the government soon and the block development officer (BDO) has held a meeting to seek consent on the bifurcation of the block.” “Gola currently has 21 panchayats and for the creation of new block, the government have set some criteria, which include a minimum of 1.25 lakh population and at least 18 panchayats,” said a senior official in the district headquarters. He added that four panchayats which the Gola committee approved approximately have a population fo 26,000, which does not fulfil the criteria and more panchayats will be needed for the new block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/proposal-to-divide-gola-to-pave-way-for-new-block-soon/articleshow/79089326.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Citing Parkinson’s, Stan Swamy seeks sipper||MUMBAI: The defence for 83-year-old Jesuit priest, Stan Swamy, who is the 16th accused arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, has moved the special NIA court seeking his straw and sipper as his hands are unsteady due to Parkinson’s disease. The court directed the prosecution to submit a reply on November 26. Last month, the NIA rejected his plea for interim bail. Swamy had moved the court seeking interim bail citing his age, ailments and the coronavirus pandemic. Swamy’s defence lawyer had submitted that he suffered from Parkinson's disease, had undergone a prostate surgery and also had a fall in jail. The NIA had opposed his plea. In its chargesheet, the NIA said that on December 31, 2017, Elgar Parishad at Shaniwarwada, Pune was funded by the banned CPI (Maoist) as part of a conspiracy to create unrest. The investigating agency alleged that the provocative speeches made by the activists of Kabir Kala Manch promoted enmity between various caste groups. They said this led to the January 1, 2018, caste clashes at Koregaon Bhima resulting in loss of life and property in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/83-yr-old-elgar-accused-moves-court-for-sipper-straw-cites-parkinsons/articleshow/79089124.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||Gadkari to give presentation in SC on pollution fight||NEW DELHI: In a first, Union minister Nitin Gadkari will make a presentation before the Supreme Court after Diwali on ways to tackle air pollution. He is likely to share his view on alternative fuel, adoption of new technologies and cleaner fuel for all types of public transport before the SC judges. This was revealed by the road transport and highways minister while speaking at an event on electric vehicles by industry body FICCI. He said he has been invited by the CJI to make the presentation over two hours. Gadkari is the first minister who has been “invited” by the SC to share his views. In February, a three-member bench comprising CJI SA Bobde, Justice BR Gavai and Justice Surya Kant had observed that the minister could be invited to address the SC on the National Electric Mobility Plan 2020 and faster adoption and manufacturing of hybrid and electrical vehicles. The bench had also observed that Gadkari has many ideas, including that of providing electric buses for the apex court employees. Gadkari had told TOI in February that he would share his ideas before the Supreme Court on how to tackle vehicular pollution and make a gradual transition from fossil fuel-based vehicles to electric and hydrogen ones. On Friday, the minister said air pollution across the country and particularly in Delhi-NCR has become a cause of big concern and there is a dire need to go for cleaner fuel and faster adoption of electric vehicles. He said there is need for an integrated approach to find the solutions to air pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gadkari-to-give-presentation-in-sc-on-pollution-fight/articleshow/79092116.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 7, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid detections lower, but still no dip in severe cases||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported 5,027 fresh Covid-19 detections on Friday and recorded 161 fatalities, taking its total caseload to 17,10,314 and total fatalities to 44,965. The number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai was below 1,000 for the seventh day in a row, with 792 cases added to the city tally on Friday. The city added 22 deaths, taking its toll so far to 10,399. The tally in the city has gone up to 2.62 lakh since the first case was diagnosed in March. On Friday, 205 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking recovery rate in the city to 90%. The case doubling rate in Mumbai climbed to 208 days and overall growth rate between October 30 and November 5 dropped to 0.33%. However, health experts warned against complacency due to the dropping cases. Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state task force on Covid-19 and intensivist with Fortis Hospital, said people need to realise the pandemic hasn't gone away. "The number of cases are down, but far from zero. We cannot relax till the winter is over as Covid has been most severe in other countries during the cold weather," he said. Moreover, the number of severe cases hasn't declined so far. "The general cases and number of admissions will first come down before any dip in number of severe cases. However, if things continue at the present pace, we may see a drop in critical cases within a fortnight," he added. AMC Suresh Kakani said the BMC plans to stay in a state of preparedness at least until December. "We expect reverse migration to start November 17 onwards. The temperatures will also dip by them. Hence, we are going to stay alert till the end of December," he said. While the total cases in the state increased by 6,870, only 5,027 were added to the daily additions as the remaining 1,843 cases were old cases detected in Nagpur and were added to the progress tally due to the data reconciliation exercise. Also, the state continued to discharge more than double the daily detections. On Friday, the state saw 11,060 recoveries, taking the total recoveries to 15.6 lakh and rate of recovery to 91.3%. At the state level, 1,654 cases and 39 deaths were reported from Mumbai Metropolitan Region, taking the region's total cases to 5.9 lakh and deaths to 17,962. Meanwhile, the Kalyan-Dombivli belt, which has the most Covid-19 patients after Mumbai in MMR, reported 130 new patients and 3 deaths on Friday. The tally here stands at 50,763 patients and toll at 1,014. In Thane city, 142 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 47,624. Three deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 1,106. There were 145 cases from within Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas on Friday. The PCMC areas reported 57 fresh cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-covid-detections-lower-but-still-no-dip-in-severe-cases/articleshow/79092124.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mumbai||Private buses too now allowed to operate at full capacity in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government on Friday allowed private buses to operate with full capacity ahead of Diwali holidays and issued an SOP to prevent spread of coronavirus infection. The government directed private bus owners not to allow passengers without masks to board their vehicles and keep sanitsers at the entrance of buses along with extra masks, PTI reported. As per the SOP, every passenger will be screened with a thermal gun before boarding and those with fever, cough and cold will not be permitted to travel.Drivers should ensure proper social distancing is maintained among passengers while boarding and alighting from buses, the SOP stated. Buses should be disinfected at the end of each journey, it was stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/private-buses-too-now-allowed-to-operate-at-full-capacity-in-maharashtra/articleshow/79092125.cms||---
November 7, 2020||World||US Election Results 2020: Bye Don, it’s Biden finally||WASHINGTON: Democratic candidate Joe Biden has virtually clinched the US Presidential election after jumping into the lead in Pennsylvania and Georgia, taking him past the 270 electoral votes needed to win the White House once the results are certified. President Donald Trump is refusing to concede defeat, insisting Democrats are stealing the election and raging he will take the matter to the Supreme Court amid petitions for recount in several states. But barring a judicial intervention that the apex court seems reluctant to get into, it is all over bar the shouting. The US establishment appears to have accepted the verdict of the people despite Trump's reservations on the score, with the Secret Service enhancing security for Biden and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) placing flight restrictions over his home in Delaware. Some wrinkles remain. Georgia's Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, a Republican, said Friday morning the state would have a recount because of the slim margin -- a Biden lead of about 1,500 votes. Georgia law allows a recount if the margin of victory/loss is less than 0.5%. Trump has also demanded recounts in Michigan, Wisconsin, Nevada, and Pennsylvania, all of which Biden is winning by less than a 1 per cent margin. AP and other media outlets have already called Michigan and Wisconsin for Biden. Laws pertaining to recounts are different in the contested states -- it is 1% margin of total votes polled in Wisconsin, 0.5 per cent in Pennsylvania, difference of 2000 votes or less in Michigan etc. But historically, recounts have resulted in an average change of only around 250 votes, which would suggest Biden is safe in all contested states. Even otherwise, he will have a cushion of losing one or two states in a recount, considering the breadth of his leads, albeit by narrow margins. Victories in Arizona and Nevada, states where Biden is up by more than the threshold for recount, are sufficient to put him over the top. States are also allowed up to 20 days to formally certify the results -- giving time for recounts -- even if independent media desks project winners, as has been the practice for a century. While the recount strategy could delay states being called for Biden, Trump and his campaign are also mounting a broader legal challenge questioning the validity of mail-in ballots, alleging malfeasance in their late arrival and counting. Fearful of the pandemic, millions of American voters, a majority of Democratic persuasion, chose to exercise their franchise through early voting, mail-in, and drop-off ballots. Delayed counting of such ballots, in many cases due to roadblocks placed by local Republican lawmakers and operatives, resulted in Trump initially jumping into big leads in battleground states (mainly on account of in-person votes, which Trump encouraged, being counted first), before Democrats pulled things back when mail-in ballots were counted. Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Georgia all saw a dramatic turnaround and surge for Democrats after initial Republican leads. Read AlsoJoe Biden: He’s waited 50 years for thisDonald Trump calls him ‘sleepy Joe’. It’s a reminder to the US voter that Joseph ‘Joe’ Biden is old, 77 years old. When Biden was born in November 1942, India was in the thick of the Quit India Movement. Fans of the US version of ‘The Office’ remember his hometown, Scranton, well. Biden grew up inBiden's comeback was also fueled by Black anger in urban areas. Although initial exit polls indicate Trump polled higher number of votes among all groups compared to 2016, attesting to his growing support even among minorities, it was the vote count from majority Black cities Detroit (Michigan), Atlanta (Georgia), and Philadelphia (Pennsylvania) which came in late that turned around the rural White tide that gave Trump early leads. Trump expectedly raged against this in thinly-disguised racial slurs, fuming, about Philadelphia's "rotten history on election integrity" and "Detroit is another place... I wouldn't say the best reputation for election integrity." But it was not just Blacks, Biden's charge to the White House was also driven by a fatal mistake by Trump in Arizona, whose native son -- the late Senator John McCain -- he derided. McCain's widow Cindy McCain and a slate of Republicans abandoned Trump and backed Biden, delivering the state to Democrats. While Trump claimed there was a "Red wave" in his favor that the media tried to play down, it appears there was also a "Blue wave" that was not immediately apparent before all the votes were counted. In a moral victory, Biden is on track to poll more than 75 million votes nationwide, the highest ever by a US Presidential candidate, surpassing the 69 million Barack Obama polled in 2008. On his part Trump is set to reach 70 million votes, expanding his support by 10 million from his 2016 count of 60 million, giving him continued leadership status in the Republican Party, and setting the stage for a prolonged political confrontation in a very "Divided States of America." Watch US Election Results 2020: Joe Biden knocking on White House with leads in Pennsylvania and Georgia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/biden-knocking-on-white-house-doors-as-trump-hunkers-down-for-legal-challenge/articleshow/79088217.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
November 7, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai’s doubling rate slows to over 200 days||MUMBAI: With cases reducing in the last couple of weeks, the projected doubling period for the SARS-CoV-2 virus in Mumbai has, for the first time, surpassed 200 days—it has now increased to 208 days. In Dharavi, the doubling rate—or the duration over which the number of cases become twofold—is 789 days. A high doubling period means cases are rising at a slow pace, reflecting in more vacant hospital beds meant for patients. At this stage, even if there is a spurt in cases, the healthcare system would be prepared for it, said health officials. Data released by BMC shows five of the 24 wards have a doubling rate of over 300 days. Worli has a doubling rate of over 300 daysTwo of the wards which have a doubling rate of over 300 days -- G-South (Worli-Prabhadevi-Lower Parel) and G-North (Dharavi-Mahim-Dadar) --- were the hotspots during the Covid peak in May-June. However, BMC officials say they are not letting their guard down. "We feel cases may increase after Diwali due to people moving around in greater numbers and also because many who left the city in May may return,'' said BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. He said the city is prepared to meet any surge in cases if at all. The daily growth rate of cases in Mumbai over the last seven days - which serves as the basis on which doubling rate is calculated - has dropped to 0.33%. The projected doubling rate increased as daily reporting of the Covid-19 positive cases decreased. In Dharavi, civic officials have maintained a separate daily record to keep a close eye on the situation. Dharavi reported 37 Covid-19 positive cases in the last seven days, around five cases in a day. Eleven wards have a doubling rate between 200 and 300 days while nine wards have a rate between 150 and 200 days. BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said the 'My family, my responsibility' campaign helped the BMC control the spread of the virus and appreciated citizens for following safety precautions. Assistant municipal commissioner (G-North) ward Kiran Dighavkar said, "We proactively conduct fever clinics and screening to find more cases in Dharavi. In the initial stages, the numbers increased but dropped as we managed to stop patients from spreading the virus to others." The ward with the lowest doubling rates are R-Central (Borivli), R-North (Dahisar), R-South (Kandivli), P-North (Malad), P-South Goregaon, M-West (Chembur), N (Ghatkopar), T (Mulund) and B-(Dongri).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-mumbais-doubling-rate-slows-to-over-200-days/articleshow/79092144.cms||Malathy Iyer
November 7, 2020||Mumbai||18 lakh residents yet to return to Mumbai, maximum are missing from suburbs||MUMBAI: Dipesh Sahu is a native of Bihar and a die-hard Mumbaikar. A resident of Bhim Nagar in Malad's Kurar Village, he migrated to the city years ago and made a living in the imitation jewellery trade. When the pandemic struck, he had nothing to fall back on. He left in April for his hometown with five of his family members. Dipesh eventually returned a few days ago, but by then BMC's door-to-door surveys had listed his residence as a locked home. "My brother-in-law's family is yet to come back, their house is also locked like many others in the area," he told TOI. According to BMC's data, Malad, Govandi and Ghatkopar have the highest proportion of such absent residents, mostly in the shanty settlements. BJP corporator from Malad (East) Vinod Mishra said, "there are many houses lying locked, many who left during the pandemic are yet to return. The safety of locked houses is a major concern." Civic officials expect the missing inhabitants who include migrant workers to return after Diwali, raising the prospect of more crowding and a resurgence in infections. "This is the reason we cannot reduce healthcare facilities, people - and their families - returning to congested homes in slums will need to undergo quarantine in the Covid care centres,'' said a senior BMC official. The first of the BMC door-to-door surveys, which started in September as part of the 'My Family My Responsibility' campaign, included 33 lakh houses, of which 6 lakh were found locked. "We covered over 1.1 crore people or 80% of the population in the first half of the campaign," said an official. The BMC deployed 5,000 teams, with each team visiting 50 homes daily to collect basic health details. Of the 6 lakh locked homes, 3.7 lakh were considered 'temporarily' locked - neighbours told civic staff that occupants of these houses had left for an outstation destination a few days prior or were away at work. The remaining 2.3 lakh were considered 'permanently' locked as their occupants had not been seen for over three months. Given an average household size of 4-5 members, the 'permanently' locked 2.3 lakh homes alone added up to close to a million people. Against BMC's estimate of an overall population of 1.41 crore in the city, up from the 2011 census figure of 1.24 crore, this number made up nearly 7% of the total population. In the second round in October, health workers specifically visited locked houses over weekends and, with the help of local social workers or society residents, collected more details. This time, the teams found residents of 1.6 lakh 'temporarily' locked houses had returned. However, barely 13,000 occupants of the 2.3 lakh permanently bolted houses had come back. In all, inmates of over 4.2 lakh homes, classified as 'temporarily' or 'permanently' locked, were still missing. Their population is expected to number approximately 18 lakh. Most locked houses were in slum pockets that were Covid hotspots during the peak in May-June. For instance, many are in Appapada slum in P North (Malad) ward, one of the worst-affected areas in June. BMC chief I S Chahal had visited Appapada to encourage his staff to step up Covid-control measures in the area. The highest proportion of closed houses was found in this Malad ward which includes the Malvani sprawl. Other areas which have such large number of absent households include Govandi and Ghatkopar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/18-lakh-residents-yet-to-return-to-mumbai-maximum-are-missing-from-suburbs/articleshow/79092152.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 7, 2020||India||Mirror NOW bags five News Television Awards||MUMBAI: Mirror NOW, which is part of India’s premium broadcast network, Times Network, has won five awards at the recently concluded News Television Awards 2020 hosted by Indiantelevision.com. The TV channel, which focusses on issues impacting people’s lives, was conferred with the ‘Best Investigation by a News Channel’ award for its reports that revealed a crumbling health infrastructure during the peak of Covid pandemic across metros. Mirror NOW’s expose in Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi forced the respective governments to take note of the crisis and act. The channel was also awarded with ‘Best Show on Social/Environment Awareness/ Social Development’ for its campaign about Tarun, a missing autistic teenager, and the plight of his parents who had been searching for him for 91 days due to the negligence of police officials. Mirror NOW’s Neha Hebbale was chosen for the ‘Best Young TV Journalist’ award for her reportage on various issues, including the 2019 floods in Karnataka and the migrants crisis during the lockdown, while the channel’s senior video journalist Nitin Phadtare bagged the ‘Best Cameraman’ award. The Times of India’s Mumbai Manifesto campaign won the ‘Best Brand Partnership on News Television’ award for which Mirror NOW was the television channel partner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mirror-now-bags-five-news-television-awards/articleshow/79092154.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||Officials: NU results to be ‘historic’ this time||Nagpur: The first-ever online examinations of Nagpur University that concluded recently were marred by a host of technical glitches, primarily due to non-functioning of the much hyped ‘Pariksha App’ and Promarc’s servers. Now, the university is all set to announce the results which many of its officials say would be “historic”. The officials said a majority of over 75,000 final year students would clear the exams if they score 14/20 marks in internal and practical exams conducted by their respective colleges. The government had asked universities to increase internal marks to 50% and conduct MCQ exams for the remaining 50%, which would make all the difference. In the normal course, 20% marks are for internals and 80% for theory. In usual circumstances, no college wants its students to perform poorly in internals and give decent score so that they can clear the theory exams, they said. A series of reports by TOI had brought to light that the state government and university made a mockery of final year exams by not giving separate marks for theory and internals. It was also reported how even a zero score in MCQ tests can get students a degree, if they have scored good in the internals and practicals. Newly-appointed pro-vice chancellor Sanjay Dudhe agreed that the results this year would be “good” in comparison to last few years, “but they can’t be termed as historic”. “As the exam was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, the government directed all universities to conduct online exams. The results would be the same everywhere. Since there was no negative marking, a majority of students are likely to clear the exams. There was no separate passing score for theory and internals earlier also,” he said. In the few results declared by NU since November 1, over 90% of the students managed to clear the exams, as per the NU officials. The pro-VC told TOI that NU had declared 30 results till date and he has instructed the Exam Section officials to complete the formalities within a week. “We are trying to declare all results as early as possible so that students can get relief. We are facing some problems as a few colleges haven’t sent the marks in proper format and jumbled the numbers. It will take some time to sort it out,” he said. According to some NU statutory members, the high number of passed students would create a false impression on them and parents. “Students would find it difficult to crack the entrance exams for postgraduate courses or while appearing for tests conducted by recruiters. They would be exposed completely when they compete with other states students for admissions and employment,” they said. The members further said there would be no value to such degrees, “which the government and universities are promoting just because the Supreme Court and UGC had mandated them to conduct the exams”. # How maximum students will clear exams * Govt told all varsities to conduct online exams * Internal/practical marks increased to 50% marks * No separate passing for theory & internal/practical exams * Students just need to score 14/20 marks in internal/practical * If they score zero in MCQ tests, they could still get degree * There’s no negative marking in MCQ exams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/officials-nu-results-to-be-historic-this-time/articleshow/79088194.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s recovery rate improves, case fatality rate declines; no deaths in 4 districts||Nagpur: As against 1,003 new cases of Covid-19 reported on Friday, 1,144 patients recovered from 11 districts of Vidarbha, thus slightly increasing the recovery rate to 91.74%. With 18 deaths reported in a day, the toll reached 5,615. The case fatality rate has come down to 2.74%, but it is still more than the state (2.63%) and national average (1.5%). Four districts — Bhandara, Chandrapur, Akola and Washim — did not report any death due to Covid-19 on Friday. Wardha, Amravati and Buldhana reported one death each, Gadchiroli, Gondia and Yavatmal two each while Nagpur reported nine deaths. Nagpur district’s deaths include six from Nagpur city, two from rural and one from other state/districts. Highest new cases (332) came from Nagpur, followed by Chandrapur (151), Bhandara (91), Gadchiroli (83), Buldhana (76), Gondia (67), Wardha (65), Yavatmal (57), Amravati (47), Akola (19), and Washim (15). Vidarbha caseload is 2,04,500. Of this, 1,87,622 patients have recovered with addition of 1,144 on Friday. Highest recoveries of the day (366) came from Nagpur, followed by Washim (196), Chandrapur (119), Gadchiroli (117), Gondia (95), Yavatmal (71), Buldhana (56), Amravati (41), Wardha (40), Akola (23), and Bhandara (20). Yavatmal: A 79-year-old man from the city and a 39-year-old woman from Maregaon died on Friday. In the last 24 hours, 625 reports were received of which 57 tested positive. The caseload has increased to 10,459. Now, 796 patients are under treatment after 9,312 recoveries and 354 deaths. Amravati: Recoveries were less than new patients on Friday. As against 41 recoveries, the district posted 47 new cases. While the recoveries took the count to 15,720, the caseload went up to 16,609. One death took the toll to 368. This has left 521 active cases, including 309 in home isolation, in the district. Chandrapur: No deaths were reported on Friday and the toll remains 249, but Covid cases increased by 151. There were 119 recoveries which took the number to 13,692. . The total Covid caseload is 16,654. There are now 2713 active cases undergoing treatment. Wardha: A 55-year-old man from Deoli died during treatment, taking the toll to 213. Caseload increased to 6,611 with addition of 65 new patients. The number of recoveries reached 6,024 after discharge to 40 patients on Friday. Fresh cases were detected in Selu (28), Wardha (17), Hinganghat (14), Deoli (3), Samudrapur (2) and Karanja (1). Buldhana: An 85-year-old woman from Jalgaon Jamod died during treatment in Buldhana on Friday, taking the toll of district to 130. The district received 872 reports out of which 76 tested positive. On the other hand, 56 patients got discharged. Now, Buldhana has reported 9,803 cases, 9,195 recoveries and 130 deaths. Now, 478 patients are under treatment. Washim: Record 196 patients got discharge in Washim district on Friday, while 15 new patients were detected. Now, out of 5,754 patients, 5,436 have recovered. No death was reported on Friday. Now, 204 patients are under treatment. Akola: Out of the 250 reports received in a day, 19 tested positive on Friday. On the other hand, 23 patients were discharged. Akola has reported 8,514 cases, 8,038 recoveries and 282 deaths so far. Now, 194 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 83 new patients and 117 recoveries on Friday. Two patients from other districts who tested positive here died during treatment. Out of 6,407 patients, 5,462 have recovered while 64 patients have died so far. Now, 881 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district saw two deaths on Friday, taking the toll to 134. With 67 new cases, the caseload reached 10,221. Recoveries reached 9,382 after discharge to 95 more patients. Now, 705 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: No death was reported in the district on Friday after a week. Caseload reached 8959 with addition of 91 new cases. Recoveries touched 7,863 after discharge to 20 patients. Now, 872 patients are under treatment while the toll is 224.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbhas-recovery-rate-improves-case-fatality-rate-declines-no-deaths-in-4-districts/articleshow/79088242.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman cheated of Rs 30,000 by bank's 'branch manager'||MUMBAI: A 28-year-old woman was duped of Rs 30,000 in a vishing fraud. The fraudster knew the details of a complaint she had filed with her bank in the past. He sent her a link and convinced her to share her card details, which he used to siphon the money out of her account. The complainant works as a counsellor at an education institute. She holds a savings account with a private bank. In September, she had received a call asking her to collect her credit card at the earliest. She told him that she had not requested for a credit card. Rs 590 was debited from her bank account that day. The woman lodged a complaint at the Tardeo branch of the bank, demanding a refund. On October 5, she got a call from a man who introduced himself as Ashutosh Mishra, Delhi branch manager of the bank. He told her the call was pertaining the Rs 590 refund that she had lodged a complaint about. He sent her a link and asked her to submit her card details in it. The woman refused at first, but Mishra convinced her that it was necessary for the refund. After filling her details, she got three OTPs. Mishra asked for them, and on sharing two, Rs 30,000 was debited from her account. She asked Mishra's colleague, who joined the call, and was assured that she would get a refunded for that as well. The woman refused to share the third OTP and Mishra disconnected the line. She tried calling him back but he did not answer. Realising she had been conned, she registered a complaint with D B Marg police on October 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-woman-cheated-of-rs-30000-by-banks-branch-manager/articleshow/79092177.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Vacation dates now November 7-20, says education department||MUMBAI: The education department on Friday revised Diwali vacation dates from November 7-20 after protests by teachers in the state. The department had earlier announced a five-day break. Teachers' groups had demanded that the department announce dates for Diwali vacations. Teachers had complained that they had not got a break ever since online classes began in March as the Covid-19 lockdown began. But the department, in a circular on Thursday, announced a break only from November 12-16. Schools were told to suspend online classes and not hold exams during that period. The decision was criticised by teachers. Maharashtra Shikshak Parishad members on Friday clicked photographs with black masks in protest. Similarly, Shikshak Bharati, another teachers' group, wrote to government requesting a review. University of Mumbai Academic Staff Association (UMASA) wrote to the vice-chancellor to extend holidays for teachers and staff, and protested against the decision of giving a seven-day break. Mumbai University had declared vacations from November 12-18. In a letter to the authorities, UMASA's head said, "University teachers worked relentlessly during the pandemic and smoothly and successfully conducted online lectures and carried out examination work. UMASA sought an extension of Diwali vacations till November 27."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-vacation-dates-now-november-7-20-says-education-department/articleshow/79092186.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||Facing fireworks, state govt extends Diwali vacation to 2 weeks||Nagpur: State education department on Friday cancelled its order issued a day before curtailing Diwali vacations to just five days. The new circular now has scheduled vacations to begin with immediate effect and go on till November 20. Though the latest circular does not mention any reason, it seems the backlash from both teachers and parents forced the department to make a U-turn. Education department had earlier cited technicalities that mandate a minimum number of school days and completion of course, as a reason for curtailing Diwali vacations. Shubra Roy, a senior teacher at Somalwar School (Ramdaspeth), said it was good the vacation had been extended. “It was obvious the earlier schedule was too short. There has to be a decent interval between academics to keep minds of students fresh,” said Roy. Ashok Gavhankar, principal of Raosaheb Thawre school and junior college, said, “One has to wonder why the department takes decision that it will be forced to retract in 24 hours. Online teaching has been going on since April in most of the schools with no break for either teachers or students. Everyone needs time off to refresh.” Yogesh Pathare, a parent, said government should not have meddled with the schedule. “What was the point of citing guidelines in a year where nothing is normal. When you are facing a global pandemic, everything cannot function as it did earlier. It was an unnecessary intervention by the education department and it is no surprise they had to change it so soon,” said Pathare. However, there are academics who feel curtailing vacation is not such a bad idea. Madhusudhan Mude, principal of Major Hemant Jakate School, said, “They could have kept it for 10 days rather than two weeks. There is a lot of work that needs to be done to complete the syllabus. Online education in vernacular schools is already struggling, so we could do with some extra working days.” Vijay Wadibhasme, teacher at Saraswati Vidyalaya, said, “Course completion is the key but it has to be done in a proper way. And for that teachers do need more time. But it is a decision by the government and we will follow it.” Sundip Gaikwad, principal of Mecosabagh Methodist High School, said, “Vacation schedule could have been something in between the two. There is a lot of academic and administrative work to be done and we could use every working day available.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/facing-fireworks-state-govt-extends-diwali-vacation-to-2-weeks/articleshow/79088371.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||Vid industries show revival signs, but many still in dumps||Nagpur: Coming out of the Covid-induced lockdown, industries in Vidarbha are showing signs of revival with some functioning at full capacity, but many are still yet to start operations due to lack of payments from their industrial consumers. Madhusudan Rungta, president of MIDC Industries Association, Chandrapur, said only 50% industries in the district are functioning. “Recently, sponge iron units have started, which is a good sign. But most cement plants are still under maintenance. The main problem is that large number of industries are yet to receive payment from their clients. Therefore, in spite of demand these are unable to start operations. Public sector undertakings (PSUs) have cleared the dues, but private ones haven’t,” he added. Rungta further said explosives manufacturers are in trouble because of non-payment by Western Coalfields Limited (WCL). “We are also not getting required support from banks. In Chandrapur district alone, about 1,500 labourers are jobless due to lack of full revival of industries,” he said. Chandrashekhar Shegaonkar, president of MIDC Industries Association, Hingna, said about 80% units are functioning, but at around 70% capacity. “Those catering to defence, tractors, health and chemical units are having a good time. They are working round the clock or in extended single shifts. Mahindra & Mahindra suppliers are having a great time. However, the ones supplying power stations, cement, steel and general fabrication units are still in trouble,” he added. According to Shegaonkar, these units are facing three problems. “The first is consumers, including government, are yet to clear dues. Secondly, the demand is poor. Labour shortage is also a problem. Some 10% industries have closed down due to these problems,” he said. Pradeep Khandelwal, chief of Butibori Manufacturers Association (BMA), however, said scenario is satisfying with most industries functioning at 70% to 80% capacity and some even at 100%. He urged Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to ply more city buses on Butibori route. Suresh Rathi, president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), painted a mixed picture. “Money is available from banks, but government is yet to pay subsidy to small industries. The demand is very low. Containers of importers and exporters are stuck at ports and so they are facing problems. However, things are improving gradually and I expect it to change significantly by the year end,” he said. Rathi further said the government is solving problems of industrialists on priority basis and VIA is also extending full help to those in trouble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-industries-show-revival-signs-but-many-still-in-dumps/articleshow/79088428.cms||Ashish Roy
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||Bouncing back: At 50 rakes, WCL makes highest dispatch||Nagpur: In what may be signs of a bounce back after Covid, Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL) has achieved a record dispatch on Friday. The public sector mining company, a Nagpur-based subsidiary of Coal India Ltd (CIL), dispatched 50 rakes of coal, which comes to 2.46 lakh tonnes. This is the highest single day dispatch so far. It is a little more than double compared to dispatches made during the same period last year, said a senior official in WCL. Since lockdown, this is jump of more than three times. The coal dispatch from WCL’s mines had come down to 15 to 18 rakes a day or 80,000 tonnes during the lockdown. This was due to less or almost no demand by the various state power generation companies. “However, the company had envisaged the demand would soon bounce back and came up with a 100-day plan. This was meant to scale up the production in 100 days to meet the forthcoming demand. It could achieve the same in 50 days,” said R R Mishra, chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) of WCL. Mishra said most of the demand is from the various state government generation companies. Generation companies in central, western and southern India were depending on sources in eastern states. WCL offered them additional coal at more favourable landed cost which contributed to the increase in offtake, he said. However, apart from the increase in dispatches due to the diversion, there has been a general increase in demand from power generation companies and industrial consumers too, he said Mishra said as much as 25% of the increase in offtake can be easily attributed to the increased industrial activity, which in turn raised power demand. This can be seen from the increase in off-take of coal through e-auction too, he said. Industrial consumers can also buy coal through e-auction by paying a premium. During lockdown and the period immediately following around 2% to 3% of total available coal was lifted through e-auctioning. This has now increased to over 25%. The premium offered during the auction has also reached 10% to 12% of the base price as against 2% to 3% earlier, said a source. There has been substantial increase in demand from State gencos of Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and also from National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and Independent Power Producers (IPPs), said a WCL release. A Mahagenco source, however, said there has been no increase in the intake of WCL coal. The official agreed power generation has increased by 2000 MW since different phases of lockdown. According to the Mahagenco website, the total demand stands at over 15,000 MW. During normal times it is over 18,000 MW. The source said it can also be due to sudden dip in temperature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bouncing-back-at-50-rakes-wcl-makes-highest-dispatch/articleshow/79088448.cms||Shishir Arya
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||‘Hotels may not benefit much from status of industry’||Nagpur: The state cabinet has granted industry status to hospitality sector. While tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray has claimed on social media this will benefit the sector a lot, hoteliers remain sceptical. It is also not clear whether standalone restaurants will get industry status or not.Tejinder Singh Renu, president of Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NRHA), while welcoming the decision said the cabinet decision would only reduce the power bills of the hotels that too if they register with the Union tourism ministry. “Only 10% hotels are registered with the ministry,” he added.“The problem is that in cities like Nagpur, there is no distinction between commercial and industrial users for the purpose of levying house tax and water charges. So a shift from commercial to industrial does not help us. The state government must create a separate category for hospitality sector if it wants us to really benefit,” he told TOI.“As for bank loans, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) must notify hotels as industries for us to get lower interest rates. The state government must urge RBI to take the necessary step. Hoteliers will also meet Nitin Gadkari, Union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), and urge him to write to RBI in this regard,” said Renu.“Aaditya Thackeray has promised lower premium for additional floor space index (FSI) for hotels in the unified development control rules (DCR). We hope that it is notified soon,” Renu further said.According to him, the Union tourism ministry had asked all hotels to send their details so it could devise a relief package for the sector. “About 50 hotels in the city have temporary registration with the ministry. We don’t know whether this will be considered for the purpose of electricity tariff category change. It will be known only after the government resolution (GR) in this regard is issued,” he said.Piyush Rathi, a hotelier from Khamgaon, also welcomed the decision but said that Union finance minister should now take steps to help the hospitality sector.“It will now take just 10 licences to start a hospitality business in state instead of existing 70. However, other problems remain. Wine distributors are not supplying us because of past dues. They want 50% dues to be cleared but most of us are not in a position to do that. We have sought intervention of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in this regard,” said Rathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hotels-may-not-benefit-much-from-status-of-industry/articleshow/79088461.cms||Ashish Roy
November 7, 2020||Nagpur||BJP corporator surrenders before police||NAGPUR: BJP corporator Pradeep Pohane and three others have reportedly surrendered before police following which they were placed under arrest on Friday. They had allegedly blackened the face of a senior official of National highway authorities of India (NHAI) earlier this week at his office in Civil Lines. Pohane and three others were remanded till November 8 in custody. Sadar police, which arrested Pohane and his aides, had earlier taken BJP corporator Vaishali Vaid and one of her aide into custody. They were released on bail on Friday. Protesters led by BJP corporators had marched to NHAI office to protest delays in works at Pardi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-corporator-surrenders-before-police/articleshow/79088503.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to reopen school for Class IX to XII from November 23||MUMBAI: Almost nine months after schools were shut in March owing to the Covid-19 outbreak in the state, the state education department has proposed to reopen them for classes IX to XII starting November 23. A revised standard operating procedure and a proposal for reopening is awaiting clearance from the chief minister's office. However, most schools may choose not to resume classroom education except for laboratory work. Speaking to TOI, school education minister, Varsha Gaikwad said, "Schools will have to take written consent from parents. But students' grades won't depend on their attendance, and online learning will continue." As for colleges, a decision on opening campuses will be taken after Diwali. Higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said a decision for college students to return to the classroom will be taken by the CM and vice-chancellors after Diwali, adding not all VCs are in favour of resuming physical classes. The decision will be based on UGC's guidelines and in consultation with the State's Disaster Management Council on Covid-19, he said. Classrooms may be split or shifts introduced when schools reopenSchools are likely to adopt a wait-and-watch policy even if the state government gives them a go-ahead to resume classes on the campus starting November 23. “We have a plan in place for the reopening but the online learning for higher classes has also streamlined over the past months. We might want to call students only for science practicals and assessments. The teachers will stay connected from the school so that any student who doesn’t come to class can also learn from home,” said Chandrakanta Pathak, principal, HVB Global Academy, Marine Drive. Others sounded more reluctant about embracing the back-to-school proposal. “The government has provided nothing to help us build infrastructure to ensure the requirements can be followed. Budget schools don’t have funds to do this on their own either,” said Prashant Redij from Mumbai Principals’ Association. Many parents too aren’t willing to send children to school. Anubha Sahai of India Wide Parents Association said, “There is a lot of risk, and even if the teacher can control them in a classroom, meal times or after-school activities will be difficult to monitor. A lot of students also use public transport to travel which is still not advisable.” The government’s draft SoP recommends that not more than 20-30 students are present at a time in the classroom. Given the general size of rooms, especially in the older schools and the average strength of their class, managements may find the plan unfeasible, unless they introduce shifts for both students and faculty. Among other restrictions, the SoP disallows sports, morning prayers and gatherings while making wearing of masks mandatory. The state education department had first issued a SoP for schools in June and another one more recently in October. School education minister, Varsha Gaikwad told TOI, “In a meeting on Thursday it was discussed that it would be ideal if schools can be reopened for classes IX and XII.” She said students from the higher classes would be able to practise social distancing. “We have issued SoPs from time to time which must be followed.” Senior officials said thr final decision will be taken post-Diwali as experts have warned of a surge after the festive season. “A division wise review may be taken to see if there are any parts of the state where the spike is sharper. Schools may not be opened in those areas but could be opened for the rest of the state.” Staggering attendance, which will mean either a class is split into batches for alternate days or called across two shifts, are options which may have to be considered. The state is planning to hold board exams for HSC and SSC in May. “We have cut the syllabus by 25% but we still need a few months of school before the board exams. We cannot hold the examinations once the rains begin,” said Gaikwad. The Centre allowed partial re-opening of schools for higher classes from September 21, but Maharashtra government decided in a Cabinet meeting in October that the state would think about this post Diwali. Gaikwad said the government waited to reopen schools even though the Centre permitted them to do so as “health and safety of students and teachers is of utmost importance. We have hence only proposed to start higher classes so that number of students in school at any given time is limited,” she said. Government has now permitted 50% of teachers and non-teaching staff to be called in at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-likely-to-reopen-school-for-class-ix-to-xii-from-november-23/articleshow/79092209.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
November 7, 2020||India||SC stays US court ruling on Antrix-Devas||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has stayed execution of an award passed by a US court which asked Antrix Corporation, commercial arm of Isro, to pay compensation of $1.2 billion to Devas Multimedia, a Bengaluru-based company, for cancelling a 2005 satellite deal.  A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices LNageswara Rao and Indu Malhotra stayed the execution of the award till the objection against it is not decided by the Delhi high court where the case is pending. The court passed the order after Attorney General K KVenugopal ruled out possibility of mediation on the ground that the government discovered aserious fraud in the entire series of transactions leading up to the disputes, including the arbitration agreement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-stays-us-court-ruling-on-antrix-devas/articleshow/79092211.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 36 CCTV cameras on SPR failed to capture attack on MNC employee||GURUGRAM: Golf Course Road Extension or Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) where an MNC executive was attacked is equipped with more than 36 cameras but none of these was able to capture the crime, raising doubts over their utility. So far police have failed to gather any crucial footage which can help them in identifying the culprits. The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) installed 36 cameras that rotate 360 degrees and covers around an area of 100m to 200m at eight points from Sector 56 intersection to Vatika Chowk (Sohna Chowk) on SPR. On Tuesday night, after firing at the victim, Pooja, the miscreants fled from the spot either by the main road or a sector road. All these stretches are equipped with CCTV but no useful footage have been recovered from them. PK Aggarwal, GMDA smart city project head, said, “All cameras are running well and if accused passed from these ways and falls in camera range, would surely be captured.” According to sources, police commissioner KK Rao has ordered to check the CCTV of the command control unit to identify the culprits. Apart from this, the police also checked the CCTV cameras installed in nearby houses but are yet to identify and arrest those who fired at Pooja. According to the police, while checking CCTV cameras installed in nearby homes, quite a few were found lying defunct for the past few months. “Those installed by residents face technical glitches like not supporting night mode, poor quality of recording, or placement at non-useful angles. There is a sheer lack of awareness and knowledge when it comes to installing the right camera at the right place,” said a cop investigating this case. Residents also claimed that streetlights are almost non-existent on the stretches. Manoj Singh, a resident of Sector 67, said, “The entire stretch of the road needs to be equipped with CCTV cameras and these 30-odd cameras alone will not suffice. This is a very busy road and the approach roads too need to have CCTV cameras and streetlights in working condition. SPR is dotted with housing societies and residents like me feel unsafe going out after dark. As it is in the winter season very less people can be seen on the road after evening and the streetlights, CCTV cameras and presence of cops needs to be increased in this area.” An analysis of heinous crime investigations reveal that the key obstruction in the identification and nabbing of accused was the lack of useful CCTV footage in several cases, despite many cameras being installed in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/36-cctv-cameras-on-spr-failed-to-capture-attack-on-mnc-employee/articleshow/79091578.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Raipur||On trip to plan wedding, techie shot in Gurugram, dies||GURUGRAM/RAIPUR: When Pooja Sharma arrived in Delhi on October 25, her family was preparing for her wedding. On Friday, the 26-year-old software engineer’s father and brother flew back to Chhattisgarh with her body. She will be cremated on Saturday. Pooja was shot in the head by three men in Gurugram while returning from a restaurant where she had dinner with her fiance on the night of November 3 and passed away at Medanta on Thursday. The attack has left Gurugram and its corporate universe rattled. Street crimes have been getting deadlier in NCR, either side of Delhi. The attack on Pooja, an employee of an IT major, is the second time in two months when assailants have struck late night, ambushed a moving car and fatally injured the occupant — Amity university student Akshay Kalra was assaulted by carjackers in Noida on September 2 and died in hospital. Techie murder: Police exploring all anglesThe attack on Pooja may not, however, be the fallout of a carjacking attempt, police insist, because there was no attempt to steal the car. It may be purely coincidental at this point, but Kalra was driving a Creta and so was Pooja. It belonged to her fiance Sagar Manchanda, who is the sole witness to the attack. The doctors treating Pooja said she had a critical brain injury. “All possible outcomes and complications were explained to relatives in detail, with low chances of survival. On November 5, at around 2pm, the patient had cardiac arrest for which immediate cardiopulmonary resuscitation was started and continued. Despite this, the patient could not be revived and was declared dead at 2.33pm. She died due to severe brain injury due to a gunshot wound in the head,” said a doctor. The attackers fired twice at Sagar and Pooja from countrymade pistols after stopping them around 11.15 pm on a dimly lit road in Sector 65 that branches out of the main Southern Peripheral Road and heads towards M3M Skycity, where Sagar has booked a flat. They asked the duo to roll down the windows. When they refused, one of the men shot at Sagar through the windscreen. The bullet pierced the glass but missed Sagar. The other fired at Pooja, who was driving, through the right window. The bullet hit her on the head. The man fled after that and Sagar drove Pooja to hospital. ACP (crime branch) Preetpal Sangwan told TOI police weren’t sure of the motive behind the attack yet. “There could be many possibilities, including robbery,” Singh said. Dhamtari SP B P Rajbhanu said local police had learnt about Pooja’s murder from media reports and had not been informed by Gurugram police. Gurugram police had, right after the shooting, said they were also looking into the possibility of personal enmity as the motive of the attack but have so far not received a complaint from Pooja’s family. In a one-page statement, Pooja’s mother said she had taken permission to visit Sagar’s home in Sector 40, where he lives with his mother. “In the evening, they went out for dinner and thereafter for a drive when this incident took place. Sagar called us late at night to inform us about the incident,” said her statement, adding she did not suspect anyone and expected police to find out why she was killed. Pooja was expected to return to Dhamtari in Chhattisgarh – where she had been working from home since offices closed because of the pandemic – this weekend and visit Gurugram again on November 20 with her parents to meet Sagar’s family, police sources said. The wedding had been postponed because of the lockdown and was being planned for December. Her father, who runs an auto parts business in Dhamtari, and brother had flown to Delhi on Wednesday. Manchanda said in his complaint, “I took her to see a flat I had brought in a residential society and we were returning when three masked men approached our car. On seeing them, she slowed down the car and two of them got off and signalled to us to lower the windows. When we refused, the masked man next to her window took out a gun and shot at me but it did not hit me.” When Pooja started to drive away, she was shot in the head, his statement added. After arriving in Delhi, Pooja was staying with a relative in the national capital. She visited her office in Gurugram’s Sector 48 the same morning, on November 3, to get her laptop, which had developed a technical problem, replaced. Pooja had been in Gurugram for the last three years, working with the IT major. Watch Gurugram: 26-yr-old techie shot, dies on night out with fiance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/on-trip-to-plan-wedding-techie-shot-in-gurugram-dies/articleshow/79092245.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Gurgaon||On trip to plan wedding, techie shot in Gurugram, dies||GURUGRAM/RAIPUR: When Pooja Sharma arrived in Delhi on October 25, her family was preparing for her wedding. On Friday, the 26-year-old software engineer’s father and brother flew back to Chhattisgarh with her body. She will be cremated on Saturday. Pooja was shot in the head by three men in Gurugram while returning from a restaurant where she had dinner with her fiance on the night of November 3 and passed away at Medanta on Thursday. The attack has left Gurugram and its corporate universe rattled. Street crimes have been getting deadlier in NCR, either side of Delhi. The attack on Pooja, an employee of an IT major, is the second time in two months when assailants have struck late night, ambushed a moving car and fatally injured the occupant — Amity university student Akshay Kalra was assaulted by carjackers in Noida on September 2 and died in hospital. Techie murder: Police exploring all anglesThe attack on Pooja may not, however, be the fallout of a carjacking attempt, police insist, because there was no attempt to steal the car. It may be purely coincidental at this point, but Kalra was driving a Creta and so was Pooja. It belonged to her fiance Sagar Manchanda, who is the sole witness to the attack. The doctors treating Pooja said she had a critical brain injury. “All possible outcomes and complications were explained to relatives in detail, with low chances of survival. On November 5, at around 2pm, the patient had cardiac arrest for which immediate cardiopulmonary resuscitation was started and continued. Despite this, the patient could not be revived and was declared dead at 2.33pm. She died due to severe brain injury due to a gunshot wound in the head,” said a doctor. The attackers fired twice at Sagar and Pooja from countrymade pistols after stopping them around 11.15 pm on a dimly lit road in Sector 65 that branches out of the main Southern Peripheral Road and heads towards M3M Skycity, where Sagar has booked a flat. They asked the duo to roll down the windows. When they refused, one of the men shot at Sagar through the windscreen. The bullet pierced the glass but missed Sagar. The other fired at Pooja, who was driving, through the right window. The bullet hit her on the head. The man fled after that and Sagar drove Pooja to hospital. ACP (crime branch) Preetpal Sangwan told TOI police weren’t sure of the motive behind the attack yet. “There could be many possibilities, including robbery,” Singh said. Dhamtari SP B P Rajbhanu said local police had learnt about Pooja’s murder from media reports and had not been informed by Gurugram police. Gurugram police had, right after the shooting, said they were also looking into the possibility of personal enmity as the motive of the attack but have so far not received a complaint from Pooja’s family. In a one-page statement, Pooja’s mother said she had taken permission to visit Sagar’s home in Sector 40, where he lives with his mother. “In the evening, they went out for dinner and thereafter for a drive when this incident took place. Sagar called us late at night to inform us about the incident,” said her statement, adding she did not suspect anyone and expected police to find out why she was killed. Pooja was expected to return to Dhamtari in Chhattisgarh – where she had been working from home since offices closed because of the pandemic – this weekend and visit Gurugram again on November 20 with her parents to meet Sagar’s family, police sources said. The wedding had been postponed because of the lockdown and was being planned for December. Her father, who runs an auto parts business in Dhamtari, and brother had flown to Delhi on Wednesday. Manchanda said in his complaint, “I took her to see a flat I had brought in a residential society and we were returning when three masked men approached our car. On seeing them, she slowed down the car and two of them got off and signalled to us to lower the windows. When we refused, the masked man next to her window took out a gun and shot at me but it did not hit me.” When Pooja started to drive away, she was shot in the head, his statement added. After arriving in Delhi, Pooja was staying with a relative in the national capital. She visited her office in Gurugram’s Sector 48 the same morning, on November 3, to get her laptop, which had developed a technical problem, replaced. Pooja had been in Gurugram for the last three years, working with the IT major. Watch Gurugram: 26-yr-old techie shot, dies on night out with fiance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/on-trip-to-plan-wedding-techie-shot-in-gurugram-dies/articleshow/79092210.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA concept plan to transform Bhogapuram||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) is preparing a concept plan for the nearly 360 square kilometre area in vicinity of the proposed Bhogapuram airport in a bid to create a roadmap for balanced and sustainable growth for the area. The area, which has 31 square kilometres of hills and a 40km-long coastline, covers five mandals in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts. The responsibility for the project has been given to a private agency. According to VMRDA, the proposed airport and the metro rail project till Bhogapuram will transform the area. The concept plan is expected to take existing infrastructure, project development, mobility options, unexploited areas and future spatial development regulations into account. Development plans will be tailored for unexploited land. The plan would also provide strategic proposals for network improvement, tourism and possibilities of strategic public investments anticipating future stress points based on the proposed Bhogapuram airport and the metro network. Speaking to TOI, VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that this new urban expansion should be well planned. “The concept plan will broadly project future development and indicate areas to be protected as well as identify areas to be developed. At a later stage, finalised proposals under this plan many be dovetailed in the VMRDA master plan for 2041,” said Koteswara Rao. The urban development body is currently preparing its master plan for 2041. The private agency in charge of the project recently submitted the preliminary draft master plan to VMRDA. After making alterations to the preliminary draft master plan, VMRDA will put the plan in the public domain and seek suggestions and opinions on the draft plan. Meanwhile, VMRDA is also preparing a perspective plan for 2051. With the state government having decided to make Visakhapatnam the executive capital of Andhra Pradesh, focus has shifted to the VMRDA which may play a key role in urban planning, development and regulation as the major urban development authority of the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-concept-plan-to-transform-bhogapuram/articleshow/79088649.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Divya murder case: Police take accused into custody||VIJAYAWADA: Twenty-one days after the brutal murder of 21-year-old Disha Tejaswini, police on Friday arrested the accused, 25-year-old Budugu Nagendra Babu (alias Chinna Swamy), who was undergoing treatment at Guntur Government General Hospital. In a press release issued on Friday, Vijayawada police said that the accused who allegedly harassed and then stabbed Divya Tejaswini was taken into custody after complete recovery. Police added that the accused was taken to Disha police station where ACP VV Naidu is probing the case. The police further said that the entire investigation was conducted within a week and the charge-sheet against the accused has also been prepared. On October 15, the accused allegedly barged into Divya Tejaswini’s home, stabbed her multiple times and slit her throat. Then, the accused tried to commit suicide. Accused Nagendra’s family has claimed that the incident was a suicide pact. Cops however said that it was a clear case of murder as the girl had at least 13 cut injuries on the body, which the post mortem report also indicates. Nagendra claimed that he and Divya were married, but Divya’s family have denied the claim. Police informed that the accused would be produced before to court soon for judicial remand. A murder case was registered at Machavaram police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/divya-murder-case-police-take-accused-into-custody/articleshow/79088663.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||2,410 new cases in Andhra Pradesh; post-Covid treatment now under Aarogyasri||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,410 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,38,363. The toll increased to 6,768 as 11 more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease. As many as 2,452 patients were declared cured on Friday. There are currently 21,825 active cases with 8,09,770 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 96%. East Godavari reported 401 new cases on Friday, followed by Guntur 323 and West Godavari and Krishna 298 infections each. Kurnool recorded the lowest number of cases of the day: 23. Of the 11 deaths registered on Friday, three are from Krishna, two each from Chittoor and Guntur, and one each from Anantapur, East Godavari, Kadapa and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh so far tested 85 lakh Covid-19 samples, including 79,601 tests conducted on Friday. The overall case positivity rate stood under 10%, while the mortality rate was at 0.8%. Meanwhile, the state government on Friday included the post-Covid treatment under Dr YSR Aarogyasri Scheme. The state government fixed a maximum per day package of Rs 2,930 for the post-Covid treatment. The patients can avail of the maximum seven-day hospital stay under this package. The government order released on Friday mentioned the abnormal high-resolution CT scan and less than 94% SPo2 levels as the indicators to avail of the the post-Covid treatment. Andhra Pradesh is offering free treatment for Covid-19 patients from the day one of the outbreak in the state under Aarogyasri scheme. The government had earlier announced per-day packages under the scheme after private hospitals were given permission to treat the Covid-19 patients. Subsequently, the government allowed the use of high-end drugs and conduct of repeated radiological investigations depending upon the severity of the Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/2410-new-cases-in-ap-post-covid-treatment-now-under-aarogyasri/articleshow/79088678.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||MEA plans tour of 190 envoys to vaccine facility||NEW DELHI: The MEA on Friday briefed more than 190 heads of diplomatic missions and international organisations on Covid-related issues. Participants were briefed about India’s vaccine development programme, issues of vaccine delivery system and international cooperation. The MEA was represented by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla. The government said the MEA would organise a tour of heads of the missions and international organisations to Pune where they can visit the institutions engaged in Covidrelated research and vaccine development programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mea-plans-tour-of-190-envoys-to-vaccine-facility/articleshow/79092249.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Man gets life sentence for wife’s murder||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 38-year-old man was sentenced to imprisonment for life by a court at Parvathipuram in Vizianagaram district on Friday. The convict, Gembali Yerakayya, murdered his 35-year-old wife G Chilakamma a year ago. Police said that the second additional district court in Parvathipuram, while holding Gembali Yerakayya guilty of murder, also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000. Gemballa Yerakkaya used to live in Mulavalasa village of Makkuva mandal. The deceased, G Chilakamma, was his third wife. Addicted to alcohol, Yerakkaya would pick fights with his wife regularly. Unable to bear the harassment after a point, Chilakamma left home to go live at a kin’s place. Yerakkaya went to her, promised that he would take care of her and convinced her to return home. But on April 28, 2019, when Yerakayya asked Chilakamma for money to buy liquor, she refused. A fight ensued and Yerakayya slit his wife’s throat, stabbed and killed her. Makuva police arrested the accused. The court found the accused guilty of murder on the basis of witnesses and clues collected from the crime scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-gets-life-sentence-for-wifes-murder/articleshow/79088687.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pandemic norms tossed away as crowds gather at rythu bazaars||VISAKHAPATNAM: With vegetable prices soaring in Visakhapatnam, people are crowding at rythu bazaars with hardly any regard for social distancing. The crowds are worrying the state administration which is gearing up for a second wave of Covid-19 infection. Estate officials at rythu bazaars said that they are having a tough time convincing people to maintain social distancing norms. They have sought help from senior officials of the agriculture marketing department and have requested police posting. Jagadeshwar Rao, estate officer of Pedda Waltair rythu bazaar, said, “As price of vegetables started rising, so did footfall in rythu bazaars. This happens every year. But it’s becoming extremely difficult for us to make people follow Covid-19 norms without police vigilance.” Officials said that when the lockdown started in March, rythu bazaars were shifted to open grounds. There was police posting to ensure that people wear masks and maintain social distancing. However, from early September, these bazaars were shifted to their original locations. Since crowds were low, police postings were removed. “I went to Madhurawada rythu bazaar last Sunday. The situation was horrible. There were customers and shopkeepers not wearing masks. No one bothered with social distancing. I am not going back to a rythu bazaar soon,” said K Srinivas, a resident of Kommadi. Agriculture marketing department officials said that they are keeping a watch on the situation and would seek police help if required. “In fact, we had actually posted police at a few rythu bazaars across the state. We are keeping a check on footfall,” a senior official of the agriculture marketing department told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pandemic-norms-tossed-away-as-crowds-gather-at-rythu-bazaars/articleshow/79088739.cms||Arpit Basu
November 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||32 pothole-related deaths in Andhra Pradesh in 2019||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 32 pothole-related deaths in 2019, a significant increase from just one in 2018, according to a report by the Union ministry of road transport and highways. Andhra Pradesh has also seen around 268 bridge-related deaths and 121 culvert-related deaths in 2019. Even though the number is very low when compared to other states, motorists maintain that there is an urgent need to repair roads in state. Data on road accidents revealed that potholes were responsible for 95 road accidents in Andhra Pradesh in 2019. While 32 people died in these accidents, 149 were injured of which 91 suffered grievous injuries. Among all states, Uttar Pradesh reported the highest number of pothole-related deaths as well as accidents. As many as 2,122 pothole-related accidents were reported in Uttar Pradesh in which 1,034 people died. Vizianagaram-based social activist K Samba Murthy said, “Major roads in Vizianagaram district have gone from bad to worse with big potholes. We appeal to agencies to step up the drive against potholes to bring down road accidents and mitigate traffic congestion.” Leaving manholes uncovered during works is another major reason for accidents, says D Sudhakar, a motorist. Apart from potholes, faulty speed-breakers are another major cause of road accidents. Residents of several areas are known to set up illegal speed-breakers. These poorly-designed speed-breakers not only damage vehicles but can also trigger health problems such as spinal injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/32-pothole-related-deaths-in-ap-in-19/articleshow/79088757.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 7, 2020||Vijayawada||HC to see if Andhra Pradesh facing constitutional breakdown||VIJAYAWAHA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday said it will decide if there is constitutional breakdown in the state after taking a considerate view on various aspects including the social media cases targeting judges, along with a batch of habeas corpus petitions. The bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi made the observations during the hearing on a batch of habeas corpus petitions. The judges said that the state government had proposed to abolish the legislative council as Bills intended for trifurcation of the state capital were referred to a select committee. The state government has also targeted the state election commission and now it seems the third target is the high court, the bench observed. The bench asked the advocates representing the petitioners to assist the court in establishing whether constitutional breakdown had taken place or not. Expressing displeasure over the status report submitted by the CBI regarding the investigation of the cases in which the high court ordered inquiry, the bench said that they would summon the joint director if they failed to make progress in the investigation. The bench observed that the police did not register a case even after the high court registrar-general lodged a complaint. It was only after two days, 10 FIRs were registered by omitting all the key persons. Resuming the arguments in a petition pertaining to illegal detention of a couple, the government special advocate, SS Prasad, told the bench that as the allegations made by the petitioners were not proven. He said the petitioners have a criminal record and they were produced before a lower court and hence there is no need for a CBI inquiry. He also said the judicial inquiry report had some flaws and hence the high court should not take any action based on the report. He said that the searches at the advocate’s house are not connected to this case. The petitioner’s counsel P Ravi Teja said that the police detained his clients even before a case was registered which was illegal and violated fundamental rights. When fundamental rights of a person are violated, the high court can take up the matter, he said. Ravi Teja further argued that the police admitted that they have searched the house of the petitioner's advocate and now they are trying to mislead the court by creating a false story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-will-take-call-on-constitutional-breakdown-in-ap/articleshow/79088794.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Taiwanese firm set to invest Rs 700 cr in AP||Amaravati: Global passive component manufacturer PSA Walsin Technology Corporation is set to invest Rs 700 crore in the state. Walsin is one of many Taiwanese companies to have expressed interest to forge an alliance with the Andhra Pradesh government. The director-general of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre Ben Wang on Friday met with chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and promised to encourage more industrial units to set up shop in AP. The CM assured Wang of all possible support. Speaking to the media, industries minister M Gautham Reddy said they were inching closer to striking more deals with Taiwanese firms. The minister said they would make the formal announcements upon completion of the deals. He said the state is expected to get investments to the tune of Rs 20,000 crore over the next few months. “The Adani Group is also putting up nearly Rs 15,000 crore for a data centre in Vizag. The TDP, which spread lies over the data centre, owes an apology to the people,” the minister said. Gautham Reddy also emphasised on close ties between India and Taiwan and AP’s role in strengthening the partnership. “Being on the east coast of India, AP is naturally suited to be an active enabler for trade with Taiwan,” he said. The minister also mooted the idea of creating a hub for manufacturing bicyles and e-bikes to cater to both domestic and export markets. He said that a dedicated Taiwan Desk would be set up under the aegis of YSR AP ONE business enablement centre and added that they would also nominate a special representative of AP in Taiwan to coordinate on issues of mutual interest. Later in the day, Ben Wang participated in the Taiwan-AP business roundtable organised by industries department at APIIC buildings. Taiwanese firms such as Foxlink, Greentech Industries, Apache Footwear, Intelligent SEZ, Foxconn, Applied Materials and PSA Walsin participated in the discussions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/taiwanese-firm-set-to-invest-rs-700-cr-in-ap/articleshow/79088803.cms||Samdani MN
November 7, 2020||Business||ITC Q2 standalone net falls 19.6%||Kolkata: FMCG-to-hotel-to-tobacco conglomerate ITC on Friday reported a 19.6% year-on-year fall in its standalone net profit to Rs 3,232.4 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, with gross revenue from sale rising just 1.2% y-o-y. The city-based company had posted Rs 4,023.1 crore net profit for the second quarter last fiscal. Its gross revenue from sales for the period July-September stood at Rs 11,891.9 crore against Rs 11,750.1 crore for the same period last year, beating analysts’ expectations. During the period under review, the diversified conglomerate’s tax expenses rose 32.8% y-o-y at Rs 1,041.92 crore. During the second quarter this fiscal, revenue from the company’s cigarette business fell 3.8% y-o-y at Rs 5,121.3 crore, while operating profit from the segment also decreased by 15.6% y-o-y at Rs 3,244.8 crore during the period, according to a stock exchange filing. During the quarter under review, non-cigarette FMCG business registered 15.4% y-o-y growth in its revenue to Rs 3,794.95 crore, while the segment posted a whopping 179.3% y-o-y growth in operating profit at Rs 252.6 crore during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/itc-q2-standalone-net-falls-19-6/articleshow/79091665.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi posts 7,100 Covid-19 cases, India’s highest on Friday||NEW DELHI: The daily tally of Covid-19 cases in Delhi crossed the 7,000 mark for the first time on Friday with a record 7,178 more people testing positive for the infection. This was also the highest tally reported by any state on Friday, pushing Kerala’s count (7,002) to second place. Delhi reported 64 deaths on Friday, the second highest daily toll in the country after Maharashtra’s 161 fatalities. 60% of around 40k active cases in home careFriday’s record-breaking numbers came out of 58,860 tests. Of these, the government said 15,666 (27%) tests were done using RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat while the rest, 43,194 (73%) tests were through Rapid Antigen Test kits. The overall positivity rate, number of positive cases from those tested, was 12.19%. The infection tally in Delhi has crossed 4.23 lakh mark and the death toll stands at 6,833. The spike in cases over the past two weeks is also reflected in the occupancy of Covid-19 beds. According to data shared by city hospitals on the Delhi Corona app, 77% of ICU beds without a ventilator and 73% of ICU beds with a ventilator were occupied. The most number of vacant ICU beds were available in either public hospitals or lesser known private hospitals and even these were filling up fast, the doctors said. “Non-ICU beds are available. We have a total of 15,845 non-ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. Of them, 7,655 are lying vacant,” said an official in the state health department. At present, Delhi has 39,722 active cases. Of these, 23,679 (60%) are under home isolation while the rest are admitted in various hospitals or Covid Care facilities being run by the government. “Most people who have mild symptoms are preferring to isolate themselves at home. They rush to the hospital when the condition deteriorates which is why there is high demand for ICU beds while the general beds for Covid-19 patients remain vacant,” said an official. Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, department of medicine at Max hospital, Saket said the outbreak situation in Delhi is getting worse. “Our OPDs are flooded with suspected and confirmed cases of Covid-19. At home also, I am doing video-consultation till late in the night to attend to the needs of patients. If urgent measures are not taken to enforce social distancing and wearing of masks in public places, the situation may worsen further and perhaps to an extent where it can get unmanageable,” he said. Not just cases, even the severity of symptoms had increased over the last few days due to air pollution. According to Dr J C Suri, director and head of pulmonology at Fortis Vasant Kunj, more Covid-19 patients are requiring admission because of exacerbation in cough, chest congestion and breathlessness due to both the infection and pollution which is on the rise too. Particulate Matter (PM), a key pollutant, can create a suitable environment for transporting the virus to greater distances than those considered for close contact, research shows. It can also induce inflammation in lung cells which can increase the susceptibility and severity of the Covid-19 patient symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-posts-7100-covid-19-cases-indias-highest-on-friday/articleshow/79092280.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Training programme for learner’s licence registration applicants||VISAKHAPATNAM: As many as 5,400 applicants for a learner’s licence registration (LLR) have undergone Safety Driving Education, a programme in association with an automobile company. The programme was supposed to be rolled out in March this year, but was postponed due to the pandemic. The Road Transport Authority (RTA) began the programme in September. Visakhapatnam RTA deputy transport commissioner GC Raja Ratnam said the programme is aimed at making sure candidates applying for an LLR are aware of basic traffic rules and regulations. “We don’t issue the LLR certificate to the candidate if he or she skips this programme. It’s a one-hour-long programme. Currently, it is available in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada,” Raja Ratnam told TOI. The transport officer acknowledged the programme has helped both department and candidates, and has improved pass percentage and basic knowledge of driving skills. Visakhapatnam also has a free-of-cost simulation centre in which representatives of an automobile company train learners on the dos and dont’s involved in safe driving. Officials said while many have picked up driving skills, knowledge of symbols used in signboards is lacking. “We are imparting this programme maintaining Covid-19 protocol. A dedicated room is provided for this programme,” Raja Ratnam added. Applicants for an LLR first need to register themselves online. Once their slot is booked, RTA officials would allow them into the training programme. Mostly youth and women have come forward for LLRs this time, the transport officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/training-programme-for-llr-applicants/articleshow/79088811.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 7, 2020||India||India says taking Bangladesh temples vandalisation reports seriously||NEW DELHI: India is taking reports of vandalisation of Hindu temples in Bangladesh “very seriously”, the government said on Friday. This was the first government response after Congress member Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury highlighted the fact that over 15 Hindu temples had been attacked in Bangladesh. After allegations of disrespect to Islam on some Facebook posts surfaced, Chowdhury had asked the Centre to take up the issue with the Sheikh Hasina government. The Modi government has very close ties with the Bangladesh government but has remained silent over the temple attacks.  According to media reports from Bangladesh, temples at Nasirnagar in Brahmanbarhia district in Bangladesh were vandalised on Sunday and over 100 houses in the area belonging to Hindus were looted. After the violence, which reportedly lasted for hours, two temples in adjacent Madhabpur in Habigunj also came under attack, the report said quoting police and eyewitnesses. Six people have been arrested for their alleged involvement in the attack and paramilitary forces and police were deployed at Nasirnagar and Madhabpur Upazila headquarters, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-says-taking-bangladesh-temples-vandalisation-reports-seriously/articleshow/79092278.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: V Vijayasai Reddy writes to AICTE against Gitam||VISAKHAPATNAM: YSRC Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy has complained to All India Council for Technical Education chairman Anil Sahasrabuddi against alleged violations by Gitam university. He requested the AICTE to constitute an enquiry committee to check the violations and also examine whether the varsity complied with the norms and standards specified by the statutory body. The district revenue department has claimed that Gitam has encroached upon 40.51 acres of government land and constructed some of its academic buildings in it. The authorities also demolished a few structures including the boundary wall 10 days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vijayasai-writes-to-aicte-against-gitam/articleshow/79088830.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: German loan of Rs 4,800 crore for Metro lines 4 and 4A||MUMBAI: In a boost to Metro 4 (Wadala to Kasarvadavli) and 4A (Kasarvadavli to Gaimukh), a German ministry has extended credit of Rs 4,800 crore for both projects. Copies of the loan agreement, the "highest disbursal for a project in India, at the lowest rate of interest offered by any financial institution", were exchanged between MMRDA commissioner R A Rajeev and the consul-general of Germany at a event here, attended virtually by urban development minister Eknath Shinde and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. An MMRDA spokesperson said, "The German federal ministry for economic cooperation and development (BMZ)-KfW approved two loans for euros 545 million to the Indian ministry of finance to fund Metro 4 and 4A, which will ease the distress of millions of commuters each day and help provide a cleaner, less congested city." The combined cost of these two lines is Rs 15,000 crore. Line 4 is 32km and Line 4A 2km, and around 20% work has been completed on the route. Thackeray said, "Though it is good to take decisions to start mega transportation projects, which are very much required in Mumbai, it is more important to do financial closures and provide all support like making available the required land. I hope Lines 4 and 4A will be completed on time." He said the loan from Kfw had eliminated skepticism that was raised regarding lack of funds to carry out Metro projects initiated and planned in the Mumbai metropolitan region. MMRDA said the funds will cover system components for Lines 4 and 4A, footpaths and cycle routes surrounding stations to improve integration within the transport system. The 34km Metro line will link Mumbai to Thane. (With PTI inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-german-loan-of-rs-4800-crore-for-metro-lines-4-and-4a/articleshow/79092290.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||IIT-Kgp plans Vedic sciences research hub||Kolkata: A new centre of excellence is coming up at IIT-Kharagpur to research the contribution of Vedic sciences to modern learning across the globe, reports Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey. From chemistry, physics and surgery to mathematics and economics, the centre will look into how the foundation of fundamental concepts were laid down during Vedic times and how they later became practised systems. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal made the announcement while inaugurating the Bharata Tirtha series of international webinars hosted by the institute to discuss ancient Indian knowledge. If all goes well, the centre — equipped with libraries, manuscript archives, seminar halls and digital facilities — will be ready in another year and a half. “No one denies our contribution of ‘zero’ to mathematics, and there’s so much more that needs to be explored,” said Joy Sen, a senior faculty member in charge of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-kgp-plans-vedic-sciences-research-hub/articleshow/79091526.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Don’t need Prez Rule or CM face to defeat TMC: Shah||Kolkata: BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday said there was no need of President’s Rule in Bengal, as he was confident of a BJP win in 2021, nor did he name a chief ministerial candidate. “There is no point talking about Article 356 when we are going to form the government in April,” Shah told the press on the second day of his Bengal visit. “You gave chances to Congress, the communists and Trinamool to rule Bengal. Give us one chance. We will offer you good rule,” he said. Shah said he could sense the “public anger” against the present government. Shah dropped hints that the party would like to stick to the Modi-Mamata binary instead of projecting a new face (the chief ministerial candidate) five months ahead of the polls. “There are states like Uttar Pradesh, where we won elections without projecting a CM face,” he said. He reiterated the Centre’s commitment to giving citizenship to non-Muslim refugees from neighbouring countries. Earlier in the day, he promised as much to Matua member Nabin Biswas of Baguiati’s Adarsha Pally, where he lunched with the family, but did not say whether the refugees would get citizenship before the polls. “I have a commitment to implement CAA in Bengal,” he said. “The process of framing rules for CAA got delayed due to corona. We are committed to it.” Prior to the lunch, Shah also went to the Matua Mahasangha Mandir at Gouranganagar to reassure the Matua community, where he asked organizers to increase ground activity in support of CAA. Based on the feedback of more than 180 BJP karyakartas, who he met in Bankura and Kolkata, and conversations he had with a cross-section of people in the last two days, Shah hit out at the Trinamool government with three Ts: tushtikaran (appeasement), tanasahi (autocracy) and tolabazi (extortion). “The present government has given a new dimension to administration and politics. Administration is politicised, there has been criminalisation of politics and corruption has been institutionalised,” he said. “I have a ready dossier of corruption, even over cyclone relief and corona funds.” He also responded to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s jibes at the Centre over using their agencies against those who don’t toe their line. “Let me clarify first that central agencies do not work under me. But why is the CM so worried over the raids in the city? Both the Centre and the state get share of the coal royalty,” he said. Shah elaborated on the appeasement charge and accused Trinamool of taking separate stances for different categories of people. “This state has three sets of laws, like nowhere in India. One set is for the nephew (parivarbad), another set for vote bank (you know what I mean) and the third set for the public,” he said. The Union minister said Bengal was among the top three states in crime against women and the first when it came to political killings. “I say this based on National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, 2018. The state government hasn’t provided law and order data beyond this year. More than 100 BJP workers, and many Congress, communist and even RTI activists were killed during this time. There have been no arrests in most cases, the number of charge sheets is low, and the conviction rate is the lowest in the country,” he said. The BJP leader told karyakartas at a closed-door meet to keep doors open for “experienced vote managers” from across parties in a bid to strengthen the booth-level organization. Shah told them that the party didn’t want to come to power riding on only anti-incumbency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dont-need-prez-rule-or-cm-face-to-defeat-tmc-shah/articleshow/79091635.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 7, 2020||Ranchi||Despite tensions BSL manages to export 1 lakh tonnes steel to China||BOKARO: At a time when the India-China rivalry is making news around the world, the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) has began exporting steel to Chinese buyers. The BSL has exported about one lakh tonnes of steel of varying grades to China from June to September. Sources in the BSL said the PSU started eyeing the international market as the domestic demand plummeted after the imposition of lockdown. Now steel slabs, pig iron and coils manufactured by the BSL are not just exported to China, but also to buyers in countries like Vietnam, Nepal, Bangladesh and Saudi Arabia. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said: “It was the first time in the history of BSL that our steel products were exported to China. We still have orders from there, but we would first prefer to meet the steel requirements of the domestic market.” Several BSL staffers, though, said that it was an achievement for them to export steel products to China, which is a leading steel exporter itself. Dhan said domestic orders had virtually dried up after the imposition of lockdown in March, and the BSL had to almost halve its production rate till May. Things began to turn around after it received an order from Nepal and exported 3,000 tonnes of steel in the last week of May. Soon, BSL also received an order of 60,000 tonnes comprising continuous casting slabs and hot rolled coils from China, Dhan added. The production rate of BSL has now come back to the pre-pandemic levels, he said. Dhan further said: “We exported 40,824.56 tonnes of continuous casting slabs, 45,269.52 tonnes of hot rolled coils and 19,436.57 tonnes of pig iron to China between June and September. BSL has also reached 90% of its saleable steel target for October.” BSL sources said that HR Coils that were exported to China have multiple applications. It can be used in the construction industry, auto and white goods sectors, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/despite-tensions-bsl-manages-to-export-1-lakh-tonne-steel-to-china/articleshow/79088889.cms||Divy Khare
November 7, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh veggie sellers attack Covid test team for ‘hampering’ business||RAMGARH: A group of vegetable sellers attacked and chased away a team of health workers with sticks when the latter allegedly closed the market gates during peak business hours to collect swab samples for rapid antigen tests from the vendors. The angry vegetable sellers also blocked NH-33 for several hours in protest. The market, which earlier used to be set up at the old bus stand, was shifted to the football ground in order to ensure social distancing. Vidya Shankar, officer in-charge of Ramgarh town police station, said after the protests, police rushed to the spot and controlled the situation and vehicular movement has also been resumed on NH-33. Dr Mritunjay Kumar, in-charge of the special Covid-19 test drive in Ramgarh, said, “In order to increase sampling, rapid antigen test camps are being organised at various locations of the district. When the medical team visited the market, they were attacked by a mob who threw all papers, medical tools and Covid test kits that the team was carrying. It’s because of lack of awareness.” The camp has now been shifted to a safer location, he said. Circle officer Bhola Shankar Mahto, who was also present in the market as a magistrate with the medical team, said the administration has decided not to file any police complaint for the rampage, but will rather launch an awareness drive to sensitize the rural vegetable sellers. A woman seller said on condition of anonymity that medical teams frequently visit the market to collect samples. “They close the gate of the market and no customer is allowed to enter from dawn to dusk. These test adversely impact our business,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ramgarh-veggie-sellers-attack-cov-test-team-for-hampering-business/articleshow/79088795.cms||N K Agarwal
November 7, 2020||Jamshedpur||Ahead of Chhat Puja, Jharkhand govt allows inter-state bus services to resume||JAMSHEDPUR: After allowing private buses to operate only intra-state at 50% capacity for the past few months, the state government on Thursday night allowed bus owners to ply their vehicles inter-state at full capacity. The decision comes just days ahead of Chhat Puja when Biharis living in Jharkhand make a beeline for the neighbouring state and book trains and buses months in advance. Currently, only one Bihar-bound passenger train (Tatanagar-Chhapra Express) operates from Jamshedpur, so resumption of inter-state bus services will prove to be a boon for them. “Ever since bus services resumed from September, the commuters, in anticipation that inter-state services will resume soon, would ask us about advance bookings, particularly for Bihar,” Jamshedpur Bus Operators’ Association (JBOA) functionary Upendra Kumar Sharma said on Friday. “In the pre-Covid days, we would ferry around 22,000 passengers to three states — Odisha, Bengal and Bihar – during the festive season and 70% of them travelled to the neighbouring state,” he added. Steel City resident D K Jha (53), who works at a private firm, was elated upon hearing that now he can travel to Bihar for Chhat and he plans to book his ticket to Motihari soon. He, however, is wary of operators following the safety norms now that buses will ply at full capacity. “Resumption of inter-state bus services ahead of Chhat Puja is indeed a good news but I need to see how sincerely the operators will comply with the Covid norms while plying their vehicles at full capacity,” he said. Meanwhile, the operators hinted at a fare hike although they have not taken a decision on the matter yet. JBOA president U P Singh said, “As of now, there will be no hike in fares but it cannot be ruled out in the near future. We will take a decision on the matter in a day or two.” They have urged the government to waive off road and additional taxes till December to ease the financial burden that they have gone through during lockdown. “We are not demanding any financial relief package but the government should announce tax waivers, like its counterpart in Punjab did recently, to help us recover from the financial stress caused during lockdown,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/ahead-of-chhat-puja-govt-allows-inter-state-bus-services-to-resume/articleshow/79088874.cms||B Sridhar
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Project manager stood up for team, paid with his life: Colleague||Kolkata: Subhodip Bhadra, the 34-year-old project manager from Bengal who was stabbed to death in Gujarat on Wednesday over an alleged road rage incident, was only being protective of his two fellow workers because he believed they weren’t guilty of speeding, colleague and complainant in the murder case Angshuman Ghosh told TOI on Friday. Bhadra, a native of Beliaghata, worked with a Mumbai-based pipeline construction firm that was contracted by Gujarat State Petronet Ltd (GSPL). Ghosh, who was present when Bhadra’s body was handed over to his elderly father and cremated at Amreli, Gujarat, on Friday, said the young project manager always stood up for his colleagues, especially juniors. “The assailant, Pradyumansinh Gohil, picked up a fight over nothing. He claimed two of our colleagues (Ankit Sanodiya and Shabdar Khan Nizamuddin) sped past him in an SUV that (Wednesday) night. But, the truth is no one was speeding. Gohil just wanted a brawl. Bhadra asked me to go inside the house and tried to calm Gohil down. Everything seemed sorted, but Gohil soon came back with others and attacked Bhadra. He was stabbled multiple times,” Ghosh told TOI as he recalled the fatal attack outside Bhadra’s rented accommodation in Rajula on the outskirts of Rajkot. Ghosh is from Konnagar in Hooghly Sanodiya and Nizamuddin, who had gone to drop Bhadra’s guest at a hotel, were wounded in the attack and are recuperating in hospital. Police have arrested Gohil, a Rajula resident, and charged him with murder based on a complaint filed by Ghosh. Bhadra, who lost his mother years ago, was an only child and the sole support of his elderly father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/project-manager-stood-up-for-team-paid-with-his-life-colleague/articleshow/79091531.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Gurung fighting for Gorkha cause: Shah||Kolkata/Darjeeling: Union home minister Amit Shah described Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung as a “leader fighting for the Gorkha cause” even after he pulled out of the NDA a fortnight ago and pledged his support to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Instead, Shah targeted Banerjee for slapping 150-odd criminal cases on the Gorkha leader, calling it a glaring instance of “political vendetta”. “Bimal Gurung is fighting for the Gorkha cause as he was doing earlier. But I would like to ask chief minister Mamata Banerjee why she initiated so many criminal cases against Gurung. This is a glaring instance of political vendetta,” Shah said. Shah’s comment came at a time when the Gurung faction on Friday said the outfit would field candidates in all three Hills seats in the coming assembly elections. "We are not aware of the understanding between the Tamang group and Trinamool,” GJM central committee member Tilak Chandra Roka said, hinting that the new equation of a united fight between BJP and TMC-Tamang-Gurung is unlikely. Seniors of the Gurung faction claimed that the proposal to Gurung had come from Banerjee’s end and not the other way round. “She (Trinamool chief) made the offer after she came to know that only our party president can restore peace and stability in the Hills,” Roka said. The Gurung faction also made it clear that it will pursue the demand for a permanent solution in the Hills and granting of ST status to 11 Gorkha communities. “It is our constitutional right,” Roka said. GJM (Binay) leader Binay Tamang and Gorkhaland Territorial Administration leader Anit Thapa, on the other hand, gave an opposite picture to the flow of things at Bagdogra airport on Friday. Tamang didn’t elaborate on TMC’s relation with Gurung and also about his possible return to the Hills. (Inputs from Roshan Gupta in Siliguri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gurung-fighting-for-gorkha-cause-shah/articleshow/79091484.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Adhir takes out tractor rally against farm laws||Kolkata: Congress’ Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury drove a tractor down the heart of the city on Friday afternoon to protest against the farm laws adopted by the Narendra Modi government. The unique rally that grabbed eyeballs was organized by West Bengal Pradesh Congress from Victoria Memorial to Gandhi Statue on Mayo Road. Chowdhury upheld farmers’ cause against the Centre’s attempt to open up the farming sector to big corporate groups, like it did in the area of communication. “You all have cellphones. Earlier, there were several service providers. Nowadays a particular service provider is grabbing the entire sector. This will happen to agriculture as well,” the Bengal Congress chief said. Chowdhury hit out at the Modi government, saying the farm laws would weaken the public distribution system. “The Centre is implementing recommendations of the Shanta Kumar Committee that calls for bringing down PDS coverage from 67% to 40%,” he said. Chowdhury also seized the opportunity to take a dig at Union home minister Amit Shah over eating lunch with a Dalit family. “Where was he during the Hathras incident in Uttar Pradesh? Why didn’t he pay a visit to the victim’s family?” he said. The Pradesh Congress rally comes as the party’s independent initiative ahead of Bengal assembly polls in which leaders are projecting Chowdhury as the face that can take on Modi and Mamata Banerjee at one go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/adhir-takes-out-tractor-rally-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79091525.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops probe as kin say Covid body cremated without info||KOLKATA: In the first complaint after the Bengal government allowed Covid bodies to be handed over to victims’ kin based on a Calcutta High Court order, a Bijoygarh resident has alleged that a private hospital on Garia Main Road handed over his father’s body to a civic agency for cremation without informing him as he had failed to clear the huge bill. The hospital claimed the family did not contact them for two days after the patient’s death on November 1, prompting it to take this step. The police have started an investigation after Rajib Saha, the patient’s son, lodged a complaint at Narendrapur police station. In his complaint, Saha has alleged that his father, Rangalal Saha, died of Covid on November 1, and he learnt on Wednesday when he went to the hospital that his father had been cremated the day before. “It is strange that there was no communication from the hospital about the cremation. We were penalised for not being able to clear the hospital dues,” he said. According to Saha, his 75-year-old father was taken to the private hospital on October 17 after testing Covid positive. His condition deteriorated after about 10 days and they were preparing to shift him to a government Covid facility but he died on November 1. “By the time my father died we were totally broke and had managed to pay only Rs 3 lakh of the total bill amount of Rs 6 lakh. But we were told to pay the entire bill to get the body released. We pleaded with the hospital to give us some time to pay a portion of the pending bills but all requests fell on deaf ears,” said Saha, a private firm employee. He alleged that his father’s body was taken to Dhapa for cremation on Tuesday and he learnt about it only when he went to the hospital on Wednesday morning. Biman Bhattacharya, one of the owners of Remedy hospital, said none from the patient’s family had contacted them. “We waited for a couple of days after the death of the Covid patient and then handed over the body to a state-appointed agency for cremation on the third day. No one from the patient’s family contacted to inquire about the cremation,” he said. When asked whether the hospital had informed the family before handing the body to the agency for cremation, Bhattacharya said no such efforts were made. Debabrata Majumdar, a member in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation Board of Administrators (BoA), who also happens to be a neighbour of the Sahas felt it was a clear violation of the state’s Covid protocol, which says that under no circumstances can a Covid victim’s body be held back in the mortuary for non-payment of bills. “This apart there are government guidelines and an HC order which ensures that family members get a chance to be present at the crematorioum before the last rites,” Majumdar said. Sukhomoy Chakraborty, the in-charge of Narendrapur police station on Friday said a probe is on||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-probe-as-kin-says-covid-body-cremated-without-info/articleshow/79091613.cms||Saikat Ray
November 7, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC orders home secretary and DGP to appear in acid victim case||RANCHI: The Jharkhand high court pulled up the Hazaribag police on Friday while hearing a public interest litigation related to forcible consumption of acid. The division bench comprising Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Sujit Narayan Prasad also directed the home secretary and the director general of police to be virtually present during the next date of hearing. The bench was dismayed by the slow pace of investigation and questioned the Hazaribag superintendent of police as to why the accused in the case has not yet been apprehended. The bench further observed that the investigation was ‘unsatisfactory’. The court also asked the investigating officer of the case the reason for the delay in having the statement of the victim recorded before a magistrate. The victim, a minor girl aged 13 and a Class VIII student in Hazaribag, had been allegedly forced to drink acid by the accused in December 2019. The victim was rushed to a district hospital from where she was referred to Rims in Ranchi. Later, the parents of the girl had also taken her to AIIMS in Patna for specialized treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-orders-home-secretary-and-dgp-to-appear-in-acid-victim-case/articleshow/79088896.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Vinay Kulkarni’s arrest deepens Panchamasali anger at BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: The arrest of former Congress MLA Vinay Kulkarni in a murder case has upset many members of the Lingayat community’s Panchamasali sect, and this may create problems for the BS Yediyurappa government, which counts on its support. The sect already believes that it didn’t get adequate representation in the chief minister’s cabinet despite being one of BJP’s main voter bases, and the CBI action against Kulkarni, a Panchamasali, has further disaffected members, including some influential seers. Kulkarni, a former minister, was arrested in connection with the 2016 murder of BJP worker Yogishgouda Goudar on Thursday evening. A Dharwad court on Friday remanded him in the CBI’s custody for three days. Panchamasalis form one of the biggest sects within the Lingayat community. About 50 per cent of voters from the community are Panchamasalis. Fourteen BJP legislators are from this sect, but only one, CC Patil, has been appointed as a minister. Other Lingayat sects, such as Ganiga and Baligiga, have bagged more cabinet berths. Overall, BJP has 32 Lingayat MLAs. Mahesh Kumathalli, a Panchamasali who was among 17 Congress-JD(S) rebels who helped BJP form the government last year, was not inducted into the cabinet despite a reported promise. Ten of the 17 have landed government roles. The lingering perception that BJP and Yediyurappa are indifferent towards the sect is thought to have played a part in senior BJP MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal’s controversial remarks on leadership last month. Yatnal claimed that Yediyurappa’s days in office were numbered. “The Panchamasali sect has strongly backed Yediyurappa. But after he took office last year, there have been multiple instances and steps that appeared to be against the interest of the sect,” said GB Patil, general secretary of the Jagathika Lingayat Mahasabha. BJP functionaries said Yediyurappa, who is from the Ganiga sect, had made efforts to address Panchamasalis’ grievances and unite the larger Lingayat community. But Kulkarni’s arrest appears to have struck a nerve. On Friday, many Panchamasali mutts declared support for him, in a worrying sign for Yediyurappa. Seers like Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami of Kudalasangama Panchamasali Peeta and Swami Vachanananda of Harihara Panchamasali Mutt criticised the BJP government. “If this anti-Panchamasali attitude of the government continues, we will not hesitate to launch an agitation to protect our rights,” said Mruthyunjaya swami. Senior BJP members, including Union minister Pralhad Joshi and state industries minister Jagadish Shettar, believe Kulkarni’s case won’t hurt BJP as “the law is taking its own course”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-vinay-kulkarnis-arrest-deepens-panchamasali-anger-at-bs-yediyurappa/articleshow/79092303.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Cut trees to pay mill workers: CM BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday asked the forest department to cut trees on the compound of defunct Mysore Paper Mills (MPM) in Shivamogga district, sell the wood and use the proceeds to pay salaries to employees. The issue was discussed at a meeting with officials from the revenue and forest departments and public representatives from the district. Thirthahalli legislator Araga Jnanendra, who attended the meeting, said tree plantations at the site of the mill, a government undertaking, had matured and could be chopped. “The salaries of employees have been pending for the past three to four years. One viable option is to sell the wood and pay the compensation,” Jnanendra added. Meanwhile, Yediyurappa has asked the Shivamogga district administration to issue title deeds to more than 3,500 project-affected families, which have been waiting for property documents for decades. The families had parted with their land to facilitate the construction of the Sharavati power plant in the 1960s. The government had moved them to an alternative settlement and allotted 9,800 acres of land. They still don’t have title deeds for these plots. Yediyurappa has now ordered a joint land survey by forest and revenue officials, so the process of title deeds can be completed. He has directed the district deputy commissioner of Shivamogga to submit an action taken report in 20 days. “These families, which sacrificed their properties to give light (power) to the state, have been living in the dark for years. They don’t have proper houses and their settlements lack basic infrastructure,” Jnanendra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cut-trees-to-pay-mill-workers-cm-bs-yediyurappa/articleshow/79092344.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||Airtel, Truecaller for storing data locally||NEW DELHI: Swedish caller identification app Truecaller and Indian telecom major Bharti Airtel have told a joint parliamentary committee of personal data protection bill that they are in favour of storing and processing all subscriber data locally, in the country of operation, because doing so increases operational efficiencies and is cost effective. Of the various multi-national companies that have appeared before the parliamentary panel so far — Google, Amazon, Twitter, Facebook among them — all but Truecaller have expressed reservations over storing subscriber data locally. This despite several members of the committee pointing out that the MNCs must comply with Indian laws in this regard, just as they are doing in other parts of the world, where there do business. Committee members have also argued that India, with a captive audience of 130 crore people, offers business opportunities like few other countries do, and, therefore, gives the Indian government some muscle to make the companies fall in line. Even as Truecaller CEO and co-founder Alan Mamedi batted in favour of data localisation, he appealed to the panel to “not let the rigour of the law” fall on ‘Infer data’— specialised data sets about subscribers that may be monetised. Airtel also raised similar concerns with the panel, but the requests were shot down on grounds that this would amount to violation of subscriber privacy and that individual consent, in a large number of instances, is taken without subscribers really understanding how their data can be used by companies. Representing Airtel before the parliamentary panel, Global CIO Harmeen Mehta also flagged concerns over the need for similar laws for all OTT platforms. The committee is understood to have asked Airtel to convey their concern to the panel, in writing. While the panel will begin clause-by-clause discussions of the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 from November 11 to 13, the committee has also decided to summon representatives of global financial technology companies Visa, Mastercard and Paypal to appear before it on November 19 and 20. TOI has learnt that members of the committee have also been asked to convey any suggestions for changes to the proposed law in writing, so that they may be taken up for discussion by the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/airtel-truecaller-for-storing-data-locally/articleshow/79092336.cms||Swati Mathur
November 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka BJP move on anti-love jihad law a ploy, says Siddaramaiah||BENGALURU: With the Karnataka BJP unit passing a resolution in its core committee to bring a law for curbing inter-religious marriages under love jihad, opposition leader Siddaramaiah ridiculed the decision. Siddaramaiah, in a series of tweets, said the decision of chief minister Yediyurappa to consider an anti-love jihad law is an effort to misdirect people’s anger against the government’s failure in addressing administrative issues. “When the Centre has itself said there is no definition or use of the phrase Love Jihad, on what basis will CM Yediyurappa bring a legislation?” asked Siddaramaiah. The former CM said the BJP is trying to misinterpret the Allahabad high court ruling which categorically stated that religious conversion should not be a weapon or inter-faith marriages. “However, the court has not said inter-religious marriages are illegal,” he said. Siddaramaiah was critical of the BJP government being influenced by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh. “A progressive state like Karnataka should not be influenced by a state like UP which has earned the infamous sobriquet of ‘goonda raj’,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-bjp-move-on-anti-love-jihad-law-a-ploy-says-siddaramaiah/articleshow/79092310.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||India Covid deaths at 1.25L; last 25K in 35 days as daily toll dips||NEW DELHI: Deaths from the Covid-19 pandemic in India crossed the 1.25 lakh mark on Friday, but the daily fatality numbers have come down significantly over the past month. The last 25,000 deaths came in 35 days as compared with just 22 days taken for the toll to rise from 75,000 to1lakh. India’s coronavirus toll had touched 1 lakh on October 2, which was also the last time that the daily toll had crossed the 1,000 mark. Since then, daily fatalities have been steadily falling in tandem with the fall in infections, although numbers have risen slightly this week, mainly on account of old deaths being added in Maharashtra as part of data reconciliation over two days. Meanwhile, the daily tally of cases in the country crossed 50,000 for the second time this week, with the addition of 50,314 new infections on Friday, as per TOI’s data collated from state governments. With this, the slight uptick in the count of fresh cases seen through this week, continued on Friday. The overall Covid-19 caseload in the country on Friday stood at 84,61,771. For the first time, Delhi led the tally of daily cases with a count of 7,177, the highest number of fresh infections recorded in the capital. Haryana too continued to report a spike with 2,267 cases detected on Friday. The day’s death toll was 577, lower than the counts in the past two days but still higher than the tolls reported on any day last week. Maharashtra recorded 5,027 fresh detections on Friday while 1,843 previous cases from Nagpur were added to the tally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-covid-deaths-at-1-25l-last-25k-in-35-days-as-daily-toll-dips/articleshow/79092353.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||HC junks BARC order against TV Today Network||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court quashed and set aside a July 31 order passed by the Broadcasting Audience Research Council (BARC) and a ‘warning letter’ issued by its disciplinary council against TV Today Network. The HC directed the Network to appear for a fresh hearing before the council and also permitted it to withdraw Rs 5 lakh deposited by it with the registry while filing the case. A bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav, at the second hearing, passed the order on a petition by TV Today Network Ltd challenging the BARC order and letter. One of the grounds raised in the challenge was that the “disciplinary council did not have appropriate quorum’’ when passing the order. The BARC counsel said there is a new ‘Code of Conduct for redressing Viewership Malpractices’ and that the council is not averse to giving a fresh hearing, which the network agreed to. The HC said “as a consequence of this consensus,’’ the order is quashed. The HC made it clear it has “not gone into merits of the case.’’ BARC India is a Joint Industry Company founded by stakeholder bodies that manages the current TV audience measurement system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-junks-barc-order-against-tv-today-network/articleshow/79092359.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Send cases of MPs, MLAs to special court: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court has advised trial courts in the state to transfer all criminal cases and complaints filed against or by MPs and MLAs to a special court constituted as per the Supreme Court’s order. The high court made the observation recently while hearing a petition filed by SA Ramdas, a former state minister. Ramdas has accused Mysuru resident Premakumari Jadeda and her family members of extortion, criminal intimidation and other charges. On June 17, 2019, a Mysuru court transferred this case to the special court set up in Bengaluru for matters related to elected representatives. Ramdas challenged this order in the high court. Earlier, in February 2018, he had questioned the state government over the formation of the special court. He claimed the Supreme Court’s directives required high courts to constitute special courts to try offences against sitting or former MPs and MLAs. The apex court, he argued, never said that even cases filed by elected representatives should be transferred to special courts. Recently, the high court disagreed with his contentions. Justice John Michael Cunha noted that keeping in mind the capability and potential of elected representatives to influence or hamper effective prosecution, the apex court sought special courts for all cases related to or involving them. The judge also said that there could be a counter-case in a complaint filed by or against an elected representative and in such instances, it would not be ideal if two different courts conducted separate hearings. “(It) would create an anomalous situation and lead to practical difficulties in conducting the trial,” the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/send-cases-of-mps-mlas-to-special-court-karnataka-hc/articleshow/79092365.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||Copter downing: Won’t stay IAF action, says HC||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court has refused to stay disciplinary proceedings against two Indian Air Force officers in the dock for their role in an air accident after the Balakote strike last year. Justice Asha Menon allowed the IAF authorities to carry on with their court of inquiry (CoI) against the two officers who were held responsible for circumstances leading to the shooting down of an Mi-17 helicopter of the IAF with its own missile in Kashmir’s Budgam on February 27 last year, when the Indian and Pakistani air forces were engaged in a dogfight. Six IAF officers and one civilian lost their lives. Facing the prospect of a possible court martial, the officers had moved the HC against the Armed Forces Tribunal’s nod to the authorities to go ahead with the CoI process. “The scope of judicial review in respect of departmental proceedings is very limited,” the HC noted, while hearing a plea by Group Captain Suman Roy Chowdhury and Wing Commander Shyam Naithani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/copter-downing-wont-stay-iaf-action-says-hc/articleshow/79092381.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai to get light rain followed by 4-day dry spell||CHENNAI: With early morning spells of rain over many localities due to a cyclonic circulation, weathermen have forecast similar weather patterns to continue for the next 48 hours with light to moderate spells. Weather enthusiasts said it will be followed by a dry spell for at least four days before the monsoon rain returns for the next round of spells. For the next 48 hours, IMD has forecast thunderstorms with light to moderate rain likely in some areas while the sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy over the city. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 33o C and 25o C. The agency has also forecast heavy rain at isolated places over Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore, hill ranges of Theni and Nigiris of Tamil Nadu on Saturday and heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over south coastal Tamil Nadu on Sunday. N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD, said rainfall activity over the state is likely due to, “a cyclonic circulation, which was over Gulf of Mannar and adjoining Sri Lanka is over Comorin area and neighbourhood extending up to 0.9km above mean sea level.” The early morning rainfall in the city left 7.1mm in Nungambakkam and 11mm in Meenambakkam. Weather blogger Pradeep John said without the presence of a strong weather system closer to the coast, the city would continue to receive rainfall only late in the night or early morning due to wind converging closer to the coast leading to convection. “We got decent rains in the last two days and one more day we will have early morning rain. Days will be sunny as usual,” he said in his online post. “People expect 100mm rainfall always, it won’t happen. It will not rain during the day in Chennai unless there is a low pressure or a cyclone nearby,” he added. IMD officials said in the next two days, most parts of the state will be dry with light rain over some areas. “The next round of rainfall may be before Diwali when a cyclonic circulation may form,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-to-get-light-rain-followed-by-4-day-dry-spell/articleshow/79092489.cms||---
November 7, 2020||India||Blockades in Punjab still not cleared: Railways||NEW DELHI: Train services continue to remain suspended in Punjab as the state government has not been able to remove all blockades on tracks and station by farmers protesting against the farm bills. Railway ministry sources said operation cannot be resumed until all blockades are cleared and the state gives security clearance for running of both goods and passenger trains. Speaking to reporters through a video conference, Railway Board CEO and Chairman VK Yadav said till Friday afternoon, only nine of the 31 blockades were cleared. But the railways needs 100% security clearance from the state to resume operations. “We have conveyed to the Punjab government that they need to provide us security clearance for all trains so that we can restore them at one go,” he said. TOI has learnt that while the railways is ready to resume full operations in Punjab, they have a got a sense that the state is not keen to let passenger trains operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/blockades-in-punjab-still-not-cleared-railways/articleshow/79092415.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Chief Justice of Madras HC tests positive for Covid-19||CHENNAI: Chief Justice of the Madras high court Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, a day after he was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital with cough, drowsiness and discomfort. There was no official bulletin from the hospital, but doctors said the 61-year-old had undergone a series of tests including a CT scan. “The viral infection had invaded 40% of his lungs and he has a history of hypertension. He received a minimum amount of oxygen on Thursday. All his other vital parameters are stable,” said a senior doctor. Sahi is being treated in an isolation ward, where he is being monitored by a group of specialists. The hospital has barred visitors. Meanwhile, officials from Greater Chennai Corporation will be tracking CJ’s close contacts for RTPCR tests. Health officials have also asked people who came in contact with him to self-quarantine and meet doctors if they have symptoms such as cough, cold, fever or breathlessness. “We will be able help most people who seek treatment in the early stages of the infection. We have a recovery rate of 93%,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar, who was at the hospital. “Doctors say the health condition of chief justice is stable,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chief-justice-of-madras-hc-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79092534.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chennai||Burglar arrested for robbing temple in Thiruvanmiyur||CHENNAI: The city police on Friday solved the October 16 robbery at Marundeeshwarar temple in Thiruvanmiyur by arresting a 32-year-old man. Police said Subash, a resident of Foreshore Estate, slept inside the temple and woke up late in the night when the temple was locked. Police saw the CCTV camera footage from the temple and said the man prayed and made an offering before stealing the hundi. A police team nabbed Subash by tracking his movements from Thiruvanmiyur. It accessed footage from around 250 CCTV cameras. The police searched his house and seized ₹2,000 from him. He had sent another ₹2,000 to his wife who lives with her family in Chengalpet. Subash, a wall painter, told police that he was out of job due to the pandemic and stole ₹5,000 from two hundis kept outside the inner sanctum. He escaped from the temple after scaling the compound wall. Initially, the investigating officers could not figure out how a burglar had entered the temple as footage did not show anyone scaling the compound wall. Police said Subash told them he was not a repeat offender. Police have collected his fingerprints and have sent it to the State Crime Records Bureau to check his antecedents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/burglar-arrested-for-robbing-temple-in-thiruvanmiyur/articleshow/79092575.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab stubble burning cases reach 53,000||BATHINDA: On Friday, 3,858 crop residue burning cases were recorded in Punjab, taking the count to 52,970. The figures have reached close to the overall stubble burning cases of 55,210 recorded in 2019. However, the crop residue cases came down from 5,036 recorded on Thursday to 3,858. Sangrur continued to be the most prone district with 592 cases followed by 513 in Bathinda, 503 in Moga, 372 in Mansa, 361 in Barnala, 315 in Ferozepur, 281 in Ludhiana, 237 in Muktsar, 176 in Faridkot and 170 in Patiala. SAS Nagar, Pathankot and Roopnagar did not have any burning instances on Friday whereas SBS Nagar recorded only one and Hoshiarpur recorded only four. The air quality in Punjab too remained impacted with Amritsar recording PM 2.5 at 223, Bathinda at 193, Jalandhar 215, Khanna 202, Ludhiana 222, Patiala 266, Mandi Gobindgarh 178 and Roopnagar 220.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-stubble-burning-cases-reach-53000/articleshow/79092596.cms||---
November 7, 2020||World||Liar, liar: How US media stood up to Trump||Who won the US poll? Regardless of Donald Trump’s spin, “The answer, my friend, is blowin’ in the wind.” You know it when Fox News, Trump’s mainstay, is the first to call Arizona for Biden. Networks that had struggled while covering Trump’s live events laced with falsehoods, claims made during the campaign or about coronavirus, are now united in their pushback against his fibs. Three major networks — ABC, CBS and NBC — pulled away from Trump’s rambling press conference questioning the integrity of the election. CNN and Fox ran captions under his speech and rebutted his claims. CNBC interrupted the feed to clarify that his allegations about election interference, fake polls and a red wave lacked even “a scintilla of evidence”. MSNBC, with its liberal viewership, had cut away from Trump’s press conferences even earlier in the week. In these wised-up times when we are sceptical about a single truth, the US media still came around to calling a lie a lie. Last June, the Washington Post’s Paul Farhi outlined how the news media began baldly calling out Trump’s lies. The New York Times started using the word early, but insisted that it did so judiciously, for specific instances. CNN catalogued the Trump team’s “lies and falsehoods” on the Mueller report, the New Yorker explored why Trump knowingly lied to people. During the Stormy Daniels affair, the Washington Post fact-check was headlined: “Not just misleading. Not merely false. A lie.” Twitter also started putting warning labels, tagging specific Trump tweets as ‘misleading’. Trump’s political career began with conspiracy theories — from smears about Obama’s foreign birth to declaring his Democratic leaders part of a Satanist ring, paedophiles and so on. While these Pizzagate and QAnon communities have been sources of support, Trump himself has speculated that climate change is a Chinese hoax, that Antonin Scalia might have been murdered, that Ted Cruz’s father was linked to the Kennedy assassination, and so on. Misinformation was a conscious strategy — former Trump tactician Steve Bannon described the plan to inundate the media, to “flood the zone with s—t”. When Trump blatantly lied about the attendance at his inauguration, his team called it “alternative facts”. Even cheerleaders like Fox anchor Tucker Carlson admitted that Trump couldn’t be taken at his word, affectionately called him a boaster, a booster, a selfpromoter and “bs artist”. Yet, his supporters saw him as truthful, if not factual — as a straight-talking blow to the strangling liberal consensus. While Trump has kept professional fact-checkers busy, the media has also struggled to deal with his firehose of falsehoods. A study by Harvard professor Yochai Benkler found that between 2015 and 2018, the mainstream media had a bigger role in amplifying them than social media. They could not refuse to cover White House events, and often presented a false balance as fairness, giving unwitting visibility to outrageous theories. Repeated exposure to false ideas can make people believe them, and Trump successfully played the media with his provocations. But when Trump declared “fake news media” an “enemy of the people” and an “opposition party” in 2018, the media came together to resist the discrediting. That August, 300 newspapers across the US coordinated their response in hundreds of editorials reminding citizens of the stakes in a free press. Most of the US mainstream media learned late in the day that rather than trying to appear neutral between two sides, they should aim for “a baseline reality and evidentiary standard”, as media critic Jay Rosen put it. In India, the media has been less than aggressive in calling out official claims that fly in the face of facts. But to be fair, few politicians around the world have played as fast and loose with the truth as Trump. And in finally refusing to be spun around by disinformation, the US media is learning to keep its head and do its job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/liar-liar-how-us-media-stood-up-to-trump/articleshow/79092554.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers clear tracks, no clarity on trains||CHANDIGARH: With no trains plying in Punjab for nearly two weeks, farmer unions on Friday lifted all rail blockades in the state as state government machinery prevailed on the protesters to move away from tracks and stations. Farm unions also ended protests outside Reliance and Emaar petrol pumps which are managed by dealers, but continued agitations outside pumps directly run by the corporates. There was no confirmation from the Centre about when rail services would start again. Farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), in line with its decision taken on Thursday, vacated internal tracks leading to two independent power plants (IPP) in Mansa district and near Rajpura in Patiala. “The rail network all across the state of Punjab is presently totally clear for uninterrupted movement of goods trains,” a Punjab home department statement said in Chandigarh. The statement came after Railway Board chairman V K Yadav earlier in the day said the railways needed 100% security clearance from Punjab to resume operations. Yadav had said as many as 22 sites were still to be cleared of protesters and added partial resumption of services was "not feasible" and that all blockades must be removed. By the evening, 21 sites had been cleared. At Jandiala, some farmer activists, the IG border range and the SSP Amritsar were still trying to convince the office-bearers of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee on Friday late evening to vacate the railway platform. The home department official said that the committee of cabinet ministers was still engaged in parleys with various farmer unions to allow movement of passenger trains in public interest. Meanwhile, even as Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) announced to vacate tracks for the movement of goods trains, it said it had extended its ‘rail roko’ agitation till November 21 and would sit near tracks at various places. “In the larger interest of Punjab, we have decided to clear rail tracks and allow goods trains to pass, but not the passenger trains," KMSC president Satnam Singh Pannu said. He said they would not obstruct the goods trains. Earlier, railways minister Piyush Goyal had asked MPs from Punjab to get the tracks vacated and take responsibility for the security of personnel and trains. When it came to ending protests outside petrol stations, farmer outfits said they had no intentions of causing losses to businessmen of the state. In the morning, police visited Moga and Barnala railway stations and asked farmers to vacate platforms, after which protesters shifted to a park within the railway premises in Moga and moved outside in Barnala. BKU (Exta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said they did not want to give any excuse to the Union government to not resume train services. "We have vacated the tracks of private thermal plants and are now sitting near their gates. We want railways to resume services at the earliest, as farmers need fertilisers and want food grains to be moved out of go downs for creating space for new crops, as also for resuming supplies to coal-fed plants," he said. The dealers of filling stations thanked farmers for the decision. Punjab Reliance British Petroleum Mobility Ltd (RBPML) Dealers Welfare Association president R S Pathania said, "We are grateful to farmers for lifting their protest from petrol filling stations managed and run by dealers only. There are 85 petrol filling stations in Punjab owned by dealers. In the last one month of blockade, we faced losses to the tune of crores." Farmers had launched an indefinite blockade of railway tracks in the state on October 1. The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) had vacated tracks at two places on October 21 and the rest 30 farm unions had vacated all tracks on October 22 and shifted to railway stations. It was only on these two days that the movement of goods trains had taken place. After an empty passenger train was stopped and a train at Adani Group silo in Moga was laid siege to, railways again stopped plying of trains. On October 23, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) blocked tracks going to the two thermal plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-farmers-clear-tracks-no-clarity-on-trains/articleshow/79092253.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh govt slashes MBBS, BDS fee in private colleges||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government has reduced the fee for MBBS seats under management quota (B category) in private medical colleges from 13.37 lakh to 12 lakh per annum. The fee structure for superspecialty courses in five private medical colleges has been fixed at 15 lakh per annum. The fee for seats under the convenor quota (A category) has been slightly increased, from 12,155 to 15,000 per year. However, the colleges can charge up to 36 lakh per annum for NRI quota seats (C category). Likewise, the BDS fee has been reduced to 4 lakh per year from the earlier 5.46 lakh under management quota, while it has been fixed at 13,000 a year for convenor quota seats. The students claiming BDS seats under NRI quota have to pay up to 12 lakh per annum. The revised fee structure would be applicable to 17 private medical colleges and 14 dental colleges in the state. As per the government order, the same fee shall continue for students admitted during the block period of 2020-21 to 2022-23 till they complete the course. The stipend shall be paid to undergraduate medical and dental students on par with students in government colleges during their internship period. The total fee shall be collected for a period of four-and-a-half years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-pradesh-govt-slashes-mbbs-bds-fee-in-private-colleges/articleshow/79092664.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 2,267 new cases, 21 deaths||CHANDIGARH: Gurgaon once again surpassed all its previous records of daily Covid-19 cases adding maximum 704 to Haryana’s total of 2,267 cases reported on Friday, while 21 patients died across the state. With that the state’s tally of cases has gone up to 178,413—of which 15,357 are active cases—and the count of dead to 1,880. The state’s recovery rate has slipped further to 90.34%, even as the 1,533 recoveries of the day took the cured count to 161,176. A total of 252 critical patients are on oxygen or ventilator support. Health authorities cited increased testing and proximity to the national capital as reasons for the fresh spike. The latest testing rate is 109,769 tests per million per day and the doubling rate 55 days. Panipat reported maximum four deaths, Rewari three, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Yamunanangar and Jhajjar two each, and one patient each died in Sonipat, Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Kaithal districts. Faridabad reported 452 new cases, Hisar third-highest 208, Rewari 103 and 101 cases surfaced in Rohtak. The districts reporting below 100 cases were Sirsa (92), Panchkula and Bhiwani (69 each), Mahendragarh (62), Sonipat (55), Panipat (52) and Fatehabad (51). Ten other districts reported less than 40 cases, including the lowest seven in Palwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-reports-2267-new-cases-21-deaths/articleshow/79089592.cms||Manvir Saini
November 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Ruckus in Haryana assembly over agri bills, Congress walks out twice||CHANDIGARH: Protests and walkouts by Congress MLAs over centrally enacted agriculture laws marked the end of the two-day Haryana assembly session on Friday. The day began with a march by Congress MLAs and ended with protests. When the day started with question hour, MLAs ofthe opposition and BJP-JJP coalition argued over bills passed by BJP-led Centre. Leader of opposition Bhupinder Hooda, who led the protest march of Congress MLAs from Punjab and Haryana high court roundabout to assembly premises, advocated for a bill to assure MSP for farmers if the government was not allowing the resolutions of private bills. On the other hand, CM Manohar Lal Khattar pressed the opposition to participate in a discussion on motion of thanks to the central government for the laws enacted last month. After a brief ruckus, Congress MLAs walked out of the house while raising anti-government slogans for not allowing their bills . Through out the proceedings, there had been little altercation between ruling and opposition MLAs. The ruckus resumed after CM Manohar Lal Khattar read out a motion of thanks to the Union government on agriculture bills and speaker invited the leader of opposition to give his deliberations. During his brief discussion, Hooda elaborated upon issues like grain markets losing significantly and fear of hoarding of stocks of grains and vegetables which could trigger inflation. Hooda also gave examples of vegetables like potato, tomato, onion and other seasonal vegetables, whose prices rose unprecedently due to free marketing and relaxation of curbs on their storage and hoardings. “I strongly oppose these bills for once and ever. The government must look at the interest of farmers,” he said. Soon after Hooda made his point, Congress MLAs walked up to the well of the House and raised slogans against BJP and its government. ”Why don’t you participate in discussion? Now, why dont you allow others to speak? You should participate in discussion. I was expecting that the sitting will go on till midnight. But you people are not doing it,” said speaker. Meanwhile speaker adjourned the House for 15 minutes and the house reassembled with Congress MLAs present in the well. Haryana parliamentary affairs minister Kanwar Pal held fort for BJP legislative party. He termed Congress as anti-farmer. “All of Haryana is listening and watching you,” said Kanwar Khattar continued to appealfor discussions. “Prepare and provide a list of speakers. After discussion, we shall vote. We have given the proposal and those who want to participate is okay, rest is between them and the speaker,” said Khattar. While the CM, initially, dismissed for a need to vote on resolution on the assembly, he later said voting could be held only after discussion. Hooda laqter proposed an amendment to the bills passed by Parliament which assured MSP. Cong tears copies of resolutions The Congress MLA from Beri seat, Raghubir Singh Kadian, tore copies of resolutions related to agriculture bills. Though speaker Gian Chand Gupta chose to ignored it, BJP MLAs sought action against Kadian for disrespect to legislative business as well as proceedings of the House. Assem Goel, BJP MLA from Ambala City, was the one who sought action against Kadian||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ruckus-in-haryana-assembly-over-agri-bills-cong-walks-out-twice/articleshow/79089557.cms||Manvir Saini
November 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Nikita could have survived if police had acted in 2018: Anil Vij||CHANDIGARH: Issues related to safety and security of girl students echoed in Haryana assembly on Friday, durng the calling attention motion on Nikita Tomar murder case on the second day of assembly session here. Apart from seeking justice, Congress MLA from Faridabad Neeraj Sharma, who moved the motion, and other MLAs Kiran Choudhry and Abhay Singh Chautala targeted the BJP-JJP coaltion on the issue of safety of girl students. In the firing line, Haryana home minister Anil Vij defended the state government and police department, and targeted a political party and its leader while referring to the details of incident. “You have a strong force of 65,000 cops in the state. But you did not have anyone for security of girls studying in schools and colleges. Tell me how many cops were on security duty for girls in Ballabgarh on October 26, when Nikita was murdered?’’ said Sharma. “Unfortunately, BJP-JJP chose to do politics over her murder, instead of consoling the family,” Sharma added, while quoting Haryana BJP president O P Dhankar during the Baroda byelection. Choudhry and Chautala hit out at the BJP-JJP government too, saying the state government’s ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padao’ programme, launched in 2015, was a failure. “When this project was launched, we had expected safety of girls. But the results were otherwise. NCRB figures since 2016 are consistently showing an increase in crime against women. Instead of making it religious or political issue, government should ensure justice for Nikita,’’ said Abhay. Vij said Nikita would have survived today if police had acted in time in 2018 and arrested Taufiq, the accused, then. “Hence, we have ordered probe by SIT into this case and ascertain persons involved in pressurising the family to withdraw the case,’’ said Vij. The BJP was in power that year, but the home ministry was with CM Manohar Lal Khatter. He said they had ensured security to Nikita’s parents and had given an arms licence to his brother. “At the same time, we have already presented a charge sheet against the accused in court and the trial will take place in a fast-track court,” he added. When Vij hinted at talk of Taufiq being linked to a known political family of Nuh, there was an argument between him and Congress MLAs. Box: Firm on Love Jihad law: Minister Haryana home minister Anil Vij reiterated his move of ascertaining the details of old cases and indepth probe of Nikita Tomar murder case to ascertain what the BJP has been calling ‘Love Jihad’. “Anybody can marry anybody, but we have to ascertain if the girl was not victimized. We are firm on coming out with a legislation against Love Jihad and we are in consultation with Himachal Pardesh and Uttar Pardesh governments,’’ said Vij. Crime against women rose in 2019,Vij admits Haryana home minister Anil Vij claimed there had been an increase of 2.49% in crimte against women in 2019 as compared to 2018. While attributing NCRB figures, Vij said there were a total of 14,326 cases of crime against women in 2018. In 2019, there was an increase of 357 cases and total cases registered were 14,683. While giving the comparative figures of up to September 30 this year as compared to last year, Vij said 8,307 cases were registered this year against a total of 10,004 cases registered till September 30 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nikita-could-have-survived-if-police-had-acted-in-2018-vij/articleshow/79089467.cms||Manvir Saini
November 7, 2020||Chandigarh||3 school students in Jind test positive||JIND: Four days after the schools reopened in Haryana, three students of a government senior secondary school in Jind’s Narwana on Friday tested positive for Covid-19. The government schools in the state reopened from November 2 for classes IX to XII. School head Rajender Azad said the health department had collected samples of 60 students on Wednesday, of whom three were found infected after their reports came on Friday. “There are around 200 students studying in classes IX to XII here. Despite following all the safety protocols, three students tested positive for the virus. All of them are asymptomatic and now in home isolation,” he added. Jind’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Pale Ram Kataria said, “The students had undergone the Covid-19 test as a precautionary measure. I request the parents and media not to trust the fake messages being circulated in the social media. Almost all the government schools are functional in the district and the students should not fear for anything.” Kataria further said the remaining students, who are not suffering with any symptoms of the virus, would join the classes again from Monday. District education officer Madan Singh Chopra said they are allowing only those students and teachers to attend the schools, who test negative. The education department has also instructed the teachers not to share books, chalks and dusters with other teachers and students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-school-students-in-jind-test-positive/articleshow/79089359.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Spurious liquor: 5 more die in Sonipat, toll up to 32||ROHTAK: Five more persons died on Friday in Gumad village under Gannaur block of Sonipat district due to consumption of spurious liquor, the police said. The death toll from the tragedy has now climbed to 32. On getting information, Sonipat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Poonia and SP Jashandeep Randhawa visited the village. They met the bereaved families and got the liquor vend in the village sealed. A Gumad village panch Arjun Singh told TOI that five labourers, who had consumed spurious liquor on November 4—the Karwa Chauth day—have died, while another 10 villagers are under treatment. Arjun said though the sale and purchase of spurious liquor had been a common practice in their village, the chemical-laced stock distributed on November 4 proved to be fatal. He said all those who died and underwent treatment are labourers and bought the spurious liquor as it was cheaper by Rs 20. Talking to the media, SP Randhawa said they have already lodged 10 FIRs and 10 arrests have been made in connection with the case. “As per the preliminary investigation, those who supplied the spurious liquor had bought it from the liquor vend,” the SP added. The police said they are investigating how chemical-laced poisonous liquor reached the liquor vend. The cops also conducted district-wide raids at suspected spurious liquor spots to connect the dots in the series of deaths in the district. DC Poonia said according to the autopsy reports so far, nine deaths are confirmed to have taken place due to the liquor consumption. He said a team comprising the additional deputy commissioner, sub-divisional officer (N), Sonepat, and the district excise and taxation controller, besides a team of four officers including SP (headquarters), have been formed to look into the matter and submit their reports in two days. Meanwhile, the residents of Gumad blocked the road on Friday and demanded compensation and jobs to the kin of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/spurious-liquor-5-more-die-in-sonipat-toll-up-to-32/articleshow/79089338.cms||Sat Singh
November 7, 2020||Chandigarh||HC stays appellate tribunal’s order to de-seal Chautala’s properties in Sirsa||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday stayed the order passed by appellate tribunal under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) that had ordered de-sealing of the properties of former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala in Sirsa. On October 22, the appellate tribunal had ordered de-sealing of Chautala’s residential premises at Teja Khera farmhouse in Sirsa district by November 6. The tribunal passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by senior Chautala, requesting de-sealing of properties for the marriage of his grandsons. The enforcement directorate (ED) had approached the HC seeking stay on the orders, submitting that the order was passed in violation of the PMLA statutory provisions as there is no provision to de-seal an attached property during pendency of the appeal, that too without recording any finding of contravention of any provision of the Act. HC’s division bench comprising Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj ordered stay on October 22 orders and also issued notice to Chautala, seeking his reply on the contentions raised by the ED by November 11. In April 2019, the ED had attached some of the properties of senior Chautala. It included his residential properties in Sirsa and Panchkula. In December 2019, Chautala had approached appellate tribunal constituted under the PMLA against attachment orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-stays-appellate-tribunals-order-to-de-seal-chautalas-properties-in-sirsa/articleshow/79089418.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Excavation by developer damages school building||GURUGRAM: The excavation work by Ambience Island developer has damaged the adjoining school building. Taking note of structural damage, the department of town and country planning has directed the developer make structurally safe arrangements before carrying out further excavation. The district town planner (enforcement) RS Batth has written to the developer to stop the work for 10 days. He said that there exist school lab and ground of The Shri Ram School which are damaged due to the excavation and may lead to some dangerous incident. “Digging by developers of Ambience Island endangers the school building. In a meeting, I had directed developer and school to jointly plan to mitigate and resolve the issues related to excavation made at site due to which there is erosion of soil and cracks found developed in the school building,” said Batth. He said that despite the directions, no concrete action has been planned by the developer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/excavation-by-developer-damages-school-building/articleshow/79090185.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
November 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana resumes inter-state bus services||GURUGRAM: Haryana Roadways has begun inter-state operations of its buses in full capacity in neighbouring states, except Delhi. The national capital is permitting entry to only 50 percent of state roadways buses till November 15. The move comes soon after the state government reopened schools and colleges for physical classes. After a long wait for getting no-objection certificates (NOCs) from neighbouring states, the transport department has finally received clearance for full inter-state operations in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, among others. “We are operating at full capacity in nearby states, barring Delhi. We’ve sent numerous letters and proposals since July, and it was only this week that they issued NOCs. The Delhi government has only allowed 50% of our buses to enter its territory. We’ve been told that the decision to increase the bus count would be taken after Diwali,” said a senior transport department official. Roadways buses headed for Delhi intra-state bus terminals (ISBTs) have started operating from Tuesday. Initially, the state roadways has begun with 10% of buses. According to sources, the Delhi government has allowed entry of only non-polluting buses. Only buses that have joined the roadways fleet after 2015 will be able to enter the capital. Officials claimed there has been an increased demand for inter-state bus services in Unlock 5. “Due to the festive season, there has been a rise in demand for inter-state bus services, which is only going to increase in the coming days as migrants and other passengers seek to travel to their hometowns for Diwali,” the official added. Reeling under deep financial losses, the state roadways hopes for a revival during the festive season. Haryana was among the few states to resume its bus services in the first phase of Unlock. Having incurred losses of over Rs 200 crore between March and June, the department was desperately waiting to resume the interstate bus services to increase its revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-resumes-inter-state-bus-services/articleshow/79090055.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
November 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Property tax can be filed till December 31||GURUGRAM: The deadline to file property tax has been extended to December 31. A one-time rebate of 25% will be given to owners, who have dues pending since financial year 2010-11, if they clear the same by December 31. “A one time rebate of 25% will be given for the property tax dues/arrears for the years 2010-11 to 2016-17 to those property owners who clear it for the years 2010-11 to 2019-20 by December 31, 2020,” read the notification issued by the Haryana government. Moreover, the state government has also extended the deadline to avail 10% rebate on the property tax for the year 2020-21 to December 31. “We have sealed around 150 properties in the city as the owners failed to clear their dues. Out of the 150 properties, we have shortlisted 65 properties, which will be e-auctionedin December,” said Dinesh Kumar, zonal taxation officer-2. Since the deadline to clear dues was earlier October 31, MCG collected Rs 31 crore in October. The civic body had collected Rs 105 crore in July, Rs 6.65 crore in August and Rs 14.09 crore in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/property-tax-can-be-filed-till-december-31/articleshow/79090105.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: No clarity on funds to complete Golf Avenue, say CHD homebuyers||GURUGRAM: The homebuyers of CHD 106, Golf Avenue in Sector 106 are unsure about the funds required for the completion of the project after the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRera) ordered a forensic audit of the accounts of the developer and floated the possibility of takeover by the buyers. In a recent order, HRera ordered for a forensic audit by Currie & Brown, an international consultancy firm, which will submit cash inflow and outflow of the project from beginning till now, as well as the cost estimates for its completion. The regulatory authority also directed that the auditor submit a mitigation plan for completion of the project. The builder couldn’t be reached for a comment. While a few homebuyers said once allottees take over, four towers will be completed for handover within six months, other said the lack of funds would be the main hurdle in project completion. CHD Developers had launched a housing project under Empire Realtech in 2011 — 106, Golf Avenue in Sector 106 — with a promise to offer possession by December 2016. The homes have, however, not been delivered yet. The promoter intimated the revised date for completion to HRera as June 30, 2021 at the time of registration in 2016. On the call of the developer, a meeting was held with six representatives of the buyers’ group, where they insisted that the developer deposit Rs 5 crore in an escrow account. The developer expressed his inability to deposit cash and in lieu agreed to transfer six unsold flats to the association. Vishal Rekhi, a homebuyer, said: “The main issue with our stalled project is funds. There is nothing in the order suggesting infusion of funds. There is a requirement of at least Rs 35 crore, which has to be given by the builder. As an authority, Rera lacks teeth to force the builder to infuse funds.” Jitender Pal, another homebuyer, added: “The developer has already collected over Rs 500 crore from homebuyers. At least 70% of this amount had to be kept in a separate escrow account and should have been used only for construction, which is not the case here.” He said if the developer had followed the norms, the project would have been completed as cost of construction was just Rs 190 crore. Savishesh Raj, who also bought a flat in the project, said the developer has claimed it will hand over around half a dozen units of unsold inventory in lieu of funds, but people are unlikely to invest in a stalled project. “We need liquid funds, but the HRera order mentions nothing on the matter. Only the National Company Law Tribunal can help the aggrieved homebuyers. We will pursue the case in the tribunal,” Raj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/no-clarity-on-funds-to-complete-golf-avenue-say-chd-homebuyers/articleshow/79090173.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
November 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: 75% quota for locals will lead to loss of jobs, say industries||GURUGRAM: Employers in the city want the state government to reconsider its decision to reserve 75% of jobs in the private sector for locals. Getting the required skilled workforce under the new proposed law may not be possible, which will also affect their HR policies and lead to loss of jobs for non-locals, they said. The state passed the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020 on Thursday. IT and auto industry bodies have expressed concerns about the feasibility of such a move and said they would approach the President of India over the matter. Notably, providing 75% reservation in private sector jobs to the youth of Haryana was a key poll promise of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party, the coalition partner of the BJP in the state. IT, auto manufacturing and apparel are the major industries in Gurugram. Several manufacturers, including Maruti Suzuki, Hero MotoCorp, Honda Motorcycles and Scooters and JCB, as well as their ancillaries, have units in the city. The auto industry contributes to more than 30% of the state’s GDP. Industrialists said the bill will dissuade new investments in the state, especially by large MNCs. Also, companies which are already present may put any expansion plans they might have on hold and choose to opt for other cities. They also pointed out that these industries require a skilled workforce to produce high-quality products that are competitive in the global marketplace, and thus hiring is done on the basis of the talent and skills required rather than the domicile of candidates. Harbhajan Singh, former director (general affairs), Honda, said such a move could force industries to shift out of Haryana. “Locals are unwilling to work in the labour and executive class, especially in cities like Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonipat. The move will affect the recruitment process, as the first preference will have to be given to locals and we will need to get permission from the deputy commissioner to hire a non-local. This entire exercise is time-consuming and will derail the hiring process,” said. The bill will also lead to job losses, industry representatives said. “Most industrial workers are employed on annual contracts and many of them are from outside Haryana. When their contractual period ends, they will automatically lose their jobs because the employers will be forced to hire only locals,” Ashfaque Ahmed, the national president of Professional Network Group of India, said. Irked by the bill, industries are awaiting the final notification and are seeking legal opinion. They are also likely to challenge the move in court. Industrialists said they will also hit the streets if needed. “Over 75% of plots are vacant in IMT Nuh, and around 50% in IMT Faridabad that no one is interested in buying. The move will further dissuade new investors and will be detrimental to the future growth of the industry in the state,” said Deepak Maini, general secretary, Federation of Indian Industry (Haryana chapter).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/75-quota-for-locals-will-lead-to-loss-of-jobs-say-industries/articleshow/79089971.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana: 75% quota for locals will lead to loss of jobs, say industries||GURUGRAM: Employers in the city want the state government to reconsider its decision to reserve 75% of jobs in the private sector for locals. Getting the required skilled workforce under the new proposed law may not be possible, which will also affect their HR policies and lead to loss of jobs for non-locals, they said. The state passed the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020 on Thursday. IT and auto industry bodies have expressed concerns about the feasibility of such a move and said they would approach the President of India over the matter. Notably, providing 75% reservation in private sector jobs to the youth of Haryana was a key poll promise of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party, the coalition partner of the BJP in the state. IT, auto manufacturing and apparel are the major industries in Gurugram. Several manufacturers, including Maruti Suzuki, Hero MotoCorp, Honda Motorcycles and Scooters and JCB, as well as their ancillaries, have units in the city. The auto industry contributes to more than 30% of the state’s GDP. Industrialists said the bill will dissuade new investments in the state, especially by large MNCs. Also, companies which are already present may put any expansion plans they might have on hold and choose to opt for other cities. They also pointed out that these industries require a skilled workforce to produce high-quality products that are competitive in the global marketplace, and thus hiring is done on the basis of the talent and skills required rather than the domicile of candidates. Harbhajan Singh, former director (general affairs), Honda, said such a move could force industries to shift out of Haryana. “Locals are unwilling to work in the labour and executive class, especially in cities like Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonipat. The move will affect the recruitment process, as the first preference will have to be given to locals and we will need to get permission from the deputy commissioner to hire a non-local. This entire exercise is time-consuming and will derail the hiring process,” said. The bill will also lead to job losses, industry representatives said. “Most industrial workers are employed on annual contracts and many of them are from outside Haryana. When their contractual period ends, they will automatically lose their jobs because the employers will be forced to hire only locals,” Ashfaque Ahmed, the national president of Professional Network Group of India, said. Irked by the bill, industries are awaiting the final notification and are seeking legal opinion. They are also likely to challenge the move in court. Industrialists said they will also hit the streets if needed. “Over 75% of plots are vacant in IMT Nuh, and around 50% in IMT Faridabad that no one is interested in buying. The move will further dissuade new investors and will be detrimental to the future growth of the industry in the state,” said Deepak Maini, general secretary, Federation of Indian Industry (Haryana chapter).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/75-quota-for-locals-will-lead-to-loss-of-jobs-say-industries/articleshow/79096431.cms||---
November 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: National Bharat Scouts & Guides week starts today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Vizag unit of Bharat Scouts & Guides (BSG) will observe its Foundation Day on Saturday. “We would be observing ‘National BSG Week’ from Saturday with different activities, aimed at building the character of youths by inculcating in them the value of self-discipline, social service and patriotism,” P Susheela, secretary of BSG’s Vizag unit, said. The district has around 150 BSG units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/visakhapatnam-national-bharat-scouts-guides-week-starts-today/articleshow/79092693.cms||---
