November 8, 2020||Chennai||At this kolu in Chennai, plastic & art installations replace dolls||It has been quite a few days since the season of Navratri and bommai kolu ended. But there is one kolu, which is still pulling the crowds in the city. Putting an innovative spin on the culture of bommai kolu, Chennai-based environmental collective, Walk for Plastic, has come up with a Plastic Kolu to raise awareness on the staggering use of single-use plastic in the city. “Kolus revolve around the concept of celebrating new and old dolls, which tell different stories. We wanted to use the same concept and raise awareness on plastic usage and its relevant alternatives,” explains B Gowtham, artist and founder of the collective. The Plastic Kolu, which was assembled in a matter of nine days by volunteers including Sainath, Monika, Pugazh, Yogesh, Daniel, Sneha, Suriya, displays different types of plastic and its alternatives. For instance, paper cups are placed next to wafer/aluminium vessels, while plastic covers feature next to cloth sacks. Not many are aware of the alternatives to the plastic items used on an everyday basis, Gowtham adds. The kolu, which is installed at the Art Kingdom in Villivakkam, also features installations made from plastic waste. “Look out for the banana tree made from broken PVC and the thoranam made from plastic straws and spoons,” the environmentalist points out. The event is also to mark the 500th day of Walk for Plastic, today, an initiative that encourages volunteers to collect and recycle plastic waste from their surroundings. The coronavirus has not been kind to the environment in any way, Gowtham notes. “The amount of plastic we have recycled during the lockdown has been 1.8 times more than the quantity we used to collect during pre-covid-19 times.” The group has collectively recycled around 10,800 kg of plastic in 500 days. They would be using the money from the recycling to celebrate the trash-cart workers in the city, Gowtham says. “The sanitation workers have been an integral cog in our lives, especially in the pandemic. So, we wanted to celebrate them and make their Deepavali by gifting them sweets and new clothes. They are our superheroes after all,”smiles Gowtham.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/at-this-kolu-in-chennai-plastic-art-installations-replace-dolls/articleshow/79099050.cms||Sruthi Raman
November 8, 2020||India||Gupkar alliance to fight development council election jointly in J&K||SRINAGAR: The recently constituted Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of seven regional parties, including CPM and CPI, on Saturday unanimously decided to contest the District Development Council (DDC) polls jointly in Jammu and Kashmir. The polls will be held from November 28. The Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC), too, on Saturday announced that it will contest the DDC polls. The J&K election commission had recently announced the first-ever elections to DDC and by-polls of vacant panchayat seats and municipal corporations following the abrogation of Article 370 last year. Barring national parties like CPM and CPI, regional parties had declared that they would not join polls to any institution till the restoration of statehood to J&K. The PAGD, formed on October 15, consists of the National Conference, Peoples’ Democratic Party, Peoples’ Conference, Awami National Conference, J&K Peoples’ Movement, CPM and CPI. The decision was conveyed to the media following a meeting in Jammu on Saturday. Alliance spokesperson Sajad Gani Lone, who was accompanied by other PAGD leaders, said alliance president Farooq Abdullah will declare the names of candidates. However, senior NC leader and former minister Aga Ruhullah Mehdi opposed the PAGD decision to join DDC polls. Aga, an influential Shia leader in central Kashmir, tweeted: “… they are setting rules and you are playing by that. This is a deep trap you will only keep falling into.” “The Centre wanted these mainstream leaders to join the polls,” Mehdi told TOI. Meanwhile, addressing a press conference in Jammu, JKPCC president GA Mir said the decision by the Congress to contest DDC polls was taken following consultations with the high command and local party leaders from different districts. Congress is the oldest party in J&K and has never stayed away from the democratic process, said Mir. “We will not give a free run to BJP in the DDC polls. However, we have some serious concerns regarding the conduct of the polls. There are security concerns too. These issues have been put up before the state election authorities,” he added. “Delimitation of DDC constituencies has been uneven. At some places, constituencies are based on one-and-a-half lakh population while at others these are on a few thousand population, indicating uneven delimitation,” said Mir, adding that even the reservation criteria followed is not proper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/alliance-to-fight-devpt-council-polls-jointly-in-jk/articleshow/79104927.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 8, 2020||World||How US media covered Joe Biden's victory||NEW DELHI: Democrat Joe Biden has beaten Donald Trump to win the White House race and is all set to become the 46th President of the United States. With the momentous - and much delayed - results of the presidential elections finally out, here's how prominent media outlets in the US marked "Biden era". Most US outlets kept it simple with headlines like 'Biden Beats Trump', 'Biden Wins' and 'Biden Defeats Trump'.The New York TimesFox NewsThe Washington PostThe New Yorker proclaimed 'Biden Era Begins' with a cheeky strap line that said American democracy has "survived" Donald J Trump.Some outlets chose to highlight Kamala Harris' historic feat of becoming the first woman vice president of US.LA TimesCNNPoliticoThe Wall Street JournalFar-right outlet Breitbart criticised the media for rushing Joe to 'pose' as winner. The other headline read 'They Don't Want The Truth Be Exposed'.USA TodayCBS News||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/how-us-media-covered-joe-bidens-victory/articleshow/79104502.cms||---
November 8, 2020||World||PM Modi congratulates Joe Biden and Kamala Harris on US election victory||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated Joe Biden on his US presidential election victory, saying he is looking forward to work "closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights." "Congratulations Joe Biden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relations was critical and invaluable. I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights, PM Modi said in a tweet. Congratulations @JoeBiden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relati… https://t.co/TGfktQ3kuH— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1604774266000In another tweet, PM Modi also congratulated Kamala Harris saying her victory is "a matter of immense pride not just for your chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans." "Heartiest congratulations @KamalaHarris ! Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for your chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans. I am confident that the vibrant India-US ties will get even stronger with your support and leadership," he said. Heartiest congratulations @KamalaHarris! Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for y… https://t.co/M8XOUNBmpk— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1604774322000Democrat Joe Biden defeated President Donald Trump to become the 46th president of the United States on Saturday. His victory came after more than three days of uncertainty as election officials sorted through a surge of mail-in votes that delayed the processing of some ballots. Biden crossed 270 Electoral College votes with a win in Pennsylvania. Meanwhile, US President Donald Trump refused to concede defeat, threatening further legal action on ballot counting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/pm-modi-congratulates-joe-biden-and-kamala-harris-on-us-election-victory/articleshow/79105438.cms||---
November 8, 2020||World||US allies greet Biden as next president despite Trump refusal to concede||BERLIN/LONDON/OTTAWA: Some of the United States' biggest and closest allies quickly congratulated Democrat Joe Biden on Saturday, recognising his presidential election victory even though Donald Trump, with whom several have had rocky relations, had yet to concede. Germany, Canada and France, which have had strained ties with the Trump administration despite being its G7 and NATO partners, were among the first to recognise Biden's victory, soon after major US television networks declared it. "I look forward to future cooperation with President Biden," German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in a statement on Twitter. "Our transatlantic friendship is irreplaceable if we are to master the great challenges of our time." Merkel's finance minister, Olaf Scholz, went further, suggesting a Biden administration would mark a reset of trans-Atlantic ties. "Now there is a chance for a new and exciting chapter in trans-Atlantic relations," he tweeted. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said he looked forward to tackling "the world's greatest challenges" with the new administration, including climate change, an issue with which many nations have argued over with Trump. Congratulations, @JoeBiden and @KamalaHarris. Our two countries are close friends, partners, and allies. We share a… https://t.co/JC7laTu5oQ— Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) 1604768522000British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who has had a much smoother relationship with Trump, also picked up the theme of climate change in congratulating Biden. "The US is our most important ally and I look forward to working closely together on our shared priorities, from climate change to trade and security." Congratulations @JoeBiden and @KamalaHarris https://t.co/xrpE99W4c4— Boris Johnson (@BorisJohnson) 1604771364000Washington formally quit the Paris accord on limiting greenhouse gas emissions on Wednesday, fulfilling a pledge by Trump to withdraw the world's second-largest emitter from the pact. Biden has promised to rejoin the agreement if elected. "Trump is confirmed to have lost the election. This is good news for the planet, as the global far right loses its most powerful political asset," tweeted Spain's far-left deputy prime minister, Pablo Iglesias. Ireland, where Biden traces his family roots, called him the 46th US President, despite Trump accusing Biden of "rushing to falsely pose as the winner." Trump has complained of electoral fraud without providing proof. "Ireland takes pride in Joe Biden's election, just as we are proud of all the generations of Irish women and Irish men and their ancestors whose toil and genius have enriched the diversity that powers America," Prime Minister Micheal Martin said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/us-allies-greet-biden-as-next-president-despite-trump-refusal-to-concede/articleshow/79105512.cms||---
November 8, 2020||World||US allies greet Biden as next president despite Trump refusal to concede||BERLIN/LONDON/OTTAWA: Some of the United States' biggest and closest allies quickly congratulated Democrat Joe Biden on Saturday, recognising his presidential election victory even though Donald Trump, with whom several have had rocky relations, had yet to concede. Germany, Canada and France, which have had strained ties with the Trump administration despite being its G7 and NATO partners, were among the first to recognise Biden's victory, soon after major US television networks declared it. "I look forward to future cooperation with President Biden," German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in a statement on Twitter. "Our transatlantic friendship is irreplaceable if we are to master the great challenges of our time." Merkel's finance minister, Olaf Scholz, went further, suggesting a Biden administration would mark a reset of trans-Atlantic ties. "Now there is a chance for a new and exciting chapter in trans-Atlantic relations," he tweeted. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said he looked forward to tackling "the world's greatest challenges" with the new administration, including climate change, an issue with which many nations have argued over with Trump. Congratulations, @JoeBiden and @KamalaHarris. Our two countries are close friends, partners, and allies. We share a… https://t.co/JC7laTu5oQ— Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) 1604768522000British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who has had a much smoother relationship with Trump, also picked up the theme of climate change in congratulating Biden. "The US is our most important ally and I look forward to working closely together on our shared priorities, from climate change to trade and security." Congratulations @JoeBiden and @KamalaHarris https://t.co/xrpE99W4c4— Boris Johnson (@BorisJohnson) 1604771364000Washington formally quit the Paris accord on limiting greenhouse gas emissions on Wednesday, fulfilling a pledge by Trump to withdraw the world's second-largest emitter from the pact. Biden has promised to rejoin the agreement if elected. "Trump is confirmed to have lost the election. This is good news for the planet, as the global far right loses its most powerful political asset," tweeted Spain's far-left deputy prime minister, Pablo Iglesias. Ireland, where Biden traces his family roots, called him the 46th US President, despite Trump accusing Biden of "rushing to falsely pose as the winner." Trump has complained of electoral fraud without providing proof. "Ireland takes pride in Joe Biden's election, just as we are proud of all the generations of Irish women and Irish men and their ancestors whose toil and genius have enriched the diversity that powers America," Prime Minister Micheal Martin said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-allies-greet-biden-as-next-president-despite-trump-refusal-to-concede/articleshow/79105548.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||Life inside bubble is tough, we have to help each other: Lenny||Panaji: The seventh edition of the Indian Super League (ISL) will be the most difficult not just in terms of fierce competition but also mental toughness. The coronavirus pandemic has forced this year’s edition to be played behind closed doors. While players have to play without fans at the stadiums, life inside the bio-secure bubble is another challenge. “It is difficult but people are dying outside. We are grateful to be healthy first and do our job. Most important thing is family is healthy. It’s not what we wanted as the first two weeks we were confined to our room. But we are privileged to be healthy first and play,” said FC Goa forward Igor Angulo. The Spaniard was a fan favourite at Polish side Gornik Zabrze where he scored almost 100 goals over four years and won the Golden Boot in 2019. The 36-year-old has already experienced a bio-secure bubble during his time in Spain. been in this situation before arriving here last month. The ISL commences from November 20 and will go up to March, but having his wife and young daughter with him gives him some relief. “From the beginning we knew it’s going to be like this in a bubble. For me my family is very important and they wanted to come with me. It is a difficult situation to be in but with family it is always better,” said Angulo who is expected to fill the void left by star striker Ferran Corominas. Angulo has already found his mark in a pre-season friendly where FC Goa defeated Jamshedpur FC 3-2. The striker knows he can still improve with two weeks to go before they face Bengaluru FC on November 22. Foreign players are used to being away from their homes for months but it will be interesting to see how local stars deal with the situation. “We are in a different situation but still we are missing our family being in Goa as we can’t go out. We have to adjust to the guidelines given by the league and this is life, it has to go on,” said FC Goa midfielder Lenny Rodrigues. The former international feels the only way to get over the psychological aspect is to help each other in the team. “Like every other player we have to adjust. Igor is come from Spain and we have to adjust being here and be mentally strong,” said Lenny.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/life-inside-bubble-is-tough-we-have-to-help-each-other-lenny/articleshow/79105982.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
November 8, 2020||Delhi||This Diwali, go #VocalforLocal||The pandemic has affected everyone, but local vendors and small businesses have been the worst hit. While making profits seems like a distant dream, most of these vendors are doing their best to just sustain their business. So keep them in mind when shopping this Diwali. Be it the diya seller on the roadside or the small shop with colourful décor, let’s try to support a small business this year. To help you find unique, beautiful items while also supporting local businesses, we are bringing you the #LocalWaliDiwali series. You can buy home decor items and even furniture from local markets to give your home a makeover this festive seasonLet’s support local businesses this DiwaliMany residents of NCR are doing their bit to support local vendors by buying everything they need for Diwali from them. Sonam Saxena, a resident of Dwarka Sector 10, shares, “This year, I am making it to a point to buy flowers, diyas, and decorative items all from local vendors.” Rohan Raj, a resident of Vasant Kunj, adds, “We all can easily order online but this time, my family will be buying only from local vendors. For our family gatherings, we have been ordering from home chefs and plan to buy Diwali decor from the local market.” In markets across NCR, a huge variety of diyas are available. So this Diwali, step out and get yourself a unique collection of diyas to decorate your house withMany residents of NCR are supporting local vendors by buying everything they need for Diwali from themNeela Kaushik, founder of GurgaonMoms, shares with us that since the pandemic, the group has been trying to support local businesses. She tells us, “The community has been supporting them with opportunities like Mamma Liya and Know her Business – where women entrepreneurs talk about their business and also sell their products. We also post about streetside vendors. They can definitely use any help or push from us.” Many NGOs across NCR are also making diyas and candles for Diwali“I am not shopping anything online this festive season. I have already started buying candles, diyas and decorative pots from roadside vendors near Galleria Market and Vyapar Kendra. I think this is the least we can do,” shares Sangeeta Chadha, an entrepreneur and a resident of Gurgaon Sector 54. This Diwali, try and buy all the decor you need from local markets Watch This Diwali, go #VocalforLocal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-diwali-go-vocalforlocal/articleshow/79102426.cms||Riya Sharma
November 8, 2020||Gurgaon||This Diwali, go #VocalforLocal||The pandemic has affected everyone, but local vendors and small businesses have been the worst hit. While making profits seems like a distant dream, most of these vendors are doing their best to just sustain their business. So keep them in mind when shopping this Diwali. Be it the diya seller on the roadside or the small shop with colourful décor, let’s try to support a small business this year. To help you find unique, beautiful items while also supporting local businesses, we are bringing you the #LocalWaliDiwali series. You can buy home decor items and even furniture from local markets to give your home a makeover this festive seasonLet’s support local businesses this DiwaliMany residents of NCR are doing their bit to support local vendors by buying everything they need for Diwali from them. Sonam Saxena, a resident of Dwarka Sector 10, shares, “This year, I am making it to a point to buy flowers, diyas, and decorative items all from local vendors.” Rohan Raj, a resident of Vasant Kunj, adds, “We all can easily order online but this time, my family will be buying only from local vendors. For our family gatherings, we have been ordering from home chefs and plan to buy Diwali decor from the local market.” In markets across NCR, a huge variety of diyas are available. So this Diwali, step out and get yourself a unique collection of diyas to decorate your house withMany residents of NCR are supporting local vendors by buying everything they need for Diwali from themNeela Kaushik, founder of GurgaonMoms, shares with us that since the pandemic, the group has been trying to support local businesses. She tells us, “The community has been supporting them with opportunities like Mamma Liya and Know her Business – where women entrepreneurs talk about their business and also sell their products. We also post about streetside vendors. They can definitely use any help or push from us.” Many NGOs across NCR are also making diyas and candles for Diwali“I am not shopping anything online this festive season. I have already started buying candles, diyas and decorative pots from roadside vendors near Galleria Market and Vyapar Kendra. I think this is the least we can do,” shares Sangeeta Chadha, an entrepreneur and a resident of Gurgaon Sector 54. This Diwali, try and buy all the decor you need from local markets Watch This Diwali, go #VocalforLocal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/this-diwali-go-vocalforlocal/articleshow/79103337.cms||Riya Sharma
November 8, 2020||India||President, PM, Sonia congratulate Biden, Harris on US poll win||NEW DELHI: President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Sonia Gandhi along with other Indian leaders congratulated Joe Biden on his US presidential poll win and said they look forward to the strengthening of Indo-US ties going forward. They also congratulated Senator Kamala Harris for becoming the first-ever woman vice president-elect of the United States. She will also be the first Indian-origin and first African-American vice president of the country. "My sincere felicitations to Joseph R Biden on his election as President of the United States of America and @KamalaHarris, as Vice President," President Kovind tweeted. My sincere felicitations to Joseph R. Biden on his election as President of the United States of America and… https://t.co/SrMovn5ABw— President of India (@rashtrapatibhvn) 1604775286000He wished Biden a successful tenure and said he looks forward to working with Biden to further strengthen India-US relations. Prime Minister Modi also congratulated Biden and Harris and vowed to deepen Indo-US ties. "Congratulations @JoeBiden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relations was critical and invaluable," Modi tweeted. Congratulations @JoeBiden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relati… https://t.co/TGfktQ3kuH— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1604774266000"I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights," he said. In another tweet, Modi congratulated Harris, saying her success was pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for her "chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans". Heartiest congratulations @KamalaHarris! Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for y… https://t.co/M8XOUNBmpk— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1604774322000"I am confident that the vibrant India-US ties will get even stronger with your support and leadership," he said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi congratulated Biden for winning the US presidential election, saying India looked forward to a close partnership beneficial to peace and development. In a statement late in the night, Sonia Gandhi also extended warm greetings to vice president-elect Kamala Harris. Under the "wise and mature" leadership of Biden and Harris, Sonia Gandhi said, "India looks forward to a close partnership that will be beneficial to peace and development in our region and around the world". Congress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi also congratulated Biden for winning the US presidential election on Saturday, hoping that the Democrat would unite the US and provide direction to it. Congratulations to President-elect @JoeBiden. I’m confident that he will unite America and provide it with a strong sense of direction.— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1604769053000"Congratulations to President-elect Joe Biden. I'm confident that he will unite America and provide it with a strong sense of direction," Rahul Gandhi tweeted. "Congratulations, Vice-President-elect @KamalaHarris! It makes us proud that the first woman to serve as Vice President of the USA traces her roots to India," he said Biden defeated incumbent Republican US President Donald Trump in the closely-fought presidential election, according to the American media. Watch US polls: President Kovind, PM Modi, Sonia Gandhi congratulate Joe Biden on win||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/president-pm-sonia-congratulate-biden-harris-on-us-poll-win/articleshow/79106634.cms||---
November 8, 2020||World||US says, ‘you’re fired’, but Don won’t go quietly||WASHINGTON: A majority of American voters may have said "You're Fired!" - his signature line from his reality TV show - for how. But Trumpism, a coarse, ragged ideology that combines elements of racism, bigotry, white grievance, narcissism, and a love of conspiracy theories with a reckless disregard for facts and science - isn't going anywhere. With some 70 million voters backing him, America's most divisive and polarising President is expected to remain in public eye and attempt a come back by fanning flames of racial and social strife while insisting he has been cheated of victory. Of more urgent concern though is Trump's immediate legacy of throwing the country into a pandemic crisis with reckless disregard to basic protocols such as social distancing and mask mandates. On Saturday, the man described as by one commentators as “like an obese turtle on his back flailing in the hot sun realizing his time is over," seemed oblivious to the fact that coronavirus count in the country topped 100,000 on each of the past four days -- with 1000+ deaths each day - as he golfed in balmy fall weather. The Trump White House's disastrous handling of the crisis echoed once again on Friday when the President's Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, representative of Trump's base of ignorance and disregard for science - tested positive for coronavirus. Meadows, a former congressman, famously disdained masks and even mocked White House reporters for wearing them, once walking away from a press gaggle when a journalist requested him to wear a mask if he was going to talk to them at close quarters. The ineptitude of the Trump White House - laughable if it did not cause so much misery across America - has resulted in 45 coronavirus cases within the Presidential compound, with Trump and his immediately family, and several aides contracting the virus. While Trump, with the best (and free) medical care in the world dismissed the virus as no big deal, millions of Americans caught in a dreadful health care system suffered and died - close to 237,000 deaths by the latest count. Many of those affected by the virus were senior citizens and minorities, who studies show are more vulnerable. They were among the nearly 75 million+ Americans who in the US Presidential elections told Trump: You're Fired!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/as-coronavirus-rages-us-voters-to-trump-youre-fired/articleshow/79104642.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
November 8, 2020||World||Will not rest until Americans have honest vote count they deserve: Trump||WASHINGTON: Refusing to concede the election, US President Donald Trump has said that he will not rest until the American people have the honest vote count they are entitled to. Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris defeated incumbent President Trump and his deputy Mike Pence on Saturday in the bitterly-fought presidential election that attracted a record number of Americans to cast their votes. Trump has repeatedly attempted to question the validity of vote counts in key swing states and made unfounded claims that the election is being "stolen" from him. “Legal votes decide who is president, not the news media,” Trump said in a statement on Saturday, refusing to concede defeat in the presidential election to his Democratic rival Biden, who was declared winner by major media outlets on Saturday morning. “Beginning Monday, our campaign will start prosecuting our case in court to ensure election laws are fully upheld and the rightful winner is seated,” Trump said on Saturday. As per major news outlets, Trump has lost the election to Biden, who now has more than 270 electoral college votes required to win the November 3 presidential elections. The American people are entitled to an honest election: that means counting all legal ballots, and not counting any illegal ballots, said the outgoing president who alleges that the Democrats along with the big media and big tech companies have worked against him in this election. The Democrats and the Biden Campaign have refuted the allegations. "This is the only way to ensure the public has full confidence in our election. It remains shocking that the Biden campaign refuses to agree with this basic principle and wants ballots counted even if they are fraudulent, manufactured, or cast by ineligible or deceased voters. Only a party engaged in wrongdoing would unlawfully keep observers out of the count room – and then fight in court to block their access,” Trump said. “So what is Biden hiding? I will not rest until the American people have the honest vote count they deserve and that democracy demands,” Trump asserted in his statement issued by his campaign. “We all know why Joe Biden is rushing to falsely pose as the winner, and why his media allies are trying so hard to help him: they don't want the truth to be exposed. The simple fact is this election is far from over,” Trump said. Biden has not been certified as the winner of any states, let alone any of the highly contested states headed for mandatory recounts, or states where our campaign has valid and legitimate legal challenges that could determine the ultimate victor, he asserted. “In Pennsylvania, for example, our legal observers were not permitted meaningful access to watch the counting process. Legal votes decide who is president, not the news media,” Trump said. His campaign has filed multiple lawsuits in the States of Pennsylvania, Michigan, Georgia, and Nevada and has demanded a recount of votes in Wisconsin. The Biden campaign has denied the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/will-not-rest-until-americans-have-honest-vote-count-they-deserve-trump/articleshow/79106795.cms||---
November 8, 2020||India||Over 46,000 new cases take India’s Covid tally past 85L||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 caseload crossed 85 lakh with more than 46,000 new infections reported on Saturday, a slight drop from the previous day’s count of over 50,000. The death toll remained over 550 for the fourth day running, with 559 fatalities recorded on Saturday. With 46,022 fresh infections, the overall Covid-19 caseload in the country has risen to 85,07,793, as per TOI’s data collated from state governments. While active cases continued to decrease, the fall has been slowing down in the past few days as the overall daily cases in the country plateau, with the virus spiking again in some states. On Saturday, active cases dropped by just around 3,000, with nearly 5.1 lakh live infections on record in the country. The number of recovered patients rose to around 78.6 lakh. Maharashtra reported a significant dip in daily cases, with 3,959 infections recorded on Saturday, the lowest in 12 days. Mumbai reported 576 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in almost six months. The state also reported 160 deaths, taking the total fatalities past the 45,000 mark. In another positive trend, with more cases being discharged than the daily additions, Maharashtra’s active cases dipped below the 1 lakh and stood at 99,151 for the first time since July 11. Meanwhile, Odisha became the ninth state/ Union territory to record more than three lakh Covid-19 cases so far, after 1,372 more people tested positive for the virus. This has taken the virus caseload in the state to 3,00,140. With 17 more dying of Covid-19, the toll has gone up to 1,410. Bihar reported 819 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 2,21,811. Officially, seven deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1,136. However, with 2,13,911 recoveries, there were only 6,762 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-46000-new-cases-take-indias-covid-tally-past-85l/articleshow/79106937.cms||---
November 8, 2020||World||Trump defied gravity; now falls back to earth, future TBD||WASHINGTON: Donald Trump, who defied political gravity with his extraordinary rise from reality star and businessman to the presidency, has fallen back to earth. In the end, his flurry of raucous rallies, an unprecedented turnout operation and sheer force of will could not overcome the reality of his enduring unpopularity and a raging pandemic that has killed more than 236,000 people in the U.S. and thrown millions out of work. Yet Trump's acerbic brand of politics _ his Twitter taunts, his vindictive drive to punish enemies, his go-it-alone approach to the world _ made its mark across the far reaches of the government and beyond. And his better-than-expected election performance against Democrat Joe Biden suggests his impact is likely to resonate for generations in politics, governing and policy, even in defeat. It remains to be seen what Trump intends to do after his term ends on Jan. 20. Retreat to the golf course? Launch his own television network? Lay the groundwork to run again? And how fiercely will he try to contest his fate? ``I would absolutely expect the president to stay involved in politics. I would absolutely put him on the short list of people who are likely to run in 2024,'' Trump's former chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, said in an online interview with the Institute of International & European Affairs. ``He doesn't like losing.'' Trump retains the megaphone of his Twitter account, a far-reaching Fox News platform and the unflinching backing of his loyal base of supporters, who may never accept his defeat after he spent months insisting there was no way he could legitimately lose and even falsely claimed premature victory. On Saturday, Trump declined to concede to President-elect Biden, instead promising unspecified legal challenges to try to overturn the outcome of the race. Until a successor emerges to lead Republicans _ likely not until the resolution of the 2024 Republican primary _ Trump remains the de facto head of a party that he has reshaped in his image. ``Even in defeat, Donald Trump has exceeded expectations and helped other Republicans do the same,'' said GOP consultant Michael Steel, who has worked on Capitol Hill and for campaigns. ``He will remain a powerful force within the party.`` Still, Trump's loss is likely to spark a reckoning over how much of Trumpism the party should embrace going forward, especially given that Republicans could retain control of the Senate and won additional seats in the House. Had Biden won in a blowout, that would have put ``wind at the back of a lot of Republicans who said character counts and the Republican Party should never put its faith into someone who pushed boundaries liked Donald Trump,'' said former White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, who served under former President George W. Bush. But because it was closer, he predicted the party would likely ``continue to be wracked with a split between insiders and outsiders, between the establishment and the Trump supporters who fault the establishment. And the soon-to-be former president's role will be a huge question mark because if he decides to stay active, despite the close loss, he remains powerful and effective, especially for Republicans.'' In the meantime, it remains unclear whether Trump will accept the results of the election or continue to contest them as he spends the next three months as a lame duck president. Those who know him well say there is little chance he will go quietly into the night. ``When Donald Trump loses there will never be a peaceful transition to power,'' said Trump's longtime lawyer and fixer-turned-critic Michael Cohen. He predicted Trump would do everything in his power to claim the election was ``stolen from him`` by Democrats or other forces, just as Trump tried to sow discord as the votes were being counted. Cohen said Trump was also likely aware that after losing the presidency he might ``be served with a plethora of lawsuits, both federal and state.`` Trump is already facing lawsuits that accuse him of sexual assault and defamation, and his Trump Organization's finances are being investigated by New York's attorney general. Barbara Res, a longtime Trump associate who recently wrote a book about her experience working with him, speculated the president might leave the country before Biden's inauguration and perhaps pursue his own media empire. ``He could put on whatever he wants. He could say whatever he wants. It's almost like having Twitter explode into everything else,'' she said. As for the future for Republicans, Steel said the party would likely look to leaders who combine elements of Trump's populist agenda with policies that appeal to a broader swath of the electorate. ``The challenge will be identifying the popular, durable, and practical parts of his agenda and marrying them to policies and arguments that appeal to the broader electorate that the party will need to win at the national level in the future,'' he said. Under Trump, the Republican Party fully embraced the populist wave set in motion by the Tea Party rebels in earlier years, shifting its focus from free trade and trickle-down economics to trade wars and an isolationist foreign policy. His rise broke open a new path to the presidency, driven more by force of personality than policy, that echoed even as he lost the Electoral College vote. His nativist message and stoking of ``culture wars'' proved the power of the politics of division and hastened a generational political realignment. While he deepened his reach with white rural and working-class voters with his economic and racial grievance-stoking, he also turned off college-educated voters in the cities and suburbs with his sometimes crass rhetoric and endless tweets. Still, many Republicans believed he would have won reelection had it not been for the coronavirus pandemic and a widespread belief among voters that he mishandled it. Some top GOP leaders believe that while so-called ``Never Trumpers'' may celebrate the president's defeat, it is unlikely Republicans will be able to repudiate him completely, given how his stances on trade, immigration and foreign policy have resonated with voters and how close he came to clinching a second win. It remains unclear, too, whether those who have flocked to the party because of Trump will remain engaged once he is no longer on the ticket. The race for the 2024 Republican nomination has already quietly begun behind the scenes. A wide range of candidates are testing the waters, from moderates like Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan, to firebrands like Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton and former Trump officials like ex-South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley. Trump's eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., has become a particular favorite with the president's loyal supporters on the campaign trail, meaning the Trump name could endure. Fleischer said the party would likely be looking for someone with the blunt outspoken voice of an outsider who would at the same time refrain from going ``so far that your tweets push people away that want to be for you.`` Many of Trump's supporters see his influence continuing. ``We started something that is going to go on for generations,'' said Chris Haluck, 56, looking out over a crowd of thousands at a recent Trump rally in Pennsylvania that she'd attended with her 17-year-old daughter. Indeed, as Trump has traveled the country, his campaign has inspired a new generation of supporters who have been organizing their own events outside the campaign infrastructure. They include ``Loud Majority Long Island,'' which has been drawing thousands to car parades in New York, a state that is overwhelmingly Democratic. Matt Vereline, who joined fellow group members at a recent Trump rally, said that even if Trump loses, the group intends to continue its efforts, with a focus on local politicians, including New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and Gov. Andrew Cuomo. ``We want to oust Cuomo, of course,'' he said. ``And we want to oust de Blasio. We're going to try to organize.``||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-defied-gravity-now-falls-back-to-earth-future-tbd/articleshow/79106942.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Patna||‘It was like swimming across English Channel’||PATNA: Conducting election amid Covid-19 pandemic was like swimming across English Channel for the first time, deputy chief electoral officer Baiju Nath Kumar Singh told TOI after the third phase of state assembly polls concluded on Saturday. “Now, the Election Commission of India would be able to easily conduct the upcoming assembly election in West Bengal and other places,” he said. Singh said this election was a very big challenge and a completely different experience for them. “The EC executed everything on the ground successfully and we were able to meet the standards and expectations. SOPs issued by the Centre and the state health department for Covid-19 were followed in all the three phases of polling,” Singh said. Singh said some FIRs had been lodged against political workers and other people for violation of social distancing norms. “Everything was executed according to the plan. We were able to arrange necessary infrastructure and logistics, including gloves, masks, sanitisers and other items on time,” he said. Sociologist DM Diwakar praised the EC for conducting the polls in free and fair manner and succeeding in taking people to the booths to vote without fear of pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/it-was-like-swimming-across-english-channel/articleshow/79105544.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Leopards in Gir to be radio-collared||AHMEDABAD: After radio-collaring Asiatic lions, the Gujarat forest department is now planning to radio-collar five leopards in the Gir sanctuary area. The initiative is meant to monitor leopards and reduce the animal-human conflicts in the area. “Every year on average 15 human deaths are caused due to human-leopard conflicts in the area,” said Dushyant Vasavada, the chief conservator of forests (CCF), Junagadh wildlife circle. “Moreover, about 45 humans get injured every year.” If all goes as planned, this will be the first instance in Gujarat of leopards being radio-collared, he added. While Gujarat has 674 lions according to the latest population count conducted earlier this year, an equal number of leopards are found in Gir and nearby areas, experts say. According to the last census of leopards carried out in 2016, their population was 1,395 across Gujarat of which about 450 were in Junagadh and Gir-Somnath. Gujarat is the only state in India where lions and leopards have coexisted. The conservation efforts by the Gujarat forest department with constant patrols against poachers is one of the reasons for the wildlife uniqueness of the state. In a latest study, published in March 2020 in the journal PLOS One, researchers from Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), looked into how lions and leopards divide time and space in Gir to coexist. The study is a collaborative effort between the Gujarat forest department and the department of wildlife sciences, AMU. Earlier studies on lions and leopards in Africa indicated that being active at different times of the day (temporal partitioning) or sharing different habitats (spatial partitioning) helped these cats coexist. The latest study in Gir found that there was no significant temporal partitioning between lions and leopards as they both were nocturnal animals. But lions were mostly found in open, dense habitats. Leopards preferred dense habitats and closed riverine tracks. This has reduced the encounters between leopards and lions. The study shows that while leopards slipped into the forest cover or climbed trees to avoid a direct conflict with lions, they did not play a subordinate role. The researchers also analysed how lions and leopards overlapped with the prey species, both spatially and temporally. Another study, published in April 2019, on ‘Evaluation of human attitudes and factors conducive to promoting human-lion coexistence in the Greater Gir Landscape, India’ in Cambridge University Press, found that 80% people ‘liked’ lions compared to a mere 28% who ‘liked’ leopards. This was in spite of greater depredation losses to lions (82.6%) than to leopards (17.4%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-first-gir-leopards-to-be-radio-collared/articleshow/79105096.cms||Maulik Pathak
November 8, 2020||Patna||AIMIM not confident of winning any seat in Bihar||PATNA: The Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM, which was earlier believed to be a big player in the Seemanchal region, on Saturday said it was not confident of winning a seat in any of the four districts in the region. AIMIM state general secretary Aftab Ahmad said his party was giving a good fight in seven out of 24 assembly constituencies in the Seemanchal region. “But it is difficult to make a claim about victory,” he said. The Seemanchal region comprises Purnia, Katihar, Araria and Kishanganj districts. Of the total 24 seats, seven each are in Purnia and Katihar, six in Araria and four in Kishanganj district. The AIMIM contested 14 seats in the region. “The AIMIM candidates are giving good fights in Kishanganj, Kochadhaman, Bahadurganj, Thakurganj, Amour, Baisi and Jokihat. There is a triangular fight in almost all the seven seats. The NDA and the Mahagathbandhan also are in the contest. It is difficult to predict the outcome. Results can go either way,” Ahmad told TOI over phone. Till Friday, the AIMIM leaders had been claiming to win two to three seats in the Seemanchal region. But their tone changed on Saturday after watching the exit polls trend. The AIMIM first contested six seats in Bihar in 2015, but could not win a single one. The AIMIM again tried its luck in the region in the 2019 parliamentary election from Kishanganj where its candidate Akhtarul Iman stood third by securing 2.95 lakh votes against Congress’s Mohammad Javed, who won the seat. The party, however, got its foothold in the region in 2019 when Qamrul Hoda won the Kishanganj assembly bypoll necessitated after MLA Mohammad Javed was elected to the Lok Sabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aimim-not-confident-of-winning-any-seat/articleshow/79105470.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Aurangabad||MSEDCL’s 2,500 technicians to be upgraded to grade-III||Aurangabad: The decade-old issue of the promotion of technicians hired by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd. (MSEDCL) has finally been resolved with the proposal of promoting about 2,500 technicians to grade three has been sent to the state government. About 2,800 technicians, apart from 2,000 operators, were recruited in 2010 in the class-IV category. During this period, over 1,700 operators have managed to bag a couple of promotions. But much to the awe of the technicians, none of them were given promotions citing lack of any such posts. Finally after several rounds of meetings with the technical as well as legal experts and considering the reports of number of committees formed during past one decade to address the issue, MSEDCL CMD Dinesh Wagh has cleared the proposal for the technicians’ promotion and has forwarded the same to holding company’s chairman and energy minister Nitin Raut. Maharashtra Rajya Veej Tantrik Kamgar Sanghatna’s general secretary Syed Zaheeruddin said, “For the past 10 years, we have been contesting to get justice for the operators, but, each time technical reasons were cited for turning down the request.” He said that the biggest hurdle in paying heed to the demand was that there were no class-III posts for the operators. Those associated with the process said that the creation of class-III posts will barely have any additional financial burden on MSEDCL as the operators have already been granted pay scale in accordance to their seniority under government order 74. In addition, MSEDCL staffers, citing all the work and efforts taken by them during the pandemic situation, are demanding that they should be given Diwali bonus in accordance on the years old tradition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msedcls-2500-technicians-to-be-upgraded-to-grade-iii/articleshow/79106074.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Support to start-ups developing Covid-19 products & services||Aurangabad: The Marathwada Accelerator for Growth and Incubation Council (Magic), in association with German development agency GIZ, has announced support to key start-ups engaged in developing Covid-19 products and services. Magic and GIZ have invited registrations from start-ups. The top 10 related entrepreneur firms or individuals will get necessary grooming and promotion. “The Covid-19 pandemic has created new set of opportunities for the start-ups to develop new products and services to meet the public demand. Many start-ups have been developing innovative products and solutions to combat the health challenge and some of those needing support will be helped,” Magic director Ashish Garde said. The start-ups from Marathwada only can send their entries with short-listed ones to get technical assistance, business continuity support and market access. “The Magic which is run by the Chamber of Marathawada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) and GIZ have large network and the selected start-ups will be promoted through it,” it was said. For further details, authorities concerned can be reached upon contact@magicaurangabad.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/support-to-start-ups-developing-covid-19-products-services/articleshow/79106073.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Patna||Several netas, candidates cast votes in third phase of Bihar elections||PATNA: Several politicians and MPs cast their votes in the third phase of state assembly election on Saturday. Urban development and housing minister Suresh Kumar Sharma, who is contesting from Muzaffarpur against Congress candidate Bijendra Chaudhary, voted at booth number 94 in his hometown. “To make the city beautiful and smart, it is important for each and every individual to vote. The Centre has announced Rs2,000 crore for development work in smart city,” he said. PHED minister Vinod Narayan Jha and art, culture and youth affairs minister Pramod Kumar also exercised their franchise in Benipatti and Motihari, respectively. Rajya Sabha member and RJD leader Ahmad Ashfaque Karim cast his vote in Katihar. JD(U)’s sitting MLA from Sikta and minority affairs minister Khurshid alias Firoz Ahmad and RJD’s Hayaghat candidate Bhola Yadav also cast their votes. “The party has raised important issues including employment and development and we are confident of victory,” Bhola said. Plurals Party president Pushpam Priya Choudhary got her finger inked at the Government Middle School booth in Balbhadrapur, Darbhanga. She was in her usual black attire and accompanied by her mother. “The state would be able to move ahead only when we get rid of Lalu and Nitish Kumar,” she said. Pushpam asked the security personnel to make a separate queue for the elderly at the polling stations. She tweeted: “An ideal assembly constituency is needed, not an ideal polling station (sic).” Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) chief Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Bundela, who is the Congress candidate from Bihariganj against sitting MLA Niranjan Kumar Mehta of JD(U), cast her vote in Madhepura. The third phase of elections has locked the fate of several cabinet ministers like Bijendra Prasad Yadav (Supaul), Narendra Narayan Yadav (Alamnagar), Maheshwar Hazari (Kalyanpur), Ramesh Rishideo (Singheshwar), Khurshid (Sikta), Lakshmeshwar Roy (Laukaha), Bima Bharti (Rupauli), Madan Sahni (Motihari), Suresh Sharma (Muzaffarpur), Vinod Narayan Jha (Benipatti) and Krishnakumar Rishi (Banmankhi). Sarfaraz violates model code The Election Commission has taken serious note of RJD’s Jokihat candidate Sarfaraz Alam, who reached the polling booth with his party badge pinned on his shirt, which is the violation of model code of conduct. Araria DM Prashant Kumar said action would be initiated against him as per the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/several-netas-candidates-cast-votes-in-third-phase/articleshow/79105459.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Now, netas take to mental maths||PATNA: The end of the third and last phase of polling has brought some physical relief to politicians, who had been vigorously campaigning across the length and breadth of the state. However, they are not letting their guards down, taking feedback, and preparing agents for the counting on Tuesday. Most state leaders, who are back to their homes from the electoral battlefield, spent most of their time on the phone talking to ground-level workers. And all political parties have also started imparting training to their counting agents and get them prepared for the counting day. The Mahagatbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who had held a whopping 247 public rallies and four roadshows since the campaigning began, was busy taking feedback on Saturday. “He is over the phone taking feedback from the field. He will also be spending some time with family and especially his siblings who are here in Patna,” informed Tejashwi’s media advisor Sanjay Yadav. RJD senior leader Bhola Yadav and party’s spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said they will be switching over to training their counting agents. “Now it will be the selection of polling agents and imparting training to them, especially to those of the last phase as very little time is left,” Yadav said. He further said, “Agents will be trained in spotting if the sealing of EVMs is intact. There are 14 tables for each constituency and for each table, one agent has to be picked. The work is not yet over,” adding, “Tiredness is felt only after the entire work gets completed, but when you get a positive result for your hard work that gives you more energy.” BJP state spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel also said his party leaders were now on the phone and taking feedback and doing analysis. “Though there will be no more moving around, leaders are now on the phone and taking feedback. It is more of mental work in the next two days. How can one get relaxed until the result?” Congress campaign committee chairman Akhilesh Singh, who had participated in around 85 public rallies, said the pressure of going to different places in limited time has got over now. “Now we are taking the feedback from the field and the best thing is that the kind of response we are getting has given a soothing effect to our hectic schedule.” JD (U) state spokesperson Anjum Ara, who is also the party’s candidate from Dumraon, will head back to her constituency on Sunday and see the arrangement for the counting. “During campaigning, I did not get time to talk to my parents. Soon after the campaigning, I was back to my home with my family. But again I am heading back tomorrow for counting,” said Ara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-netas-take-to-mental-maths/articleshow/79105581.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 8, 2020||Hubballi||Vinay Kulkarni endures long interrogation session on 52nd birthday||HUBBALLI: A day after a Dharwad district court handed over his custody to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for three days in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, former minister and senior Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni was on Saturday subjected to interrogation by the sleuths investigating the case at the office of City Armed Reserve (CAR) in Hubballi. Kulkarni was brought to Hubballi from the Hindalga Central Jail in Belagavi on Saturday morning. The CBI sleuths started the interrogation around 9 in the morning, and lasted till the evening on Saturday. The former minister’s personal assistant Somashekar Nemagouda and Kulkarni’s relative Chandrashekar Indi were also subjected to interrogation on Saturday. Incidentally, Vinay Kulkarni celebrated his 52nd birthday on Saturday, and CBI sleuths allowed him to meet members of his family – his wife Shivaleela, daughters and son – in the afternoon for a brief while so they could greet him on the occasion. On the other hand, Congress workers and activists celebrated their leader’s birthday outside the CAR grounds, slogans hailing Kulkarni serving as their wishes. Anilkumar Patil was among the prominent party representatives who organised the event. Restrictions on media activity However, mediapersons were not allowed inside the CAR grounds where the former minister was quizzed. Hubballi-Dharwad police were posted around the perimeter of the CAR grounds. Cops also discouraged photojournalists from taking photographs of those summoned for interrogation. Photo- Vinay family p5vinafamily caption: Former minister Vinay Kulkarni's wife Shivaleela, daughters and son met Vinay Kulkarni at the new CAR Ground office in Hubballi on Saturday. Kulkarni turned 52 on Saturday, the family members were allowed to meet him for just a few minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vinay-kulkarni-endures-long-interrogation-session-on-52nd-birthday/articleshow/79105927.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||PWD to reconstruct Mudukuthore Mallikarjuna Swamy Temple near Talakadu||MYSURU: The famous Mudukuthore Mallikarjuna Swamy Temple near Talakadu will be completely reconstructed by the public works department. The work has been initiated on the direction of chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who has indicated that he will be directly monitoring the developments of the construction. The initiation to reconstruct the temple on the banks of the Cauvery in T Narasipura taluk has been planned after the ancient temple on the hilltop suffered damages due to weather over the years. Every year, thousands of devotees visit the temple during Magha Poornima to participate in the car festival held in February. According to sources, Suttur Mutt requested Yediyurappa to take up development of the temples and the project was immediately approved. The temple is one of five temples in Talakadu where the Panachalinga Darshan is held. As part of the project, the existing temple structures will be demolished atop the hill and new structures including gopura to the main temples for Sri Mallikarjuna Swamy and Sri Bramarambika Devi will be built. The project also includes reconstruction of small temples, construction of a prasada counter, seva counter, office, naivedya pakashale, raja gopura, thirtha bavi, yagashale and others. The authorities have also planned to prepare a master plan to develop the entire place in the coming days including reconstruction of 101 steps. PWD authorities have estimated the project to cost Rs 16 crore. The Vaastu-compliant design of the temples has been made by Shri Constructions, based in Udupi. The stones for the temples will be procured from Chamarajanagar and Chikkaballapura districts. PWD engineer Sabarish told TOI that the reconstruction will be taken up. “The project has been sent for administrative approval,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pwd-to-reconstruct-mudukuthore-mallikarjuna-swamy-temple-near-talakadu/articleshow/79105707.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Cops, Pollution Control Board plan to seek citizens’ help||KOLKATA: A joint strategy by Kolkata Police and West Bengal Pollution Control Board (PCB) may get residents of apartments and complexes to keep watch on neighbours who burst illegal crackers. “It is not easy for us to have access to major complexes. We will reach out to the residents and ask them to call us up whenever they see anyone bursting crackers,” said a senior DCP. The plan, sources said, has two advantages — cops will have the evidence to proceed against the accused and it will create a united response from the people themselves. “This Durga Puja, Covid was in check not just because of police vigilance, but because the citizens supported us. We are looking for similar cooperation from the citizens during Kali Puja. Dedicated communication lines will be set up for this purpose,” said an officer. Officers, though, said the police strategy was not limited to campaigns. Cops have started seizing crackers at the source — mainly Burrabazar, Posta and the warehouses in the Port areas and Taratala. “Many cracker sellers said they were incurring losses and want to take their stocks out of the state. They said storing was a major concern. In the absence of proper storing units, it was a risk to keep them in the Burrabazar area. We had allowed them some time to remove the stocks, but now we are seizing everything. We also need to see documentation that the crackers are being taken out of the state. Anyone moving crackers without legal documents will face action,” an officer said. The cops said they are also mapping the trouble spots across the city — the south suburban division leading the list. Several spots in the north, and Behala-Thakurpukur, will see extra deployment a few days before Diwali. The police have also decided to track down all local traders and advise them not to invest in crackers. “We are telling them to read the mood of the people. They are also being told that they will be challenging the law of the land,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-pcb-plan-to-seek-citizens-help/articleshow/79104846.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chemical blast: Accused tests +ve for Covid||AHMEDABAD: Pradeep Bharwad, one of the accused in the Sahil Enterprise blast case which killed 12 people, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. He has been admitted to the Civil Hospital. On Wednesday, at about 11am the blast from the unit run by Hetal Sutaria affected two other factories near it and 12 persons, including a 14-year-old boy, were killed. According to police, Sahil Enterprise on Pirana-Piplaj Road was run illegally by Sutaria who is in police custody. ACP K Division Milap Patel, said they wrote to 13 agencies to know about the chemical that led to the blast. “The Child Labour Act charges will be added if the 14-year-old who died was found to be working at the factory,” said an investigator. After the blast, an FIR was registered at Narol police station on Thursday evening. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chemical-blast-accused-tests-ve-for-covid/articleshow/79104994.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Nitish Kumar lost traditional aura||PATNA: Whatever the outcome of the elections to the 243-member state assembly this year may be, the prominently defining image from the campaign for the three-phase polls that people are likely to remember for years to come is Bihar CM Nitish Kumar losing his proverbial cool at quite a few rallies he addressed. Nitish lost his cool at Parsa where RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s estranged ‘samdhi’ and former minister Chandrika Rai contested election on the JD(U) ticket. Chandrika’s daughter Aishwarya Rai is married to Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav, but the marriage did not come off well and ended in divorce petitions. Nitish raised the issue of Aishwarya and the “larger Lalu family matters” at the Parsa rally. The observers were quick to remark that it was unprecedented even for Nitish, who appeared to have shed his traditional aura of poise and calmness. From there, it was just more of catcalls, heckling and even pelting of onions in some of the 94 rallies addressed by Nitish. The impact was such that even as he shared six of the 12 rallies addressed by PM Narendra Modi from October 23, the imprint of the image could not be erased. This, however, is not to say that it impacted the pull of PM Modi in any way, but was taken as symptomatic of the change in popular mood that definitely appeared to have gone in favour of the RJD-led grand alliance’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, whose rallies attracted more people than those addressed by PM Modi or even Nitish. Tejashwi’s pull factor rubbed on even the most important star campaigner of the Congress, Rahul Gandhi, who also addressed a couple of rallies with him. Overall, PM Modi addressed 12 physical rallies. Similarly, Nitish addressed 161 rallies, including 94 physical rallies and six with PM Modi. In contrast, Tejashwi addressed 252 rallies, including digital rallies. In several ways, Tejashwi was the first who, in fact, appeared to have set the agenda by promising to put his initial to give 10 lakh jobs at the first cabinet meeting he would hold, even before the grand alliance brought out its 25-point Sankalp Patra. During the campaign, he also stressed on ‘kamaee, padhaee, dawaee, sinchaee’ (income, education, medicine/healthcare and irrigation facility) that seemingly addressed the concerns of people, irrespective of their caste, class and religion. If the losing of cool by him is set aside, Nitish and the NDA had already decided to pitch their campaign around the alleged ‘15-year jungle raj under Lalu-Rabri’ versus the state’s developmental journey in around 15-year rule of the NDA with Nitish as its CM. While Nitish spoke in flat monologue, the BJP leaders displayed their felicity with words, facts, bile, bellicosity and emotions on the ‘jungle raj’ theme, which set the stage for PM Modi and other BJP star campaigners — mainly party president J P Nadda and UP CM Yogi Adityanath — to take over and carry it forward, as the BJP campaigners began to test positive for Covid-19 and were immobilized. To counter Tejashwi, the BJP promised work opportunities for 19 lakh persons to be provided with implementation of the 11-point road map listed in its resolutions, including free vaccination against Covid-19. For his part, PM Modi stressed on use of technology for governance and transfer of money into the accounts of the poor and farmers, care he took to handle the coronavirus pandemic, programmes for the poor, Bihar’s need for infrastructure and connectivity (highways and inland waterways), IT hubs, property card and piped natural gas for domestic use and industrial consumption. He, of course, interspersed these themes by vigorously harping on the ‘jungle raj’ which, however, soon showed diminishing returns in terms of crowd response, whereby he characterized Tejashwi as ‘jungle raj ka yuvraj’, and coupling it with Rahul Gandhi, dubbed them as ‘double Yuvraj’. He also presented them as being synonymous with ‘family rule, corruption and loot of government resources’, calling Tejashwi’s promise to give 10 lakh jobs as pretext to further “loot and make their wealth.” While the PM used to also refer to the abrogation of Article 370 and upcoming Ram temple at Ayodhya, dubbing the Congress as an obstacle in all this, he concluded his address at Forbesganj and Saharsa on November 3 with shouts of ‘Jai Shri Ram, Bharat Mata Ki Jai and so on, probably to polarize voters, as large number of Muslims were to vote in the third and final phase on November 7. The BJP’s other star campaigners, like Nadda and Adityanath, largely concentrated on counting the achievements of PM Modi, besides referring to Pakistan, terrorists, abrogation of Article 370, Ayodhya temple, and reduced the achievements of Nitish as largely tackling law and order problem in 15 years of his rule. Adityanath even raised the issue of deporting the Bangladeshi infiltrators with instruments like CAA from the Seemanchal districts on November 3, which Nitish immediately countered from Kishanganj calling his claim as ‘anap snap (sheer nonsense)’. Obviously, unlike the grand alliance comprising the RJD, Congress and three Left parties, including the CPI(ML), presented themselves as unified combine, the NDA appeared beset with internal confusions, made worse by the LJP led by Chirag Paswan who was deemed as the proxy of the BJP pitched against Nitish to cut him to size.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-lost-traditional-aura/articleshow/79105414.cms||Abhay Singh
November 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Largest CAPF deployment in any state polls||PATNA: The three-phase Bihar assembly election, which concluded on Saturday, was not only the first such exercise amid Covid-19 pandemic but also had the biggest ever deployment of central armed police force (CAPF) and other reserved forces in any state polls across the country. Altogether 1200 companies comprising 1.62 lakh security personnel were deployed in the state. They included BSF, CRPF, SSB, CISF, ITBP and RPF besides India Reserve Battalion and armed police companies from 17 different states of Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Odisha, Tripura and Uttarakhand. Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had made CRPF Bihar sector headquarters in Patna the epicentre for management of the massive force deployment and mobilization. As per the MHA direction, more than 90% of the forces would leave Bihar immediately after Saturday while a few companies would remain stationed for guarding the strongrooms and other purposes till counting of votes. CRPF Bihar sector public relations officer MK Singh, a commandant rank officer, told TOI over phone that the last assembly election in West Bengal had the largest ever force deployment before Bihar polls. “Altogether 746 companies of CAPF were deployed in the West Bengal polls. Before that, the maximum deployment was of 726 companies of CAPF in Bihar only during the 2015 assembly election. This time, the deployment of 1200 companies, including 1017 of CAPF, is the maximum in any state election across the country so far,” he said. Singh said CRPF IG GVH Giri Prasad (Bihar Sector) was the force coordinator for this election and he continuously kept monitoring everything from day one. “Monitoring of the massive forces, quick mobilization and deployment with safety and security at designated locations were the biggest challenge which required round-the-clock attention. Most of the sector headquarters officers remained stationed and were unable to go home even if situated nearby,” he said, adding the increased number of polling stations necessitated massive force deployment in order to maintain social distancing. Commandant Singh said more than one lakh vehicles were arranged for the movement of CAPF personnel across the state in order to maintain social distancing. Around 250 doctors and paramedics moved with the forces in the field for providing first-aid and required treatment immediately. “Election Commission (EC) had asked for around 1.5 lakh mini buses for the movement but so many such category of vehicles were unavailable,” he said. Singh said the EC’s randomization software was used to finalize which company would be deployed where in order to maintain impartiality till last level. “Besides, it was also kept in mind that forces like BSF, SSB and CRPF get deployed in jungle or Maoist-infested areas while those from CISF and RPF deployed in urban areas. All of them were sensitized and provided with a customized booklet with vital information about their deployment area and Bihar along with the SOPs on several issues like IED recovery,” the commandant said. In reply to a query, Singh said continuous monitoring and surveillance was done with the help of intelligence agencies to thwart any untoward attempt against the forces in the backdrop of problems in border areas and the past incidents. Singh also said on EC direction, railways arranged 81 special trains to bring forces from across the country. “Altogether 78 trains would take them back to their destinations. Forces of neighbouring states would return by road,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/largest-capf-deployment-in-any-state-polls/articleshow/79105497.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 8, 2020||Patna||Munger case: Three SHOs, two in-charges removed||PATNA: The station house officers of three police stations and two police outpost in-charges have been removed in Munger on the direction of the Election Commission in connection with the alleged firing during Durga Puja idol immersion on October 26 resulting in the death of a youth. Six people were injured, including two with bullet wounds, during the clashes that led to retaliation by a rampaging mob on October 29 when the Kotwali, Mufassil and Kasim Bazaar police stations were torched along with Purabsarai and Vasudevpur outposts. The SP’s office was also ransacked. DM Rajesh Meena and SP Lipi Singh were removed by the EC on October 29. Munger SP Manavjeet Singh Dhillon on Saturday said the five officers were removed and attached to police lines on Friday night and new postings were notified. Dhillon said the recommendation was forwarded to the EC for their removal. “We had recommended names of three officers for each of the posts to the EC against which it finalised the removal of five,” he said. “Show-cause was served to five erring officers on why they failed to gather prior intelligence on excess crowd gathering at puja places and in procession and at several other points,” he said. The SP said an INSAS and a self-loading rifle (SLR) of two SAP jawans were seized and sent to the forensic laboratory in Bhagalpur to ascertain if any recent firing had taken place from the weapons. “There are rumours that these two jawans had opened fire on devotees. To clear the air, this action has been taken,” the SP said, adding 140 cartridges and an SLR magazine are missing from Purabsarai outpost after the mob attack. SP said a three-hour marathon meeting of the special investigation team consisting of three DSPs, four inspectors and two sub-inspectors took place on Friday to review all 16 cases registered in connection with the firing and both violence. “Necessary directions were given to all 16 investigating officers. No arresting has been made yet,” he said. Dhillon said a peace committee meeting presided by DM Rachna Patil also took place on Saturday to ensure peaceful Chhatth and Kali Puja celebrations in Munger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/munger-case-three-shos-two-in-charges-removed/articleshow/79105552.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Patna||300 security personnel test Covid positive during Bihar polls||PATNA: At least 300 personnel of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and other forces contracted Covid-19 and six died due to other reasons during assembly polls in the state. Public relations officer of CRPF’s Bihar sector, commandant M K Singh, said of the 300 security personnel who contracted Covid in the state, more than 200 have already recuperated. “At least 70 personnel are still in isolation and three are undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna,” he said. Singh said five security personnel lost their lives due to different reasons and one died in a road accident during assembly polls in the state. “The Election Commission has approved an ex gratia of Rs 15 lakh each to the next of the kin of four deceased security personnel. The other two dead security personnel, whose kin will also get ex gratia, are from Manipur,” he said. CISF head constable E Kujur deployed in Darbhanga, CRPF assistant sub-inspector H K Ravikar deployed in Jamui, Nabakanta Sharma and Mohammad Ramijuddin of Manipur Rifles deployed in Siwan and a BSF sub-inspector, K R Bhai, deployed in Vaishali died of different illnesses, such as heart attack, brain haemorrhage and typhoid. SSB head constable Shailesh Kumar Singh, who was deployed in East Champaran, had died in a road accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/300-security-personnel-test-covid-positive-during-polls/articleshow/79105524.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata team sets off on first climb out of country post-pandemic||KOLKATA: A team of four mountaineers from Kolkata has set out for Mount Ama Dablam of the Himalayan range in the first Indian post-pandemic expedition to a mountain outside the country. The team has reached Lukla and is scheduled to leave for the base camp by Sunday. After reaching Nepal last week, the team had to spend six days in mandatory quarantine. “We had our Covid test reports from Kolkata. But the Nepal government needs six days of quarantine followed by another set of Covid tests,” said Satyarup Sidhanta, a member of the group. After six days, the group — comprising Sidhanta, Malay Mukherjee, Debashish Biswas and Kiran Patra — set out for Lukla on Saturday morning. The Ama Dablam climb is very technical. “At times, it is even more technical than Mount Everest. It requires every skill that a climber has learnt over the years. Many of the Everest summiteers have failed to make it to the top of Ama Dablam,” said Sidhanta. Popularly known as the “Matterhorn of the Himalaya”, the 6,812m-high mountain was first scaled in 1961 by a team of four. In 2006, six climbers were killed when a column of glacial ice or serac collapsed and swept away tents at Camp III. “You need everything — ropes, ice axe, crampons, ice screws, jumars and skills to climb it. You can classify it as hard, very severe climbing. Not many people attempt it,” said Mukherjee. The challenge starts from Camp I with the narrow edges of the granite ridge. It gets tougher as climbers cross camps II and III. “Generally, climbers don’t have to face such steep elevation at such high altitude. You have to walk over the blue ice for large stretches,” Siddhanta said. Blue ice is when snow falls on the glacier and is gradually compressed till it becomes part of it. The team will have the last stop at Camp II and then head straight for the summit sometime between November 22 and 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-team-sets-off-on-1st-climb-out-of-country-post-pandemic/articleshow/79104853.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: KMDA to widen roads before load test of Bypass bridge||KOLKATA: Buses that ply on the EM Bypass will be diverted between Science City and Ruby when the Ambedkar Bridge across the Basanti canal undergoes a load test. KMDA will strengthen and widen the roads along either side of the bridge so that cars and bikes heading from Science City to Ruby crossing and back can access a small culvert across the canal. “Ambedkar Bridge has a heavy traffic load and is busy all the time. It is therefore important to prepare the diversion carefully before the bridge is shut to prevent congestion and chaos on Bypass,” said a KMDA official. Officials said tenders have been floated to take up the work to develop and widen the roads along PC Chandra Gardens to the east and Science City to the west. An estimate of about Rs 90,000 has been fixed for the road work. KMDA has been conducting load tests of several bridges since last year. Work has been completed for almost all major bridges other than Ambedkar Bridge and Durgapur bridge in Alipore. The agency is also preparing tender documents to engage a firm to repair and strengthen Baghajatin rail over bridge (ROB). This project will cost Rs 44 crore. Baghajatin ROB will be repaired and retrofitting carried out to strengthen the structure. The work is expected to begin next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-to-widen-roads-before-load-test-of-bypass-bridge/articleshow/79104932.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 8, 2020||Surat||Surat: Polyester hub weaving new success in cotton fabrics||SURAT: Traditionally famed as the world’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) manufacturing hub, Surat is gradually shifting towards processing cotton fabric, something that is considered to be a forte of weavers in Bhiwandi in Maharashtra and Erode in Tamil Nadu. A number of textile firms have started processing of cotton fabrics supplied from Bhiwandi and Erode due to cheap cost. The processing includes printing and dyeing of fabrics. Industry experts say that cotton fabric processing has increased from just about 4 lakh metres per day to 25 lakh metres per day as unfinished fabric from Ichalkaranji and Bhiwandi in Maharashtra is making its way to the textile dyeing and processing mills in Surat. Most of these fabrics are used in the manufacturing of suiting and shirting and women’s wear including ‘salwar suit’ and other heavy fabrics. Vice-chairman of Madhusudan Group, a leading textile manufacturer, Girdhar Gopal Mundra said, “The MMF hub is gradually moving towards natural fabrics (cotton).” Mundra, who is also actively involved in the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) added, “The processing cost in Surat is cheaper compared to other centres in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. It is predicted that cotton manufacturing will capture about 40% share in the MMF centre in the next five years.” Surat’s MMF sector manufactures 4 crore metre of polyester fabric per day. The industry employs over 10 lakh workers in the manufacturing and processing sectors. Hiren Nagda, a cotton fabric manufacturer and trader from Bhiwandi told TOI, “Surat's textile processing units are offering more designing options than any other centre. Due to Covid-19, many textile mills in and around Bhiwandi are yet to reopen. Hence, we have started sending our cotton fabric to Surat for processing.” Jitu Vakharia, president of South Gujarat Textile Processors’ Association (SGTPA) told TOI, “Of the total 350 textile processing mills, about 50 mills are processing cotton fabrics. The per metre cost of processing cotton fabrics is Rs 25, compared to Rs 35 per metre in other centres including Maharashtra and Erode.” Vakharia added, “At present, the textile mills are processing about 25 lakh metre of cotton fabrics per day.” Pramod Chaudhary, chairman of Pratibha Textile Group, added, “We are processing about 1 lakh metre of cotton fabrics per day. Majority of the fabric is supplied from Bhiwandi. We also get rayon fabrics from Erode for processing. The cotton and rayon fabrics have to be mercerized with caustic solution to improve their properties.” Compared to other centres such as Ahmedabad, Surat’s processing mills have more advanced technologies related to the prints and the labour cost is cheaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/polyester-hub-now-weaves-success-in-cotton-fabrics-too/articleshow/79105296.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||After cordoned off funerals, group ensures ritual send-off||AHMEDABAD: Corona funerals curtail the number of mourners and rituals, but a group from Palanpur on Saturday organized a mass send-off focused on the comprehensive rites for those who have already been cremated. The group said that corona victims from Banaskantha, Ahmedabad, and other parts of the state were remembered and their final rituals performed. Nitin Thakore of the Nishwarth Seva Sangathan and Charitable Trust, which organized the event, said that the group wanted to ensure dignity for the dead. “Even priests are not willing to oversee funerals because of the corona fear,” Thakore said. “Hindu texts allow funeral rituals for a large group of people if their last rites have not been performed.” On Saturday, rituals such as pind daan, tarpan, and Narayan Bali were performed with the help of ten priests in Palanpur town. Dr Surendra Gupta, a medical practitioner and a member of the group, said: “We are a group of 300 people. In the corona crisis, bodies are taken directly to crematoriums and families are not allowed to touch the bodies, let alone perform the last rites.” Thakurdas Khatri, another group member, said: “We are not aware how many people have died in the state.” He added: “The official figure was 3,750 as on Friday. Hence the rituals were performed for all those who died between April and November.” Khatri said the group has been for long taking care of the elderly in an old-age home in the district. He said that much before the first case of corona was reported in the state on March 17, the group had started distributing masks in the district and had urged people to always wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-cordoned-off-funerals-group-ensures-ritual-send-off/articleshow/79105199.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Domestic pharma sales grow close by 10% in October||AHMEDABAD: After having remained muted since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March, the domestic pharma market seems to have gained momentum with medicine sales registering a good monthly growth in October. The pharma sales surged nearly 10% to Rs 13,542 crore in October from Rs 12,352 crore in the same month last year, shows the data compiled by AIOCD AWACS, a market research wing of All India Organization of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD). The October month growth is double than 5% growth achieved in September 2020, when the sales stood at Rs 13,170 crore as against Rs 12,604 crore in the same period a year ago. The October month growth was largely driven by the strong revival in sales of cardiac, anti-diabetic, respiratory, gastro drugs as well as vitamins. On month-on-month basis, vitamins sales grew by 23%, followed by the cardiac segment (20%), anti-diabetic (10%) and gastro (14%). Gujarat is a major producer of drugs and formulations accounting for 32-33% in domestic market and 28-29% of India’s export. Although the pharma industry remained very strong on the export front, it struggled to regain growth in domestic market for the first five months following the outbreak of Covid-19 in March. Before clocking a monthly 5% sales growth in September, the industry posted a negative growth rate of 2%, 9% and 12% in August, May and April. While the industry managed to grow just 2% in June and the growth was less than 1% in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/domestic-pharma-sales-grow-close-by-10-in-october/articleshow/79105181.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Books thrown, teachable moment grabbed||AHMEDABAD: While cleaning their homes before the festive season, people discard a lot of used books. Ahmedabad based Shahin Foundation has created a library of 3,000 such educational books which students can either borrow or keep for themselves – for free. “Anybody can walk into our library and choose whatever book he or she wants. They can either return the books or keep them for themselves. We have got these for free and students can have them for free,” said Hamid Memon, founder trustee of Danilimda- based Shahin Foundation. Memon said that on an average, about a dozen students – from school to postgraduate level – visit the library and either refer to the books or take them. “The collection is only growing. As of now, we have 3,000 books. And although students have been taking books that they require, the number has been increasing every day,” Memon said. Recently, the foundation donated 111 books to Faruq-e-Azam school in Juhapura area of the city. “We have been appealing to institutions and other schools as well. They can visit our library and take educational books that might be of value to them. At the same time, if they wish to donate educational books to us, we will be more than willing to accept,” Memon said. The foundation began a “Scrap for Education” programme recently, under which people have been donating their books generously to the foundation. “These books also come in handy for about 800 students, who are being given coaching free by the trust. Many of them are doing their bachelor’s, master’s and other courses,” Memon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/books-thrown-teachable-moment-grabbed/articleshow/79105278.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cancer awareness webinar held by NCC Group HQ in Rajkot||Ahmedabad: A cancer awareness webinar was organized by NCC Group HQ Rajkot in association with Cancer Care India and a charitable trust working in health and education. This was coordinated by 8 Gujarat Battalion NCC, Junagadh on Saturday.The aim of the webinar was to make young boys and girls aware of the precautions, prevention measures and ways to survive various types of cancers. The initiative was taken by Brigadier S N Tiwari, group commander, NCC Group HQ, Rajkot. While opening the webinar he stressed the importance of cancer awareness among the youth. The participants included 160 NCC cadets and eight associated NCC officers who listened to a panel of eminent doctors on “Early Cancer Diagnosis and Screening”. The experts also answered questions. The initiative was educative and enlightening, on the occasion of Cancer Awareness Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cancer-awareness-webinar-held-by-ncc-group-hq-in-rajkot/articleshow/79105249.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Patna||NDA, GA claim victory as Bihar polls end||PATNA: The two major alliances in the state – National Democratic Alliance and Mahagathbandhan – on Saturday exuded confidence of winning the assembly polls, the results of which will be declared on November 10. After the third and final phase of polls came to an end on Thursday, NDA leaders claimed they will form the government with over two-thirds majority under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar. The party leaders also congratulated the people for exercising their franchise braving Covid pandemic. Meanwhile, the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan too claimed it will sweep the polls in the state. “People have accepted the change in form of Mahagatbandhan in Bihar. The state will now move towards development,” RJD Rajya Sabha MP and national spokesperson Manoj Jha said. He said the Mahagathbandhan had already got the mandate in the second phase and the third phase bolstered its number. “It was a wonderful election and people of Bihar remained stuck to the agenda in spite of various attempts made to sway them. They have voted for employment, better education, healthcare and other issues plaguing them,” Jha said. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the party was getting positive feedback from across the state. “Tejashwi will be the next CM of the state,” he added. CPI-ML politburo member Kavita Krishnan appreciated the bonhomie the alliance partners shared in Mahagatbandhan. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Akhilesh Singh and party’s state president Madan Mohan Jha said in spite of playing Owaisi card in Seemanchal, NDA failed to fare well in the region. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, on the other hand, said people have bestowed their trust on PM Narendra Modi and NDA. “The PM got the support of the poor throughout the election,” he claimed. He appreciated the BJP workers for toiling hard at all the booths for not only BJP, but other alliance parties as well. JD(U) state president Vashishtha Narayan Singh said Nitish would return as CM of the state. “It is clear that people have showered their blessing on CM Nitish Kumar,” he claimed. HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi took a jibe at LJP president Chirag Paswan. “I am remembering Ram Vilas Paswanji today. Had he been alive, he would have saved political career of Chirag,” Manjhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-mahagathbandhan-claim-victory-as-polls-end/articleshow/79105381.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 8, 2020||Patna||NDA rejects Bihar exit poll results, Mahagathbandhan upbeat||PATNA: The exit poll outcomes of various agencies, which gave an edge to RJD-led Mahagathbandhan in the state assembly polls, have evoked mixed reaction from political parties here. While the NDA camp has expressed doubts over the outcome of the exit poll results, the Mahagathbandhan allies were upbeat. “The state has 6.97 crore voters and 3.90 crore of them have exercised their franchise. To project the poll outcome on the basis of survey of 15,000-20,000 voters is unjustified. We are confident that the NDA will form the government with majority,” state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said the actual poll results would be different. “Normally, the agencies approach aggressive voters. The voters of NDA, who have stayed with Nitish Kumar for long, are generally silent. It is quite possible that the agencies did not access these silent voters of the NDA,” he said. The RJD, on the other hand, appeared satisfied with the exit poll results. “The Mahagathbandh will win the polls with two-thirds majority. It will be the victory of people,” RJD spokesman Chitranjan Gagan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-rejects-exit-poll-results-mahagathbandhan-upbeat/articleshow/79105281.cms||Abhay Singh
November 8, 2020||Patna||Barring EVM glitches at some places, polling remains peaceful in Bihar||PATNA: The shadow of Covid-19 failed to deter the voters coming out in large numbers in the third and last phase of the state assembly elections in 78 seats on Saturday. However, the 57.91% voter turnout was lower than 60.51% in these constituencies in the 2015 polls. Barring some delay in voting due to EVM glitches at some booths, polling remained peacefully at most of the 2,732 booths in Araria district, which had 54.58% turnout compared to 61.68% in 2015, DM Prashanth Kumar CH said. At a polling booth in Jokihat, RJD candidate Sarfaraz Alam was seen having his party symbol on his shirt pocket. Asked whether if an FIR would be lodged against Sarfaraz, SP Hriday Kant said law will take its own course. In Sitamarhi district, Riga, Bathanaha, Parihar, Sursand and Bajpatti assembly segments had large women voters’ turnout. Navin of Bairgania block headquarters brought his elderly mother and father on a handcart to the polling booth. Polling in the six assembly segments of West Champaran district passed off peacefully though voters could be seen without masks at several polling booths. Voters at booth number 171 of Mahuyee panchayat under Gaunaha block in Ramnagar (SC) segment boycotted polls in protest against the government’s failure in tackling recent floods. Polling at 1,869 booths in the four assembly segments of Madhepura district passed off peacefully with 54% turnout till 5pm. Rural voters appeared more enthusiastic than their urban counterparts while women remained ahead in cast their votes at several booths. Women outnumbered men at many booths in Alamnagar area. Similar was the scene in Singheshwar region. The 5 assembly segments in Samastipur district — Samastipur, Warisnagar, Morwa, Sarairanjan and Kalyanpur — had a low voter turnout in the morning but it surged as the day progressed. The elections passed peacefully without any hindrance. Polling in Darbhanga, Hayaghat, Jale, Keoti and Bahadurpur constituencies passed off peacefully. One Sunaina Devi was heard saying: “Pahle matdan fir jalpan.” This was echoed by two other women accompanying her. Akhtari Begum (95) went to the polling booth at Ratanpura in Hayaghat with her son to cast her vote. Voters started arriving at majority of the 2,569 polling booths in Motihari, Raxaul, Sugauli, Chiraiya, Dhaka and Narkatiya since morning. DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok said election passed off peacefully in the district. (With inputs from L P Nayak, S K Singh, Tirthraj Kushwaha, D N Saha, S K Jain, B K Jha & C B Pandey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/barring-evm-glitches-at-some-places-polling-remains-peaceful/articleshow/79105450.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Patna||Seven more die of Covid in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 819 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,21,811. Officially, seven deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1136. However, with 2,13,911 recoveries, there were only 6762 active cases in Bihar. Among the new cases, 262 were from Patna, which has the tally of 37,363. However, with 35,281 recoveries and 276 deaths, the district had only 1806 active cases. The other districts with new Covid cases included Gaya (57), Nalanda (49), Saharsa (34), Darbhanga (30), Muzaffarpur (24), Nawada (23), Araria (22) and Jehanabad (20). As per the state health department data, two deaths each were reported from Saran and Gopalganj and one each from Patna, Munger and Sitamarhi. AIIMS-Patna also reported seven deaths on Saturday, including that of Neeraj Kumar Jha, an independent candidate from Benipatti assembly seat in Madhubani. Two Patna residents who also died at AIIMS-P on Saturday were a 78-year-old male of Yogipur and an 82-year-old man from Gola Road. Other deceased included a 50-year-old male from Nalanda, a 57-year-old woman from Sasaram, a 79-year-old man of Araria and an 80-year-old woman from Arwal district. As per the information shared by hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, 17 Covid-19 patients were admitted and ten got discharged in the last 24 hours. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported one death on Saturday. The deceased was a 75-year-old man from Jaiprakash Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/seven-more-die-of-covid-in-state/articleshow/79105600.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata complexes gear up for a different Kali Puja, Diwali in pandemic year||KOLKATA: The complete ban on crackers inside the complex, bar on entry of residents inside puja pandals, handful of chairs around puja mandaps to limit devotees and revellers, no community lunch and check on loitering on rooftops on festive day — housing societies across the city are gearing up to replicate the Durga Puja celebration model to ensure a Covid-safe Diwali in tune with the Calcutta High Court order. “The court order could not have come at a better time. We had been speculating how to ensure a complete cracker ban in our complex since we could only advise people to be responsible and not burn crackers but could not take any legal step if someone disobeyed the advisory. After the court order, we can now call police and ask them to take the necessary legal steps against whoever flouts the High court directive and burst crackers in our complex,” said Nilanjan Das, secretary of the apartment owners’ association at Upohar off EM Bypass. The high court on Thursday issued a complete ban on the “use or display or bursting” of fireworks across Bengal till the end of this month “for the greater good of the citizens and in the larger public interest”. The ruling came two days after the state government urged citizens to shun all fireworks this year to keep air pollution under check in view of the pandemic. TOI had written how residents’ welfare associations of multiple complexes had decided to ban crackers even before the court order or state directive had come in place. After the court ruling, the associations said their task had only been made easier. “We had maintained strict caution during Durga Puja, which helped us keep the Covid count in our complex under check even as several other complexes reported fresh cases after the puja. We will handle Diwali and the other upcoming festivals with similar caution. Crackers have already been banned inside our complex and we are also discouraging people from calling a number of outsiders at their homes on these festive days. The puja will be very low-key this year,” said Manak Daga, the president of South City apartment owners’ association. According to senior officers of Kolkata Police, majority of complaints of illegal cracker burst come from residential complexes in the Phoolbagan-Ultadanga area. This year, several complexes in the area have voluntarily decided to keep the roof doors shut on evenings to prevent repeat of such offences. “We have decided to shut down our roof for 10 days from the middle of next week to ensure no one sneaks up and burn firecrackers in violation to the court order. Whoever found violating the court order, in our knowledge, we will take strict action against them. Our complex door will also be open for the cops so that they can take necessary action in case of a violation,” said Deepak Jaiswal of Merlin Lakeview.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-complexes-gear-up-for-a-different-kali-puja-diwali-in-pandemic-year/articleshow/79104820.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Manufacturers plead with Centre to save industry||KOLKATA: Manufacturers from India's fireworks manufacturing hub at Sivakasi have written to Union home minister Amit Shah, pleading for intervention in the ban on use of crackers being announced by state governments and allow a two-hour window for celebrations with crackers during Diwali to save the industry from going up in smoke. In a letter to Shah, the manufacturers that supply nearly 75% of the fireworks sold in Kolkata, said the situation had turned grave owing to bans imposed on fireworks in Delhi, Rajasthan, Bengal, Odisha and Sikkim. The governments have banned fireworks in all the states except Bengal where it is the Calcutta High Court that has imposed the restriction. The letter to Shah comes barely two days before the National Green Tribunal is set to announce its order on a call for the ban to be extended to other 18 states. “Green fireworks were manufactured as per Supreme Court and environment ministry directions. These do not cause environmental pollution. Road dust, car emission, industrial waste and other sources of pollution don't have an effect on Covid-19 patients. So two hours of fireworks display will not affect anyone as they don't emit poisonous gases,” association president P Ganesan has argued. The umbrella body of fireworks manufacturers and sellers in Bengal is set to make the same argument when it files the case at Supreme Court against the HC order banning sale and use of firecrackers in Bengal in November. “There is no emperical or validated data to demonstrate that bursting of crackers has an adverse effect on Covid patients. The Americans celebrated 4th of July with fireworks during the Covid-19 situation while wearing masks. In Japan, pyrotechnicians of Tokyo and other cities joined to launch the Cheer Up Hanabi Project on June 1 with fireworks. These did not have an impact on Covid patients,” said Babla Roy, the Bengal association president. Both the associations have pleaded that the ban will impact 350 days’ production and affect 1.5 crore people linked to the industry all over the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/manufacturers-plead-with-centre-to-save-industry/articleshow/79104833.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 8, 2020||Bareilly||Girl, 6, raped & killed in UP's Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A six-year-old girl of a village in UP's Pilibhit was allegedly raped and strangled to death on Friday night. She went missing from a local temple during a religious event held by her father, according to SHO Ram Sevak. The minor's body was recovered by police from a sugarcane field on Saturday morning. The area is situated near Gomati river in Madhotanda village. Police sources said her mouth was stuffed with a piece of sugarcane and her lower garments were found missing. The little girl was studying in Class-I at a private school under Madhotanda police station. Her body has been sent for autopsy while a forensic team has collected the evidence. “The crime has been committed by a local. We have deputed police teams to crack the case," SP Jai Prakash Singh said, adding that the missing report of the girl will now be converted into an FIR under IPC sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape) and relevant sections of the POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-6-raped-killed-in-ups-pilibhit/articleshow/79104168.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||After PM’s latest Mann Ki Baat address, Toy Innovation Challenge launched||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Student Startup and Innovation Hub, a government of Gujarat initiative, organized the National Toy Innovation Meet using digital platform on Saturday where the Mind-to-Market Toy Innovation Challenge was launched. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama stressed on state leadership while launching the Students Startup and Innovation Policy, and spoke about how the National Toy Innovation Meet can play a vital role in the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat initiative. This six-month-long programme is aimed to invite nominations/solutions from student teams, innovators, startups, researchers, MSMEs, and others who are willing to participate and solve the problems related to the toy industry, according to a statement. The initiative is in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s latest ‘Mann ki Baat’ address where he urged Indian startups to innovate for the toy sector as one of the ways to boost manufacturing and global imprint of Indian toys. PM Modi stated that the global toy industry is of more than Rs 7 lakh crore but the Indian share in it is very little. As India has a rich tradition of local toys and talented and skilled artisans with expertise in making good toys, he urged the young innovators and entrepreneurs of India to tap into the huge potential in the digital gaming arena by developing games inspired by its culture and folk tales. “Through this programme, we are aiming to involve innovative teams in a short to medium-term basis who will work in a blended model of competitive collaboration. Quite often, innovators at different time and place develop their first prototype and then it gets stuck at some point of time in the innovation value chain. Through our M2M innovation challenge, we are trying to address this obstacle and wish to see that we enable the participants to take their innovations to the end-user level,” read the media statement. The National Toy Innovation Meet in association with Startup India aims to initiate a dialogue within the toy innovation ecosystem to reinforce product creativity and design. They also aim to create an interface between startups/innovators and the toy industry with an ultimate objective to increase India’s market share in the global toy industry, the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-pms-latest-mann-ki-baat-address-toy-innovation-challenge-launched/articleshow/79105163.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt's job ad for mechanics says 'engineers can't apply'||AHMEDABAD: A recent advertisement for recruitment issued by Gujarat State Electricity Corporation Limited (GSECL) specifically mentioned that Bachelor of Engineering (BE) and Bachelor of Technology (BTech) degree holders need not to apply. The GSECL had advertised seeking candidates for the post of 37 instrument mechanics where the eligibility qualification is a diploma in instrumentation and control (IC). For 111 posts of vidyut sahayak (plant attendant Grade 1, electrical) and 66 posts of vidyut sahayak (plant attendant Grade 1, mechanical), the eligibility is a full-time diploma in electrical engineering and mechanical engineering, respectively. The advertisement directed degree holders not to apply. “BE/BTech degree holders being over qualified need not apply,” it said. Energy minister Saurabh Patel said that recruiting candidates with higher qualifications created technical issues as they come into conflict with their senior engineers. “In order to avoid such conflict, it was decided to restrict degree holders from applying.” Government jobs have become coveted for the job security and good pay they offer. Due to this, highly overqualified candidates do not shy away from applying for posts needing a minimum qualification of Class X or XII. It is commonplace for graduates, postgraduates, engineers and even doctors to apply for the post of a peon in a government department. Being highly qualified, such candidates crack the exams easily, clear departmental examinations and get promotions, leading to posts they were recruited to falling vacant. In many cases, it is observed that selected candidates do not join after selection, forcing departments to come out with waiting lists. Sonal Mishra, principal secretary, Narmada, water resources, water supply and Kalpsar department, who was earlier posted in Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) said postgraduate candidates had applied and were selected even as bus conductors. “In many cases, these overqualified candidates jump from one post to another, creating vacancies in the department,” she said. A senior officer said certain restrictions should be imposed on overqualified candidates. “Even if 15% of those appointed leave their jobs for better prospects, the department is plagued with vacancies resulting in overburdening of existing staff,” the official said. G S Malik, additional director general of police, who was chairman of the Police Constable Recruitment Board said that during recruitment of constables, not just postgraduates but even engineers had applied. "Recruiting overqualified candidates does not have any major administrative hiccups other than when they leave to get better jobs in the same or other departments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mechanics-needed-engineers-neednt-apply/articleshow/79105001.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 8, 2020||Pune||Rich tribute by Google on PuLa’s birth anniversary||Pune: Organisers of Pulotsav, observed each year to celebrate the life and work of the late writer and humorist Purushottam Laxmanrao ‘Pu La’ Deshpande, as well as his family will launch a bibliographic index of works by and concerning Pu La on Sunday, his 101st birth anniversary. Google will also observe the day with an immersive interactive piece on their arts and culture section, with write-ups, photographs of Pu La, as well as snippets of articles and illustrations by him. “At heart, PL Deshpande was a performer. The innovative storytelling technologies of Google Arts & Culture aptly provide an immersive, audio-visual experience narrating his life’s story and his numerous achievements across the fields of film, drama, music, and literature. The effective multimedia presentation is a fitting tribute to this multi-faceted personality on his 101st birth anniversary,” said Ashutosh Thakur, Deshpande’s grandson. Since Pulotsav, generally held at the Balgandharva Rangmandir, has been cancelled this year owing to the pandemic, Deshpande’s family and the festival organizers have also gathered an extensive online bibliographic index, which will be launched on Sunday by Dinesh Thakur, Deshpande’s kin. Festival organizers say that the exhaustive list, indexed under four broad categories, will be a useful resource for his fans all over the world. “The website will include an extensive list of all the works concerning Pu La, indexed under works by Pu La himself, his translations of books, as well as translations of Pu La’s works into other languages. There will also be a list of articles in newspapers and periodicals about Pu La and his extensive body of work over the years,” said Virendra Chitrav, one of the organizers of Pulotsav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rich-tribute-by-google-on-pulas-birth-anniversary/articleshow/79106077.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Shahgunj clock tower to regain its lost glory||Aurangabad: With the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASCDCL) floating tenders for repairing, preservation and maintenance of the century-old clock tower situated in Shahgunj, it is all set to regain its lost glory. With a total budget of about Rs 29 lakh, ASCDCL headed by Astik Kumar Pandey is aiming to develop it in to a tourist attraction point. Earlier, Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel had made several efforts to restore the beauty of this structure and had even roped in sponsors for the same. But, the work could not done due to lack of technical issues, including clearances from appropriate authorities. Assistant project manager (heritage) Sneha Bakshi, who has been closely working on the project, said that tender has been floated and it would include removal of all vegetation that has grown over the structure, internal and external plaster as well as brick and stone masonry. In addition, glass pans on the first floor as well as wooden planks would be replaced with fresh ones and a team of experts will work to check the feasibility of making the historical clock as well as the tower bell functional. This will be followed by fresh lime wash on the external walls of the tower that was constructed during the Nizam-era about a century back. ASCDCL’s deputy CEO Pushkal Shivam said that the work of maintenance, preservation and beautification of eight historical gates has already been started with budget of Rs 3.2 crore sanctioned for the same. These gates include Kat Kat Gate, Hijri Gate, Kala Gate, Barapulla Gate, Paithan Gate, Roshan Gate, Jafar Gate and Naubat Gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/shahgunj-clock-tower-to-regain-its-lost-glory/articleshow/79106076.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Kolhapur||ACB arrests power utility officer||KOLHAPUR: The anti-corruption bureau in Kolhapur has arrested an official of Mahavitaran (state power distribution utility) while accepting a bribe of Rs 6,000 to sanction roof top solar energy system of an individual. According to the communication from ACB, the officer has been identified as Aabasaheb Mandke and was arrested at the office in Nagla Park area. A trap was laid by ACB officials following a complaint from a contractor, who wanted to install a solar power system. An approval is required from Mahavitaran to install the solar system. The contractor was assigned to install solar system with capacity of ten KV by an individual. The contractor had applied for approval from Mahavitaran on October 5. The contractor had also met Mandke in this connection for the approval. Mandke, however, demanded an amount of Rs 6,000 from the contractor for the sanction. He allegedly told that he would take Rs 600 for each KV before approving the proposal. The contractor then approached ACB and lodged the complaint. ACB sleuths first confirmed that Mandke had demanded cash from the contractor and laid a trap. On Friday, the contractor called Mandke about the approval and expressed readiness to give the cash. Mandke asked the contractor to come to the office immediately with the cash. ACB sleuths then laid a trap and arrested him red handed while accepting the cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/acb-arrests-power-utility-officer/articleshow/79106079.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nashik||Eunuch dies in accident near Sangamner||Nashik: A eunuch collecting money from motorists at the Nashik-Pune highway was killed in a road accident on Saturday afternoon after a speeding truck rammed three cars near Ghulewadi phata, Sangamner, about 70 km from Nashik city. Three people travelling in the cars that were hit suffered injuries and were rushed to two private hospitals in Sangamner for treatment. The incident took place at around 1.30 pm near Amruti Vahini College along the Nashik-Pune highway. Sangamner police, who rushed to the incident spot soon after they were informed, said that the cars were heading towards the Nashik side and had slowed down at a speed-breaker when a speeding truck hit them from behind. Police said that the eunuch was busy collecting money from vehicles when he was hit in the accident. He died on the spot, said police. “The identity of the eunuch was not ascertained,” API Narendra Sable of the Sangamner police station said. Meanwhile, the truck driver has been detained by Sangamner police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/eunuch-dies-in-accident-near-sangamner/articleshow/79106090.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 8, 2020||Goa||KTC to restart Pune to Goa service for Diwali||PANAJI: With Diwali approaching, the Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTC) is resuming its Pune to Goa interstate bus service which was suspended in March due to the pandemic. A special bus will operate on November 11 and 12 on this route.  “We are operating buses to Pune because we got requests to start the bus for Diwali. We have started getting enquiries for the bookings already and it appears like the bus may run full capacity from there. The bookings will open from November 9 onwards and depending on the seat position, we will start giving out tickets,” the official said. While there are commuters expected to come to Goa, not many are leaving the state for Pune. KTC also started the service on Goa-Bengaluru route. The bus will leave from Bengaluru on November 11 and arrive in Goa the next day. “Depending on the response we may decide whether or not to add more interstate buses on these routes. For now, they will only cater to the Diwali weekend holiday clientele,” he said. The interstate services have been limited to only pick and drop for stranded passengers. TOI had reported last week that KTC was resuming its interstate Karnataka-Belagavi and Karwar service from September 5 after a break of 170 days. Soon after, buses to destinations with short distances to Maharashtra also followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-to-restart-pune-to-goa-service-for-diwali/articleshow/79106192.cms||Nida Sayed
November 8, 2020||Goa||Cross-exam of survivor in Tejpal case from November 20||PANAJI: The cross examination of the survivor, who was allegedly raped by founder-editor of Tehelka Tarun Tejpal, will continue in the trial court from November 20 on a day-to-day basis. Special public prosecutor Francisco Tavora told TOI that courts are closed for Diwali vacation from November 13 to November 19 and that cross examination of the survivor will continue from November 20. Tavora said that the Supreme Court has extended the time to complete the trial till March 31, 2021. “After completing the cross examination of the survivor, her husband’s statement will be recorded and then that of the remaining witnesses,” he said The last time the cross examination of the survivor was conducted was in March, before the lockdown. On December 12, 2019, the high court of Bombay at Goa had told the trial court not to allow Tejpal’s counsel to ask “irrelevant questions” during the cross examination of the survivor in the alleged 2013 rape case. The survivor had approached the high court saying that Tejpal’s counsel was asking irrelevant questions during the trial court. The cross examination of the survivor had begun on October 21 last year. In September 2017, a Goa court framed charges against Tejpal. The founder-editor of Tehelka had pleaded not guilty, paving the way for a trial. Tejpal has been charged for offences under Sections 354 (assaulting or using criminal force on a woman with an intent to outrage her modesty), 354-A (outraging modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrong confinement), 376 (rape), 376(2) (f) (person in position of trust or authority over women, committing rape of such women) and 376(2) (k) (rape of a woman by a person being in position of control or dominance over the woman). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cross-exam-of-survivor-in-tejpal-case-from-nov-20/articleshow/79106082.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Notices served to anti-toll activists in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Some prominent activists of the agitation against toll tax collection have been slapped with notices seeking compensation for damage done to public properties. Baba Indulkar, a senior activist and lawyer, is among those who received notices. They have been asked to pay Rs 20,000 towards the damages. Kolhapur anti-toll action committee, the forum which fought against toll tax collection by a private company for constructing 49 km road, is compiling the details of all activists who have been served notices. The anti-toll agitation took place between 2011 and 2015. In 2015, the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had assured to withdraw cases filed by the police against anti-toll protesters. The charges of less severity, mainly involving law and order issues, were dropped. Police had claimed that as per the order issued in June, the rest of the cases, too, will be withdrawn. However, police have also said that it was decided that while the cases will be withdrawn, the protesters will have to pay compensation at any cost. Upper district superintendent of police Tirupati Kakade stated in the notice, “A panel was appointed to implement withdrawal of the cases. The panel had recommended that the compensation should be recovered to withdraw the cases, and accordingly, the notices have been issued. The compensation has to be paid at the district collectors office. Also, payment of compensation should not be considered as charges proved or charges are accepted.” In his defence, Indulkar said, “The cases lodged against us were political in nature. We will not pay the compensation as we protested in the interest of public. We will face trial if police wants us to prosecute for non-payment of compensation.” As part of protests, the agitators had burned toll booths. The protests were held mostly in Kolhapur city, but there were several agitations in rural parts of the district as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/notices-served-to-anti-toll-activists-in-kolhapur/articleshow/79106083.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-like patients, docs feel chest scan more reliable than RT-PCR||NAGPUR: High resolution computerized tomography, popularly known as HRCT or chest scan, seems to be turning out as an important alternative to inconclusive results from reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), which is considered the gold standard for confirming novel coronavirus infection. Lack of RT-PCR testing facility beside inconclusive swab results are being seen as another reason for patients from outside district turning up with only chest scan reports for admissions to dedicated Covid hospitals in the city. There are also patients who are deliberately avoiding regular Covid tests as HRCT gains prominence. Private hospitals as well as Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), where most of the Covid patients are currently admitted, have received patients who came in with ‘HRCT positive’ report but not RT-PCR report. Doctors from private DCHs said they are taking an undertaking from such patients before admitting them in Covid centre. Dr Ashish Badkal, managing director and intensivist at IGPA Hospital and Research Centre’s Covidalaya, said, “CT scan appears to be more reliable for Covid detection for its typical findings and Covid specificity.” GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande confirmed that some of the 250 Covid patients came to them with HRCT Chest report. “HRCT Chest and RT-PCR test for Covid are complementary studies and both should be performed whenever possible. RT — PCR test is highly specific while HRCT Chest would not only indicate the diagnosis but also help in assessing severity and planning of further treatment,” said Dr MA Biviji, consultant radiologist, MRI and CT Centre in Dhantoli. Dr Biviji said patients coming from outstation frequently carry only HRCT Chest report. “This could be because of lack of RT-PCR testing facility at those places. The doctors there have to rely on whatever is available and HRCT Chest would be an important tool to assess whether the patient could be managed locally or transferred to a higher centre in Nagpur. This is quite logical and fair,” he said. Dr Hema Dhoble, head (medical administration), Suretech Hospital, said that hospitals in small towns like Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur are admitting patients with high CT score suggestive of Covid. “But most of them avoid RT-PCR tests, maybe because of waiting period of 1-2 days taken to deliver the results. Within that time patient’s lung damage may advance,” she said and added that other reason could be to avoid Covid/non-Covid dilemma while admitting patient. “Later, these patients are transferred to higher centre for ventilator support and critical management at a late stage,” she said. Consultant radiologist Dr Atul Dakhole, who is director of Metro Scan at Dhantoli, too said duration of result and number of advantages give HRCT an edge over swab tests. “RT-PCR is gold standard. But it still has chances of false negative result depending on technique and sample collection method,” he said. Dr Dakhole said after collection of Covid samples follows four to five steps and processing. “If any of these go wrong, it may give false negative. RT-PCR or antigen test can only show if a person is positive or not. HRCT has three big advantages — diagnosis, severity of infection and prognosis. Irrespective of test results, even a small patch in scan confirms Covid. Unless proved otherwise, ground glass appearance with typical lesion proves it is Covid,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-like-patients-docs-feel-chest-scan-more-reliable-than-rt-pcr/articleshow/79104193.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 8, 2020||Bareilly||No supply tickets for cane sown in fields hit by red rot last year in UP||PILIBHIT: With a view to eradicating red rot disease, known as the "cancer" of sugarcane crops, from Uttar Pradesh, the state sugarcane administration has decided to impose a complete ban on the supply to mills such cane found to be cultivated in fields affected by the disease last year. Farmers across the state had been advised not to sow sugarcane in the affected fields for at least one year. According to an official report, sugarcane crop is presently afflicted with red rot in over a dozen districts out of the 44 where it is cultivated. The districts included, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Bahraich, Hardoi, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Gonda, Balrampur, Basti, Mahrajganj, Kushinagar, Deoria and Azamgarh, said Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry in UP. He said directions had been issued to all departmental officials to ensure that farmers immediately harvest sugarcane crop from the fields affected by red rot in over 20% of the total area and supply it to sugar mills or jaggery units. In addition, the officials had been instructed to persuade farmers to sow grains or oilseeds in the affected fields instead of repeating the cane crop, he added. In fields with less than 20% red rot, farmers were advised to uproot entire clumps of diseased sugarcane plants and spray fungicides on the crops. He added that farmers were recommended to sow certain healthy, disease resistant and high yielding varieties of sugarcane, including Co 0118, CoS 13235, CoS 8272, CoLk 94184 and Co 98014. They were advised to sow one variety of sugarcane in only 25% of the total crop area. The seed of these varieties would be provided to farmers by the department on priority basis, Bhoosreddy added. He warned that the cane department would not extend supply bonds of sugarcane to those farmers who continued to sow the sugarcane crop in red rot affected fields without maintaining a gap of at least one year. They would not be allowed to supply their cane to the mills. For protecting the cane crop from red rod in affected districts, the department has distributed different kinds of fungicides to farmers across the state, said Bhoosreddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/no-supply-tickets-for-cane-sown-in-fields-hit-by-red-rot-last-yr-in-up/articleshow/79104195.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mumbai||Tony nomination for ‘Mumbaikar’ 1st for Indian producer||Mumbai-born Sonia Mudbhatkal (42) has become the first Indian producer to get a Tony award nomination for ‘best play’ for ‘The Sound Inside’, a drama she co-produced with Jeetendra Sonar, Chitra Mete and award-winning Hollywood producer John Hart. A psychological thriller focusing on a writer’s life and the writing process, the play has also been nominated for best original score (music and/or lyrics) written for theatre, best performance by an actress in a leading role in a play, best lighting design of a play, best sound design of a play and best direction of a play. This year’s Tony awards, which recognise excellence in live Broadway theatre, were scheduled in June but will now be announced online. ‘The Sound Inside’ had its Broadway debut in October 2019, and was described by ‘The New York Times’ as “subliminal, sublime” and a “rivetingly dark production”. But the play has been on hold since Broadway shut down in March due to Covid-19. Mudbhatkal, who runs film, theatre and long-form production company Continuum Media in Los Angeles, had worked in motion pictures. “The Tony nomination is a reassurance for our vision that the future of Indian producing and storytelling lies in telling the world’s most important and entertaining stories to the whole world, across languages and cultures, and across film, theatre and digital mediums,” Mudbhatkal said. “As the world is already here competing with us, how long can we afford to have an insular view and not upskill and take our place in the sun globally?” Hart, who is behind Broadway hits such as ‘Chicago’, and films like ‘Revolutionary Road’, said working with Mudbhatkal was an “awakening”. “Our countries have in common a shared passion for stories that matter, and we should continue to collaborate and partake in one another’s stories and worlds in a way that brings us closer together, no matter the politics of our times,” said Hart, winner of Tony, Emmy and Grammy awards. Mumbai-based Sonar runs a Los Angeles-based production company, while Mete is an entrepreneur-artist and founder of Sumbaran Art Foundation in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tony-nomination-for-mumbaikar-is-1st-for-indian-producer/articleshow/79105355.cms||Sonam Joshi
November 8, 2020||Agra||Tourists stay away from Taj, cap of 5Knot reached even once since reopening||Agra: The novel coronavirus pandemic has cast its shadow over the daily footfalls at the iconic Taj Mahal, with the number of tourists visiting the monument not even touching the 5,000 mark — a daily limit of visitors fixed by the cultural ministry — since the mausoleum reopened post-Covid lockdown on September 21. As figures indicate, the numbers of tourists visiting the Taj reached, at the most, over 4,000 only on just five occasions that too on weekends in the past one and a half months in sharp contrast to the average daily footfall of 25,000 during pre-Covid days. According to officials of the Archaeological Survey of India, though all 5,000 tickets are sold on weekends, the tourists’ footfall is not corresponding. Citing the reason, said an official, most of the people are scared of coming out of their home due to Covid-19 and a few willing to visit the Taj end up cancelling their programmes at the last moment. Besides, a few travel agents and tour operators buy tickets in bulk with the hope of making a profit by reselling to weekend tourists, but that’s not happening as of now. When contacted, superintending archaeologist, Agra circle, Vasant Swarankar said he had written to the district magistrate and police about the “black marketing” of tickets after receiving complaints from tourists. “I have urged officials and police to ensure tourists don’t face harassment.” The sale of tickets, however, not touched the 5,000 mark during weekdays since the Taj reopened, confirmed Swarankar. Reiterating their commitment for the safety of tourist visiting the Taj, Swarankar said, “We are following all Covid guidelines at the Taj Mahal for the safety of tourists. Not just hand sanitiser, but we are also using foot sanitiser sponges to clean footwear before tourists set their foot inside the monument.” Confirming the black marketing of tickets, tourism inspector Iqbal Haider said, “Police have arrested half a dozen people for reselling online tickets and booked them under section 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).” “It is, however, difficult to identify such elements as they roam around like a common person. Anyone can book a ticket from any part of the country as no identification is required. The issue can only be solved by issuing tickets in the names of the visitors as was the practice earlier,” added Haider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tourists-stay-away-from-taj-cap-of-5knot-reached-even-once-since-reopening/articleshow/79103322.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 8, 2020||Goa||GFP condemns power tariff hike, seeks rollback||Panaji: Condemning the state government’s move to hike the Fuel and Power Purchase Cost Adjustment (FPPCA) charges, Goa Forward Party (GFP) demanded that the electricity department must rollback the FPPCA charges immediately or risk another agitation in the state. GFP said that the state government should bear the additional cost of fuel and power purchase instead of increasing the financial burden on the poor and middle class ahead of Diwali festivities. “GFP condemns this move and demands that the FPPCA charges should be rolled back,” said GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat. “We will gherao the department. The chief electrical engineer will have to face this.” The government on Friday notified new FPPCA charges on power bills, which will reflect in December bills. As per the new hike, for above 200 units FPPCA charges levied on domestic consumers will be 32.50 paisa per unit and for commercial consumers it will be 52.20 paisa per unit. GFP pointed out that governments across the world were rolling out stimulus packages to support citizens and spur demand, but in Goa the government is increasing charges on all services. “In Goa, the government is trying to break the backs of people by increasing bills. By right, the government should have absorbed the FPPCA charges. Every department has increased fees, the cost of all forms have increased which shows that the government is putting additional burden on the poor and common man. The time has come for Goans to break the spine of the BJP government,” said Kamat. Kamat said that the state government, particularly chief minister Pramod Sawant, has not studied the power issue. “This government does not have any focus. The chief minister’s focus is only on mining and this is for self interest. Good officers who could handle the finances of the state were shunted out and today recovery of dues are pending,” said Kamat as he blamed the BJP government for its failure to recover pending power dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-condemns-power-tariff-hike-seeks-rollback/articleshow/79106087.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: No Diwali crackers only if no sacrifice on Bakrid, says Sakshi Maharaj||KANPUR: BJP leader and Unnao MP Sakshi Maharaj courted a fresh controversy through his post on Facebook saying people won’t burst crackers on Diwali in the year in which goats are not sacrificed on Bakrid. The Unnao MP, who has contracted Covid-19 and is in home isolation, posted a remark on Facebook saying, “The year in which Bakrid will be celebrated without goat sacrifice, the same year Diwali will be celebrated without firecrackers, hence no one should thrust their knowledge on pollution.” In an earlier post, Sakshi had informed that he tested positive for Covid-19 and requested all those who had come in contact with him in the past few days to isolate themselves and get tested. He wrote, “I fell ill soon after a three-day tour of Bangarmau constituency in Unnao where I had gone to campaign for the BJP candidate. I got myself tested after seeing early symptoms of the disease and my report came positive for Covid-19. Though I am feeling okay, I am in home quarantine on medical advice. I request all of you who have come in contact with me in the last few days, please isolate yourself and get yourself tested.” In an earlier controversial statement while campaigning in Bangarmau, Sakshi Maharaj had questioned why there were large burial grounds for Muslims and smaller cremation spaces for Hindus, and termed it discrimination. He said burial grounds and cremation spaces should be according to population ratio. He had also warned the community’s courage and decency should not be tested as “we can do anything.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/no-diwali-crackers-only-if-no-sacrifice-on-bakrid-mp/articleshow/79105640.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||Metro seeks EC nod for opening of flyover, Manish Nagar ROB & RUB||NAGPUR: The Wardha Road double decker flyover, Manish Nagar railway overbridge (ROB) and Manish Nagar railway underbridge (RUB) is ready and MahaMetro has sought permission from the election commission (EC) to open it. A code of conduct is in force due to the graduate constituency elections on December 1. “We hope that the EC gives us the green signal on Monday. We will then decide the date of the inauguration. We want to open it at the earliest,” said Metro managing director Brijesh Dixit. Sources said that November 13 is the tentative date for opening provided the EC clears it. Activist Anil Wadpalliwar demanded that the EC should clear the opening of these structures immediately. “These are not new works and people living on the eastern side of the railway line have been waiting for months for the opening of the ROB and RUB. It is not only the graduate constituency voters who will use it but common citizens too,” he told TOI. Wadpalliwar further said that in case the EC refuses an opening by politicians, Metro should throw open the structures for public use without any ceremony. “These structures have been built using public money and they should not be made to wait for the code of conduct to end,” he added. Pramod Pande, president of social organization Jan Manch, also said that the EC should urgently clear the opening of the structures. “In case a political opening is not permitted, Metro should open them without any ceremony,” he added. Describing the traffic flow on the structures, a Metro official said that both the ROB and RUB would be one-way. “If you want to travel from Wardha Road to Manish Nagar then you take the RUB. Traffic in reverse direction will not be permitted on the RUB. Similarly, people coming from Manish Nagar and going toward Wardha Road will take the ROB. This, too, is a one-way structure,” he added. If you want to travel from Manish Nagar to Sitabuldi then take the ROB. At the point where it meets the flyover, no right turn is permitted. So you will have to take a left turn, descend the flyover at Hotel Pride Square and then take a U-turn. The official said that the structures have been made one way and no right turn has been permitted on the flyover to avoid accidents. The total cost of the project is around Rs470 crore. It has been funded by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-seeks-ec-nod-for-opening-of-flyover-manish-nagar-rob-rub/articleshow/79104232.cms||Ashish Roy
November 8, 2020||Kanpur||Cop showers currency notes on dancer, suspended||KANPUR: A police constable was suspended on Saturday after he was caught on tape gyrating to music and showering currency notes at a dancer at a late-night private event in Unnao district. The organiser of the event has also been booked for violating pandemic guidelines. Constable Kamlesh Pal, who was posted at Kotwali police station in Bangarmau town, had gone to witness a ‘nautanki’ in Singhupur Bediyagara village late Friday. In a video that has gone viral, the cop can be seen shamelessly matching steps with the show girl, making lewd gestures and tossing currency. “We have seen the video and ordered an inquiry,” said superintendent of police Unnao Anand Kulkarni. The constable seen in the clip has been suspended,” said SP Unnao Anand Kulkarni. An officer privy to the probe said the event organiser has been booked for violating Covid norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cop-showers-currency-notes-on-dancer-suspended/articleshow/79105722.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 8, 2020||Madurai||813 cases filed for violating rules on Thevar Jayanthi||Ramanathapuram: The Ramanathapuram district police registered more than 813 cases including 313 cases under sections of the Indian penal code (IPC) for various violations by people on their way to Pasumpon to take part in the Thevar Jayanthi and Guru Pooja celebrations that took place in October-end. Other cases were registered under the motor vehicles Act.The police said 63 people have been arrested so far and the cases were registered based on the videos recorded during the celebration. A team led by technical inspector from the district has been pressed into the action to analyze the videos and take appropriate action against violators.The district superintendent of police, E Karthick said that cases were registered under IPC for violating curfew orders, for not following orders by public servants, acting in a way to cause the spread of disease and involving in mischief.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/813-cases-filed-for-violating-rules-on-thevar-jayanthi/articleshow/79106724.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ban on setting off firecrackers in public places in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The state home department issued a notification on Saturday, prohibiting bursting of firecrackers in public places and banning the sales of imported firecrackers. The notification will be in force for the Diwali and Gujarati New Year, along with the Christmas and New Year festivals. Following a Supreme Court order, since 2018, the state government has been enforcing a notification that firecrackers cannot be burst in public places during festivals. The home department has asked all police commissioners and district magistrates to issue necessary prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC in their respective jurisdictions. The home department notification also states that the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has written a letter dated October 19, asking states to take action against illegal import, stocking and sales of imported firecrackers. The department has asked commissioners and district magistrates to take necessary action against persons engaged in such activities. On Friday, state government spokesperson and deputy CM Nitin Patel had said that like some other states, the Gujarat government has no intention of banning bursting of firecrackers during the Diwali season. He, however, had added that if there were specific directions from the SC or central government, the state will follow them. Fears have been expressed from several quarters that pollution caused by firecrackers will worsen the pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ban-on-setting-off-firecrackers-in-public-places/articleshow/79106248.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hubballi||Rajyotsava Awards: Name of puppetry artiste from Koppal withdrawn abruptly||HUBBALLI: The state government has abruptly withdrawn Koppal-based puppetry artiste Keshappa Shillikyatar’s name from the list of Rajyotsava award winners. The government had listed Shillikyatar’s name among the recipients before he learnt that it had been removed on Friday night. Shillikyatar admitted to feeling betrayed by the sudden reversal. “It’s a big insult not just to me, but to the art form I practise as well. I was not even officially informed about my name being dropped from the list of awardees. My two sons had even hired a car so I could go to Bengaluru to receive the award. Just as we were to start from our village – Moranal – on Friday night, we learnt that the award to me had been withdrawn,” Shiilikyatar told STOI. S Rangappa, director of the department of Kannada and culture, which had nominated Shillikyatar for the award, attributed the confusion to the lack of clarity among the members of the selection committee over the artiste’s age. “While Shillikyatar’s year of birth, according to his passport, is 1972, it is 1974 on his Aadhaar card. The norms stipulate that Rajyotsava awardees, with the exception of athletes and international recipients, must have attained the age of at least 60 to qualify for the honour,” said Rangappa, adding that the department had chosen theatre artiste G Vandana in lieu of Shillikyatar so as to ensure consistency in the number of awardees from Koppal. The puppetry artiste, however, was not appeased. Refusing to accept the explanation cited by the officials, Shillikyatar hinted at a conspiracy hatched by officials in the Kannada and culture department in Koppal district. “I have conducted many shows abroad as well. How can members of the selection committee overlook my age and nominate me for the award? I am now feeling too embarrassed to even step out in my village and Koppal. But this will not discourage me. I will continue to focus on my art,” said the artiste, adding that the age mentioned on his Aadhaar card was wrong. “I am 58 years old now,” Shillikyatar added. Incidentally, Shillikyatar inherited his passion and talent for puppetry from his mother Bheemavva, an acclaimed exponent of the craft herself. She had been conferred the Rajyotsava award in 2014. “I was happy when I learnt that my son was to receive the award, only six years after I was honoured with it. But we are very disappointed now,” Bheemavva said. Language is like our mother, says CM Meanwhile, chief minister BS Yediyurappa, congratulating all winners for their contribution to state, reaffirmed the government’s commitment to Kannada and Karnataka. “The language is like a mother to all of us, as is our land. We are making efforts to popularise Kannada by leveraging technology,” said the CM, adding that the selection of the 65 recipients for the Rajyotsava honour had been done in a transparent manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rajyotsava-awards-name-of-puppetry-artiste-from-koppal-withdrawn-abruptly/articleshow/79105823.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 8, 2020||Kanpur||Bhitargaon & Jagannath temples to be developed as tourist spots||KANPUR: Divisional Commissioner Raj Shekhar on Saturday inspected Bhitargaon temple, said to be the oldest remaining brick temple in the world, besides the famous Lord Jagannath (Rain) temple, which is said to predict how good the monsoon will be, with a view to developing them as tourist attraction spots. The commissioner said that he has plans for developing Bhitargaon brick temple and Rain temple in Behta Buzurg village around the district as centres of tourist attraction. As part of the plan, the spot inspection was arranged along with district officials, he said. “Both the spots are under the state archaeological department and now efforts would be taken to develop them as tourist attraction spots,” he said and added, “I have asked local archaeological department officials to prepare and submit a report by November 30 on the last five years’ footfall of local and international tourists at both these sites.” He further said, “We would ensure broader coverage with knowledgeable description of both these historical spots with colourful pictures in annual calendar of Tourism department, besides on the Tourism app.” In order to improve basic amenities at these two historical spots, the commissioner said that he has asked the archaeological department officials to prepare a detailed report and send it to him for approval. “It will include connectivity to the sites with rest of the part of the city and also better roads to facilitate more convenient travel and security aspect,” he said. The Bhitargaon temple is a terraced brick building fronted with a terracotta panel. Built in the 5th century during the Gupta period, it is the oldest remaining brick/terracotta Hindu shrine with a roof and a high ‘shikhara,’ though its upper chamber did sustain some damage in the 18th century. The temple is built on a square plan with double-recessed corners and faces east. There is a tall pyramidal spire over the ‘garbhagriha’. The walls are decorated with terracotta panels depicting aquatic monsters, and lords Shiva and Vishnu, etc. When Alexander Cunningham first visited the site, the remains of the porch and of the ‘ardhamandapa’ were still visible, which later collapsed. The Rain temple is a temple of Lord Jagannath. This temple is located in Behta Buzurg village. It is said that the typical feature of this temple is that rain droplets accumulate and later start dripping from its roof seven days before rain. Although many times efforts have been made to know this secret, even after all the surveys, the archaeologists could not find the exact timing of the temple’s construction and mystery. It is only possible to find that the last restoration of the temple was done in the 11th century.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bhitargaon-jagannath-temples-to-be-developed-as-tourist-spots/articleshow/79105678.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana prepares roadmap for vaccine rollout process||HYDERABAD: Over three lakh healthcare workers— nearly a lakh in the government sector and double that figure in the private — may get Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase.  In the second phase, workers from various government departments, holding positions that require high level of contact with public, will get the vaccine. The Union government had recently given an indication to states to start preparations a fortnight ago so that they would be prepared whenever the vaccine gets released. The idea is to vaccinate the targeted people in a phased manner, prepare the cold chain, required consumables, manpower and material. As part of the exercise, the state health department has begun collating data of the targeted population. “We have begun the exercise weeks ago. In the government sector, there are a lakh healthcare workers, while details of private healthcare workers are still being collected. The first round of vaccination will be for healthcare workers followed by frontline workers of different departments. The vaccine will be next made available to the vulnerable population (people with comorbidities, immunocompromised patients, elderly people above 65 years of age and children below 10 years of age),” director public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao explained. The fourth round will in fact be when the normal healthy public would be given vaccination. An internal order issued recently by the state has detailed database creation process. “Database has to be collected from both government and private healthcare facilities. Healthcare workers under government include regular, contract and outsourced employees,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-prepares-roadmap-for-vaccine-rollout-process/articleshow/79105068.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cases of post Covid complications on rise||HYDERABAD: With at least 300 post Covid cases currently under treatment at the state-run Gandhi Hospital and several other critical patients under treatment in private hospitals across the city, hundreds of cases of post Covid complications are currently lodged in city hospitals. “While most of the patients now are trying to manage with home quarantine and known medications, the ones landing at hospitals are largely coming at later stages with complications. Unlike the initial days of the pandemic during which everyone was rushing to the hospital, now most of the cases are coming late,” said a source from a corporate hospital.  Severe complications requiring medical attention include paralysis, heart attacks and dialysis apart from multi organ failures. The main reason for these severe post-Covid complications seen within 15 days of the infection up to 3 months is that the novel coronavirus caused clotting of the blood vessels and its impact depends on the location of the clots. “Maximum damage that has to happen in a patient happens during this period itself. This is why it is important to initiate steroid treatment, anti-coagulants, blood thinners and anti-platelets early on. The problem with Covid-19 is that although the mortality is low, it is the morbidity of the diseases which is very high and the damage that is caused by the virus stays on if it is not attended within the first 10 days,” said Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cases-of-post-covid-complications-on-rise/articleshow/79105071.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 8, 2020||Madurai||More parents turn to home tutoring amid online classes||Madurai: As only online classes are allowed to be conducted by schools amid Covid-19, parents in Madurai are opting for private home tutors for their children. Tutors said that for many students, especially those going for board exams, online classes were difficult to follow and keep up with.“My son studies in Class X in a private school and they keep online classes every day for few hours. But, my son says teachers simply read from the books and concepts are not explained well. We decided to have a tutor for at least maths and science,” said K Vimala, a parent. These private tutors visit the students’ houses directly and usually have one-on-one session with the student lasting 1-3 hours mostly.Though private tutoring institutions are shut due to the pandemic, online and home tutoring services are being provided by some. K S Ganesan, a tutor at a private coaching institution said that both home tuition and online tuition packages are being sought after by parents at this time. “Even in online mode, private tutoring sees success because it is one-on-one unlike school where teachers address at least 30 students or so. Willing parents are getting their child enrolled to us after which sessions are planned such that we cover the entire syllabus. Maths and various science subjects are most sought after,” he said.Some private tutors are also individuals, who often do other jobs or are pursuing higher studies. “Though for me it used to be just helping neighbours’ children study, now there a number of online platforms now through which we can connect with possible students across the city. Tutoring sessions can then be worked out based on proximity and convenience,” said S Ashika, a PG student, who tutors school students. The fees for home tutoring sessions range between Rs 300 and Rs 1,000 per session for one subject.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/more-parents-turn-to-home-tutoring-amid-online-classes/articleshow/79106726.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 8, 2020||Puducherry||Kin allege torture in death of Tamil Nadu prisoner, magistrate begins probe||CUDDALORE: A day after political parties raised the spectre of another Sathankulam-like ‘murder’ in the death of M Selvamurugan, 39, of Kadampuliyur village in Cuddalore district, on November 4, Vriddhachalam judicial magistrate K Anand on Saturday visited Vriddhachalam sub-jail and made inquiries with jail staff and inmates. According to police, Selvamurugan was taken to Neyveli Township police station on October 30 for inquiry over his alleged involvement in a chain snatching case. He was remanded in judicial custody on the same day. According to the victim’s nephew, however, police picked him up on October 28. “Police claim the arrest was made on October 30 only to hide their illegal detention and brutal assault on October 28 and 29 that led to his death,” he said. Family members of the deceased, who refused to collect his body after postmortem from Mundiyampakkam medical college hospital, said the police confined Selvamurugan to a lodge and a cashew nut grove and brutally attacked him to make him admit to crimes he never committed. They alleged that though police promised to permit one of their relatives to stay during the postmortem, they went back on their word and postmortem was done without their knowledge. “My aunt (Selvamurugan’s wife Prema) saw visible wounds on his chin, mouth, legs and buttocks when she visited him at the Vridhachalam government hospital on November 2. She said my uncle could barely speak because of the injuries he sustained in police torture. He was discharged after treatment and sent to the sub-jail,” Selvamurugan’s nephew said. Refuting the allegations, assistant superintendent of police Bhukya Sneha Priya said: “The accused, an epileptic patient developed fits at 2.30pm on November 2 at the sub-jail. He was taken to Vridhachalam government hospital for treatment. He was on anti-epileptic drugs and injection. The duty doctor referred him to another hospital for advanced treatment and care. However, his relatives were not willing to shift him to another hospital following which he was taken back to the sub-jail. He suffered a cardio-respiratory attack at 10.30pm on November 4 at the sub-jail. He was taken to Vridhachalam government hospital again where a doctor team performed CPR. But he could not be revived, and he was declared dead at 10.45pm on November 4.” DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday demanded a thorough probe and stringent action against those responsible for the death. The AIADMK government must not tarnish the image of the TN police department by attempting to cover up custodial deaths in its regime, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/kin-allege-torture-in-death-of-tn-prisoner-magistrate-begins-probe/articleshow/79104269.cms||Bosco Dominique
November 8, 2020||Chennai||Extreme sports enthusiasts return after lockdown to ultra trails, eco-challenge races||CHENNAI: For an extreme athlete like Aravind Selvam, who spends three weeks of four every month hanging off a rock somewhere in the great outdoors, the lockdown presented him with his toughest challenge — having to sit indoors. "I was literally climbing the walls in boredom," says the 27-year-old. But then, a couple of months in, he managed to install a climbing wall in his living room. The whole family got involved in his training. His grandfather would set him climbing routes, his grandmother would cheer him on. Aravind says he is now ripped and ready to tackle every rock climb that comes his way. And boy, are they hurtling in! With the relaxing of the lockdown, outdoor competitions, trails and adventure challenges are opening up again, and teams from across the country are raring to go. First up on the challenge calendar is the Nayar Valley Adventure Festival. Globe Racers founder Kavitha Kanaparthi, who is gearing up for a three-day adventure challenge coming up after Diwali, says it includes trail running, mountain biking, paragliding and angling. The event in Uttarakhand will have around 100 athletes. On December 11 comes the Wild Warrior Himalayan Adventure Race, considered one of the most gruelling races. The Rishikesh event involves mountain biking, hiking and rafting sections all performed in a single day with race distances ranging from a 10km for novices to a difficult 65km for hardened adventurers. "We’ve had 50 teams of four sign up so far, including six from Chennai," says tennis player Somdev Devvarman, one of the founders. Chennai will see its own adventure challenge in February. There are other ultra runs and extreme challenges opening up as well across the country. But Covid-19 has changed things. The Ultra Warrior trail run in Nainital on November 21, considered among the tougher ones because of the high altitude terrain, will open out to just 25 participants. Keeping safety protocols in mind, the Himalayan race, for instance, will be capped at 200 participants. "There will be staggered starts for teams to ensure no crowding at the start line and all the accommodation is in cottages and tents, distant from each other," says obstacle course racer Vikram Aditya Menon. Kavitha says the Nayar Adventure Festival usually sees more than 150 participants in each category. "But this year, we are keeping the total race participants to 100," says Kavitha. "We are also encouraging local participation. Also, there will be Covid-19 checks and monitoring." Once you get hooked to the rush that comes with extreme sports, it’s difficult to stop, says Shyam Sundar M, founder of Fit Rock Arena, an indoor rock climbing centre. "When we had to close during lockdown, we had to keep giving our regulars challenges that would keep their adrenaline racing." For a few, he built climbing walls in their homes; for some, he opened out the centre; for others, he pumped them with challenges that would keep their belaying skills intact. Among the challenges he sent their way was the waterbottle challenge, where climbers would have to balance bottles on their forehead, try to sit, lie down and stand again. "We have had athletes doing just about anything they could to keep training — hanging off window ledges, branches of trees, and scaling walls. You just got to keep going," says Shyam. Among the Chennai participants in the Himalayan challenge is actor Regina Cassandra, who has teamed up with professional surfers Kutti Rajsekar, Sekar and Anand. She used the lockdown time to work on her endurance by rucking (walking up and down stairs with a weighted rucksack). "Sometimes I would do 10km like this," says Regina, winner of the Wild Warrior Duathlon in 2018. With the lockdown lifted, so is the spirit of adventure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/back-to-living-on-the-edge/articleshow/79104252.cms||Kamini Mehta
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||TSBIE to train inter students for police jobs||HYDERABAD: In a first, Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) is set to train intermediate second year students for police jobs by establishing training centres at 14 government junior colleges across the state. “Idea is on the lines of the Haryana government’s scheme where Intermediate students are trained for Army recruitment. Here, we are training students for constable jobs by providing them with academic and physical training,” TSBIE secretary Omar Jaleel told TOI, adding the target was to establish a police training center in each district. The board intends to train 3,300 students every year to help them secure employment in the police department in order to reduce drop-out and unemployment rate. While the training centres are set to be officially inaugurated by education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy this month, government junior colleges have already started enrolling students for the training programme for which the criteria has been fixed. They would have to take a preliminary written test of 200 questions, physical measurement test (PMT), physical efficiency test (PET) followed by a final written examination. The enrolment programme has received massive response among students, who were now undergoing PMT at Nampally. “Since I am athletic, I enrolled myself for the training programme. Only those who clear the physical measurement requirements were eligible for PET, where we had to pass three of the five activities which included 100 metre run, high jump, long jump, shot put and 800 metre run,” said Vipin Pandey, a student of Government Junior College, Alia, Abids. Parents too encouraged their children for the programme. “I run a biscuit centre at Chandrayangutta. I woiiuld be very happy if my son lands up a government job,” said Mohammed Zahid Ali, parent of an 18-year-old. Detailed syllabus has also been chalked out to prepare students for the recruitment test. Students would be taught maths, general science, Indian history, geography, politics and economy, current affairs, logical reasoning, Telangana movement as part of the syllabus. “Training will benefit those from disadvantaged sections of society who find it difficult to get jobs. Recruitment for constable jobs was recently held. Now, when the next recruitment is conducted, those trained at these centres will benefit,” additional director general (law and order) Jithender Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsbie-to-train-inter-students-for-police-jobs/articleshow/79105081.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR inaugurates debris recycling plant in Jeedimetla||HYDERABAD: Debris recycling plant in Jeedimetla was inaugurated by MA&UD minister KT Rama Rao on Saturday. The plant’s capacity is 500 tonnes per day. Three more plants will come up in the city. A waste-to-energy plant at the Jawaharnagar dump yard will also be operational and a comprehensive waste management policy will also be rolled out shortly said the minister. “GHMC is making arrangements to lift the debris from the city with a nominal fee. Citizens can call on toll free number 1800-1200-72659 to avail the services. This is the is highest capacity plant in south India and the fifth in India,”said KTR. “Another plant which is being built in Fatullaguda also has 500 tonnes capacity. It will be made operational on Sankranthi. The total construction and demolition waste generated in the city is 2,000 tonnes. Today we are generating wealth out of debris. Measures have also been taken to recycle soild waste and liquid waste. Out of 2000mld sewage, 41% is being treated using STP. Number of STPs will be increased,” said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-inaugurates-debris-recycling-plant-in-jeedimetla/articleshow/79105084.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 8, 2020||India||BCG shots can give relief to breathless Covid patients||MUMBAI: A single shot of the Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine could resolve breathlessness and prevent severity in moderately ill Covid-19 patients, researchers of a trial by Parel’s Haffkine Research Institute and BJ Medical College, Pune, said. It is probably the first study on the use of the century-old vaccine, typically given to children against tuberculosis, as treatment for Covid-19 unlike trials that have studied BCG’s role in prevention. Conducted in 60 Covid-19 patients hospitalised with breathlessness and pneumonia, half of whom received the vaccine dose, the researchers claimed to have found reduction in oxygen requirement from the third or fourth day and improved x-rays and CT scan from day 7-15. There were no deaths in the arm that received the vaccine shot while there were two deaths in the group that got standard line of care. The one ICU patient in BCG group recovered, whereas of the four ICU admissions in the non-vaccinated group, one succumbed. The findings that were published on a pre-print server and are yet to be peer-reviewed, found that vaccinated group had higher Covid-19 antibody levels. The paper summed up that BCG was a safe, cost-effective treatment that can be introduced as a standard of care in moderate Covid-19 patients. “Our study showed key improvement in oxygen saturation status within 3-4 days and faster resolution of pneumonia in vaccinated group, implicating localised effects in the lung and innate immunity,” said Dr Usha Padmanabhan, lead researcher from Haffkine. The trial was carried in patients who got hospitalised with an oxygen saturation of less than 94% or less and had radiologically confirmed pneumonia. About 40% patients were obese/overweight. Four patients on non-vaccinated arm needed remdesivir as against one in BCG group. Dr Sameer Joshi, deputy dean of BJ Medical College, and one of the co-authors, said the duration of hospitalisation in the vaccinated arm was an average of seven days, whereas many in the non-vaccinated group took longer to recover. He said their greater worry about whether BCG itself would trigger a cytokine storm in patients was unfounded. “It didn’t trigger any adverse reaction in adults,” he said. The study also had a subset of 20 patients who never received a BCG shot in their lifetime. Former medical education secretary Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, also a co-author, said even people who were not vaccinated in childhood showed faster recovery, showing that BCG was safe even in the elderly population. Several doctors called the findings “inconclusive”. Watch Covid-19: BCG shots can give relief to breathlessness in moderately-ill patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bcg-shots-can-give-relief-to-breathless-covid-patients/articleshow/79106955.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 8, 2020||Chennai||Portraits of a nation state||Chennai: There are many things that indicate how established a metropolis is — multi-storeyed apartment complexess, speciality hospitals, IT corridors. But along most of the roads these structures stand on, there is at least one manhole where a worker cleans muck with bare hands.For Chennai photographer Palani Kumar, the idea of a nation state reflected in this absence of change and optimism for one community of city dwellers who worked hard to keep the city running on its wheels.Palani Kumar is one of five young photographers from India and Wales working on the theme, ‘Imagining the Nation State’, with a grant by Chennai Photo Biennale Foundation, in collaboration with the Diffusion Festival, Wales. The project is being supported by the British Council and Wales Arts International, and intends to bring together diverse perspectives on the concept of the nation state using sub-themes like gender, art, land, folk culture traditions, language and food. "In India, a narrative of an imagined expansive Hindu nation is being created. I believe the invitation to critically engage with questions around the nation, states, and identity is both timely and significant," says artist and writer Sheba Chhachhi, one of the jurors and curators of the project. At the other end of the country, Tarun Bhartiya, a documentary filmmaker and photographer from the Khasi-Jaintia Hills of Meghalaya, is delving into the unique relationship of the locals with Christianity that was adopted and proliferated in their matrilineal society unlike anywhere else in India. "Popular opinion about Christianity is that it was brought in unlawfully by missionaries. In these hills, where the earliest missionaries were Welsh Presbyterians, the conversion has been an encounter of equals and a conscious intellectual choice," says Tarun. "People here have adopted and transformed western Christianity. They practice with their own tribal world views, dances and culture. I thought this challenged the idea of the nation-state today, when national solidarity is being viewed as spiritual solidarity. What do you do in the context of a multinational state like India and its transformation into a singular confessional state that is happening now?"Damarice Amao, one of the project jurors, says the pandemic, migration, and geopolitical tensions undermine more than ever the foundations of the concept of "nation state" born in the 19th century. "At the same time these tensions reveal a continued desire to build community beyond borders or even with neighbours from our building or locality."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/portraits-of-a-nation-state/articleshow/79104276.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Deputy engineer caught accepting Rs 50,000 bribe||HYDERABAD: A deputy executive engineer was caught by Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) in Jangaon after he allegedly accepted Rs 50,000 from a contractor. ACB officials in a press note said that deputy EE Ch Ravinder Reddy demanded bribe from a contractor to clear his bills by forwarding it to executive engineer. ACB slueths laid a trap and seized the tainted money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/deputy-engineer-caught-accepting-rs-50000-bribe/articleshow/79105137.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||With eye on 2022 state polls, Cong looks to attract youth at booth level||Panaji: With an eye on the 2022 assembly elections, Congress plans to attract young voters to the party’s fold. While focusing on unemployment and drugs, the party’s youth wing has been tasked with recruiting five new voters for every booth of the 40 constituencies. The party organised a youth meeting in Panaji where opposition leader Digambar Kamat, state Congress president Girish Chodankar and AICC in charge of Youth Congress Krishna Allavaru exhorted the Congress workers to build the party. “Organisational building is important and for the next assembly election, booth management is important,” Chodankar said. “We have asked the party workers to recruit five new youth voters for each booth, which becomes new cadre for the party. For the next two months, they have to focus on this and after that, for a year, the workers will focus on the two issues of unemployment and drugs.” While appreciating the recent agitations organised by the youth wing, he asked party workers to continue raising issues that concern people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-eye-on-2022-state-polls-cong-looks-to-attract-youth-at-booth-level/articleshow/79106199.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Lingampalli railway station goes solar||Hyderabad: The fourth busiest railway station in the city after Secunderabad, Kacheguda and Hyderabad, the Lingampalli railway station has now become an eco-friendly station with the installation of solar panels to power it up. The solar panels installed with a capacity of 55 kWp are expected to result in savings of 72,000 units per annum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lingampalli-railway-station-goes-solar/articleshow/79105125.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Madurai||‘Govt coaching classes for NEET to begin on Nov 9’||Madurai: State minister for school education K A Sengottaiyan has said that the government NEET coaching classes will begin from November 9 across the state through online mode. A total of 15,482 students have registered. “The Tamil Nadu government by bringing in the 7.5% quota and making 303 seats available, is fulfilling the dreams of students from poor families. This year, government NEET coaching will begin in online mode from Monday. There are also plans to introduce coaching classes for JEE and CA exam aspirants as well,” said Sengottaiyan while taking part in an event at Velammal Engineering College in Madurai on Saturday. The minister also said that 5.2 lakh students from private schools were admitted to government schools across Tamil Nadu. “By December, work on smart classes in 7,200 schools, smart boards in 8,000 schools and Atal Tinkering Lab (ATL) in 828 schools, is expected to be completed. Efforts will be made to have facilities at government school on a with those of private schools,” Sengottaiyan said. The minister said that the portions for 40% reduction of syllabus is still under discussion since schools are awaiting reopening and an announcement be made soon. However, he said that the ‘Kalvi Tholaikatchi’ programmes that are being telecast follow the reduced syllabus. Earlier, Sengottaiyan gave away renewal of recognition for private matriculation schools and cash incentives for top-performing school students in sports. About 805 schools from Madurai and other southern districts were given renewal of recognition, which will be valid for two years. “This year, unlike previously where recognition is for one year, the recognition is for two years. Awarding of this recognition shows the transparency of the government. We are ready to also consider providing permanent recognition in future,” said the minister. Tamil Nadu minister for revenue and disaster management, R B Udayakumar, minister for co-operation, Sellur K Raju, Madurai district collector T Anbazhagan and chief education officer (CEO), R Swaminathan were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-coaching-classes-for-neet-to-begin-on-nov-9/articleshow/79106729.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||ED raids ex-officialsof Serula comunidade||Panaji: The Enforcement Directorate conducted searches on the residential premises of Agnelo C Lobo, former attorney of Comunidade of Serula, his brother Reginaldo Lobo, former officials of Comunidade of Serula, Joseph D’Sa, Rajesh Suhas Verenkar and others involved in alleged illegal allotment of plots and acquisition of land belonging to the comunidade and seized documents. Investigation was initiated by the probe agency based on FIRs registered by Crime Branch of the Goa Police. As per the FIRs, the members of Serula Comunidade managing committee were involved in illegal allotment of plots by fraudulently citing and using duplicate file numbers pertaining to files of offices of various administrators of comunidades and Gazette notifications of Government of Goa, thereby cheating the comunidade besides other authorities. A senior officer of ED said that during the search operation, the above-mentioned persons were found to be in possession of various incriminating documents. “The documents include old blank Indian stamp papers of 1960s, old blank papers having Portuguese stamps used for making forged Aforamento documents and deeds of sale used for the illegal acquisition of land belonging to Comunidade,” ED officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ed-raids-ex-officialsof-serula-comunidade/articleshow/79106218.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong allocates areas for working presidents||Hyderabad: Congress allocated working areas for its four working presidents. Azharuddin will oversee activities of all frontal organisations. Revanth Reddy will monitor party activities in Adilabad (ST), Peddapalli (SC), Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Zahirabad and Mahbubabad (ST). Former MP Ponnam Prabhakar will take care of activities in Medak, Malkajgiri, Secunderabad, Hyderabad, Chevella and Khammam. TPCC working president J Kusum Kumar will monitor activities in Mahbubnagar, Nagakurnool, Nalgonda, Bhongir and Warangal constituencies. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-allocates-areas-for-working-presidents/articleshow/79105161.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Madurai||MKU staffer tests positive, offices shut for 3 days||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) has shut down its offices for three days for disinfection after a staff at the controller of examination wing of the campus tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. The staff member has been admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital and is undergoing treatment. A circular has also been issued to all departments asking all those who were in contact with the staffer, to self-quarantine at home. “The office he was in was immediately shut when he tested positive. Later, other offices were also fully shut for disinfection as a preventive measure. The staff will be under home quarantine and symptomatic persons tested,” MKU vice-chancellor M Krishnan said. Meanwhile, health officials have collected more than 70 samples from contacts of the 50-year-old Madras high court judge who tested positive on Friday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-staffer-tests-positive-offices-shut-for-3-days/articleshow/79106745.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||Pollution board seeks central funds to restore water bodies||Panaji: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has decided to request the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to provide environmental compensation funds of Rs 85 crore towards remediation and restoration of water bodies in the state. “The members approved the decision to request CPCB to provide funds for remediation and restoration of water bodies,” the board stated. During a recent board meeting, GSPCB member secretary informed the members that the board is in receipt of guidelines for utilisation of environmental compensation funds from CPCB. CPCB has stated that Rs 85 crore has been set aside as compensation funds. As per the letter received, allocation of funds will be considered under priority for Goa. According to the guidelines, the funds are to be utilised for various purposes that include development of infrastructure for air and water quality surveillance and monitoring for different areas/locations, remediation of contaminated sites and develop infrastructure for this purpose, procurement of equipment, etc, including hiring of experts/consultants for specific requirement for remediation of sites, etc. Funds can be used for specific investigations and studies with regard to environment and ecology, carrying capacity assessment for ecologically and environmentally sensitive and critical areas, including hiring of experts/consultants for specific purpose and period, research and development activities with regard to new technologies, clean technologies, etc. Funds can be also utlised for capacity building of scientific and engineering personnel of CPCB and pollution control boards/pollution control committees to rejuvenate and protect the environment, augmenting and strengthening of laboratory network of manpower and logistics, payment of honorarium incompliance of judicial orders of the courts and tribunal. Funds can be used for specialised studies on accidental spill areas, health impact assessment, recalcitrant pollutants, etc, information, education and communication (IEC) activities and any other scientific and technical matter which may arise as a contingent matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pollution-board-seeks-central-funds-to-restore-water-bodies/articleshow/79106241.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Goa||Ease of service for filing life certificates||Panaji: To ensure that pensioners stay safe at home during the pandemic, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has partnered with common service centres (CSC) to provide the facility of submitting digital Jeevan Pramaan Patra or digital life certificate. CSCs are physical facilities which deliver various e-services of the the government to rural and remote locations where computers and internet services are negligible or mostly absent. Jeevan Pramaan is a biometric enabled digital service for pensioners of central, state or any other government organisation. The multi-agency model of the EPFO helps pensioners of the Employees’ Pension Scheme (EPS) with choice and autonomy to select the service delivery agency of their choice. EPS pensioners can now submit their digital Pramaan Patra any time during the year as per their convenience and not just in the months of November and December. The life certificate will remain valid for one year from the date it is submitted. Instead of visiting the provident fund office, pensioners can submit Aadhaar-based biometric digital life certificates or Jeevan Pramaan Patra at their local bank branches, the nearest post office or at the CSC. Details of the nearest CSCs are available at https://locator.csccloud.in With the new digital services, pensioners only have to carry their cellphone, bank passbook, pension payment order number and their Aadhaar number. They can also avail this service by contacting their local postman or the nearest post office. For pensioners who are bed-ridden or those who are unfit to travel, arrangements will be made to collect their life certificates from their homes. To avail this facility, the pensioner or his family members should send a request email at ro.goa@epfindia.gov.in with complete details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ease-of-service-for-filing-life-certificates/articleshow/79106263.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||SOG seizes over 2,000kg doda post in city, 1 arrested||Jaipur: The Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested a person who was smuggling doda post and seized over 2,000kg of the narcotics. The drug was being supplied from Chittorgarh and was to be supplied to various places in Jaipur. Cops seized 2,245kg of doda post and arrested 50-year-old truck driver Bhagirath Jat. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS, said, “We received information that a truck carrying large quantity of the narcotics was coming from Kishangarh. The truck was seen at Harmada checkpost and when it was searched, we found the hidden drug.” The doda post was packed in 111 packets and hidden among agricultural products. The cops claimed that they have been conducting operations to curb the smuggling of narcotics and the arrested truck driver is being questioned to get more details about the network. Officials said that the kingpin of the smuggling networks would transport the drugs by road and would change the drivers often. In July, the Narcotics Control Bureau seized the largest quantity of opium this year. Over 230kg of opium was seized in Chittorgarh which was worth approximately worth Rs 42 crore in the open market. Cops keep a regular vigil on the borders with other states, including Madhya Pradesh, as in many cases, the drugs are supplied from the neighbouring states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-seizes-over-2000kg-doda-post-in-city-1-arrested/articleshow/79104311.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Goa||Norms revised for setting up of rural garbage disposal sites||Panaji: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has revised guidelines for setting up of rural garbage disposal sites (RGDS). As per the new norms, the area of the buffer zone has been reduced from 500m to 200m along the boundary of the site, subject to specified conditions. GSPCB chairman Ganesh Shetgaonkar told TOI that the norms have been revised as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) guidelines. The board’s member secretary informed the members that the board had received a representation from the Goa Waste Management Corporation requesting for the amendment of guidelines for RGDS. In 2017, CPCB published guidelines on the provision of buffer zones around waste processing and disposal facilities. These stated that ideally, a distance of 500m should be maintained from the boundary of the waste processing facility (sanitary landfill). However, on a case-to-case basis, a minimum distance of 200m from the facility can be considered, subject to conditions that such a facility meets stipulated standards prescribed by state pollution control board with respect to ambient air and stack emission. GSPCB, meanwhile, in its 141st board meeting, formulated guidelines for RGDS which cited that a wet waste handling site of above 100MT/day should be at least 500m away from residential areas, schools, temples, churches, mosques, cemeteries and other ecological sensitive sites. Since this was in contradiction to the CPCB guidelines cited above, the GWMC requested that the guidelines be amended in tune with CPCB guidelines. The matter was placed before a technical advisory committee (TAC) on October 5. The TAC, however, felt that it did not have the mandate to reconsider a decision taken by the board. Now the GSPCB has decided to adopt CPCB’s 2017 guidelines with the liberty to maintain a 200m buffer, subject to the condition that the area does not fall within the ambit of the coastal zone regulation, a wildlife sanctuary, protected areas or notified wetlands.  It has also mandated that waste treatment plants adopt the ‘best available technology’ and that air pollution control (APC) devices should comply with the prescribed stack height as applicable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/norms-revised-for-setting-up-of-rural-garbage-disposal-sites/articleshow/79106257.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||NIA conducts raids at 2 villages in Sikar||Jaipur: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) conducted raids at two villages in Sikar on Saturday and sources claimed that it was about a case related to transfer of funds to criminal organisations though cops have not confirmed it. While the local police are providing support to the NIA team, they claimed to have no knowledge of the case. NIA team searched houses in two villages of Sikar’s Fatehpur though the team headed by SP rank officer refused to comment on the matter. Sources, meanwhile, claimed that the cases could be related to gold smuggling and international funding. “The owners of the two houses which were searched stay abroad and in all likelihood their international connections are being looked into,” said an official on condition of anonymity. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nia-conducts-raids-at-2-villages-in-sikar/articleshow/79104317.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19 mortality in cancer patients low, but doctors urge them to shed fear of hosp visits||Madurai: Doctors stressed the need to avoid fear of hospital visits for cancer patients, especially during the time of Covid-19 since some types of cancers are completely curable with proper and timely treatment. Doctors said that though cancer patients are high risk groups for Covid-19 as they are immuno-compromised, paradoxically so far mortality has been on the lower side among them. The ‘National Cancer Awareness Day’ was observed in the district on Saturday. Out of the total 424 Covid-19 deaths so far in Madurai, only six were cancer patients. The 1.4% share is less than even diseases such as chronic kidney disease or coronary artery disease, each of which account for more than 10% of the number of deaths. “It is a kind of paradox for cancer patients. In some Covid-19 patients, cytokine storm, an exaggerated inflammatory response occurs. However, in case of cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy, their immune response is already suppressed and hence are unlikely to trigger cytokine storm,” said Dr Rajasekaran, head, medical oncology, Government Rajaji Hospital. The doctor also explained that as per protocol if a cancer patient tests Covid-19 positive, they are first treated for Covid-19 and once they recover, cancer treatment is continued. Dr Krishnakumar Rathnam, senior consultant of medical oncology at a private multi-speciality hospital in Madurai, said that now there is more awareness about cancer treatment but there are still around 40% of patients, especially from rural areas, who still believe cancer can only mean death and have misconceptions about the treatment. “While people are more aware about the disease, many still hesitate to come forward to treatment since they believe chemotherapy and radiation causes only harm and can kill them,” he said. The doctor also added that general screening for cancer had declined from 10 patients per month to just one patient during the past two months. At GRH, doctors said that the census of cancer patients has increased over the years during the past decade with increasing awareness. Dr Rajasekaran said that following safety precautions, cancer patients can come for treatment without fear. He urged public to come for check-ups for non-communicable diseases, through which cancer is usually diagnosed. “All latest medicines are available for cancer treatment at GRH and the bed capacity has been increased. Under CMCHIS, patients can avail the treatment free of cost,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-mortality-in-cancer-patients-low-but-doctors-urge-them-to-shed-fear-of-hosp-visits/articleshow/79106748.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 8, 2020||Goa||Govt yet to decide on plea to defer hiked tourism fees||Panaji: The state government is yet to take a call on appeals by various tourism stakeholders to hold off from implementing the hike in fees proposed in the amendment rules, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “They want the proposed hike in fees to be implemented later. The government may take a call on it,” a senior tourism official said. So far, the government has given relief only to beach shack operators, by reducing licence fees by 50%. “The fees were brought down because even last season, they (beach shacks) were affected. Also, they set up shacks only in season,” the officer said. Under the draft rules, registration has been made mandatory for all tourism trades, and even online aggregators offering accommodation have been brought under the ambit of the law. This is the first time a rationalisation in fee structure has been proposed for various segments of the trade, and the process for securing registration of a trade has been simplified. The amended rules aim to cover all tourist trades which have remained outside the purview of law so far. The hike in fees was suggested after a consultation process of more than a year, as it was felt that existing fees were paltry in comparison to volume of trade. Presently, the registration fee charged for hotels irrespective of their category is Rs 5,000. Hotels classified as ‘A’, having 100 or more rooms, will now have to pay Rs 1 lakh as registration fees once the new rules come into force. Chiefly, the registration fee that will be applicable to hotels are in accordance with the category they are in. Single units that are mostly flats, bungalows, or any other accommodation that doesn’t fit into the typical definition of a hotel, will have to register under the Goa, Daman and Diu Registration of Tourist Trade Act by paying a registration fee of Rs 5,000. They will be under category ‘D’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-yet-to-decide-on-plea-to-defer-hiked-tourism-fees/articleshow/79106261.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||‘Nagpur’s first arbitrators’ body will expedite redressal of disputes’||A number of arbitrators have come together to form ‘PTA Arbitrators’ Association’ which they claim is unique in the sense that such bodies exist only in three metros — Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. Leading the association is archiect and valuer Avinash Pendse, who took the initiative to form the organization under section 8 of the Companies Act. Under this act, such bodies can be formed on a non-profit basis. The association was formed in anticipation of the central government making amendments in the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, where such bodies would be granted powers to directly deal with litigants under the aegis of ‘Arbitrators Council’, which will be the apex body. Talking to TOI, Pendse explains the importance of having such an organization in the city.Excerpts...Q. In what way will you help the organization professionally?A. I’m an architect and valuer by profession and also a director in another nation-based Section 8 company related to Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India. In the ‘PTA Arbitrators Association’, I am managing director and promoter member of this company . Q. What are the aims and objectives of your body?A. It will provide a platform and opportunities to professionals from Central India and will also provide in-house facilities for arbitration, mediation and conciliation services from our office located in Ramnagar. It will also expedite the process of techno-legal commercial dispute resolutions by reducing the time and cost of litigation. Currently, a majority of arbitration cases are settled in Mumbai, Delhi or in cases of international arbitrations, in Singapore, Hague and London. Our body would help litigants from Vidarbha and Central India to resolve their cases within Nagpur with the help of expert arbitrators. Q. What role does an arbitrator play?A. As the judiciary started facing the burden of cases, it introduced another parallel system called ‘Alternative Disputes Redressal (ADR)’. Those working to resolve disputes are called arbitrators. That time a need was felt to enact laws which deal with techno-commercial and legal aspects. A majority of judges lacked technical knowledge and they used to take the help of experts from respective fields. Arbitrators are also technical experts with knowledge of law to some extent. They help in resolving the litigation in a shorter time and are less expensive. Earlier, the retired judges used to act as arbitrators and they were more comfortable with the legal aspects. They had complete dominance for a few years. Q. How did technical experts enter the field of arbitration?A. Apart from regular cases, many technical and commercial disputes started cropping up in various courts. As judges lacked expertise, their disposal time increased just like other normal cases. The world over in judiciary, many amendments were carried out to ensure that techno commercial disputes between multinational companies and governments or even the export-import cases were resolved in the shortest possible time to ensure and encourage investment and smooth functioning of trade from abroad. The same principal was employed within our country to keep pace with trade practices all over world. This gave a boost to a robust system of Arbitral Practice in India. Q. How did the concept of arbitrator’s council come into the picture in India?A. Earlier, all cases were dealt with on the basis of the civil procedure code (CPC) or criminal procedure code (CrPC). What followed was a long procedure like any other case which used to prolong disputes. Only the high court was empowered to award some technical cases to arbitrators which were on its panel, but their numbers were limited. The entire procedure used to add to the load of cases in courts. When the government realised this folly, it decided to make drastic changes in the Arbitration Act as suggested by the Shrikrishna Commission last year. It recommended the formation of an Arbitrators' Council just like the existing Architects’ Council or pending Valuers’ Bill. Q. What will be the role of the Arbitrators’ Council?A. The government has envisaged that such a council would have member organisations all over the country to whom the disputes could be directly referred. Even litigants can approach them for institutional arbitration. The advantages are that such organisations are aware of local conditions and also have techno-legal experts from various fields. Earlier, only those having over 20 years of experience could become arbitrators. Now, professionals with minimum ten years of experience, including engineers, architects, chartered accountants, company secretaries and others can take up this role. After completion of 20 years, they can function as a sole arbitrator. Q. What are the expectations from a local body like your association?A. The association will do all the jobs that a court registrar used to do earlier. It will maintain a roster of professional cases, add new members and recommend their names to litigants. It will also keep a tab on progress of cases and focus on providing relief to litigants. Once the award is passed, it is to be submitted to a high court judge. The litigants or respondents are expected to take objections, if there are any, within 75 days. The HC judge then checks only two things whether documentary evidence is correctly presented and all legal procedures are followed and the award is unbiased. If the objection is turned down, the award becomes legally binding on both parties involved. In such times, the local body’s role comes into the picture like maintaining records, providing facilities like secretarial assistance, online arbitration, space and library.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-first-arbitrators-body-will-expedite-redressal-of-disputes/articleshow/79104336.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Lured with lottery, senior citizen duped of Rs 1.2cr in city||Jaipur: A senior citizen was duped of Rs 1.2 crore in Jaipur over a prolonged period after the unidentified accused claimed that the victim had won a lottery. Cops are yet to find the accused and have initiated an investigation. Rajendra Nath, 74, a resident of Mansarovar, registered a case with cybercrime police station. Surendra Pancholi, SHO, cybercrime police station, said, “The complainant had purchased a product from an online site following which he received a message saying that after his purchase, he had won a lottery of Rs12.5 lakh.” According to the officials, once the accused had got the complainant hooked on, he asked him to deposit money for some or other reason so that the lottery amount can be given. The complainant continued to pay up and this continued for several months during the lockdown and once he realised that he had been duped, the case was lodged, claimed cops. “All fraudsters play with the victim’s mind and make them believe that they will make easy money very quickly. Unfortunately, despite knowing the risks, people fall into this trap. Even when the accused asks the victims continuously to pay up for some reason, the latter in the hope that they will get good returns, give the money,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lured-with-lottery-senior-citizen-duped-of-rs-1-2cr-in-city/articleshow/79104327.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Goa||‘Revoke suspension of WRD staffers’||Poinguinim: Alleging that the government has “illegally suspended” six WRD staffers who belong to the ST community while allegedly “allowing the real culprits to go scot-free”, the Gawda Kunbi Velip and Dhangar (Gakuved) Federation has threatened to protest if their suspensions are not revoked within two days. The tribals’ group has pointed out that the WRD’s technical staffers join duty at 9.30am, whereas the incident of shooting the porn video took place somewhere between 6.30am and 8.30am. Gakuved’s general secretary Rupesh Velip said that those placed under suspension are pump attendants Rajesh Kamlakar Velip, Sunil T Velip, Suresh Putu Velip, Pandhari Fondu Velip and Anand Narayan Velip, and supervisor Venkatesh Shanu. Gakuved also stated that the seven security guards belonging to Goa Human Resource Development Corporation and attached to the Chapoli dam, are also being made scapegoats and are being troubled by being asked to report to the Canacona police station everyday for questioning. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/revoke-suspension-of-wrd-staffers/articleshow/79106259.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Agra||Authorities in west UP dists swing into action as air becomes stifling||Rampur/Agra/Meerut: With the unhealthy air quality in most of the western districts of Uttar Pradesh stifling this weekend and making children and adults with chronic respiratory syndrome further seek, district authorities have swung into action warning people against burning garbage and issuing fines and booking offenders.Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh on Saturday imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on civic body officials for burning garbage near Gandhi Samadhi and Rs 25,000 for burning garbage near the stadium in Bhawanpuri locality. Recently, ADM JP Gupta had also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on Jal Nigam officials for burning garbage on their premises. “Following instructions of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal to curb pollution to protect the environment, we have ordered strict action against offenders. As the administration has already provided adequate land for the dumping of waste and garbage, we will not tolerate the burning and dumping of garbage near public places by the civic authorities,” the Rampur DM told TOI.Similarly, the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has ordered lodging of FIRs against individuals and organisations burning garbage under the Environment Protection Act, 1986. On Saturday, additional municipal commissioner KB Singh issued strict orders to sanitary inspectors to check the practice of garbage burning. If sanitary inspectors come across the burning of garbage, they will extinguish the fire and also impose penalties on offenders. Singh said, “NGT orders complete prohibition on burning waste. Sanitary inspectors have been asked to lodge FIRs against offenders and impose penalties. In case garbage burning is reported, action will be taken against the sanitary inspector concerned.” AMC executive engineer (environment) Rajiv Rathi said, “According to the NGT orders, if a person is caught burning garbage under any circumstances an on-the-spot penalty of Rs 5,000 will be imposed, while a fine of Rs 25,000 will be recovered on repetition. For burning waste in bulk in public or private space, Rs 50,000 penalty will be recovered. Since sanitary inspectors will be registering FIR in a majority of the cases, the offender may face imprisonment.”Seeking the help of residents in identifying offenders, Rathi said, “The identity of informers would be kept confidential. If sanitary officials fail to act against polluters, they would be held responsible for violating norms.” The Meerut Nagar Nigam has, meanwhile, got a notice from the pollution control board authorities after garbage was found burning at five spots in the city. The pictures and videos of the burning garbage along with a notice were sent to the civic body authorities. “We are conducting inspections across the district to curb air pollution. The pollution department team found burning garbage in Kankerkhera, on Garh road and Delhi road. If the civic body authorities failed to take action in the matter, state authorities in Lucknow will be informed,” said Yogendra Kumar, regional officer, Meerut pollution control board.Meanwhile, on Saturday, the air quality index (AQI) in Agra, which falls in the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ), was recorded at 417 — ‘severe’ category — highest this year so far. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was, however, recorded at 444 milligrams per cubic meter, considered hazardous to health by doctors. To reduce the dust, AMC workers sprinkle water on roads and trees. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), AQI in severe category affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.Content state:WritingIn use by:Reporter(s):Insia KazmiLast modified:07-11 22:39 - Insia KazmiRequested size: Actual size: 135 lin - 1219.56pCategory:Contextual use: NormalDescription:Correction:All usages://||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/authorities-in-west-up-dists-swing-into-action-as-air-becomes-stifling/articleshow/79104348.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||Mollem projects will wreak destruction: Cong||Margao: At the Congress-organised anti-coal protest meeting at Lohia maidan, Margao, on Saturday, Congress veterans tore into the BJP, accusing it of working against the interests of Goans by bringing the three infrastructural projects cutting through Mollem forests which they said would wreak destruction of Goa. If Poriem MLA Pratapsing Rane called upon the people to support the agitation in order to protect the “clean and green Goa” for posterity, Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro urged people to resolve to reject “lock, stock and barrel” all the three projects. South Goa MP Fransisco Sardinha called for withdrawal of police cases booked against protestors at the Chandor level crossing earlier this week, while Margao MLA Digambar Kamat said that the government which didn’t heed people’s voices had no right to stay in power. Sardinha, in his address, asked the South Goa BJP MLAs who had crossed over to the saffron party from the Congress, what they loved more, Goa or the BJP, and demanded that they ask the chief minister to scrap all the three projects. Faleiro, speaking on the occasion, urged the government not the make Goa a coal capital. “Goans will die to ensure that the projects don’t come to Goa. Goans will die to fight the coal mafia, to fight the friends of prime minister Modi (Adani and others) who are responsible to bring these horrible projects to Goa,” Faleiro said. The meeting passed a resolution to request the Congress Parliamentary Party to move an amendment in Parliament to exclude MPT from the Major Ports Authority Bill 2020 “which gives absolute power to the Ports to enact laws bypassing the state laws and local bodies. A resolution was also passed to demand from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to conduct a cumulative Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) to assess the overall and collateral impact and damage on environment, health, flora and Fauna, Dudhsagar waterfalls and its overall impact on tourism industry in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mollem-projects-will-wreak-destruction-cong/articleshow/79106264.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||‘Govt should apologise for ODF claim’||Ponda: Claiming that several people still defecate in the open along the major roads in the state, Madkai MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar has demanded an apology from the government for it’s failure to make Goa open defecation-free (ODF). Dhavalikar said that the government should apologise to the citizens for its misleading claim that the state is ODF. “While driving to the Dabolim airport in the morning via Sancoale, you will find people defecating in open along the main road,” the former deputy chief minister said. He also alleged that the government could neither deliver toilets to villagers despite receiving money from them through the panchayats, nor has it constructed toilets under the ODF scheme. “After the government announced that it would give toilets at subsidised rates to those belonging to scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and economically backward communities, people had paid the required amount through local village panchayats. However, the toilets are no where in sight,” said Dhavalikar, while adding that “the government should think before floating such schemes”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-should-apologise-for-odf-claim/articleshow/79106271.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to get first petrol pump run by jail inmates||JAIPUR: Tulsiram Rathore, a salesman at a petrol pump, is busy winding up his sales for the day at Ghatgate as he has to attend the roll call inside the jail where he is serving his sentence. Tulsiram is a jail inmate sentenced in a murder case and has been behind the bars since 2010. Prisoners like Tulsiram in Jaipur, who have displayed good behaviour, are now gearing up to manage fuel stations, thanks to an innovative government initiative. Drawing inspiration from their counterparts in Andhra Pradesh and Kerala, the prison department is all set to open petrol pumps — named Ashaye Filling Station — near Jaipur Central Jail in the city, envisaged to be run by selected inmates. Prisoners in Jaipur will now get an opportunity to earn some extra money as the state government has allowed the jail inmates to work as employees at the first-ever petrol pump to be run by the prisoners. The government has rolled out a petrol pump adjoining jail premises in association with Indian Oil Corporation. Rajasthan prison department is all set to open petrol pumps — named Ashaye Filling Station — near Jaipur Central Ja… https://t.co/ICkhEfoPAp— TOI Jaipur (@TOIJaipurNews) 1604810767000“I feel like a free man while working at the petrol pump, but as the Sun sets I become a jail inmate. I am happy to work here as I am not only getting a chance to remain outside my confinement, but also earn some money for my future,” said Tulsiram. Speaking to TOI, Rajeev Kumar Dasot, DG, Prisons, said the initiative has a two-fold impact, firstly, the inmates will get a chance to improve their skillsets and earn Rs 7,500 per month as salary. Secondly, the earning from these pumps will be credited to the Prison Development Fund which would be used for various jail rehabilitation programmes. At Ghatgate petrol pump, 30 jail inmates will be employed while there is plan to train 60 inmates. The other 30 inmates would be kept in reserve and will be employed when there is need of extra manpower. “The outlets in Jaipur will be officially launched in a couple of weeks, while we are running it in a phased manner to train our inmates for time being,” he added. In the first phase, the department plans to open four filling stations in Jaipur, Kota, Alwar and Bharatpur, and if the pilot project gets some success, it will be replicated in other districts too, said Dasot. Watch Jaipur: Prison inmates to run petrol pumps in the city in a first||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-to-get-first-petrol-pump-run-by-jail-inmates/articleshow/79104347.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Inebriated man beats infant nephew to death||JAIPUR: A man beat his 1-year-old nephew to death in Dholpur on Friday after getting drunk. The accused hid the body in a trunk and fled. Cops arrested him a few hours. The deceased was identified as Amit Kumar while the accused was identified as Banwari. Dholpur SP Kesar Singh Shekhawat told TOI, “the victim’s father came to us on Friday alleging that his brother in a drunken state had taken the toddler with him. He allegedly threw the child repeatedly on the floor because of which he died.” After killing the toddler, the accused took the body to the neighbour’s house and hid it in the trunk under the blankets. “Seeing the gravity of the case, we immediately formed a team to look for the accused and arrested him within few hours of the murder. He is being questioned,” added the official. A case of murder under IPC Section 302 has been registered against the accused. The deceased’s body was handed over to the family after post-mortem. Officials claimed that they are also looking at the possibility if the accused planned the murder and executed the crime under the guise of being drunk. Elaborating on the investigation, the official said, “it is not every day that a child is killed so brutally and we are looking at all angles in this particular case. We will question the victim’s parents as well after they come out of shock to find if there was any kind of animosity between the brothers”. Recently, a toddler’s body was found in a well in Jamwa Ramgarh. The child had gone missing a day before the crime and the body was completely charred. While no arrests have been made in the case, cops suspect that one or more family members of the victim were involved in the crime and the child was killed due to some kind of superstition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/inebriated-man-beats-infant-nephew-to-death/articleshow/79104340.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Madurai||School students celebrate successful launch of PSLV C - 49||Madurai: Students of a government aided school in Sivaganga district celebrated the successful launch of PSLV C - 49 rocket carrying an all-weather earthimaging satellite, EOS-01. and nine foreign satellites by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on Saturday.Students of Chairman Manickavasagam Middle School in Devakottai celebrated the successful launch of the rocket on Saturday from their homes by flying balloons and making paper models of the rocket. The school principal, L Chokkalingam, addressed the students online and spoke about the launch of PSLV C - 49 rocket along with the satellites. He explained that the EOS-01 will be helpful for agriculture and disaster management. Earlier on Friday, the students from their homes wished for the successful launch by lightning lamps beside a paper with the wordings ‘PSLV C - 49 rocket’ in Tamil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/school-students-celebrate-successful-launch-of-pslv-c-49/articleshow/79106773.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Delhi||Improve ease of living of citizens: PM Narendra Modi||NEW DELHI: The coronavirus pandemic has taught a lesson to the world that globalisation is important but being self-reliant is also necessary, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi while virtually addressing the 51st convocation of IIT Delhi on Saturday. The event saw 2,019 students getting their degrees. The PM asked the students to innovate to improve the lives of crores of Indians. Technology is going to play an important role in a post-Covid world, he added. Modi further said, “We will give you the ease of doing business, you focus on improving the ease of living of citizens.” Referring to his government’s reforms in several sectors, the PM said, “For the first time, there are possibilities for innovations and startups in the agriculture sector… for the first time, there is an opportunity for investment in the space sector.” Modi asked the IIT graduates to recognise the needs of the country and connect with the changes on the ground. He also asked them to identify with the aspirations of the common people in the context of Atmanirbhar Bharat. The PM stated that India was among the countries where corporate tax was the lowest and that more than 50 thousand start-ups had started here since the Start-up India campaign was launched. Over 20 Indian unicorns have been established over the years and this number will increase further in the next one or two years, he added. Modi gave four mantras to the students for their workplace. He asked them to “focus on quality and never compromise; ensure scalability and make your innovations work at a mass scale; assure reliability and build long-term trust in the market; and bring in adaptability and be open to change and expect uncertainty as a way of life.” He said working on these basic mantras would bring shine on one’s identity as well as on brand India, since “students are India’s biggest brand ambassadors.” Modi concluded his address by saying that students at IIT had “exceptional abilities” as they had “passed one of the toughest exams — the Joint Entrance Exam”. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ told students that their “real test begins when they enter the field of life and employment where they have to use theoretical knowledge and experiences found in institutions in practical life.” Presenting the director’s report, V Ramgopal Rao said: “In the last 5 years, IIT Delhi faculty and students have written over 10,000 high-quality papers, filed over 500 patents, executed roughly 150 industry projects and obtained over Rs 1,300 crore of research funding from competitive grants from all over the world. We have also created 18 new Centres of Excellence with funding from alumni, industries and government agencies in the last 5 years.” An online programme, eVIDYA@IITD, was also launched on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/modi-improve-ease-of-living-of-citizens/articleshow/79106328.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||Poll panel must clear doubts on ZP election process: Sudin||Ponda: Madkai MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar on Saturday urged the Goa State Election Commission to come clear on zilla panchayat’s (ZP) election process, as there is confusion in the minds of stakeholders. Dhavalikar said since the elections that were scheduled for March 22 could not be held due to the ‘Janata curfew’ declared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the election commission has to clearly state whether only voting would be held or if the entire poll process would be held afresh. Dhavalikar said he has been told that a political party has been spreading news that “only voting will take place”, and “inorder to lure the electorate the party has planned to distribute poha (pressed rice) and other items to every household for political gains during the ZP polls”. Meanwhile, the Madkai MLA has also demanded that Narkasur processions be banned due to the ongoing pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poll-panel-must-clear-doubts-on-zp-election-process-sudin/articleshow/79106292.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Ludhiana||PPCB meet dyers’ association over pollution-related issues||LUDHIANA: Officials of the Punjab Pollution Control Board conducted a meeting with members of Punjab Dyers Association on Friday night to discuss the issues being faced by their industry on Tajpur road. The dyeing industry was informed that the chairman, Punjab Pollution Control Board, had issued a public notice advising all dyeing industries to voluntarily declare and dismantle/plug any bypass facility by November 6. With the last date over now, the board would be carrying out extensive surveillance from now onwards to ensure that there was no illegal discharge by any dyeing industry of Ludhiana. The problem of air pollution was also deliberated in detail and the dyeing industry on Tajpur road were suggested about various measures to control the black smoke generated from the chimneys of these industries. Sandeep Bahl, senior environmental engineer, said that the CETP project which was meant to tremendously reduce the water pollution level of the Buddha Nullah was not even sanctioned till November, 2019, and within just one year, the central government had released Rs 13.5 crore. Of the sanctioned central grant of Rs 15 crore the state government has released the entire state subsidy of Rs 7.5 crore for the execution of the project, which is now expected to be completed by December 31. He said that during the current Covid situation, the responsibility was of the industry to control air pollution as the virus primarily attacked the lungs and the problem of air pollution would certainly increase the severity of the disease. He appealed to the dyeing industry to refurbish and diligently operate their pollution control devices. During the meeting, Ashok Makkar, chairman, Punjab Dyers Association, said that the CETP for Tajpur road dyeing cluster had now taken a practical shape and was becoming a reality soon. Bobby Jindal, director, Punjab Dyers Association, ensured full cooperation of the dyeing industry towards preservation of environment and said they had been issued necessary directions by the association to upgrade their air pollution control systems to ensure that no black smoke was generated from the chimneys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ppcb-meet-dyers-assn-over-pollution-related-issues/articleshow/79104364.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||Funds paucity hits Colva beach devpt||Colva: Development works undertaken by the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) at the Colva beach have come to a halt since the lockdown came into effect in March. Sources in the GTDC said that the works have taken a back seat mainly because the state government’s component of the project cost has not been released “due to a financial crunch”. The project was undertaken at a cost of Rs 11.67 crore and works commenced on July 10, 2018. Undertaken under the central government’s Swadesh Darshan scheme, the funding was split between the Centre and state in a 40, 60 ratio, GTDC executive engineer Kiran Kumar said. At present, with the exception of the toilets block, all other works have come to a standstill. Kumar said that they received and exhausted the 40% (Rs 4.67 crore) Central funds and that the toilet block is being constructed with what is remaining of it. The state is yet to extend its contribution of Rs 7 crore, he said. GTDC assistant engineer Vishad Pole said that the works were stopped on account of the monsoon and would be resumed soon. The construction of the toilet block continued even during the rains, he said. The promenade, which was part of the beautification, is falling apart with the concrete blocks used in its construction coming off. At one place the backrest of a bench is covered with plastic to stop further deterioration. When questioned, Pole said the incessant rain took some toll, but “these minor repair works will be completed before December”. The project includes beautification of the existing island and road, pathways, drainage, toilet blocks with changing rooms, four-wheeler parking for 80 vehicles and two-wheeler parking for 327 vehicles. It also included bus parking for 54 vehicles, play equipment for children’s play area, landscaping and illumination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/funds-paucity-hits-colva-beach-devpt/articleshow/79106317.cms||Nisser Dias
November 8, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: AAP protests hike in industrial estate site valuation||HUBBALLI: Activists of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), along with a few industrialists on Saturday protested the hike in the price of sites allotted to entrepreneurs at the Gamanagatti Green Tech Park. The activists gathered in front of the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) office in Hubballi to protest the 60 to 75% hike in the price of the sites. President of AAP’s Dharwad district unit Santosh Nargund said that a survey of the Gamanagatti industrial area conducted by the party had illustrated the severe financial crisis that micro, small and medium enterprises were grappling with. “In such a scenario, hiking the valuation of sites will compound the financial woes. The government must withdraw the hike,” he said. Shashikumar Sullad and Anant Kumar Bharatiya, two other AAP activists who participated in the protest, batted for the setting up of a single-window system that would eliminate the need for entrepreneurs to visit 24 different departments to seek clearance and obtain licence. “The prevailing ‘Licence Raj’ system is very discouraging to prospective investors. Also, industrialists are facing problems owing to the lack of basic amenities such as proper roads, efficient garbage disposal system, underground drainage network, etc.,” they said. Vikas Soppin warned the government of AAP intensifying the stir if the hike in the site valuation was not withdrawn. Ramakrishna Hothalli, Veeresha Sharma, Rajesh Nigadi and Ajay Patil were among the entrepreneurs who participated in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/aap-protests-hike-in-industrial-estate-site-valuation/articleshow/79105835.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||Kannada outfit wants permit for bar near agriculture research centre withdrawn||MYSURU: Karnataka Rakshana Vedike district president Praveenkumar on Friday condemned excise department officials for granting permission to open a wine shop close to Agriculture Research Centre in Naganahalli near Mysuru. “Hundreds of farmers from across the state and other parts of the country visit the centre to attend seminars, workshops, demonstration classes, for soil testing and to interact with agriculture scientists. Though the government has given clear-cut orders not to permit bars within a 100-metre radius of educational institutions, prayer halls and temples, excise officials have permitted a wine shop near the agriculture research centre,” he alleged. He added that local farmers and Vedike activists had opposed opening the wine shop behind the Centre and threatened to intensify their stir if the government doesn’t withdraw permission for the shop. KRV has already submitted a memorandum to the agriculture minister, excise, revenue and other district and taluk administration officials in this regard, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kannada-outfit-wants-permit-for-bar-near-agri-research-centre-withdrawn/articleshow/79105741.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||Caseload reduces, mortality count goes up with 8 deaths||Panaji: Goa’s Covid-19 mortality count shot up to 642 on Saturday with eight deaths. Of this, two patients died within 24 hours of admission to the hospital. Seven deaths were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital and one patient died at ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. Dr S M Bandekar, GMC dean and in charge of Covid hospitals, said a 72-year-old from Ponda died within eight hours of admmission to the hospital whereas a 55-year-old from Cortalim succumbed to the virus less than two hours after he was admitted. Other deaths were of five men – a 65-year-old from Bhatkal, Karnataka, a 90-year-old from Calangute, a 83-year-old and a 48-year-old from Mapusa, a 65-year-old from Assonora, and a 56-year-old woman from Cortalim, all having comorbid conditions. Meanwhile, with 169 new infections and 183 recoveries on Saturday, state’s active cases stood at 2,035. Covid cases are dropping but with the rise in tourist footfalls and which are expected to swell further next month, Goa can’t afford to loosen its grip. Health minister Vishwajit Rane has already announced that South Goa district hospital will be a major covid hospital. The hospital was commissioned less than two months ago and yet to have intensive treatment unit and intensive care unit. With plasma therapy and Remdesvir, an anti-viral drug, GMC doctors will publish case papers on the Goa model for Covid treatment, a official said. The health department will tie-up with National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences for extensive training and counselling to help people overcome their stress due to covid, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/caseload-reduces-mortality-count-goes-up-with-8-deaths/articleshow/79106329.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Goa||GoaCan starts 60-day consumer rights drive, puts focus on food safety||Panaji: A 60-day consumer rights and responsibilities awareness drive was recently launched across the state as a part of the ongoing consumer literacy campaign.  The drive, spearheaded by the NGO GOACAN, will focus on food safety and right to redressal. GOACAN coordinator Roland Martins said that special focus will be given to spreading awareness about the various helplines available to report complaints and the agencies available for redressal. “One focus will be on importance of food safety. Consumers will be alerted about the latest notifications issued by FSSAI and DFDA on sale of sweets, breadand display of ‘licence to operate’ at the point of sale,” Martins said. The two-month-long awareness drive, which will end on December 24, National Consumer Rights Day, will cover the rights of consumers under the Consumer Protection Act 2019, the Standards of Weights & Measures (Packaged Commodities) Rules 1977, the Food Safety and Standards Act 2006, the National Food Security Act 2013 and the BIS Act 2016. Martins said information about safety and quality standards, redressal of complaints regarding fair price shops, post offices, banks, credit co-operative societies, NBFC’s, mobile and landline telephones, cable TV, LPG cylinders, electricity and other issues will also be shared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goacan-starts-60-day-consumer-rights-drive-puts-focus-on-food-safety/articleshow/79106316.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||Hannur town panchayat: Congress, BJP forge alliance to keep JD(S) out of power||MYSURU: A Congress-BJP alliance, as strange as it may sound, was formed at Hanur town panchayat in Chamarajanagar district, in the elections held for the post of president and vice-president on Saturday, in order to keep the JD(S) out of power in the local body. The BJP’s Chandramma was elected as president, and the Congress’s Harishkumar was elected as vice-president. Local Congress MLA R Narendra supported the BJP candidate to become president, while former Union minister and Chamarajanagar MP V Srinivas Prasad, supported the Congress candidate to become vice-president. In the last town panchayat polls held for 13 wards, the local body received a hung verdict, with no party having a clear majority. A total six members were elected from the JD(S), four from the Congress and three from the BJP. With the death of a BJP candidate, the total strength reduced to 12 in the town panchayat. Mamtaj Banu and V Anandkumar, who are from the JD(S), contested for the post of president and vice-president, but lost. V Srinivasprasad said his party entered into an alliance with the Congress only at the local level, for the development of the town. MLA Narendra said that his party was extended support by the BJP, as their goal was the same, which is to develop the town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hannur-town-panchayat-cong-bjp-forge-alliance-to-keep-jds-out-of-power/articleshow/79104835.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Illegal hoardings: Vigilance department starts probe in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Acting over the complaint of an RTI activist, Rohit Sabharwal, against civic body officials for not taking action against illegal hoardings, the state vigilance department has started an inquiry. The activist has been called up for recording his statement so that the inquiry could move ahead, following which civic body officials will be called up to give their statements. The activist has been raising this issue for the past two months and he has complained against certain officials. In the complaint, the activist had mentioned that MC officials were not taking appropriate action against the violators who were displaying illegal hoardings outside their shops. The city markets were full of illegal hoardings and not many defaulters were issued challans. He alleged that the civic body officials were ignoring their duty and it was causing loss to the public exchequer, so there should be a vigilance inquiry against the erring officials. He also demanded that in case allegations were proved right against the officials, then recovery should be made from them. The activist said though it took a long time for the vigilance inquiry to get completed, even up to two to three years, but at least it would get started. He said he had been called up on Monday and he would carry all proofs along so that officials should not find any way to make excuses. Meanwhile, requesting anonymity one of the officials claimed that already they had kicked off the drive to clear illegal hoardings from the city and challans were also being issued. Regarding the vigilance inquiry, he said they would wait for the inquiry and required documents would be submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/illegal-hoardings-vigilance-department-starts-probe/articleshow/79104377.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: A simple solution to curb farm fires, ask this duo||NEW DELHI: While bio-decomposers are being used by Delhi government to tackle stubble burning menace this season, two farmers hailing from southwest Delhi’s Jhuljhuli village have been providing a simple and easy solution to local farmers for close to a decade now. They have been collecting their stubble and then processing it before providing it to gaushalas in the region. Farmers get paid close to Rs 10,000 per hectare. The two brothers say this has not only ensured the stubble is not set on fire, but it also provides employment to 33 labourers. Hailing from Bihar’s Sitamarhi district, the two brothers — Lalu Yadav (40) and Chote Lal (34) moved to Delhi close to two decades back. While initially working to supply animal feed, the two brothers say they were given the idea by local farmers, who requested for some assistance to clear their farm of stubble so that the next crop could be planted. The brothers have been collecting stubble with the help of labourers since 2010. “This has been an old practice that people in villages still follow. They manually clear the fields of stubble. It started at a small scale, but now, it has spread to five villages and we currently cover stubble from 200-300 hectares each year,” said Yadav, the elder of the two brothers. He says gathering the paddy and processing it take close to two months, after which they sell it as fodder in the wholesale market, or approach gaushalas. The two brothers have been assisted by local NGOs Sambhav and CYCLE India, which provide them technical assistance in managing the stubble. Among the villages being covered by them at present are Rawta, Malikpur, Galibpur, Sarangpur and Jhuljhuli and the brothers say they are gradually planning to assist farmers across Delhi. “Farmers understand the pain of other farmers and if they are provided a solution, they will adopt it. While technological solutions are also welcome, this will help generate employment and ensure farmers do not burn their fields,” said Lalu Yadav. Sambhav had also written recently to the chief minister, asking for this initiative to be scaled up to provide more employment across Delhi’s villages. “Close to 1,000 hectares can be managed this way and 150 people will get employment. At present, 200-300 hectares are being covered by the two brothers and his 33 labourers,” said Deepak Yadav from the NGO. “We’ve approached 11 more villages, asking them to manage stubble locally,” Yadav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-simple-solution-to-curb-farm-fires-ask-this-duo/articleshow/79105287.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Hopeful of services resuming: Congress MPs from Punjab after Amit Shah meeting||CHANDIGARH: Congress MPs from Punjab met Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday to demand resumption of freight train services in the state even as Railway Board expressed reluctance to accept the state’s demand to start only freight service and not passenger trains, posing a new challenge for the state government to make the farmers agree to this. Sources said railways minister Piyush Goyal, who was also present in the meeting, said it was difficult for the railways to run only freight service selectively. Also, he added, passenger trains needed to be brought back in view of higher demand during festival season. The MPs, however, asked him to relent and keep passenger service on hold for now until farmers’ bodies were made to come around by the state government. Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla told TOI: “The meeting was held in a congenial atmosphere and Shah gave us a patient hearing. We are hopeful train services will be resumed soon, so the state is not pushed further into an economic crisis.” “We informed the home minister that rail tracks had been cleared of all blockades on Saturday. The railways would now want to check the tracks for technical specifications. He told us that the Centre was also keen on resolving the deadlock. We also gave our feedback on the farm laws and conveyed the sentiments of farmers,” added Aujla. Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa added the meeting was not the same as the one with the railways minister earlier this week. “We also appraised the home minister about other issues of the state, including the Centre putting Rs 1,100-crore rural development fund (RDF) on hold and delay in release of Punjab’s share of goods and service tax (GST) compensation. There was also discussion on the state’s internal security,” he said. “Punjab CM Amarinder Singh already had a word with Shah on phone before we met. We were told that the railways too was keen on resuming services. As for the insistence of farmers to allow only freight trains, we are hopeful the issue will be amicably resolved,” he said. During a meeting with Piyush Goel on Thursday, the MPs had gotten agitated when he accused the Congress government in Punjab of supporting the farmers’ agitation and not endorsing the farm laws. “There was no reference to that meeting today,” said Dimpa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hopeful-of-services-resuming-cong-mps-after-shah-meeting/articleshow/79106347.cms||Vibhor Mohan
November 8, 2020||Goa||Delhi man arrested in cheating case||Margao: The Fatorda police on Saturday busted an online fraud with the arrest of 30-year-old Kush Gupta from Delhi, who had cheated a Fatorda resident impersonating a bank employee. Police sources said that the Fatorda resident complained to the police stating that an unidentified person robbed him of Rs 19,000 after fraudulently obtaining the OTP of his credit card. South Goa superintendent of police Pankaj Kumar Singh, said that a special team was formed under the supervision of subdivisional police officer Margao to trace the accused. Gupta was apprehended in Delhi. Two mobile phones and one laptop were seized from him. Further investigation is in progress||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delhi-man-arrested-in-cheating-case/articleshow/79106357.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi riots case: Judge gives bail order in verse||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court granted bail to a man accused in a northeast Delhi rioting case in February, but veered from the normal and chose to express the details of the order in a unique manner: as a poem. Disposing of the bail plea of the accused, Babu, on Saturday, additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat’s order stated: “Babu pleading for his bail; State opposing tooth and nail. Summers bygone, winters have arrived; But crime you did, and Rahul cried. I am not the one, I am not the one; Too grave the charge, don’t pretend.” Read full judgment hereThe reference to Rahul in the versified order was to the man who claimed to have suffered a gunshot injury during the rioting, implicating Babu. The court had observed that Rahul gave a fake address in his medical papers and vanished before the cops could record his statement in the case. The order continued in the poetic vein, “Whom did I attack, where is he; Oh! That we know, in the trial we will see. You say I have said & I deny from the first blush; Rahul may be gone yet Satish said. Didn’t we say; don’t rush; Let me go, let me go, even Imran is on bail. Even then, even then; it wouldn’t be a smooth sail.” The verses require some explanation. In the above stanza, the court was referring to constable Satish and co-accused Imran. Satish was the only person, as noted by the court, to have identified Babu, and nothing else was brought on record by police. The court also observed that Babu’s case of bail was on a better footing than for Imran, who was already on bail. The lyrical court order went on further: “Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop; I have heard, heard a lot. Mind is clear, with claims tall; It’s my time to take a call. Babu has a sordid past; proof is scant, which may not last. His omnipotence can’t be assumed; Peril to vanished Rahul, is legally fumed. Take your freedom from the cage you are in; Till the trial is over, the state is reigned in. The state proclaims; to have the cake and eat it too; The court comes calling; before the cake is eaten, bake it too.” It may be recalled in regard to these lines that Babu, who was arrested on April 8, had a previous criminal record. But pointing out that “proof is scant”, the court granted Babu bail, while ordering him not to leave the capital or tamper with evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/take-your-freedom-from-the-cage-you-are-in-till-the-trial-is-over-the-state-is-reigned-in/articleshow/79105294.cms||Aamir Khan
November 8, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Officials crack down on people burning garbage||RAMPUR/AGRA/MEERUT: With the unhealthy air quality in most of the western districts of Uttar Pradesh stifling this weekend and making children and adults with chronic respiratory syndrome further seek, district authorities have swung into action warning people against burning garbage and issuing fines and booking offenders. Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh on Saturday imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on civic body officials for burning garbage near Gandhi Samadhi and Rs 25,000 for burning garbage near the stadium in Bhawanpuri locality. Recently, ADM JP Gupta had also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on Jal Nigam officials for burning garbage on their premises. “Following instructions of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal to curb pollution to protect the environment, we have ordered strict action against offenders. As the administration has already provided adequate land for the dumping of waste and garbage, we will not tolerate the burning and dumping of garbage near public places by the civic authorities,” the Rampur DM told TOI. Similarly, the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has ordered lodging of FIRs against individuals and organisations burning garbage under the Environment Protection Act, 1986. On Saturday, additional municipal commissioner KB Singh issued strict orders to sanitary inspectors to check the practice of garbage burning. If sanitary inspectors come across the burning of garbage, they will extinguish the fire and also impose penalties on offenders. Singh said, “NGT orders complete prohibition on burning waste. Sanitary inspectors have been asked to lodge FIRs against offenders and impose penalties. In case garbage burning is reported, action will be taken against the sanitary inspector concerned.” AMC executive engineer (environment) Rajiv Rathi said, “According to the NGT orders, if a person is caught burning garbage under any circumstances an on-the-spot penalty of Rs 5,000 will be imposed, while a fine of Rs 25,000 will be recovered on repetition. For burning waste in bulk in public or private space, Rs 50,000 penalty will be recovered. Since sanitary inspectors will be registering FIR in a majority of the cases, the offender may face imprisonment.” Seeking the help of residents in identifying offenders, Rathi said, “The identity of informers would be kept confidential. If sanitary officials fail to act against polluters, they would be held responsible for violating norms.” The Meerut Nagar Nigam has, meanwhile, got a notice from the pollution control board authorities after garbage was found burning at five spots in the city. The pictures and videos of the burning garbage along with a notice were sent to the civic body authorities. “We are conducting inspections across the district to curb air pollution. The pollution department team found burning garbage in Kankerkhera, on Garh road and Delhi road. If the civic body authorities failed to take action in the matter, state authorities in Lucknow will be informed,” said Yogendra Kumar, regional officer, Meerut pollution control board. Meanwhile, on Saturday, the air quality index (AQI) in Agra, which falls in the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ), was recorded at 417 — ‘severe’ category — highest this year so far. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was, however, recorded at 444 milligrams per cubic meter, considered hazardous to health by doctors. To reduce the dust, AMC workers sprinkle water on roads and trees. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), AQI in severe category affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/authorities-in-west-up-dists-swing-into-action-as-air-becomes-stifling/articleshow/79104375.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Agra||Authorities in west UP districts swing into action as air becomes stifling||RAMPUR/AGRA/MEERUT: With the unhealthy air quality in most of the western districts of Uttar Pradesh stifling this weekend and making children and adults with chronic respiratory syndrome further seek, district authorities have swung into action warning people against burning garbage and issuing fines and booking offenders. Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh on Saturday imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on civic body officials for burning garbage near Gandhi Samadhi and Rs 25,000 for burning garbage near the stadium in Bhawanpuri locality. Recently, ADM JP Gupta had also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on Jal Nigam officials for burning garbage on their premises. “Following instructions of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal to curb pollution to protect the environment, we have ordered strict action against offenders. As the administration has already provided adequate land for the dumping of waste and garbage, we will not tolerate the burning and dumping of garbage near public places by the civic authorities,” the Rampur DM told TOI. Similarly, the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has ordered lodging of FIRs against individuals and organisations burning garbage under the Environment Protection Act, 1986. On Saturday, additional municipal commissioner KB Singh issued strict orders to sanitary inspectors to check the practice of garbage burning. If sanitary inspectors come across the burning of garbage, they will extinguish the fire and also impose penalties on offenders. Singh said, “NGT orders complete prohibition on burning waste. Sanitary inspectors have been asked to lodge FIRs against offenders and impose penalties. In case garbage burning is reported, action will be taken against the sanitary inspector concerned.” AMC executive engineer (environment) Rajiv Rathi said, “According to the NGT orders, if a person is caught burning garbage under any circumstances an on-the-spot penalty of Rs 5,000 will be imposed, while a fine of Rs 25,000 will be recovered on repetition. For burning waste in bulk in public or private space, Rs 50,000 penalty will be recovered. Since sanitary inspectors will be registering FIR in a majority of the cases, the offender may face imprisonment.” Seeking the help of residents in identifying offenders, Rathi said, “The identity of informers would be kept confidential. If sanitary officials fail to act against polluters, they would be held responsible for violating norms.” The Meerut Nagar Nigam has, meanwhile, got a notice from the pollution control board authorities after garbage was found burning at five spots in the city. The pictures and videos of the burning garbage along with a notice were sent to the civic body authorities. “We are conducting inspections across the district to curb air pollution. The pollution department team found burning garbage in Kankerkhera, on Garh road and Delhi road. If the civic body authorities failed to take action in the matter, state authorities in Lucknow will be informed,” said Yogendra Kumar, regional officer, Meerut pollution control board. Meanwhile, on Saturday, the air quality index (AQI) in Agra, which falls in the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ), was recorded at 417 — ‘severe’ category — highest this year so far. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was, however, recorded at 444 milligrams per cubic meter, considered hazardous to health by doctors. To reduce the dust, AMC workers sprinkle water on roads and trees. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), AQI in severe category affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/authorities-in-west-up-dists-swing-into-action-as-air-becomes-stifling/articleshow/79104391.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Fast track Yadadri temple work, says K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the officials to complete Yadadri temple works within two to three months and get the hill shrine ready for inauguration. He asked the officials to take up beautification works of the temple complex and surroundings reflecting spirituality and serenity of the place. The CM held a high-level review meeting on Yadadri temple works at Pragati Bhavan on Saturday. “Yadadri temple is being developed on a par with other prestigious temple complexes in the country. Devotees all over the world are eagerly waiting for the inauguration of the Yadadri temple. The state is fast recovering from the coronavirus pandemic. Since the government is releasing the funds, the works on the temple complex should be expedited,” the CM said. The CM discussed about the development works on the bus stand, construction of cottages, beautification of the emple surroundings, landscaping as well as the temple complex and offered his suggestions. The CM also reviewed about the works on bus ways to the hill, VIP car parking, Kalyana Katta, Pushkarini ghats, Brahmotsavam kalyana mandapam and other construction activities. The CM instructed the officials to enlist the services of the sculptors involved in the making of Ayodhya and Akashardham temples in the making of the Yadadri temple. He announced that since the existing RTC depot land is utilised for the temple purposes, seven acres of land would be allotted to the TSRTC near the hill for the bus depot. In this context, the CM called up transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar over phone and asked him to construct the RTC depot in the allotted land in tune with the temple atmosphere. The CM wanted R&B ministry to coordinate with the transport department in this regard. KCR said parking place should be developed in 11 acres of land to accommodate 3,000 cars and food courts should be arranged with strictly south Indian vegetarian dishes and also north Indian and inter-continental cuisine. A stadium should be planned in 90 acres of land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fast-track-yadadri-temple-work-says-kcr/articleshow/79105308.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Yakshangana artiste Vasudeva Samaga no more||Udupi: The world of yakshagana woke up to the sad news of demise of one of its leading names – M R Vasudeva Samaga, 72 — on Saturday. The septuagenarian artiste, who started his career aged 19, was ailing for sometime now, and leaves behind his wife Meera and Pradeep, son. He hailed from a family of yakshagana artistes — his father Malpe Ramadasa Samaga, uncle Malpe Shankarnarayana Samaga and brother Ramadasa Samaga enriched the folk art with their mastery over the art form. Vasudeva Samaga’s end came at a private hospital where he was undergoing treatment for Covid19. Well versed in both badaga thittu and thenku thittu schools of yakshagana, Samaga was an embodiment of professionalism. He toured with a number of yakshagana ‘melas’, including Dharmasthala Yakshagana Mela that has a history of over 100 years. He had also formed his own talamaddale troupe ‘Samyamam’. His forte in a career spanning 50-years was essaying the role of women (stree vesha) that demands extra skill from a male artiste. Artiste S N Bhat Bayar recalled the oratory skills of Samaga, saying it was exceptional. “His involvement in roles that he essayed made the stage come alive,” Bhat said, adding: “The ease with which Vasudeva Samaga portrayed the ‘nava rasas’, especially ‘hasya rasa’, made him an exceptional artiste.” Yakshagana teacher Mambady Subrahmanya Bhat said that the involvement of Samaga in all the roles was immense. “During Yakshagana Saptaha, held recently at Alangar in Moodbidri in Dakshina Kannada district, he regaled his fans with his performance. The Samyamam troupe made him a household name in this temple town,” Bhat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/yakshangana-artiste-vasudeva-samaga-no-more/articleshow/79104388.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kochi||Bengaluru court extends Bineesh Kodiyeri’s custody till Wednesday||BENGALURU: The Enforcement Directorate’s custody of Bineesh Kodiyeri has been extended till Wednesday. The agency told the special court, here, it believes the electronic devices seized from his residence in Thiruvananthapuram, following recent raids, would reveal incriminating evidence of his money-laundering activities – believed to run into crores of rupees. On Wednesday, simultaneous raids were conducted at three addresses, including two in Kerala and one in Bengaluru, where the suspect is registered as the director of companies that have been found to be bogus, ED said. The establishments exist only on paper and were possibly fronts for his illegal activities, it said. Bineesh, the youngest son of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, was produced before a special court, here, on Saturday afternoon after his 10-day custodial interrogation ended. The public prosecutor, appearing on behalf of the agency, sought a five-day extension of custody in light of the fresh evidence the gadgets could reveal. The prosecutor argued that Bineesh needs to questioned in the presence of other suspects in the money-laundering and drug-running racket and bank accounts of his three shell companies need thorough examination and confrontation with him. Bineesh has been feigning ill-health and not cooperating with the investigation, the court was told. Making a case for the extension of his custody, the attorney said the agency will need to interrogate him on his links with aides Mohammed Anoop and Rijesh Ravindran, both of whom were arrested by NCB in August on charges of drug peddling. Considering his political clout in Kerala there is the possibility of him attempting to flee the country before a detailed investigation is carried out, ED told the special judge, who then ordered a four-day extension of his custody under ED Bengaluru. Bineesh’s signature on credit card: ED: An IndusInd Bank credit card allegedly belonging to drug dealer Mohammed Anoop, obtained in the name of a restaurant he ran in Kammanahalli, Bengaluru, was the talking point in court on Saturday. ED claimed the card was seized following the raid at Bineesh’s residence in Thiruvananthapuram and that it had his signature. Bineesh’s lawyers asserted the signature was forced out of him by sleuths during his custody. Bineesh’s wife had earlier claimed the ED sleuths had planted the card at their home during the raid. Party won’t interfere: Kodiyeri Speaking to reporters in Thiruvananthapuram, Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said the party wouldn’t interfere with the ongoing investigation into his son. “Bineesh is an independent individual. He is not a public worker or public servant. There are some allegations against him, and a probe is going on. Let the agency investigate the case and furnish evidence in the court. If he is guilty, let the court punish him,” Kodiyeri said. Ruling out his resignation as the CPM state secretary, Kodiyeri asked the opposition to at least allow CPM workers to decide about their party secretary. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran has alleged that the Kerala child rights commission (KCRC) was acting as the commission of the CPM. He was speaking to reporters in Alappuzha on Saturday. He said that during the ED raid at the house of Bineesh, KCRS played politics using a kid and it is a violation of child rights. (With inputs from T’puram & Alappuzha bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bengaluru-court-extends-bineeshs-custody-till-wed/articleshow/79104400.cms||Petlee Peter
November 8, 2020||Delhi||Change student’s name, it’s his right, HC tells Delhi University||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court underscored that to have a name and to express the same in the manner one wishes is a part of the right to freedom of speech and expression and liberty under the Constitution of India. The high court’s observation came while directing Delhi University to change the name of one of its students without insisting on a change in his CBSE records. The high court said such a requirement amounted to “asking for the impossible” as “the right to change a name is a protected right.” Justice Jayant Nath said the student passed Class XII in 2018 and was seeking a change in his name in 2019, while he was studying in the university. “Asking him to first get the CBSE records changed was ‘a misplaced requirement’ and cannot be accepted”, the court noted. The bench was hearing a plea by Rayaan Singh, who sought change of name to Rayaan Chawla in the university records. He challenged Delhi University’s notification of 2015, which mandates that for change of name in the varsity records, it has to be first effected in the certificate issued by Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). According to the plea, after his parents separated in 2007 and got divorced in 2015, Rayaan wanted to adopt his mother’s surname as he “never enjoyed a constructive relationship” with his father. He had already published a declaration regarding the change of name in two newspapers and the Gazette of India. Delhi University had opposed the plea on the grounds that he had adequate time to get his name changed after his parents’ divorce, as he passed Class XII only in 2018. But the court did not agree. “When CBSE issued the documents, the petitioner had the original name Rayaan Singh. The same cannot be changed now, as in 2018, when the petitioner completed his Class XII, he was known as Rayaan Singh,” it observed. It added that since the change of name was with effect from August/September 2019, i.e., much after the Class X and XII certificates issued by CBSE, Delhi University could not in these peculiar facts and circumstances insist that he should also get the name changed in the records of CBSE. “It would be appropriate that respondent No.1/ University of Delhi may change the name of the petitioner in its records/in the degree that may be given in the future to the petitioner....Such a course of action will avoid any confusion in the two names, which will be seen on the records of CBSE and of University of Delhi/appropriate documents issued by the said entities,” the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/change-students-name-its-his-right-hc-tells-du/articleshow/79105309.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Confinement without end triggers anxiety, sleep disorders among kids||Bhubaneswar: The easing of the lockdown has had very little impact on the lives of children. For over eight months now, most of them continue to be confined to their homes, with schools shut, outings limited and parents fearful of allowing them outdoors. Children have now become demanding, clingy, bored, irritable, angry and fearful. “Case studies have revealed that many are unable to sleep properly. They fear losing their grandparents, parents and dear ones to Covid,” said Sangeeta Rath, a psychologist. In the initial days of the lockdown, it was merely the boredom of being confined that made them irritable and obstinate. Now, with the situation unlikely to change any time soon, children have become more distressed. Take the example of eight-year-old Ram Ratan Purohit of St. Vincent Convent School, Berhampur, who has now become addicted to online games. “Even when the lockdown was eased, he was reluctant to go out and play. Earlier, he used to play late into the evening after school,” said his mother Sangeeta Mahapatra. The boy’s addiction to video games has led to eye strain and lack of interest in studies, said Sangeeta, who has decided to keep Ram home till he is vaccinated. Psychologist Jasobant Narayan Singhlal agrees that the ability to learn is deteriorating in some children. “This is being manifested in many ways, especially by a decrease in retention and curiosity. Not many kids enjoyed studying in the first place. This has been worsened with home confinement,” said Singhlal. The problem is more acute among single children than those who have siblings. Ten-year-old Aadyasa Mahakur, a Class IV student of Kendriya Vidyalaya-IV, Bhubaneswar, missed sporting activities and learning at school. “Although she is not a problem child, she is bored at home. Now, the television and the cellphone are her main source of entertainment,” said her mother, Rina Mahakur. Children have also got completely disconnected from relatives and from fun activities like outings. They are always with their parents, who cannot substitute friends. “Parents are also in a difficult situation as they have to manage work and housework without help. Sometimes, this is leading to arguments that have an impact on the child. Also, there is displacement of anger from parents to children. Lower middle-class families are also undergoing financial hardship, affecting the life and nutrition of children,” said Rath. In such a situation, Singhlal said parents should encourage kids to take up constructive activities like music, dance and painting. Rath suggests engaging children in physical activity as it reduces anxiety, stress and boredom. “Parents should engage them in gardening, which is a very constructive activity and keeps children close to nature. Planting a sapling in a pot or giving children space to experiment in the garden will be of great help. Besides, they can be engaged in reading humorous books. They need to have a routine as Covid-19 is a long-term situation,” Rath said. Swapna Subhalaxmi Biswal has engaged her nine-year-old son, Thakur Rajbeer Das, a Class IV student of Mothers Public School, Bhubaneswar, in reading, cooking and watching mythological serials. “Initially, he was aggressive, lonely and angry. But with online classes and extra engagements, he hardly has any spare time now,” said Biswal, a researcher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/confinement-without-end-triggers-anxiety-sleep-disorders-among-kids/articleshow/79104402.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
November 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BSE withdraws form fill-up notice for 2021 boards after criticism from students, parents||Bhubaneswar: The Board of Secondary Education (BSE) on Saturday withdrew its decision to get students to fill up forms for the annual High School Certificate (HSC) examination 2021. The form fill-up process was to be held from November 9 to December 2. It has been withdrawn following criticism from teachers, students and parents. “The BSE has been asked to withdraw the notice for the form fill-up. We are aware that many children could not attend online classes. In such circumstances, holding the board exam is impractical,” said Samir Ranjan Dash, school and mass education minister. Schools have been shut across Odisha since mid-March. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has warned everyone to remain alert for a possible second wave of Covid-19 in December, prompting the government to keep schools closed till December 31. The board’s decision to start preparing for the final exam thus invited criticism from several quarters. “When students have not entered school for a single day in the current academic session, it is laughable that preparations for board exams have started. More than 75% students could not attend online classes. Even those that attended them are not satisfied with the virtual teaching-learning process. How can the government even think of board exams?” asked Prakash Chandra Mohanty, secretary, Odisha Secondary School Teachers Association. The BSE normally conducts the Class X boards in February and the Council of Higher Secondary Examination conducts the Class XII boards in March. Next year, national boards have planned to push back their final exams by 45 to 60 days. “Shifting of the academic calendar from April to January is the only option left to the government. If normal classes start from January, exams can be held in June,” said academic Kamala Prasad Mohapatra. Of the 60 lakh students in the state, only around 22 lakh could participate in online education. The rest were deprived of the facilities. “We are neither ready nor prepared for board exams. It would be better if we drop a year and appear for the exam in 2022,” said Samita Sahu, a Class X student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bse-withdraws-form-fill-up-notice-for-2021-boards-after-criticism-from-students-parents/articleshow/79104408.cms||Minati Singha
November 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Young and old queue up to represent TVM in local body polls||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The office of Trivandrum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TCCI) in the city is a busy place these days. It is as if a walk-in interview for a job is going on with individuals, young and old, turning up with their resumes. Their aim is to impress panel of TCCI office-bearers so that they can represent the newly formed Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM) in the upcoming city corporation election. TVM is an organisation formed under the aegis of TCCI and other non-political organisations with an agenda for development of the city. S N Raghuchandran Nair, TCCI president and co-founder of TVM, said selection process for the candidates is indeed like a job interview. “TVM is not a registered political party with workers. We can only offer our support to independent candidates who share our same agenda for development. Hence the interview,” Nair said. To aid him in this process are fellow office-bearers of TCCI, including G Vijayaraghavan, who is also the former CEO of Technopark, Venugopal and Abraham Thomas. TVM is giving young blood priority while selecting candidates. However, elder citizens with enthusiasm and pro-development vision are also being considered. “In fact, several good retired professionals have approached us and we are seriously considering fielding them. Young enthusiastic women are also approaching us,” he said. Education qualification is the most important criterion that is being looked for. TVM wishes that their candidates must be at least graduates. Background check of the aspirant candidates are also done to check their integrity. The candidates must also have a good reputation in the locality where they wish to contest as TVM does not intend to pump money for campaigning for its candidates. “We do not even want to resort to conventional campaign methods like graffiti and wall posters. Our aim is to change the face of the city through development and we do not intent to kickstart our campaign by defacing the city,’’ Nair said. So far, the TVM has prepared a tentative list of 41 candidates. Efforts are going on to find out fitting candidates for the remaining wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/young-and-old-queue-up-to-represent-tvm-in-local-body-polls/articleshow/79104412.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kochi||Customs summons min over handling of consignments||Kochi: The commissionerate of customs (preventive) has summoned higher education minister K T Jaleel to its office, here, for questioning on Monday. This is learnt to be in connection with irregularities relating to accepting consignments of the Quran, imported by the UAE consulate, which were later distributed across the state. ED and NIA have already quizzed the minister on the matter. Customs has registered a total of five cases after the controversial Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling scandal came to light. The primary case relates to the seizure of 30 kg of gold from a diplomatic baggage and the second is to investigate previous instances of similar smuggling by the same racket. A case was registered relating to illegal export of currency by the accused as well. Apart from these, two other cases were registered in connection with consignments of dates and copies of the Quran, imported by the consulate, ending up in the hands of locals. The agency found that around 250 packages, each containing 31 copies of the holy book, were imported by the consulate. It also established that 32 packets handed over to Jaleel were distributed to various parts of Kerala during the Ramzan month. According to customs sources, Monday’s questioning is to collect the minister’s version of what transpired. Customs is also looking at the duty evasion angle, since the goods imported by the consulate, duty free, for the use of its staff were distributed locally. “If one accepts goods imported by the consulate duty free, then that can be considered as duty evasion by the end user. Minister Jaleel is not an accused in the case but we are recording his statement since we have found out that he had a role in the distribution of the copies of the Quran imported by the consulate. Further action would be decided based on his statements,” said a source. Jaleel’s gunman was questioned by customs last week. This was based on information that some calls to gold smuggling accused and former secretary to the consul general, Swapna Suresh, were made from his phone, sources said. According to sources, another accused in the gold smuggling case and former PRO of UAE consulate, Sarith P S, had given a statement to customs that apart from Jaleel, religious leaders used to visit the consul general for collecting donations and copies of the Quran. Customs is probing this angle as well. ED Kerala unit gets new  joint director : Manish Godara has assumed charge as joint director (JD) of the Kerala unit of the Enforcement Directorate, which is probing several controversial cases including the gold smuggling case. Godara, a 2009-batch IRS official, took over on Friday. The position in Kerala had been lying vacant for long and the JD of Chennai zone had additional charge of the state. The special director from Delhi and the Chennai JD used to fly down to Kochi to oversee proceedings during crucial junctures of the investigation into the smuggling case, including the interrogation and arrest of IAS officer M Sivasankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-summons-min-over-handling-of-consignments/articleshow/79104406.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Goa||Monsoon 2020 saw most delayed withdrawal in 10 years||PANAJI: This year’s monsoon delay was the longest in the past decade. The normal withdrawal date for the southwest monsoon from Goa is October 14, but this year it withdrew after a 14-day delay on October 28. According to IMD data, in 2019 the monsoon withdrew from Goa on October 16 and in 2017 on October 25. “A new normal date was adopted this year for withdrawal and arrival — October 14. Until last year was September 30. So, by that comparison, the delay was much longer in 2017,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. The reasons for the delay this year according to Dr M R Ramesh Kumar, meteorologist and chief scientist (retd) from the National Institute of Oceanography, Dona Paula are simple. “Although the monsoon winds started retreating from Rajasthan on September 28, numerous low-pressure areas over the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal caused the monsoon to linger in the subcontinent,” he said, adding that the monsoon’s extended stay over the Indian Subcontinent was brought on by the rain-boosting La Nina phenomenon over the eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean. “It also caused excess rainfall over the four rainy months, which officially ended on September 30 with a 9% surplus for the season,” he said. Cumulative rainfall from June 1 to September 30 as recorded by the IMD is 4,203mm with 41% departure from normal rainfall. IMD’s data for average rainfall in Goa reveals that from October 1 till month-end is a cumulative of 210mm with 28% departure from normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-2020-saw-most-delayed-withdrawal-in-10-years/articleshow/79106373.cms||Nida Sayed
November 8, 2020||Trichy||Kamala’s grandad’s village in Tiruvarur set for early Diwali||Thulasendrapuram: For the people of Thulasendrapuram village in Tiruvarur district, preparations for Diwali seem to be secondary. Their primary concern is about celebrating the likely victory of Democratic Party vice-presidential candidate Kamala Harris in the US election as her maternal grandfather was a native of the village.Though the village catapulted to limelight when her nomination was announced in August, it was after the US presidential elections began that anxiety gripped the villagers thinking about Kamala’s prospects. Special pujas for her family deity Sri Dharma Sastha at the eponymous temple in the village, annadhanam and rangolis were some of the activities carried out by the people since then. With Joe Biden’s victory as president near-certain, the villagers have ramped up preparations for celebrating Kamala’s victory. “I have got fire crackers ready. As soon as the results are out, there will be a huge celebration,” said S Vijayan, 40. A native of a three-centuries old agraharam (colony of brahmin rsidents), former Indian diplomat P V Gopalan was the grandfather of Kamala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kamalas-grandads-village-in-tiruvarur-set-for-early-diwali/articleshow/79106368.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Claims of CS on budget laurels blatant lies: BJP||Jaipur: The state BJP has termed the chief secretary’s claims of fulfilling over 30% of the budget announcements a blatant lie. The party has reminded the Congress of its main poll plank of waiving farmers’ loans and unemployment allowance, which are yet to be fulfilled. BJP state president Satish Poonia said that the Congress has been making false claims before every poll to misguide people/voters. “If they are confident of the claims they are making in absolute numbers then why don’t they release a white paper on the demands they have fulfilled,” said Poonia. The newly appointed chief secretary Niranjan Kumar Arya on November 6 told mediapersons that out of the 739 budget announcements, 274 have been fulfilled while 228 are in progress. Poonia said that it is strange that the officials have been making claims on behalf of the Congress, which is a sad state of affairs. “The statement of CS is setting a wrong precedent for officers and his figures are motivated by the lies the government is spreading,” said Poonia, who advised the CS that his job is to make an assessment of the ground reports and to create policies and schemes for the welfare of the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/claims-of-cs-on-budget-laurels-blatant-lies-bjp/articleshow/79105353.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Leopards may have succumbed to pneumonia, say vets||HASSAN: Veterinarians who conducted an autopsy on two leopardess found dead at a farm land near Kallugundi village of Arsikere taluk suspect pneumonia to be the reason behind the deaths. The cubs aged about 1-2 years were found dead near Kallugundi village, Kanakatte hobli of Arsikere taluk on Friday. The spot is near Nagapuri forest range, which is around 27 km from the taluk centre. “Two veterinarians conducted an autopsy on the cubs. They observed swelling in their lungs and liver and suspect pneumonia.Visceral samples have been sent to the regional forensic lab in Mysuru for confirmation,” said RFO Dayananda. “We got to know about the deaths around 11 am on Friday and immediately rushed to the spot. They may have died late on Thursday. There were no external wounds,” Dayananda added. “Carcasses of both were found lying within 100 meters of each other,” said Manju, a local. DFO Shivaram Babu said, “The cause of death will be known once the autopsy report is out. The cats may have died of ill health and not because of any illegal activity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/leopards-may-have-succumbed-to-pneumonia-say-vets/articleshow/79105183.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Delhi||HSRP and fuel sticker fitment, home delivery start today||NEW DELHI: The home delivery and fitting of high security registration plates (HSRP) and colour-coded fuel stickers for vehicles will start from Sunday. The online booking for the process had restarted last Sunday. A senior official of Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited (RSSPL), one of the three HSRP manufacturers, said that around 250 HSRPs will be affixed by its technicians on Sunday at the home of vehicle owners who have booked this service. More than 17,000 bookings have been made for HSRPs since November 1, when booking restarted and out of these, about 10% applicants have requested service at home, for which vehicle owners have to pay an extra amount of Rs 125 for two-wheelers and Rs 250 for four wheelers. Doorstep delivery and fitment is available at select locations at the moment, which includes areas like Mayur Vihar, Patparganj, Janak Puri, Rajouri Garden, Punjabi Bagh, Kirti Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Vasant Vihar, Mohan Garden, Rajender Nagar, Maya Puri, Dilshad Garden etc. There is also a cap on the number of bookings at the moment, which will go up after Diwali. Last month, state transport minister Kailash Gahlot had directed for stopping the online booking after complaints were received from vehicle owners about delays in getting HSRP and fuel stickers affixed. The facility restarted from November 1, along with the facility of doorstep delivery in some parts of Delhi. Slots for fitment of HSRP and fuel stickers can be booked through www.siam.in, which will redirect the vehicle owner to the respective HSRP manufacturer’s website. After booking, vehicle owners will get a real-time update of each stage of the processing through SMS and will be notified at least two days prior to the date of delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hsrp-and-fuel-sticker-fitment-home-delivery-start-today/articleshow/79106374.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Hindu Jagran Manch head of Jhalawar dist shoots self||Kota: A 36-year-old man, who was Jhalawar district head of Hindu Jagran Manch, committed suicide by shooting himself with his illegally possessed pistol in his house at Housing Board Colony under Jhalawar city police station on early Saturday morning. The reason behind the suicide is yet to be ascertained as no suicide note was recovered from his room. However, sources close to the family have revealed there was a scuffle between husband and wife. According to circle inspector at Jhalawar city police station, Balveer Singh, the man, who was identified as Mahipal Singh Shaktawat (36), a resident of Housing Board Colony in the city, committed suicide by shooting himself in the forehead with his illegally possessed pistol. Hearing the sound of the pistol from inside the room, the family members reached his room and found him in a pool of blood, he said adding that he was immediately rushed to the district hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead. The deceased was Jhalawar district head of Hindu Jagran Manch, he further added. The reason behind the extreme step is yet to be ascertained as no suicide note was recovered from his room, the CI said. The police handed over the body to family members after postmortem on Saturday morning and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC and further investigation into the matter is underway, he further said.It would also be investigated as to how the deceased got the possession of the illegal pistol, he added. According to the sources close to the deceased man’s family, Mahipal consumed liquor on Friday night and got into a scuffle with his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hindu-jagran-manch-head-of-jhalawar-dist-shoots-self/articleshow/79105360.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Agra||Tourists stay away from Taj Mahal, cap of 5,000 not reached even once since reopening||AGRA: The novel coronavirus pandemic has cast its shadow over the daily footfalls at the iconic Taj Mahal, with the number of tourists visiting the monument not even touching the 5,000 mark — a daily limit of visitors fixed by the cultural ministry — since the mausoleum reopened post-Covid lockdown on September 21. As figures indicate, the numbers of tourists visiting the Taj reached, at the most, over 4,000 only on just five occasions that too on weekends in the past one and a half months in sharp contrast to the average daily footfall of 25,000 during pre-Covid days. According to officials of the Archaeological Survey of India, though all 5,000 tickets are sold on weekends, the tourists’ footfall is not corresponding. Citing the reason, said an official, most of the people are scared of coming out of their home due to Covid-19 and a few willing to visit the Taj end up cancelling their programmes at the last moment. Besides, a few travel agents and tour operators buy tickets in bulk with the hope of making a profit by reselling to weekend tourists, but that’s not happening as of now. When contacted, superintending archaeologist, Agra circle, Vasant Swarankar said he had written to the district magistrate and police about the “black marketing” of tickets after receiving complaints from tourists. “I have urged officials and police to ensure tourists don’t face harassment.” The sale of tickets, however, not touched the 5,000 mark during weekdays since the Taj reopened, confirmed Swarankar. Reiterating their commitment for the safety of tourist visiting the Taj, Swarankar said, “We are following all Covid guidelines at the Taj Mahal for the safety of tourists. Not just hand sanitiser, but we are also using foot sanitiser sponges to clean footwear before tourists set their foot inside the monument.” Confirming the black marketing of tickets, tourism inspector Iqbal Haider said, “Police have arrested half a dozen people for reselling online tickets and booked them under section 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).” “It is, however, difficult to identify such elements as they roam around like a common person. Anyone can book a ticket from any part of the country as no identification is required. The issue can only be solved by issuing tickets in the names of the visitors as was the practice earlier,” added Haider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tourists-stay-away-from-taj-cap-of-5k-not-reached-even-once-since-reopening/articleshow/79103547.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Veteran journalist & writer Padman passes away at 90||KOTTAYAM: Veteran journalist, writer and theatre personality K Padmanabhan Nair passed away at his residence here at the age of 90 on Saturday. Fondly known as Padman, he was the former editor of Malayala Manorama weekly. His father was the founding editor of the magazine. Born to satirist E V Krishna Pillai and Maheshwari Amma in 1930, Padman completed his education at Adoor High School, University College and NSS College, Pandalam. Late actors Adoor Bhasi (K Bhaskaran Nair) and Chandraji (K Ramachandran Nair) were his brothers. His mother Maheshwari Amma was the youngest daughter of C V Raman Pillai, the author of ‘Marthanda Varma,’ ‘Dharmaraja’ and ‘Ramaraja Bahadur.’ Padman had introduced the children’s theatre in 1961. His play, ‘Vidarunna Mottukal’, was inaugurated by Indira Gandhi. The play, directed by Adoor Bhasi, was staged across Kerala. ‘Kunjukuruppum Prahladanum,’ ‘Ente Bhasiyannan,’ which is the biography of Adoor Bhasi, ‘Nadakantham Bhasyam,’ Bhasuram Haasyam,’ ‘Kunjalakal’ and ‘Kunjaadukal’ are his noted works. During his stint in Manorama, Padman wrote the captions for the pocket cartoon, ‘Kunju Kuruppu,’ for 35 years. ‘Prahladan Samsarikkunnu,’ a Q&A column by Padman in Malayala Manorama weekly, was popular. Kerala Saksharatha Mission later compiled and published it as a book. Padman had headed the regional news wing of Malayala Manorama for a long time. He was also the president of Kottayam Press Club, and an office-bearer of journalists’ union Kottayam district committee. After superannuation from Malayala Manorama daily, he took over as the editor of Malayala Manorama weekly, where he continued till December 2001. The late Vimala Devi was his wife. He is survived by daughters Chithra and Lakshmi, and son Jaikrishnan Nair (Special Correspondent, The Times of India). Ramesh Kumar (retired chief electrical inspector) and Jagadeesh Chandran (engineer, Kuwait) are his sons-in-law and Dhanya is his daughter-in-law. Cremation will be held at Muttambalam municipal crematorium in Kottayam at 3pm on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/veteran-journalist-writer-padman-passes-away-at-90/articleshow/79104420.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: Higher education department continues consultation on reopening of institutions||BHUBANESWAR: After the school and mass education department ordered the closure of all schools in the state till December 31, the higher education department has started consultations with stakeholders on whether it should reopen colleges and universities or not. A senior department official said chief minister Naveen Patnaik had recently asked people to be cautious and follow Covid-19 guidelines during Diwali and throughout winter. “We have not taken any decision regarding reopening of colleges and universities in November. We may keep them closed for December too. But the decision will be taken after reviewing the Covid situation,” he added. Although the October 31 order of the special relief commissioner had authorized the school and mass education department to reopen schools in a graded manner after November 15, there was no clear instruction on reopening of higher educational institutions in the state.  The unlock guidelines of the state government had allowed higher educational institutions to reopen for research scholars (PhD) and postgraduate (PG) students of science and technology who need laboratory access. Higher educational institutions in the state have been closed since March 16. Although the institutions have been teaching theory online, practical classes have taken a back seat because of the closure of campuses. A senior professor of Utkal University said UG and PG students could not attend practical classes. “The government has allowed PG students in laboratory now but it has not allowed opening of hostels. Where will a student stay during the practical classes? It is not possible to hold practical classes online. And without practical classes, how can a student understand the implementation of a theory?” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/higher-education-dept-continues-consultation-on-reopening-of-institutions/articleshow/79110706.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
November 8, 2020||Trichy||NEP has bold vision to transform education, says Azim Premji||Trichy: Wipro founder-chairman Azim Premji has welcomed the National Education Policy 2020, saying it has a bold vision for transforming undergraduate education to have a multi-disciplinary and liberal character. He was addressing students at the 16th convocation of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy through virtual mode on Saturday. “In a very real sense, such good liberal education would develop a vibrant society based on the constitutional values,” he said. Chief guest at the first ever e-convocation of the institute, he called upon the graduates to become leaders of change for the country which would truly enable a just, equitable and humane society. Premji said the pandemic has taught him to re-learn his 55 years of working life. It is only through critical thinking capacities that one can actually grasp the reality as it is. Understanding reality is the basis for dealing with any situation. He said the challenge lies in the hands of the younger generation to mobilize courage and spirit collectively and ameliorate injustice and inequality, and truly change the country. “The pandemic crisis has showcased the stark inequality and injustice that millions of fellow citizens face and live in our country. But it has also shown that millions have the courage and generosity of spirit to battle the toughest of circumstances,” he said. He said one must understand that we live with fellow human beings at the core of which is a sense of solidarity and empathy in this hour of crisis. NIT Trichy Director Mini Shaji Thomas conferred the degrees on 1,777 students which included 803 students across nine BTech programmes, 38 BArch , 17 MArch, 489 MTech, 67 MSc, 85 MCA, 72 MBA and 33 MS graduates. The PhD graduation has increased to 173 from 98 last year, by 76% over 15 months. The prestigious president’s medal for overall highest CGPA was shared by L Yeshanth of BTech, electronics and communication engineering, and K S Sridharsan of BTech mechanical engineering with a CGPA of 9.84. Out of the 841 UG students, 632 received degrees for minors and 72 graduated with honors. The institute has attracted 230 top notch companies comparable for placement this year. The UG and PG placements are at 92% and 87% respectively despite the pandemic-driven slowdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nep-has-bold-vision-to-transform-education-says-azim-premji/articleshow/79106371.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Trichy||Engg college students devise smart crowd mgmt system||Trichy: Students of a private engineering college in Kumbakonam have designed a smart crowd monitoring system which can prevent overcrowding in commercial establishments and thereby check the spread of Covid-19. The censor-based system developed by a team of three students from the mechanical engineering department of Arasu Engineering College can track crowd movement at a particular place and regulate it effectively. “It consists of a door frame metal detector which can be installed at the entrance of a commercial establishment. The sensor-based system can record the footfall as people pass through it,” said M Sanjay Balaji, a third year student. A predefined permissible limit can be set in the system beyond which entry of people can be restricted at the venue. Automated gates in the system will shut if more people try to enter. If anyone tries to enter overruling the system, a siren with warning lights will turn on as an alert.“The system will transmit real time data of the footfall which can be monitored through a crowd controlling mobile application developed by us,” said C Joshua Arokaustin, another member of the team. It would be easier for police personnel to identify places of mass gathering and take necessary steps to decongest such locations. The application will display the list of devices installed at various places like supermarkets, gyms and party halls, he said. G B Sathish Kumar, faculty member in the mechanical engineering department who guided the team, said the students could develop a prototype for Rs 11,000. However, they are working on the real model for which they are planning to approach funding agencies like Department of Science & Technology with their project. Thanjavur district collector M Govinda Rao met the students and appreciated their efforts and asked them to take it up as an entrepreneurial venture. The students said they were spurred into action on finding the authorities struggling to prevent people from defying social distancing norms after lockdown norms were relaxed. It had become all the more difficult for people who wanted to avoid crowded places with no information on the crowd at places they intended to visit. “We learned that many people want to avoid crowds, but they end up becoming a part of it,” said K Muthu Krishnan, the third team member. “Most people have no idea about the crowd before reaching a place, but they could go at a different time if they know about the crowd. We decided to evolve a simple solution to this issue and started working on it a couple of months ago,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/engg-college-students-devise-smart-crowd-mgmt-system/articleshow/79106372.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Irate villagers stir on tracks in Udaipur||Udaipur: Irate villagers in Kheta Kheda of Kanod block held a protest on the railway track on Saturday morning.Some of the youths tampered a portion of the track and sat on the lines. The villagers had been discontented for a long period of time since the Mavli-Badi Sadri gauge conversion work had been in progress, but the railway had not constructed an underpass needed for daily commutation. Instead, the rail laying work began that blocked the path for their passage. The villagers had on previous occasions raised a demand for construction of a bridge so that commutation was unhindered, but the authorities did not pay heed to the request. The residents gathered on Saturday morning and staged a protest on the track. As the news spread, former MLA Randhir Singh Bhinder and police teams went to pacify the locals. After much pacification, protesters left the track. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/irate-villagers-stir-on-tracks-in-udaipur/articleshow/79105367.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Higher education department continues consultation on reopening of institutions||BHUBANESWAR: After the school and mass education department ordered the closure of all schools in the state till December 31, the higher education department has started consultations with stakeholders on whether it should reopen colleges and universities or not. A senior department official said chief minister Naveen Patnaik had recently asked people to be cautious and follow Covid-19 guidelines during Diwali and throughout winter. “We have not taken any decision regarding reopening of colleges and universities in November. We may keep them closed for December too. But the decision will be taken after reviewing the Covid situation,” he added. Although the October 31 order of the special relief commissioner had authorized the school and mass education department to reopen schools in a graded manner after November 15, there was no clear instruction on reopening of higher educational institutions in the state.  The unlock guidelines of the state government had allowed higher educational institutions to reopen for research scholars (PhD) and postgraduate (PG) students of science and technology who need laboratory access. Higher educational institutions in the state have been closed since March 16. Although the institutions have been teaching theory online, practical classes have taken a back seat because of the closure of campuses. A senior professor of Utkal University said UG and PG students could not attend practical classes. “The government has allowed PG students in laboratory now but it has not allowed opening of hostels. Where will a student stay during the practical classes? It is not possible to hold practical classes online. And without practical classes, how can a student understand the implementation of a theory?” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/higher-education-dept-continues-consultation-on-reopening-of-institutions/articleshow/79104428.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
November 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Parties finalize candidates for polls||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As campaign begins for corporation elections, LDF has started off on a positive note while UDF seems to be caught up with the seasonal issue that pops up with elections — infighting resulting in rebels. Though LDF is ruling the council, the front didn’t have simple majority last time. BJP is learnt to have decided to stick with the success of the councillors who had stormed CPM’s strongholds in 2015 and many of them will be given a second chance. However, the women councillors of BJP, who have laid a strong claim to their candidature owing to active work in their wards, are redirected to other wards based on reservation. This hasn’t gone down well with many councillors who were confident of retaining their seats. The party’s stand on clear distinction between general and reserved seats has led to a murmur of dissent within the probable candidates. UDF, which is expected to finalise the candidate list by Sunday or Monday, is dealing with multiple issues. Muslim League has placed its stake for Vallakadavu, however UDF is in two minds whether to entrust the ward with League again due to poor success rate. Chances are high for a rebel candidate to emerge at Beemapally East due to internal rift between two councillors who had won from neighbouring wards in 2015. Finalising candidates in other coastal wards has also been a tough task for UDF. In 2015 and 2010, presence of rebels in many wards had badly hurt the UDF and the party ended up giving away many sure seats. The priority is to weed out rebels and field a majority of persons who had won from various wards in 2010. Johnson Joseph is expected to contest from Nalanchira, while senior faces Suresh Kumar and Maheswaran Nair are likely to be in the contest. M B Reshmi, who was expected to be the mayor candidate is less likely to contest this year, however party sources said she will figure in the list of candidates. CPM has been able to put out any chance of dissent after Palayam seat was given to one of its allies. Former UDF councillors Gladis, Mary Pushpam have expressed willingness to contest in the election. CPM and CPI have so far made its intentions clear by opening up seats for women even in general ward. Raji Mol, who unsettled BJP to win from Nettayam, has been given the ward again despite it being a general ward, hoping to repeat the success. Senior women councillors S Pushpalatha, Rakhi Ravikumar and Shajida Nazar have been handed out general wards and LDF expects nothing short of victory in these wards. Except for three, LDF has also not set aside seats for people who were heads of standing committees. While one of them had cited personal reasons to withdraw from the contest, others had relied on their good work to be given a good chance. However party has opted for debutants and youngsters to do the job. CPI will also field Irin Das at Valiyathura which is a general ward. Former deputy mayor G Happy Kumar will contest from PTP Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/parties-finalize-candidates-for-polls/articleshow/79104432.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||CM announces Cinema City of Hyderabad, government to allot 1,500 acres||HYDERABAD: Telangana government will allot about 1,500 acres to 2,000 acres for Cinema City of Hyderabad. Making an announcement in this regard, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao asked officials and film personalities to visit Bulgaria in Europe, check out film studios there and come up with proposals. He said theatres can reopen and film shootings can start. Stating that Hyderabad has become a cosmopolitan, KCR said: “The government will allot land to film companies to construct studios on international standards with state-of-the-art facilities. The government will provide infrastructure facilities, including an air strip, in the proposed film city.” Hyderabad is home to Ramoji Film City, which is spread over 1,600 acres and touted as the largest integrated film city in the world. The CM made the remarks when film personalities Chiranjeevi and Akkineni Nagarjuna met him at Pragati Bhavan on Saturday and announced Rs 1 crore and Rs 50 lakh respectively to the chief minister’s relief fund (CMRF) towards flood relief measures. The CM said the film industry had suffered due to the pandemic. “Nearly 10 lakh people directly or indirectly dependent on the film industry were affected due to Covid-19. Many of them are facing financial problems. The theatres can reopen by adhering to Covid-19 preventive measures,” he said and added that Covid-19 recovery rate in the state is 91.88%. Meanwhile, several personalities have come forward to donate funds to the CMRF. On behalf of My Home group, its director Ram donated Rs 5 crore and handed over a cheque to the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-announces-cinema-city-of-hyd-govt-to-allot-1500-acres/articleshow/79105363.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 8, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Citizens’ forum wants power tariff hike rolled back||HUBBALLI: Members of Nagarika Horata Samiti have urged to roll back the increase in power tariff in the state. In a memorandum submitted to the chief minister through the Hubballi tahsildar, the members have said that the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) has allowed to hike the price by an average of 40 paise per unit. “This move is inhumane as people are passing through a critical phase, after the economy was hit by the covid pandemic, and many have lost their jobs. Instead of focusing on revival plans, the government is trying to push commoners into more crisis by hiking power tariff,” they added. They also alleged that the government was supposed to hike the power tariff from April 1, but withheld it in the wake of the bypoll at Sira and RR Nagar and MLC elections. “At the other end, the Union government is increasing fuel prices. Both governments should focus on compensating losses incurred during the lockdown, by providing free ration and jobs under MNREGA,” they suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/citizens-forum-wants-power-tariff-hike-rolled-back/articleshow/79105864.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||1 killed, 16 hurt in bus-truck collision in Ajmer village||Ajmer: The driver of a private bus was killed when he tried to overtake a truck trailer and rammed into the rear of the vehicle near Patan village of Ajmer on Saturday morning. As many as 16 others, who were travelling to Jaipur to appear for the constable recruitment exam, were injured in the mishap. The injured, who were mostly from Jaisalmer, were taken to Yag Narayan government hospital in Kishangarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-killed-16-hurt-in-bus-truck-collision-in-ajmer-village/articleshow/79105375.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Trichy||81-year-old physician bags engg doctorate||Trichy: Among those who received their doctorate degrees at the NIT convocation was an 81-year-old physician and general medical practitioner who sought to blend medicine and engineering through his work. The oldest candidate to receive a PhD from NIT Trichy, Dr G Ganapathy’s research involved developing detection models for breast cancer and low back pain. “Breast cancer is one of the most prevalent cancers among women. Low back pain affects the quality of life irrespective of the gender and it is heavily influenced by age and activity factors,” Dr Ganapathy told TOI. The domains of medicine and artificial intelligence were brought together in his study. The octogenarian utilized his experience in medicine with the latest engineering tools to develop “predictive tools for health care” by machine learning and artificial neural networks. For this, he did extensive research in developing reliable machine learning models that facilitate mass screening of images using intelligent techniques and thereby enhancing the use of telemedicine. Dr Ganapathy obtained his MBBS degree in 1964 and his MD from Madurai Medical College in1968. He retired as joint director of medical services, government of Tamil Nadu in 1997. “Such efforts will be very helpful to both engineering and medical communities which will assist in better diagnostics and speedy health care in any situation especially during the current pandemic,” said N Sivakumaran, Professor of Instrumentation and Control at NIT who guided Dr Ganapathy for his thesis. Dr Ganapathy sought enrolment for doctoral programme in 2015 and the senate of NIT, Trichy approved his candidature as a special case. Covid-19 also was not an impediment and the thesis was defended by him in videoconferencing mode which was attended by experts in medical as well as engineering. Dr Ganapathy has been active even after his retirement and continues to serve the poor and needy of Trichy unmindful of his age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/81-year-old-physician-bags-engg-doctorate/articleshow/79106377.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Man killed wife over alleged affair in Ajmer dist, arrested||Ajmer: Solving the mystery surrounding death of a woman in Ajmer on November 2, police on Saturday arrested the woman’s husband who strangled his wife over illicit affair and staged a loot scene at his house in Daurai.Ashique Ali (38) had killed his wife Khatuna Begum (36), who was found gagged and tied in her house six days ago.Police found that there was a confrontation between Ashique and his wife on November 1 as Ashique doubted her character. Ashique beat her and then strangled her. Realizing that he had killed his wife, Ashique scattered all the household items and made it appear like a theft scene. He even took his wife’s ornaments and hid them in the grain container. He then went to his father’s house who lives nearby. Just to build evidence, he went to his father’s house because his parents are not well. He even talked to neighbours and friends telling them that he stayed at his parents’ house for the night because they are unwell. Next morning, he returned to his house and started shouting to alert the neighbours. He took his wife to JLN Hospital where she was declared dead. He then made a huge scene crying and shouting and registered a report with police. During investigation, police found that the couple had a strained relationship. Police called the husband for interrogation a few times. Each time, he gave different version of his story about the time he reached his parents’ house. At last, he admitted the story of murdering his wife and police arrested him.Police also recovered the ornaments which he hid in the grain box.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-killed-wife-over-alleged-affair-in-ajmer-dist-arrested/articleshow/79105370.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Trichy||Police to probe idol replacement at temple||Thanjavur: Based on a complaint by the authorities of Sri Kasi Viswanathar Temple at Orathanadu in Thanjavur district, idol wing police registered a case on replacing an old idol with a new one. According to temple sources, the executive officer of Kasi Viswanathar Temple at Muthambalpuram village, G Suresh, while verifying the inventory of idols at the temple noticed that the Kala Samharamoorthi idol did not match the photographs of the original idol. As per the records maintained by the temple authorities, there were 60 stone idols and 24 metal idols including panchaloha idols at the temple. However, except the Samharamoorthi, which is a metal idol, all other idols remain intact. However, the Samharamoorthi idol was found replaced.Based on a complaint from Suresh, a police team led by deputy superintendent Muthuraja registered a case and an investigation is on, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-to-probe-idol-replacement-at-temple/articleshow/79106376.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Family living inside temple tower finally evicted||TRICHY: Imagine an ancient, intricately carved temple rajagopuram for a roof for your house! A family has been residing inside the rajagopuram of Thopparankatti Vinayagar temple in Thanjavur by converting it into a house for several decades before public protests forced the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) department to evict them and set right a wrong they committed by permitting it. Thopparankatti Pillaiyar temple was one of the several temples coming under the Thanjavur Big Temple administration. About 60 years ago, the administration rented out approximately 430square feet of the mandapam in the rajagopuram to a temple employee named Sabapathi Pillai through a tenancy agreement. Pillai’s son Jayaraman, 75, and his wife Shyamala, 70, were the last tenants residing in the ‘house’. There is no trace of the temple at the place now and only Shyamala was living in what looked like a house every bit inside the rajagopuram. However, legally the family could not have been called encroachers till January 2019 when they were handed out the eviction order by the HR & CE officials after local people raked up the matter. “They remained tenants until the order of termination of tenancy was issued by HR&CE after which they were considered as encroachers,” said HR&CE department advocate V Chandrasekar. Asked how temple premises could have been rented out to an individual, Chandrasekar said, “It happened nearly 60 years ago when the temple trustees took decisions without consulting the executive officers of the temple. Now the issue was taken up seriously and the solution was found by evicting them.” Big Temple executive officer S Madhavan told TOI they had asked the family to vacate the place, but they stayed put. “So we passed an order to terminate the tenancy on January 31, 2019. Yet, they remained there claiming that they had the rights to continue to reside there,” he said. Acting on the eviction order dated October 20 from the joint commissioner of HR&CE department, Thanjavur division, G Thennarasu, a team of officials led by assistant commissioner of S Krishnan carried out the anti-encroachment drive. Thennarasu said the door frame (Nilai) put up at the entrance of the rajagopuram as the main door of the house was removed by the tenant Shyamala herself as she was evicted. On the renovation of the structure, Chandrasekar said that the joint commissioner had written to the authorities concerned.. “It is also planned to install an idol in the rajagopuram after the inauguration,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hrce-department-recovers-temple-rajagopuram-encroached-by-family/articleshow/79106375.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 8, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Youths collect Rs 80k for treatment of baby with rare disease||JHARSUGUDA: A group of 12 youths and teenagers, whose fathers are working in Odisha State Armed Police, 2nd Battalion, have raised Rs 80,000 for the treatment of a 11-month-old child based in Kathmandu. The baby, Siyona Shrestha, is suffering from spinal muscular atrophy, a rare disease. Her parents had appealed for help over social media. “I came to know about Siyona through social media when everyone shared her story and requested for help. I was very moved. I immediately posted the same message in my friend’s social media group and asked all my friends to come forward to help her. We decided to collect money for her treatment and started the work on October 31,” said Srijana Tamang, a member of the group. The money was contributed by the families of OSAP personnel and shop-keepers operating in the area. “Most youths of our area knew what we are doing due to social media but we had little difficulty in making senior citizens understand. On coming to know about our cause, they also came forward,” she said. Shivam Thapa, another teenager who was part of this campaign, said, “We were surprised by the amount we could collect. Everything will be deposited in the baby’s bank account.” Local residents contributed because it involved the treatment of the girl. “I felt they were doing a great job at such a young age and felt that I should do my bit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/youths-collect-rs-80k-for-11-month-old-sick-bacy/articleshow/79104440.cms||Ritesh Sharma
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Farmers wait for unloading 4,000 tractors at rice mills||HYDERABAD: It’s a problem of plenty. A bumper crop this season has landed farmers, rice millers and officials at Miryalaguda in Nalgonda district in more problems. With farmers bringing their produce to sell it to the millers and officials advising them to stay put, as many as 4,000 tractors were waiting to be unloaded as on Friday. “It is understandable that farmers are eager to sell their produce, but they will have to wait for at least two or three days to sell their produce. That is why we have asked them to come after a couple of days until the tractors which have reached already are unloaded,” Miryalaguda RDO B Rohit Singh told TOI. A couple of days ago, more than 5,000 tractors were still waiting for unloading. A token system was introduced so that unloading happens without any hassle. Officials also got a mill closed after complaints were received that the mill was offering less than the MSP of Rs 1,885 per quintal of rice to farmers. Nalgonda district collector Prashanth Patil and DIG AV Ranganath held a meeting with rice millers and warned them against taking advantage of farmers either in price or weighment. A task force has been constituted with officials from revenue, police and other departments. During the meeting, the millers agreed that they would pay Rs 1,800 per quintal if the rice was substandard or had excess moisture, which is more than 17%. Since the purchase of rice began on October 31, 1,500 tractors with rice made their way to Miryalaguda where nearly 70 rice mills are located. According to officials, some millers had advised the farmers to dry their produce for 15 days and bring it so that the moisture content will reduce and they would be in a position to pay up to Rs 2,100 per quintal. As the issue of storage has also come up, it has been advised that harvesters should be operated only for a limited time from 6 am to 6 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-wait-for-unloading-4000-tractors-at-rice-mills/articleshow/79105383.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 8, 2020||Trichy||Gold worth Rs 1.4cr seized in airport||Trichy: The customs air intelligence unit (AIU) has seized 2.6kg of gold bars worth Rs 1.4 crore from an air passenger at the Trichy International Airport on Friday night. Officials arrested the passenger, identified as Samsudeen, 32, a native of Vriddhachalam, who had arrived from Dubai by an Air India Express flight. According to airport authorities, the customs authorities were checking the belongings of the passengers, when they found a passenger behaving weirdly and took him to a room. When they scanned his bag, they found that Samsudeen had concealed 23 gold biscuits of 24 karat value, inside an emergency lantern. Since gold worth Rs 20 lakh alone is allowed to be carried by each passenger, officials arrested Samsudeen and are investigating further. It may be recalled that the AIU secured 11 passengers who arrived at the Trichy International Airport from Dubai on November 1 for carrying electronic items, cigarette bundles and gold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gold-worth-rs-1-4cr-seized-in-airport/articleshow/79106378.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Delhi||In 2 months since reopening, Delhi Metro footfall doubles||NEW DELHI: Exactly two months ago, on September 7, the capital’s lifeline Delhi Metro came back to life after a hiatus of 169 days and reopened its doors to commuters. The services restarted with the Delhi Metro’s second busiest corridor, Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre), and by September 12 all its 10 corridors reopened. As the Metro completes two months of reopening, its footfall also doubled in October compared with September. It was on September 12, a Saturday, when all 10 lines of Delhi Metro became operational and the service timings reverted to the pre-lockdown schedule of 6am to 11 \pm, apart from an increase in the frequency of trains. It was, however, Monday, September 14 that saw a spurt in metro ridership and nearly 2.5 lakh people travelled by Delhi Metro compared with 1.5 lakh on September 12. The ‘line utilisation’ figure on September 14, however, was 6.8 lakh. Line utilisation is calculated by the number of corridors used by a passenger to reach their destination. By Friday, September 18, the line-utilisation figure went up to 8 lakh. The average line utilisation of September was more than 6 lakh a day. According to sources in the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the average line utilisation in October was 12.2 lakh a day. With the numbers surging, long queues to enter Delhi Metro stations at peak morning and evening hours at major stations has become a common sight. At present, only one entry and exit gate is open at most metro stations and many commuters have requested DMRC on social media to open more gates. DMRC, however, says that opening more gates would lead to crowding inside the premises, which could be dangerous in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to DMRC, quite a few sections of the Metro network are showing a trend where occupancy is touching the 100% mark during morning and evening peak hours, whereas, during off-peak hours the occupancy in the same sections is in the range of 30-50%. DMRC has been requesting commuters to try and stagger their travel from peak hours to the extent possible and ‘break the peak’. The new norms of social distancing in place owing to the Corona pandemic has reduced the number of persons to be carried in a train to around one fifth of the earlier capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-2-months-since-reopening-metro-footfall-doubles/articleshow/79106395.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Gujjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla threatens to intensify agitation||JAIPUR: Gujjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla on Saturday threatened to intensify agitation from November 9 if their demands are not met. Bainsla had set 12-hour deadline on Friday for the state government to meet their demands. Bainsla had said either the state government send minister Ashok Chandna or any other representative with an offer on Saturday or they will decide their future course of action. But neither Chandna nor any other minister came to meet Gujjar leaders till Saturday evening. But Bharatpur collector Nathmal Didel and police officials met Bainsla. Bharatpur collector said there was no breakthrough in talks as Vijay Bainsla, son of Kirori Singh Biansla, has been insisting on issuing orders clearing backlog of appointments under more backward classes (MBCs). Meanwhile, members of the Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti continued their blockade of the Delhi-Mumbai rail route at Pilukapura under Bayana block and the Hindaun-Bayana road for the seventh consecutive day. Bainsla held a meeting with other Gujjar leaders in Bawanpada of Sikandara following which he threatened to intensify the agitation. The agitation will intensify from November 9 and the roads will be blocked across the state if the demands are not met immediately, Bainsla said. Himmat Singh, a young Gujjar leader who is opposing Bainsla, said Kirori Singh Bainsla came to Dausa and met the community leaders. He apologized to them for anointing his son Vijay as the community leader. Bainsla is worried as people are not joining his agitation. The community elders informed Bainsla that they will decide their future course of action on November 9, he said. He said the state government and community leaders from 80 Gujjar dominated villages in Bharatpur had entered in to a 14-point agreement on October 31 which met the community demands. He asked Bainsla to withdraw the agitation as he had met the purpose of his agitation to anoint his son Vijay Bainsla as the leader of the community. Himmat Singh also demanded that the central government to act on the state government’s recommendation to put 5% reservation to the MBCs in Rajasthan in the IXth schedule of the constitution. Gurjar leader Vijay Bainsla said, “We have been patient with the government, but it has assured nothing. Clearing the backlog of vacancies was a part of the Congress manifesto but nothing has been done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bainsla-threatens-to-intensify-agitation/articleshow/79105379.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Father accuses officials behind son’s death||IDUKKI: Father of Manu Manoj (24), who was accused of raping a minor girl and later found hanging on the third floor where prisoners dry their washed clothes at Idukki district prison at Muttom, on Saturday raised allegations against the prison officials. Manoj alleged that Manu was hanged by Muttom prison officials after he was murdered. Manu was found dead in the prison cell on Thursday. “As per the primary autopsy report, the youth died by hanging. There were no other marks in his body and there was no evidence of murder. We are waiting for the final postmortem report,” said Thodupuzha deputy SP Sadan K. “He was booked under Pocso Act and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act after recording the girl’s statement,” added the officer. The 16-year-old girl had set herself in her house on October 22 after her parents filed a case against the youth. She succumbed to burns while undergoing treatment at the medical college hospital in Thiruvananthapuram on October 31. Meanwhile, the father of the girl refuted allegations by Manoj. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/father-accuses-officials-behind-sons-death/articleshow/79104448.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||29 Cong councillors camping in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Former Congress MP Badri Jakhar has brought 29 Congress councillors and a few of their relatives to Jaisalmer and kept them in a hotel. These councillors have won in municipal corporation elections in Jodhpur south. Jaisalmer is considered to be a safe place for camping the MLAs. Earlier too, the state government had kept its MLAs in a five-star hotel to prevent poaching. The councillors offered prayers at Tanot Mateshwari Temple on Saturday for forming Congress board. They were brought to Jaisalmer late on Friday night and have been lodged at Hotel Mahadev Palace where they will stay till November 10.In Jodhpur south municipal corporation, 43 BJP councillors won. Out of them, 29 councillors are from Congress and eight are independent.Total 41 councillors are required to form the board which BJP already has. There are strong chances of a BJP councillor becoming mayor but Congress still hopes to make its mayor and, thus, it has camped 29 councillors and two independent councillors in Jaisalmer. These councillors have been brought here on the directions of Kanhaiya Lal Pareek, father-in-law of Congress mayor candidate Pooja Pareek.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/29-cong-councillors-camping-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/79105399.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Hubballi||Lavatories in govt schools in pathetic condition||BELAGAVI: Although reopening of schools has been deferred indefinitely owing to the fear of their turning into fertile grounds for the transmission of Covid-19 infection, the government when it decides to restart classes needs to ensure that the lavatories in state-run institutions are fixed lest they become potential hotspots for the spread of the pandemic. If the number of urinals and lavatories are woefully inadequate to the strength of the students in some schools, the condition of the toilets in some of them is downright pathetic. Poor or utter lack of maintenance has resulted in some of the lavatories being filthy, while the ceiling of some of the toilets are leaking, while few others do not have doors. A survey conducted by the Bharatiya Gnana Vignana Samiti (BGVS) of government school lavatories in Raichur district found that a staggering 890 of the 3,182 toilets were dysfunctional. While 450 of them did not have supply of water, the remaining 440 were in urgent need of repair. Syed Hafizullah, an activist in Raichur district, said that the suspension of regular activities owing to the pandemic provided the right window for the government to fix the lavatories. “There are many schools boasting a student strength of more than 500, and common urinals in these institutions become very crowded during recess. The government needs to build more toiles in schools where land is available for the setting up of such structures,” Hafizullah said. Not a single toilet at the Bavihalli Government Higher Primary School in Ballari district was fit for use, said Hussain Saheb, president of the School Development Monitoring Committee (SDMC) Hussain Saheb. “The three toilets in the school were built many years ago, and have since fallen into disrepair owing to lack of maintenance. “The students are forced to relieve themselves in the open as a result. While it was with some relief that we welcomed the news of the government deciding to reopen schools, we are also concerned about the problems the children might face owing to the poor condition of the toilets,” Hussain Saheb told TOI. The situation is worse in Bidar district, where, according to Rajesh Manohar, a teacher in one of the government schools. “Nearly 80% of the toilets in government schools in the district do not have water supply. Leave alone maintenance, how can one expect children to use these lavatories when there is no water,” he said. A fortnight ago, the government issued a circular to the local officials in the department of public instruction to repair, clean and fix defunct toilets. However, Vajramuni S, a teacher in the government school in Mysuru cited the lack of funds for such an undertaking. “The prolonged break resulted in maintenance of toilets going for a toss. As a result, in the vicinity of the lavatories, shrubs and plants have grown wildly, and children are bound to face difficulties in going to the lavatories. Many of the school toilets in Mysuru do not have doors and many locals take advantage of this to relieve themselves in a most unhygienic way,” Vajramuni said. A mere 30 urinals at a government school with nearly 850 students is illustrative of the problem in Koppal district. Laxman M, father of a child studying at a Koppal government school, said that improving the condition of the lavatories and building more urinals would make parents less apprehensive about sending their wards to school. QUote insufficient number and poor maintenance of toilets has been a longstanding problem with government schools. Given the situation we are facing owing to the pandemic, improving infrastructure in schools is the need of the hour Shubhankar Chakraborty, Secretary of BGVS p3 toilet p3 toilet 1||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lavatories-in-govt-schools-in-pathetic-condition/articleshow/79104473.cms||Shreyas HS
November 8, 2020||Goa||State gets new election commissioner||Panaji: Law secretary Chokha Ram Garg is the new commissioner of the Goa State  Commission, replacing R K Srivastava who resigned last week. Garg’s appointment was made on Friday after Srivastava’s resignation was accepted by the government with effect from October 30, 2020. Srivastava, former chief secretary of Goa, had put in his papers citing personal reasons. Elections to zilla panchayat and village panchayats are due and are postponed due to the pandemic. Two days ago, administrators were appointed to 11 municipal councils as their term ended recently. Election to the Corporation of the City of Panaji is likely to held by March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-gets-new-election-commissioner/articleshow/79106399.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Body of youth found hanging in Barmer, probe begins||Jaisalmer: A youth was found hanging from a tree at Male Ka Tala in Rathodan Village in Chauhatan police station area of Barmer district. There were marks of assault on his body and private parts. The body has been kept at the mortuary. The family members allege that the youth was murdered and was hanged from the tree to give it the shape of suicide. Police suspect that it was a case of love affair in which the girl’s family thrashed and killed him. They are investigating if it was a murder or the youth hanged himself scared of humiliation. On the report by youth’s family members, police have lodged a case against four persons including four brothers and parents of a girl that the youth was in a relationship with. According to eyewitnesses, Jagmal Singh (23) on Thursday night went to leave his cattle away from the fields. On the way, he had an argument with some persons. The minor argument turned serious and the culprits beat the youth with iron rods. They hit private parts of the youth with sharp iron rods and hanged him from a tree to make it look like suicide. On Friday, his body was found hanging from a tree. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that the body was found hanging from a tree 20km away from Chauhatan at Mate Ka Tala Village on Friday.It is likely that after the assault, scared of humiliation, the youth committed suicide, he added.Another possibility is of the family members of the girl killing and hanging him from a tree to make it look like suicide. It will be revealed after the postmortem report.Police are investigating the case from both angles, the SP said. The deceased belonged to Bheel caste and family members of the girl had caught them red-handed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/body-of-youth-found-hanging-in-barmer-probe-begins/articleshow/79105413.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana state road transport corporation faces strike threat||HYDERABAD: A year after 48,000 employees of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) went on a 52-day strike, the longest in history, the unions are threatening once again to go on a hunger strike from December 1. The stalemate over last year’s stir, that saw five suicides and around 30 deaths attributed to the impact of the strike, remains inconclusive. TSRTC workers and employees’ unions alleged that the state government is yet to fulfill most of their demands. The union leaders demanded the government to release their three-month salary, which was withheld during the 52-day period agitation last year and provide full settlement to the retired employees within 12 days. “The promises which the chief minister made have not been fulfilled. The management has not cleared their arrears from the 2013 pay revision and their long-standing demand for pay revision from 2017 continues to be overlooked. A full-time settlement for employees retired from service since 2018 is still pending,” said T Raji Reddy of the employees union. The union alleged that the TSRTC management owes the Credit Co-operative Society (CCS) nearly Rs 675 crore, which they have not repaid for the past two years and demanded the management to immediately repay the amount. TSRTC MD, Sunil Sharma said, “The funds for CCS have not been released because we had some fund crunch because of Covid-19. We are soon going to mobilise the CCS amount and are also going to address other issues.” Last year, the RTC employees launched the strike on October 5 with a list of 26 demands, which includes the merger of TSRTC with the state government, job security to bus drivers and conductors, filling up of vacancies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-faces-strike-threat/articleshow/79105412.cms||Moulika.KV
November 8, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi Municipal Corporation relief on fees for parking licence||NEW DELHI: After repeated requests of parking contractors for relief in payment of licensing fees, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to give them certain rebates for pending fees till September 30. The contractors had asked for concessions as the parking spaces were not used during the lockdown to control the Covid-19 pandemic. The civic body has 133 surface parking lots, which are being operated and managed by parking contractors through tenders. The contractors have to deposit monthly fees to the corporation. “In March, almost all working parking contractors gave representations for waiver or reduction in monthly fees after parking lots become non-operational due to the lockdown. The use of the parking spaces declined due to restrictions and work from home policies of workplaces. In July and August, these contractors again gave representations, stating that restaurants, malls and cinemas are not operational and they continued to suffer losses,” stated the proposal presented in the last standing committee meeting. The contractors had demanded invocation of force majeure and remission of licensing fees. An SDMC official said that the corporation has decided to split parking lots in three categories — residential areas, market areas, and office/commercial complexes and industrial areas. “We have accepted 100% remission for licensing fees till June 7. However, From June 8 to September, only 75% concession will be allowed in case of residential and market area parking lots. For office, commercial complexes and industrial areas, 67% relief in payment of parking fees between June 8- July 31 and 50% From August 1 to September 30 will be given. No concession from October 1 has been recommended,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-relief-on-fees-for-parking-licence/articleshow/79106398.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 8, 2020||Goa||Stanford University list of world’s top 2% scientists has 7 based in Goa||PANAJI: Seven scientists associated with Goa-based institutions have been ranked among the top 2% of researchers in the world from India by Stanford University, USA. These include three scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Goa, three from National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), and environmentalist Madhav Gadgil, who was associated until 2015-16 with Goa University as visiting research professor. The list has been prepared by Stanford University after assessing scientists from across the world for the research carried out during their career span, from data collected up to 2019. IIT Goa director B K Mishra has been ranked as high as 11 in the world for his research in the field of mining and metallurgy. “I was pleasantly surprised to see this rating. It is heartening to see so many Indians featuring in the top 2%,” said Mishra, who is recognised for his research contribution in the field of extractive metallurgy and powder technology. He was earlier appointed a member of the expert committee formed by the Supreme Court for environmental impact assessment of Goa related to iron ore mining. Two former NIO directors, S W A Naqvi and S R Shetye, have been ranked for their work in meteorology and atmospheric sciences. While Naqvi has attained a world ranking of 919 in his field, Shetye features at rank 1,442. The work of another senior NIO scientist, C Raghukumar, has been ranked 837 in the field of marine biology and hydrobiology. “All these three scientists are well known in their respective fields. Raghukumar is on our research council and has done a lot of work on biological oceanography. Shetye is known for his work in physical oceanography and with his modelling method, has contributed in the area of reversal of ocean currents. Naqvi’s work has contributed significantly to research on oxygen-minimum zones in the Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea. CSIR-NIO is proud of them,” said NIO director, Sunil Kumar Singh. Meanwhile, environmentalist Madhav Gadgil’s work in plant biology and botany has been recognised with a world ranking of 1,198. The Stanford ranking was prepared according to subject-wise analysis conducted by the university based on standardised citation indicators such as citations, H-index, co-authorship, and a composite indicator. The two other scientists who have made it to the Stanford list from IIT Goa are professors Dhirendra Bahadur and Bidyadhar Subudhi. Bahadur heads the school of chemical and materials sciences at the institute and works in the area of applied physics. Subudhi, on the other hand, is serving as a professor in the school of electrical sciences. He is currently the dean (R&D) of IIT Goa, and his research focus is on control and automation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seven-goa-scientists-in-stanfords-top-2-world-ranking/articleshow/79106397.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Schools seek classroom feedback from parents||KOLKATA: Several schools in the city have started doing their homework to ensure students have a smooth transition from at-home, online classes to the pre-pandemic days of on-campus lessons when the state government gives the nod to reopen educational institutes in Bengal. Some schools have already sent or are in the process of mailing questionnaires to parents, seeking to know their views on sending their children back to regular classes. They will finally take consent letters from parents. At Loreto House, parents of students from classes VI to VIII have been sent a questionnaire, with posers ranging from the kids’ response to online classes to if parents were ready to send the children back to normal school. “We will submit the answers soon. The questionnaire is an elaborate one, where we have also been asked to let the authorities know if the school had done enough to reach out to students and lift their spirits during the period, if the online teaching has facilitated the process of independent learning for the child and which options will we choose between sending a child back to usual teaching every day, a combination of online teaching and normal days or online teaching for academics and attending school for practical, physical and co-curricular activities,” said a parent of the school. Last month, The Heritage School had sent an online form requesting parents to say if they were ready to send the child back to school. “When the Centre had extended permission to educational institutes to resume on-campus classes, we had sent an online form, requesting parents to express their interest in sending their children back to school,” said principal Seema Sapru. “The parents were mailed the forms, where we mentioned all the measures, which we have taken to keep the campus safe. We then asked the parents if they would like to send their child in case we reopen, as and when the state government sends a directive. While around 30%-40% of them had agreed and said they might consider allowing the kids to attend classes on the campus, most others pointed out that they would wait and watch,” Sapru added. At both Calcutta Boys’ School and Methodist School, Dankuni, parents will be sent a questionnaire by the school authorities after the festival. “We will send a form in which we will ask parents if they will be interested in sending their wards to school. If they answer in the affirmative, then, they will have to mention the safety measures that they want the school to put in place. That will increase their confidence further,” said Raja McGee, principal of Calcutta Boys’ School and secretary of Methodist School, Dankuni.  Nabarun De, principal at Central Modern School in Baranagar, also said they were looking to send a similar questionnaire to parents, seeking their consent. “But we will send the form only after the state government gives the go-ahead to reopen campuses,” De said. He pointed out that parents would also be invited to the campus to have first-hand knowledge on the measures being adopted by the school for maintaining safe physical distancing when students are in school. Saswati Chakrabarti, mother of a class VII student at a city school, said it was natural for parents to be worried about their children contracting the novel coronavirus from school . “The data of virus spreading among schoolchildren and teachers from Andhra Pradesh and some other states, where schools have reopened for in-person classes, are scaring me,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-seek-classroom-feedback-from-parents/articleshow/79105457.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Mercury dips across Rajasthan, Mount Abu logs 5°C||JAIPUR: Mercury took a dip across the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessed their minimum temperatures below 15°C. Mount Abu remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 5°C was reported, the Met reports said on Saturday. There has been a constant dip in the temperatures at many places, especially in Bikaner and Jodhpur divisions of the state. Attributing the climatic change to the active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury will continue to fall. Jaipur Met office further stated that from the coming week, some places in the state are likely to record a minimum temperature below 10°C. People in Jaipur woke up to a chilly morning as a minimum temperature of 15.6°C was recorded and it was followed by a comparatively pleasant afternoon with a maximum temperature of 32.1°C. In the evening, outskirts of Jaipur saw a dip in the mercury as places including Kothputli, Shahpura and Bassi witnessed minimum temperatures below 12°C. “By the next week, minimum temperature in Jaipur would be below 10°C as mercury is continuously falling,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. Mount Abu was followed by Bhilwara where a minimum temperature of 10.6°C was recorded , Churu recorded 10.9°C, Chittorgarh 11.6°C, Udaipur 11.7°C, Pilani 11.8°C, Kota 13.0°C, Sriganganagar 13.4°C, Ajmer 15.0°C, Jaisalmer 15.8°C and a minimum temperature of 16.4°C was recorded in Bikaner. Jaipur Met office stated that winters have set in at many districts in the state. “It’s considered winters only when a minimum temperature of 15°C and below is recorded. Presently, in almost every part of the state, the minimum temperatures are on and below 15°C,” said an officer of the Jaipur Met office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/mercury-dips-across-raj-mount-abu-logs-5c/articleshow/79110964.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Udaipur||Mercury dips across Rajasthan, Mount Abu logs 5°C||JAIPUR: Mercury took a dip across the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessed their minimum temperatures below 15°C. Mount Abu remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 5°C was reported, the Met reports said on Saturday. There has been a constant dip in the temperatures at many places, especially in Bikaner and Jodhpur divisions of the state. Attributing the climatic change to the active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury will continue to fall. Jaipur Met office further stated that from the coming week, some places in the state are likely to record a minimum temperature below 10°C. People in Jaipur woke up to a chilly morning as a minimum temperature of 15.6°C was recorded and it was followed by a comparatively pleasant afternoon with a maximum temperature of 32.1°C. In the evening, outskirts of Jaipur saw a dip in the mercury as places including Kothputli, Shahpura and Bassi witnessed minimum temperatures below 12°C. “By the next week, minimum temperature in Jaipur would be below 10°C as mercury is continuously falling,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. Mount Abu was followed by Bhilwara where a minimum temperature of 10.6°C was recorded , Churu recorded 10.9°C, Chittorgarh 11.6°C, Udaipur 11.7°C, Pilani 11.8°C, Kota 13.0°C, Sriganganagar 13.4°C, Ajmer 15.0°C, Jaisalmer 15.8°C and a minimum temperature of 16.4°C was recorded in Bikaner. Jaipur Met office stated that winters have set in at many districts in the state. “It’s considered winters only when a minimum temperature of 15°C and below is recorded. Presently, in almost every part of the state, the minimum temperatures are on and below 15°C,” said an officer of the Jaipur Met office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/mercury-dips-across-raj-mount-abu-logs-5c/articleshow/79110967.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||GHAC, TSRTC to start feeder service||HYDERABAD: In a bid to boost cargo business, GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC), a division of GMR Air Cargo & Aerospace Engineering Limited (GACAEL), on Saturday said it has inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) to launch a first and last mile cargo bus feeder service (BFS) that would connect GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo Terminal to other parts of Telangana and neighbouring states like Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka, among others. As per the MoU, TSRTC will start first-mile pick-up and delivery service to GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo Terminal and will also provide last mile connectivity for international import shipments that land at the Hyderabad Airport to hinterland areas in Telangana, AP, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. TSRTC and GMR also plan to start reefer cargo bus service to provide connectivity for exports of pharma and perishable products at Hyderabad Airport. Commenting on the development, SGK Kishore, executive director- south and CIO, GMR Airports, said, “…The partnership will open up significant new business opportunities for all the stakeholders involved in international air cargo trade. This joint initiative will improve value realization and boost exports and imports from Hyderabad benefiting the trade community.” Puvvada Ajay Kumar, minister for transport, Telangana, pointed out that this partnership will provide a seamless connectivity in logistic services at economical rates in Telangana state and other neighbouring states as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghac-tsrtc-to-start-feeder-service/articleshow/79105430.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: No asset details of ministers’ personal staff on govt portal||KOCHI: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had promised to keep ‘avatars’ away from the corridors of power soon after he took the oath of office in 2016. Now, four years later – as his office is mired in controversies over allegations of corruption – the failure to publish the asset details of the personal staff of his ministers appears glaring. The state’s official portal started publishing the asset details of all personal staff members of ministers in 2011-12, when UDF was in power and the information for a period of five years, up to 2016, is available in a separate subdomain pa.kerala.gov.in. But, after the LDF government assumed office, the practice was discontinued. This assumes significance in the wake of allegations against additional private secretary to the chief minister CM Raveendran, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday after enforcement directorate served him a notice to appear for interrogation. He was then admitted to the medical college in Thiruvananthapuram for treatment. A personal staff member of a senior minister in the previous UDF cabinet said it was mandatory for them to submit asset details for five years. “There was circular which mandated that these details should be provided every year and till June 2016 and we had done that accordingly,” he said. The details had to be submitted to the strictly confidential wing in the office of the chief secretary on an annual basis. Asset details of 20 ministers, including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, – as on June 2018 – are available on the portal but the data has not been updated. The decision to update the assets of all ministers and their close relatives was taken in July 2018. The cabinet had also decided to appraise the governor of these details once in two years. In December 2016, Vijayan had convened a special meeting of personal staff of ministers and asked them to be vigilant against middle men. A code of conduct was also imposed and directives were issued not to accept presents, including mobile phones. The 20 ministers in Kerala have close to 480 persons as staff members to assist them and their monthly salaries range from Rs 77,000 to Rs 1.25 lakh. K M Shajahan, who was a member of personal staff of VS Achuthanandan, while he was the chief minister, had recently alleged that Raveendran had engaged in several benami deals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-asset-details-of-ministers-personal-staff-on-govt-portal/articleshow/79104476.cms||Binu Karunakaran
November 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM to revive cases against UDF leaders||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: While highlighting the development agenda of Pinarayi Vijayan government as well as its social welfare initiatives such as hike in welfare pensions, CPM will also try to expose the political agenda of BJP and UDF, to sabotage the LDF government by using central agencies, during the local body poll campaigns. CPM will also question the ‘double standards of mainstream media’ by contrasting the reporting of investigations against UDF MLAs like MC Kamaruddin and KM Shaji and persons linked to LDF government. Social media tools will be widely used for such campaigns as there would be only a limited number of meetings and rallies this time. “ED probe is aimed at sabotaging development projects like K-FON, Life Mission and Smart City that are crucial for state. The motive behind frequently summoning minister KT Jaleel for interrogation and the latest notice to CM’s additional private secretary CM Raveendran is doubtful,” said CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. He said central agencies are only interested in probing cases against LDF government though there are pending cases like Titanium corruption and Marad massacre in which UDF leaders are the accused. “Congress has taken a strong stand against ED’s intervention when cases were filed against its leaders P Chidambaram, D K Sivakumar and Robert Vadra. Recently, ED slapped a notice on Punjab CM Amarinder Singh and that too was condemned by the party. But, the same Congress is taking a contrasting position on ED probes in Kerala,” he said after the CPM state committee meeting. He alleged that ED was submitting translated versions of reports published by BJP mouthpiece in Kerala in court as investigation report. After IUML MLA MC Kamaruddin was arrested in Fashion jewellery case, he hinted that more UDF leaders will face troubles. “Recently, new revelations came up regarding the bar bribery case. Vigilance is probing bribery allegations against Ramesh Chennithala, K Babu and VS Sivakumar based on new information. Also, cases against MLAs PT Thomas and VS Sivakumar are pending. League MLAs VK Ebrahim Kunju and KM Shaji are facing probes too,” he said. CPM is planning to revive all pending cases against UDF leaders and thus add fire to the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-to-revive-cases-against-udf-leaders/articleshow/79104482.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: Bike lifters’ gang busted; 3 held, 33 vehicles recovered||KOTA: The police here on Saturday busted a gang of bike lifters and recovered 33 vehicles. Three persons have been arrested. Kota city S P Gourav Yadav, speaking to mediapersons, said acting on a tip off, a special team led by SHO of Udhyog Nagar police station, RPS on probation Mrityunjay Mishra, carried out checking of vehicles at DCM Circle on Thursday. Noticing the police team, three youths on a motorbike without number plate instantly took U-turn, however, the police chased them and nabbed at a distance, he added. Yadav said, on interrogation, the three youths, identified as Kushal Kumar (34) of Kota city, Jitendra (21) of Ballop village in Talera police station of Bundi district and Ganesh Kumar Meghwal (31) of Railgaun village under Simliya police station of Kota Rural could not produce papers of the motorbike they were riding, he said. Yadav said the motorbike was found to be stolen following which the three youths were brought to police station and were booked under relevant sections for motorbike lifting. During interrogation, the accused revealed to have lifted several bikes from various places in Kota city and on the hint of location by them, the police recovered 33 motorbikes which they had hidden in forest behind the Prem Nagar Affordable Housing area under Udhyog Nagar police station, he said. The accused would sell the lifted motorbikes in Madhya Pradesh at the price from 20,000 to 40,000, he further said adding one of the accused Jitendra was a mechanic who would change the number plate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bike-lifters-gang-busted-3-held-33-vehicles-recovered/articleshow/79105434.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Mercury dips across Rajasthan, Mount Abu logs 5°C||JAIPUR: Mercury took a dip across the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessed their minimum temperatures below 15°C. Mount Abu remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 5°C was reported, the Met reports said on Saturday. There has been a constant dip in the temperatures at many places, especially in Bikaner and Jodhpur divisions of the state. Attributing the climatic change to the active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury will continue to fall. Jaipur Met office further stated that from the coming week, some places in the state are likely to record a minimum temperature below 10°C. People in Jaipur woke up to a chilly morning as a minimum temperature of 15.6°C was recorded and it was followed by a comparatively pleasant afternoon with a maximum temperature of 32.1°C. In the evening, outskirts of Jaipur saw a dip in the mercury as places including Kothputli, Shahpura and Bassi witnessed minimum temperatures below 12°C. “By the next week, minimum temperature in Jaipur would be below 10°C as mercury is continuously falling,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. Mount Abu was followed by Bhilwara where a minimum temperature of 10.6°C was recorded , Churu recorded 10.9°C, Chittorgarh 11.6°C, Udaipur 11.7°C, Pilani 11.8°C, Kota 13.0°C, Sriganganagar 13.4°C, Ajmer 15.0°C, Jaisalmer 15.8°C and a minimum temperature of 16.4°C was recorded in Bikaner. Jaipur Met office stated that winters have set in at many districts in the state. “It’s considered winters only when a minimum temperature of 15°C and below is recorded. Presently, in almost every part of the state, the minimum temperatures are on and below 15°C,” said an officer of the Jaipur Met office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-dips-across-raj-mount-abu-logs-5c/articleshow/79105449.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Butcher attempts to kill two daughters||HYDERABAD: A butcher allegedly attempted to kill his two daughters with a meat cleaver under the influence of alcohol in Chittapur village of Siddipet district on Saturday morning. Police reached the house in the nick of time, overpowered the butcher and pulled the girls out from the jaws of death. Bhoompally police said the girls suffered injuries on their throats and were undergoing treatment. Doctor said they are out of danger. Around 10.30 am, butcher Nizam Mohammed grabbed the girls by their hair and slit their throat. While the five-year-old suffered a deep injury, her elder sister (8) escaped with a mild injury. “A villager alerted police in the morning, informing that the accused had been harassing his family members from the last few days and he was moving around brandishing a meat cleaver at their house,’’ Bhoompally sub-inspector Jamal said. According to police, when a police team reached Mohammed’s house, he bolted himself from inside and refused to open. A constable got on to the roof of the house, which had an asbestos roof, while the other constable tried to open the door by force. Since the roof was weak, the asbestos sheet caved in and constable Raju fell into the house. Raju found that Mohammed had already attacked his daughters. On seeing the police, the accused threatened to attack the men in khaki too. When Raju went near him, the accused attacked him and Raju suffered a slash injury, police said. Later, the accused was overpowered by police team and both the victims were rescued. An ambulance was called and the victims were shifted to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/butcher-attempts-to-kill-two-daughters/articleshow/79105463.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Family may perform Arif’s last rites in US||HYDERABAD: The family of 37-year-old Mohammed Arif Mohiuddin of Hyderabad, who was stabbed to death in Georgia, left for the US after they were granted a visa under emergency circumstances by the American consulate. The visa was provided for Mohiuddin’s wife Mehnaz Fatima and his father-in-law Mohd Khaja Moizuddin. The family intends to perform the last rites of Mohiuddin’s in the US. On November 1, Mohiuddin was stabbed to death at his house on Crawley street in Upson County. Thomaston police and personnel of Upson County, who reached the place after being informed about the stabbing incident, administered CPR to Mohiuddin and rushed him to the Upson Regional Medical Centre but he succumbed. Thomaston police immediately arrested three persons that night in connection with the murder. Two of those arrested are from Telangana. Police suspect a business dispute to be the reason for the crime. The family of Mohiuddin is expected to reach Atlanta on November 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/family-may-perform-arifs-last-rites-in-us/articleshow/79105439.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ajmer||Mercury dips across Rajasthan, Mount Abu logs 5°C||JAIPUR: Mercury took a dip across the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessed their minimum temperatures below 15°C. Mount Abu remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 5°C was reported, the Met reports said on Saturday. There has been a constant dip in the temperatures at many places, especially in Bikaner and Jodhpur divisions of the state. Attributing the climatic change to the active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury will continue to fall. Jaipur Met office further stated that from the coming week, some places in the state are likely to record a minimum temperature below 10°C. People in Jaipur woke up to a chilly morning as a minimum temperature of 15.6°C was recorded and it was followed by a comparatively pleasant afternoon with a maximum temperature of 32.1°C. In the evening, outskirts of Jaipur saw a dip in the mercury as places including Kothputli, Shahpura and Bassi witnessed minimum temperatures below 12°C. “By the next week, minimum temperature in Jaipur would be below 10°C as mercury is continuously falling,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. Mount Abu was followed by Bhilwara where a minimum temperature of 10.6°C was recorded , Churu recorded 10.9°C, Chittorgarh 11.6°C, Udaipur 11.7°C, Pilani 11.8°C, Kota 13.0°C, Sriganganagar 13.4°C, Ajmer 15.0°C, Jaisalmer 15.8°C and a minimum temperature of 16.4°C was recorded in Bikaner. Jaipur Met office stated that winters have set in at many districts in the state. “It’s considered winters only when a minimum temperature of 15°C and below is recorded. Presently, in almost every part of the state, the minimum temperatures are on and below 15°C,” said an officer of the Jaipur Met office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/mercury-dips-across-raj-mount-abu-logs-5c/articleshow/79110968.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Financially squeezed Telangana faces Rs 52,000 crore-hit in revenue, CM rips Centre||HYDERABAD: Even as Telangana stares at a revenue loss of Rs 52,750 crore due to the impact of Covid-19, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday hit out at the Centre again for allegedly not extending any financial assistance following the recent floods. He said it was once again proved that the Centre makes hollow promises and does nothing for Telangana. During an interim review of the state’s finances, the CM said Telangana had sought Rs 1,350 crore from the Centre as an immediate assistance towards the flood relief. The loss was about Rs 5,000 crore due to floods in Hyderabad last month. “We had also written to Prime Minister Modi requesting for immediate help. But, the Union government has shown us empty hands. This is highly condemnable. This is the attitude of the Centre towards one of the major cities in the country,” he said. When the finance department officials hinted that the state might incur a loss Rs 52,750 crore due to fall in the state-owned tax revenues and state’s share in taxes and cut in centrally-sponsored schemes, the CM asked officials to prioritise the welfare schemes and allocation of funds in coming months. Since there is a huge gap between the estimated revenues and current collections due to the pandemic, he said: “A pucca plan needs to be prepared to revise the budgetary allocations.” Officials said earnings through the state’s own tax revenue (SOTR) and other sources were to the tune of Rs 39,608 crore in 2019-20, which fell to Rs 33,704 crore in the current financial year. The officials told the CM that though the state was expecting a 15% growth in revenue, it was seeing huge deficit in tax collections. In the 2020-21 budget, the government pegged the total revenue at Rs 1,15,900 crore through taxes and non-tax revenue, but it earned only Rs 47,119 crore so far. Officials also told the CM that the state’s share in the central taxes had dwindled in the current financial year. “The Centre in its budget mentioned that it would pay Rs 16,727 crore. Between April and October, the state should have gotten Rs 8,363 crore, but it received only Rs 6,339 crore. By the end of 2020-21, the Centre may release Rs 11,898 crore as against the promised Rs 16,727 crore, leaving a gap of Rs 4,829 crore,” they said. The government is also worried about the Covid-19 impact on the centrally-sponsored schemes in the state. The finance department officials said the Centre was supposed to release Rs 9,725 crore for various schemes but till October, the state received Rs 4,592 crore only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/financially-squeezed-t-facesrs-52k-cr-hit-in-revenue-cm-rips-centre/articleshow/79106407.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Three constables booked for assaulting minor girl||Mangaluru: The women’s police station in Pandeshwara has filed a case against three women constables attached to the Bajpe police station, for allegedly assaulting a minor girl. The victim’s father, in his complaint, has stated that his daughter was kicked and caned, when they had gone to the Bajpe police station, to lodge a complaint regarding harassment on social media on November 4. The victim, who is aged 16 and an I PU student, had befriended a porter, on a social media platform. She alleged that the accused was harassing her, and that he was forcing her to marry him. He had also threatened to create ruckus at her house, by bringing people from various organisations, when the victim’s father had requested him to stay away from his daughter. When the situation was going out of control, the victim and her parents approached the Bajpe police station on November 3. They were asked to visit the next day. Instead of registering a complaint, my daughter was assaulted. Since she was unable to walk after the assault, she was rushed to Wenlock Hospital, where she is currently being treated, her father said. City police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash told STOI that a complaint was registered on Friday. “I met the victim and her parents on Saturday. A fact-finding committee has been set up to look into the allegation. Action will be taken based on the outcome of the investigation.” Child Welfare Committee chairman Renni D’Souza has sought more details from the police department on the issue. CCTVs will speak the truth: Police A senior police official defended his colleagues and said, “There are CCTV cameras installed at the police station, and the footage will show if such an incident took place or not.” Another police personnel said that the victim had come to the police station with a similar complaint a few months ago, which was sorted out by the police. “We suspect that the victim was assaulted either by her parents or relatives, and the blame was put on the police,” alleged a police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/three-constables-booked-for-assaulting-minor-girl/articleshow/79104486.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Lucknow||Korean team visits Huh memorial park & culture centre in Ayodhya||AYODHYA: A two-member South Korean team on Saturday, visited the memorial park of Queen Huh in Ayodhya, cementing ties that go back 2,000 years when an Ayodhya princess Suriratna also known as Huh Hwang-ok travelled by sea to marry a Korean king and start a dynasty that ushered peace and prosperity in the peninsula. The groundbreaking ceremony of the memorial was held in November 2018 by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and is expected to be completed by the year-end. The delegation led by Hwang Ilyong, director Korean Cultural Centre India, also met vice-chancellor of Awadh University Ravi Shankar Singh. The Koreans along with Indian Foreign Service officer Anil Rawat surveyed progress of the memorial park and Korean Cultural Centre on the varsity campus. Talking to TOI, executive council member of Awadh University, Om Prakash Singh, said, “We discussed historical and cultural relations between India and Korea and the head of the Korean team expressed happiness over the establishment of the cultural and language centre in the university and assured aid and cooperation.” Vice-chancellor Prof Ravi Shankar Singh said, “the Korean centre on the campus will continue to receive support from both governments and we consider Ayodhya’s Korean legacy as a matter of pride.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/korean-team-visits-huh-memorial-park-culture-centre-in-ayodhya/articleshow/79106402.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR keen on brining double-deckers back?||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration and IT minister K T Rama Rao on Saturday expressed his interest to reintroduce double decker buses in the city. Recalling the days he used to take the iconic green double decker bus to school, the minister tweeted about his memories. He asked Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar if there was any chance of bringing back the double deckers to the city. Rao’s tweet about double deckers came after a Twitter user Shaker Hussain tagged Rao and Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, asking whether the double decker bus service could be resumed for tourists or as a public bus itself. Responding to this, Rao tweeted: “I have many fond memories of riding the double decker bus on my way to St. George’s Grammar School at Abids. Not sure why they were taken off the roads. Any chance we can bring them back?” Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, who was tagged, responded saying, “Sure Sir KTR garu. I shall talk to the MD, TSRTC on the possibility of double decker buses on Hyderabad roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-keen-on-brining-double-deckers-back/articleshow/79105453.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Madurai||Spread word on CM welfare steps among youth: Min||Madurai: Members of the Amma Peravai should be ready to take the message on youth welfare measures implemented by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, to the youth of the state, as they stand to benefit from them, said minister for revenue, disaster management and IT R B Udayakumar. The minister, who is also the secretary of the peravai, participated in the membership enrolment camp in the Madurai west district of the AIADMK in Thirumangalam on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/spread-word-on-cm-welfare-steps-among-youth-min/articleshow/79106414.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Delhi||Targeted testing at markets, other busy spots: Delhi health minister||NEW DELHI: With Delhi witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, Delhi government has started ‘targeted testing’ with the festive rush in mind. District officials said that apart from the existing testing facilities, they are now reaching out to people through mobile testing vans. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases has been hovering around 7,000 for the past few days and Delhi recorded its highest single-day spike till date — 7,178 — on Friday. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain told TOI on Friday that apart from aggressive contact tracing of those testing positive in Covid-19 tests, targeted testing has also started. He said that testing in markets and other busy locations has begun. “We want to give the opportunity to everyone to get tested and are also bringing it to the doorstep of people. While anybody can just walk into a dispensary and get tested, we have increased outreach to markets, malls and various other locations,” Naveen Aggarwal, dstrict magistrate, southwest told TOI. Aggarwal said that as part of the increased outreach programme, more mobile testing vans have been deployed in the district. “We have considered mobile testing vans for two purposes. First of all, the mobile testing van acts as an IEC (Information Education Communication) activity in itself. When the van reaches a market location, people working at or visiting that area get more sensitised,” Aggarwal said. Aggarwal said that the van helps carry out more tests as anybody who has symptoms or has doubt that they may have come in contact with someone who is infected, they can get tested. “Also, those who might not want to come to a dispensary or hospital, seeing the mobile van right in front of a shop, think of getting tested,” he said. “Keeping in mind the festive season, we had started rationalising our resources from mid-October. We had set up testing camps in busy markets earlier as well as the camps are put up on a rotational basis but now the focus is back on markets as the footfall has been going up,” a southeast district official said. District authorities are also planning to rope in more Market Welfare Associations for setting up of temporary camps where rapid antigen tests of both shop owners and customers would be carried out. Testing vans are also likely to be deployed at busy bus stands and outside metro stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/targeted-testing-at-markets-other-busy-spots-jain/articleshow/79106475.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 8, 2020||Goa||Goa moots unique ID for each property||PANAJI: The revenue department has notified draft rules for the government’s property register which will assign a unique identification number to each property. The draft rules shall be taken into consideration by the government after fifteen days from the notification. The state government plans to prepare a property register with details of government and private land in Goa. The register will include data about ownership, zone classification, encumbrances, legal rights, mortgage and lease information. Details like court orders and disputes will also be included in the register aimed at bringing all land data under one digital roof. Extract of register to be downloadable for a fee of Rs 200All government departments will have access to the property registrar so that data about the property can be updated as and when required. The state department of settlement and land records will remain the custodian of the property register and will integrate the database with other government departments, local governing bodies or other agencies so that realtime property information can be provided. The government department, local body or other agency which updates the information in the property register, is responsible for accuracy of the data and is also free to change the information without seeking any consent or approval of the director, the draft rules state. “The director shall also prepare a property plan by marking general boundaries of each holding within the survey plan only for indicative purposes and to show its general position,” undersecretary (revenue) Sudin Natu stated in the notification. The draft rules also state thast all government departments, local bodies or other agencies shall endeavour to keep the property register updated by recording any encumbrances, zoning, lien, mortgage, lease, court order, proceeding, restriction, dispute or other information possessed or received by them related to the properties. Individuals will be able to download an extract of the property register, which will bear a time stamp, by paying Rs 200 per property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/digital-land-register-proposes-unique-id-for-each-property/articleshow/79106413.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||RERA row: HC notice to Telangana, Centre on relief to builders||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Friday issued notices to the state and central governments asking them to explain within four weeks as to how they intend to rein in errant builders whose building permissions were obtained before the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA) came into force. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a plea filed by two petitioners challenging some of the rules framed by the state government that excluded real estate projects which obtained permissions prior to January 1, 2017, from the purview of RERA. The judges gave four weeks’ time for the municipal administration’s principal secretary and the Centre’s law secretary to respond to the contentions raised in the petition. K Lakshmi Narasimha, counsel for the petitioners, said the prime objective of RERA was to protect home buyers from any mischief of market forces and errant builders. “But, the exemption given to pre-2017 projects is hurting those buyers who are still waiting for their flats to be delivered to them,” he contended. Pointing out that RERA is a Central Act coming under the concurrent list, he said it is applicable to all the projects — both present and past. States were given powers to frame rules in accordance with the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rera-row-hc-notice-to-t-centre-on-relief-to-builders/articleshow/79106412.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||Goa: Tourism master plan may come into effect by next season||PANAJI: The implementation of the new tourism master plan, which was approved by the state cabinet last month, will begin from the next tourism season, officials have said. The first step of the 25-year vision document is to constitute a tourism board as proposed in the policy. “We want to at least start executing the plan by the beginning of the next tourism season, but first, we’ll have to get the board in place,” a top tourism official said. The board, which will be headed by the tourism minister, will have representatives from stakeholders as well as government appointees linked to the industry. The plan has six stages, of which the drafting and approval of the policy was stage four. The fifth stage, officials said, would involve developing an institutional framework, including the formulation of legislations, to aid the pursuance of the plan’s objectives. The sixth phase is an action plan for execution. “As master planner will guide us on how to go about executing it,” he said. Once the tourism board is constituted, the current mechanisms — the high-powered committee headed by the chief minister that decides tourism infrastructure projects, and the state-level permission committee tasked to examine and approve proposals for events — will be dissolved. “All tasks handled by the two committees will be carried out through the tourism board,” the official said. “Our aim is to execute plans suggested in the masterplan. Presently, we take up projects or tasks that we deem fit. In the absence of any focussed plan, we are not sure if the desired results are achieved when we approve any marketing proposal.” An official said that focussed marketing is very important, since the state has limited funds for promotion and marketing of tourism activities, unlike Kerala or Sri Lanka. Goa tourism has earmarked around Rs 50 crore for promotional and marketing activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-master-plan-may-come-into-effect-by-next-season/articleshow/79106408.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 8, 2020||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant gets threat calls, police register FIR||PANAJI: Panaji police on Saturday registered an FIR against unidentified persons for allegedly threatening, using abusive language and demanding extortion money from chief minister Pramod Sawant. Police said that the chief minister started getting threatening calls almost two months ago. Police said that since the chief minister started ignoring and disconnecting the calls, the accused started send threatening messages. The Chief Minister’s Office stated that the calls are being received from United Kingdom and gulf countries. Police said that the SMSs sent to Sawant contained abusive language against him and his family. Police said the accused threatened to kill the chief minister and his family if he fails to pay ransom money to the tune of Rs 50 lakh. PI Panaji Sudesh Naik said the FIR is registered under various sections of the IPC and investigation is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-gets-threat-calls-police-register-fir/articleshow/79106415.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||Brace for warmer days, cooler nights||Panaji: As is normal for the season at this time of the year, the mercury is likely to rise slightly above normal during the day and dip a little below average during the night for the next few days. On Friday, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, recorded a minimum temperature of 21.1C, just two degrees below normal, indicating a change in weather conditions. Later in the day, meteorologists recorded a maximum temperature of 35C, just 1.6 degrees above normal. But on Saturday, the minimum temperature was in normal range of 23.2C. “The maximum temperature is likely to hover around 34C during the next few days and the minimum will be around or slightly below normal, say around 22 to 23C,” Rahul M, scientist at IMD, Panaji, said. In coastal areas, the maximum temperature is likely to be still higher and the minimum will be lower, the scientist said. Clear skies at this time and wind direction largely affect the swing of mercury. Westerly winds blowing from the seaside reduce the day temperature, making it more pleasant. “But during past three days, the westerlies were weak and setting late,” Rahul said. But despite slightly above-normal day temperature, humidity has been low, unlike in summer, which causes suffocation or sultriness. IMD has forecast that highly localised convection may take place, which may yield some rain. Chances of such a phenomenon, however, are very less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/brace-for-warmer-days-cooler-nights/articleshow/79106448.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress panel to prepare manifesto||HYDERABAD: The Congress on Saturday constituted a 13-member committee to prepare the party’s manifesto for the GHMC election. The committee has been given the task of preparing the manifesto by consulting all important party leaders of GHMC area and finalising it, including social media content, before November 21. AICC in-charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore will release the manifesto in the fourth week of November. The party decided to make Marri Shashidhar Reddy the chairman and Dasoju Sravan the convenor of the committee. Meanwhile, the party also urged State Election Commissioner C Partha Sarathi and GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar to ensure the availability of draft voters list in every polling station to facilitate verification of names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-panel-to-prepare-manifesto/articleshow/79105483.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||Nearly 5,000 cops to be tested for Covid before winter session||NAGPUR: Nearly 5,000 cops will be tested for Covid before the commencement of the winter session of the state legislature in the city. It’s also learnt that the police department has requested the authorities for at least seven doctors and 15 paramedics for the entire duration of the session. Despite the big question regarding the venue due to the uncertain situation prevailing in the entire state as well as the country, the city police are playing it safe and have begun planning. City police chief Amitesh Kumar said intimations have already gone to the concerned unit commanders to conduct RT PCR tests of the manpower they are intending to send to Nagpur for the winter session. The city police will conduct Covid 19 tests of the cops who come without undergoing the same. It’s learnt that permission may be sought to convert the Covid testing centre at Rajnagar exclusively for the police department. Kumar said the rapid antigen test kits would be procured for the personnel who come to the city without the tests. “If personnel come here without Covid tests then they would be isolated and their tests would be done. We are trying to get the rapid antigen test kits to conduct the tests as and when required,” said Kumar. He added that additional accommodation would be required to maintain social distancing. “Covid distancing is an issue that we need to keep in mind. We also have to think about additional accommodation. We have already written to the concerned authorities to get the RT PCR tests done before sending the manpower for the winter session,” said the top cop. It’s also reliably learnt that the city police have already ensured that at least five hospitals included in the police family health scheme are kept ready to accommodate any personnel feeling unwell during the session. Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer of police hospital at Zingabai Takli, said the 500-bed facility for isolation and quarantine system at regional police training centres (RPTS) would be ready in case there is any emergency. “If we find anyone Covid positive, then we will ensure the rest of the unit is quarantined and tested,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nearly-5000-cops-to-be-tested-for-covid-before-winter-session/articleshow/79088280.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 8, 2020||Surat||4.3-magnitude quake hits Surat, Bharuch||SURAT: An earthquake of 4.3 magnitude on the Richter Scale was felt in several parts of Surat and Bharuch districts on Saturday afternoon. The epicentre of the tremor felt at 3.39pm was near Netrang taluka’s Mota Malpore village, 36 km east-south east of Bharuch, stated a report on the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) website. The Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) stated that a second quake of 2.1 magnitude was recorded around 5pm. Residents, especially those living in the high-rises in several parts of Surat city, Bharuch district, Olpaad and Bardoli talukas rushed out of their homes, following the tremors that were felt for about three seconds. Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) president Dinesh Navadiya said, “We felt the tremor on the fourth floor of our Nanpura office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/4-3-magnitude-quake-hits-surat-bharuch/articleshow/79103636.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: UGC guidelines help college heads chalk out reopen plan||KOLKATA: The University Grants Commission’s suggested guidelines for the reopening of college and university campuses brought relief to institute heads, who felt they now had a charter of recommendations, based on which they could chalk out their road map ahead for in-person classes. Principal of Surendranath College Indranil Kar said he had already held several meetings with the heads of individual departments to discuss the requirements and to plan the required measures before classes can start on campus. “We expect that from December 1, some academic activities may begin in college. The new academic calendar for the first-semester undergraduate students are scheduled to start that day. We will now draw up a plan on how to curb entry into campus to avoid crowding. Also, holding classes on alternate days and running online teaching parallel to face-to-face interactions are some of the options we are looking at,” he said. Some of the suggestions made by the UGC included physical distancing of at least 6 feet, mandatory use of face covers/masks, allowing students to frequently wash hands, using alcohol-based hand sanitizers, maintaining respiratory etiquette, self-monitoring of health by all and strictly prohibiting spitting. The UGC has also authorized that a campus can welcome the students back only after the state government concerned declare the area safe for reopening of educational institutions. The universities and colleges will be allowed to open only if they are outside containment zones. Students and staff living in containment zones will not be allowed to attend colleges. Students and staff should also be advised not to visit areas falling within containment zones, the guidelines said. “While we will keep the suggestions set by the UGC in mind, we shall also abide by the SOP, given to us by the education department and Calcutta University,” said Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar. She pointed out that the authorities had already carried out sanitization of the entire campus in June, and that it would be repeated soon. “We have procured thermal-check guns,” Sarkar added. Though the state government has already indicated to allow on-campus academic activities in colleges and universities from December, a date will be announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee within this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ugc-guidelines-help-college-heads-chalk-out-reopen-plan/articleshow/79105472.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP: DM freezes pollution board head’s salary||LUCKNOW: Failure to take steps to curb rising air pollution in the city might cost the regional officer of the UP Pollution Control Board his salary. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash on Saturday froze the salary of the officer, Ram Karan, till further orders for allegedly not taking required measures to check pollution. Karan has also been asked to submit an explanation on the issue within two days, failing which more strict disciplinary action will be taken. In his order, the DM said that Karan was told earlier to take proactive measures to check air pollution in the district. He was also asked to make field visits and come up with solutions. However, he added, it has been found that no action was taken by the regional officer. The DM has now also formed a committee headed by additional DM, administration, to closely monitor the measures being taken by various departments to curb air pollution—especially those involved in construction tasks. The committee includes various district administration officers. Karan has also been made a member despite disciplinary action. Karan said he would submit his reply to the DM. However, he added that there are at least 17 government departments in the district engaged or associated with some kind of activity responsible to curtail air pollution. “On October 29, in a meeting with departments, the DM had instructed various departments to ensure sprinkling of water around all construction sites and roads to check pollution. RTO was asked to keep a tab on vehicles emitting harmful gases. However, so far, only Jal Nigam and Bridge Corporation have submitted their action taken report in which they claimed to have sprinkled water at construction sites,” he added. Apart from construction work, the weather is also responsible for pushing smog in the region, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dm-freezes-pollution-board-heads-salary/articleshow/79106444.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Surat||Ro-Pax ferry linking trade hub with job work centres to boost business||Surat: Diamantaires in Surat and Bhavnagar, especially owners of small and medium units manufacturing tiny gems known as ‘melee’ and ‘star’, are upbeat over the launch of the Ro-Pax ferry service between Hazira and Gogha from Sunday. Districts like Bhavnagar, Amreli and Botad are the largest job-work centres for the small-sized diamonds supplied by the Surat diamantaires. In Bhavnagar district alone, about 1.25 lakh workers are employed in the diamond industry with over 50% of them engaged in making tiny gems as job-work. With the Ro-Pax ferry service the delivery of rough diamonds from Surat to Bhavnagar and other job work centres in Saurashtra is expected to become safer and faster. The angadias or couriers services delivering rough diamonds to Bhavnagar and Amreli will be able to reach their destination within four hours in the Ro-Pax ferry, compared to the 10-12-hours treacherous road journey they take every day from Surat. Vitthal Mendpara, president of Bhavnagar Diamond Association (BDA) told TOI, “Ro-Pax ferry service between Surat and Bhavnagar was our long-pending demand. The ferry service will be a major boon for not only diamond trade, but also for workers who will be able to travel easily from Saurashtra to Surat for a better job opportunities.” President of Surat Diamond Association (SDA) Nanu Vekariya told TOI, “The delivery of rough diamonds from Surat to job work locations will be faster which in turn will boost the diamond sector. Majority of the workers employed in Surat are native of Bhavnagar and Amreli districts. It also becomes easier for them to travel to their hometowns during the festivals.” Chandu Sheta, who runs a small diamond unit in Amreli said, “We have two units in Amreli and Surat employing a total of 70 workers. I would travel twice a week to Amreli to deliver the rough diamonds for processing. It is a 12 hours one-way journey by road with the expensive goods. Now, I can travel in the car in Ro-Pax ferry in the morning and could return by evening on the same day.” Diamond traders in Amreli also believe that the Ro-Pax service was a win-win situation for them. “Diamantaires will get the goods in a matter of few hours from Bhavnagar, which took a long hours before. Majority of the units in Amreli are working on job-work and goods are supplied from Surat. We only expect that the Ro-Pax must continue for the benefit of the people of Saurashtra and Surat,” said Lalit Thummar, president of Amreli Diamond Association (ADA). Box: Ghogha-Dahej ferry a flop show For the diamond industry, the Ghogha-Dahej Ro-Ro ferry service was not a big hit. It took more than two-and-a-half-hours to travel by road from Surat to reach Dahej. From Dahej, the ferry would take about four hours to reach Ghogha. Moreover, the service was disrupted several times ever since it began and as a result failed to attract passengers. Pointers: Much-needed connection Diamonds worth Rs 40,000 crore are processed in the Saurashtra region per annum with Rs 20,000 crore worth of small-sized stones processed in Bhavnagar alone Bhavnagar and Amreli districts account for 85% of the processing job work supplied from Surat The Saurashtra region employs over 2.5 lakh workers in the diamond industry With nearly half of them, 1.25lakh, doing job work in Bhavnagar itself Angadias take 370km road journey from Surat to Bhavnagar to deliver the diamonds in the private luxury buses and state transport buses. Some even use private vehicles The Ro-Pax ferry will reduce the travel time to four hours from 10-12 hours. Quote We expect 100% of the diamond deliveries between Surat and Bhavnagar to be done through Ro-Pax ferry. But only if the ferry service continues to operate on a regular basis and there should be no suspensions. This mode of transport will involve less risk Mahendra Patel, President, All India Angadia Association’s (AIAA), Surat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ro-pax-ferry-linking-trade-hub-with-job-work-centres-to-boost-business/articleshow/79103652.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||‘Deaths near 2019 EDM fest not due to drugs’||PANAJI: The much-hyped deaths of three youths outside the Sunburn Klassique EDM venue, at Vagator, last December, ended as a whimper as viscera reports from the Central Science Forensic Laboratory (CSFL), Hyderabad, state that there is “no presence of narcotic substance”. “We have received the viscera reports from the CSFL and the chemical examination report will be sent to the Goa Medical College (GMC) to seek opinion on the causes of deaths,” a Goa police officer told TOI. GMC doctors had reserved the cause of death as they were awaiting the CSFL’s reports. In January, Goa police had written to the CSFL to expedite the chemical analysis of the viscera. A doctor at GMC said that delay in examination of viscera can also lead to non-tracing of narcotic substance. An official had then said that the deaths have one thing in common — cerebral and pulmonary oedema and, at the time, police had said that only the chemical analysis reports will state with accuracy what caused the oedema. A forensic doctor, associated with GMC for over three decades, said, “If an overdose is caused due to any designer drug, there is zero possibility that autopsy would be able to reveal the actual cause of death.” The three were Sai Prasad, 32, from Hyderabad, an IT engineer, Venkat, 31, a Visakhapatnam-based businessman, and Phanideep Khota, an automobile engineer from Hyderabad, who worked as a sales executive in Bengaluru. Prasad and Venkat were in Goa to attend the music festival. They were among 150 people standing in queue on December 27, the first day of the three-day festival, waiting to enter the venue. The gates hadn’t opened when the incident took place. Police had said that one of the two first began to shiver, and the other immediately held him to prevent him from falling. Two others also came forward to help, and they took them to the police outpost. While the first one was being given first aid, the other one started shivering. An ambulance was called, and they were shifted to the district hospital at Mapusa, where doctors declared them brought dead. On December 29, Khota lost consciousness outside the festival venue at 9.30pm and was rushed to the first-aid centre at the site. He was later shifted to a private hospital at Vagator where he was declared dead. Khota had come to Goa along with five other friends on December 28 to celebrate New Year. The group was staying at Calangute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deaths-near-2019-edm-fest-not-due-to-drugs/articleshow/79106450.cms||Murari Shetye
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Museums to open doors from Tuesday, but with restrictions||KOLKATA: After being shut for over seven months, museums and galleries are set to reopen on November 10, following the go-ahead from the ministry of culture.  The restrictions that will be imposed include a curb on the number of people being allowed on the premises at a time, shorter hours and shutting certain facilities or exhibits for the moment. Online purchasing of tickets will be encouraged at the museums, which will have to follow rules of masked entry, hand sanitization, temperature check and social distancing. At Victoria Memorial Hall, the timings have been shortened by an hour in the mornings and evenings and 500 people will be allowed on the lawns and 200 inside the museum at a time. This will be monitored through sales of tickets.The first floor would be shut for now and there would be no indoor programme, though open air events would start looking at the demand, said curator Jayanta Sengupta. Indian Museum visitors will have to follow a route channel to different halls. Not over 20 people will be allowed inside big halls and 10 in smaller ones. The lobbies will also be monitored. “We will not leave everything to guards and officials will be on the move,” said director Arijit Dutta Chowdhury. Science City, too, has curtailed timings by three hours and 500 visitors will be allowed in each of the two slots, one from 10am to 2pm and the other from 2pm to 6pm. Not more than 20 people will be allowed inside a hall. Space Theatre will be shut for now. Director Shubhobrata Chowdhury said they would have pedal sanitiser machines, pedal-operated basins and people can operate interactive exhibits on apps. Similar changes have been brought in at BITM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/museums-to-open-doors-from-tuesday-but-with-restrictions/articleshow/79105526.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 8, 2020||India||Even after Covid recovery, seniors may face heart risks||NEW DELHI: Patients infected with Covid-19 — mainly those above 50 and those with co-morbidities — may be at higher risk of heart disorders, prompting doctors to advise proper monitoring of blood parameters during the infection and even after recovery. While a recent editorial in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR) says around 60-70% patients infected with the viral disease have cardiac involvement or injury, doctors say it is more common among high-risk groups like those above 50 years of age or with co-morbidities. Besides, those who have higher D-Dimer during infection may face blood clotting even after recovery. “Heart disorders are not that significantly high if we look at overall infection numbers but there are certainly significant number of cases with cardiac problems and even heart attacks in patients in the high-risk group – which means people above 50 years of age and especially those with pre-existing heart disease, diabetes or kidney disorders,” says Dr J P S Sawhney, chairman, cardiology at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Even among young people, if the D-Dimer (a blood parameter) is high during the infection and a blood thinner has not been administered, the patient is likely to face a heart disorder in future – even months after recovery from Covid-19. Dr Sawhney emphasised the need to monitor blood parameter D-Dimer even in case of patients with mild symptoms and being treated in home isolation. However, all the complications may not be long lasting. “Major cardiac involvement like heart attacks and heart failure complicate Covid in under 5% cases while several patients may have mild or sub clinical myocarditis, the long-term effects of which are yet to be seen,” says Dr Atul Mathur, director – interventional cardiology and chief of cath labs at Fortis. In the IJMR editorial, authors call for a baseline, focused clinical screening with routine laboratories and troponin testing in all individuals with documented Covid-19 infection. In an editorial titled “Covid cardiomyopathy: Is it time to involve the cardiologists?”, the authors state that recent literature demonstrates the worse overall outcomes in patients with cardiac involvement. They recommend that cardiologists need to play an important role in both the short- and long-term management of these patients. They further explain that symptomatic individuals typically present pulmonary complaints that range from minor flu-like disease to severe pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. "Some will ultimately develop multi-organ failure, and cardiac involvement is common. While the exact incidence remains unknown, approximately seven per cent of all Covid-19-related deaths are thought to be due to myocarditis,” the authors of the IJMR editorial caution. The editorial cited a cohort study from Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, China, where 82 of 416 (19%) consecutive patients hospitalized for Covid-19 infection had cardiac injury. When compared to the control group, these patients required mechanical ventilation more frequently, had higher risk of complications during their index hospitalization and had an overall increased rate of mortality. In Frankfurt, Germany, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed on 100 patients who recently recovered from Covid-19 infection. They found that 78 patients had cardiac involvement, with 60 having ongoing myocardial inflammation. In another study from Germany, the presence of SARS-CoV-2 was examined in myocardial tissue during autopsy from 39 individuals with documented infection. The virus was detected in 24 patients (61.5%), and a viral load above 1000 copies/μg RNA was documented in 16 cases (41%). It is recommended that patients should be educated to report any symptoms that may suggest new onset or worsening heart failure, and clinical symptom screening should be performed during routine healthcare visits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/even-after-covid-recovery-seniors-may-face-heart-risks/articleshow/79106940.cms||Ambika Pandit
November 8, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi sees 79 deaths, highest since June 16||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 79 Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, the second highest among all states and Union territories after the 150 fatalities in Maharashtra. For Delhi, this was the highest single-day toll since June 16, when 93 people were confirmed dead due to the infection in the city. Public health specialists said the high fatality rate showed Covid was spreading fast and its severity had been exacerbated by the polluted air. On Saturday, Delhi recorded 6,953 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to over 4.3 lakh. The new cases were reported after 57,433 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. In the last five days, Delhi has recorded more than 6,000 Covid cases every day. On Friday, the single-day tally crossed the 7,000 mark for the first time, with 7,178 newly testing positive. Most big private hospitals and some public hospitals are facing a crisis of ICU beds for Covid patients. Data shared on the Delhi Corona App shows occupation of 81% of ICU beds without ventilator and 80% of ICU beds with ventilator across hospitals. Even public hospitals like Safdarjung, Guru Tegh Bahadur, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya and Baba Saheb Ambedkar did not have a ventilator bed for Covid patients on Saturday at 10pm. AIIMS Trauma Centre, which is a designated facility for Covid treatment, had only three such beds available. “In the last one week, cases of Covid-19 have increased sharply. We are flooded with requests for ICU beds but there are none available,” said a doctor at Apollo Hospitals. She added that Covid patients with severe symptoms required longer stay in the hospital than those suffering from other viral infections. “Most people who have mild symptoms are isolating themselves at home. Only those with severe symptoms are coming to hospital. Most of them require ICU facility, hence the increased demand for such beds,” reiterated Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, department of medicine, Max Hospital, Saket. He added that strict enforcement of preventive measures, physical distancing and wearing masks in public places were the only way to tackle the crisis. According to the Delhi health bulletin, the city had 40,258 active cases. Of them, 24,100 (60%) are in home isolation, and the rest are admitted in various hospitals or Covid care facilities run by the state government. Watch Covid-19: Delhi sees 79 single-day deaths, highest since June 16||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-sees-79-deaths-highest-since-june-16/articleshow/79106489.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 8, 2020||Goa||Goa Covid cases dropping, but don’t let guard down: Doctors||MARGAO: Notwithstanding the steadily increasing recovery rate and lesser number of admissions of Covid patients in hospitals, medical experts are of the view that improvement in these parameters are not indicating that the state is on a declining curve. “This should not lead us to perceive that the worst is behind us, we cannot let our guard down,” Dr Rajesh Patil, co-administrator of the new South Goa district-Covid hospital, Margao, told TOI. “Though there has been significant improvement in some parameters, the death rate hasn’t declined significantly. It needs to come to zero,” he said. Stating that nearly 2,000 patients were currently in home isolation, Patil said that until all these active cases aren’t declared cured of Covid-19, there is no reason for being complacent. “The death rate hasn’t reduced to that extent, which means that people with Covid symptoms are still not reporting to the hospitals in time. Patients with comorbidities should get admitted in a hospital for treatment instead of opting for home isolation,” Patil said. Though the government has been encouraging home isolation for Covid patients, it may not be practically possible for many to isolate themselves in their apartments or small dwelling units which do not have a separate room with attached bathroom. “In such circumstances, there is every possibility that the home isolation patient may be unable to practice appropriate measures to contain the spread of the contagion. Consequently, he tends to infect others in the house – and thus the elderly and those with comorbidities are worst affected, often leading to fatalities,” Patil said. Another reason for the high death rate, Patil said, is that patients fail to report to the hospital until their condition turns severe. Seeking early medical care at the onset of symptoms is the key to fight Covid-19, doctors stress. Significantly, while the new South Goa district-Covid hospital his ready to augment its capacity by 100 more beds, the hospital has been seeing less number of admissions since the last many days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-covid-cases-dropping-but-dont-let-guard-down-doctors/articleshow/79106488.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||Soon, non-Gorkhas from Uttarakhand in Gorkha Rifles||DEHRADUN: In a significant move for the youth of Uttarakhand aspiring to join the armed forces, the Indian Army is “in final stages of approval” of a proposal for the recruitment of non-Gorkha personnel from Uttarakhand into select Gorkha Rifles (GR) regiments. The proposal, expected to come into effect from the next recruitment cycle, will enable local Garhwali and Kumaoni youngsters to join the Gorkha Rifles. Speaking toTOI, a senior official from Army Headquarters, said, “The proposal has been sent for the final nod of the officials concerned. It will initially be a pilot project for two years for the youths of Uttarakhand and if all goes well, youths from other hill states will also be inducted in the Gorkha Rifles.” The move, according to defence watchers, will have wide implications for Uttarakhand where almost every other family, especially in the hills, has had a member serving in the armed forces. The proposal is also an unprecedented one in the over two-century-old history of the Gorkha Regiments which has had a tradition of only having Gorkha soldiers, known for their courage in battle, in their ranks. Till now, only Indian-domiciled or Nepal-domiciled Gorkhas were inducted into the 40 battalions that make up the seven Gorkha Rifles regiments of the Indian Army. Currently, the ratio of Nepalese and Indian troops in a GR battalion is 60:40. The recruitment of Nepalese Gorkhas into the Indian Army was done on the basis of a 1947 tripartite agreement between Nepal, India and Great Britain. Under the agreement, six of the total of 10 Gorkha regiments in the British Indian Army at the time, joined the Indian Army (the seventh regiment was added after independence) while the remaining were transferred to the British Army and were assigned to British colonies like Malaya (Malaysia and Brunei) as well as Singapore. These units still continue to exist in the Brunei and Singapore armies. A few months back, following the border dispute between India and Nepal over the Kalapani issue, Nepalese foreign minister, Pradeep Kumar Gyawali, had called the tri-partite agreement redundant and called for its scrapping. Defence watchers said that the move to open the Gorkha Rifles for non-Gorkhas from Uttarakhand may also have its backdrop in the frosting of relations between India and Nepal and intended to increase the presence of Indian soldiers in the regiment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/army-prepares-to-recruit-non-gorkha-youth-from-ukhand-in-gorkha-rifles/articleshow/79104535.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Surat||Cyber frauds do not spare senior Gujarat police officer||Surat: A fake Facebook page now created of senior state IPS officer and additional director general of police, CID crime (women cell), Anil Pratham, has been sending requests to friends asking for monetary help. Cyber frauds of late have been attacking senior officials and political leaders wityh similar modus operandi across the state. Pratham immediately posted a message on his social media account warning people of the fictitious profile and has asked people to ignore the requests and report details. In the fake profile photos of Pratham including one in the uniform has been used to dupe people. The profile has been locked disabling people from taking screenshots of the page. More than 100 people accepted requests for friendship thinking it to be Pratham’s account, while some were also sent messages with request of money. “Some people have created a fake Facebook profile of mine and asking people for money,” said Pratham. “I already submitted an application to the cyber crime police who are looking into it.” Ironically, on October 1 Pratham had put up a message alerting friends on his Facebook page about the ongoing racket of fake Facebook profiles that demand money. A month later he himself fell prey to these cyber frauds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cyber-frauds-do-not-spare-senior-gujarat-police-officer/articleshow/79103677.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 8, 2020||Agra||Aligarh police conducts Covid tests of people driving without masks||AGRA: In order to spread awareness about the importance of using masks during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Aligarh Police have started conducting on the spot rapid antigen Covid tests of people roaming around without face masks instead of prosecuting them. The tests are conducted on the spot and if anyone is found positive, they are sent to the hospital for treatment. This step has been taken as the experts feel that with the onset of winter Covid is likely to get more lethal. Superintendent of police (crime) Arvind Kumar said that the aim of conducting a spot test is to ensure that people follow the Covid guidelines, especially the crowded areas. “This exercise will continue in different parts of the city on a random basis,” he said. Inspector Sanjeev Kumar, who was on duty at Naurangabad area under Gandhi park police jurisdiction, said he hopes that people would start taking necessary precautions with this exercise and won’t step out without masks. Around 50 tests were conducted on Friday and of these, one was found Covid positive. He was sent to Deen Dayal hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aligarh-police-conducts-covid-tests-of-people-driving-without-masks/articleshow/79102911.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC poll: Ward-wise draft electoral rolls out||HYDERABAD: The ward-wise draft electoral rolls were published on Saturday after the the State Election Commission (SEC) set the ball rolling for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections last week. As per the notification and schedule issued by the SEC, all the persons authorised and deputy commissioners of 30 circles have prepared and published the ward-wise draft electoral rolls in Form-1 at their offices and the respective tahsildar and RDO offices of the ward concerned. According to the notification, a copy of the draft electoral rolls has also been furnished to the recognised national and state political parties for their information as per the directions of the SEC. Further, a copy is also available in SEC website (httPs://tsec.gov.in). “All the stake holders are requested to verify their names in the ward-wise draft electoral rolls published on November 7 and requested to file their claims, if any, if their name is not found in the electoral rolls in Form-6 to the electoral registration officer of the assembly constituency concerned,” the notification read. Objections and claims will be received Assembly constituency-wise from November 8 to November 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-poll-ward-wise-draft-electoral-rolls-out/articleshow/79105527.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University convocation slated for November 21||LUCKNOW: This year, Lucknow University, will hold its convocation on November 21 during the weeklong centenary celebrations. Governor Anandiben Patel, who is also the chancellor of all state universities, on Saturday, gave the approval to conduct the convocation in its centenary celebration week between November 19 to 25. Like every year, the convocation will be conducted in an offline mode at its arts quadrangle. The only difference, this time, would be that medals will be awarded to only 15 meritorious students from stage and not 195. The decision was taken in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Only old medals and one that was constituted by the varsity will be conferred to meritorious students. It’s not possible to award all 195 medals to the high scorers as it will be difficult to maintain social distancing,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastav. He said the date to award remaining medals was not decided yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-convocation-slated-for-nov-21/articleshow/79106504.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Three IPS officers to probe suicide of Abdul Salam’s family||TIRUPATI: In a rare move, the state government has formed a three-member IPS officers’ committee to investigate into the mass suicide of four members of a family after a video message recorded before they jumped in front of a train near Nandyal went viral on social media on Saturday. Auto driver Abdul Salam, along with his wife and two children, recorded a video message alleging police harassment over a theft case, which Salam denied having committed. The video showed the family members in tears and pleading for help. The incident sent shock waves across Kurnool district, with rights bodies demanding penal action against the personnel allegedly responsible for driving the family to end their lives. Though there have been several inquiry panels in the past, it is perhaps the first time that a case is being probed by three senior IPS officers. It may be recalled that four members of a family belonging to Nandyal ended their lives in Kurnool district on November 3 alleging harassment by local police.Four days after the mass suicide of Salam’s family, a video of the family’s final moments before the suicide pact went viral on Saturday. The government acted swiftly and ordered the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-ips-officers-to-probe-suicide-of-salams-family/articleshow/79105006.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: 2 gangs selling fake notes, coloured stones arrested||VISAKHAPATNAM: City police have arrested six persons as they busted two gangs involved in circulating fake currency and semi-precious stones. In the first case, two persons were arrested for trying to circulate fake Turkish liras worth Rs 45 lakh. According to special enforcement bureau (SEB) in-charge, ADCP Ajit Vejendla, the accused — L Vimal Kumar from Tirupati and Siva Prasad from Vizianagaram’s Jami village — had set up deals for a few persons in the city. The duo was arrested while trying to circulate the money which has been seized. In the second case, according to the SEB in-charge, four persons — Naga Giribabu of Sompeta mandal, Govinda Sai Krishna, Sonali Babu Rao Surreddy Dasavataram of Pendurthi area in Vizag were arrested — were arrested for selling coloured stones.  Giribabu purchased the stones from a person in East Godavari district’s Rampachodavaram for around Rs 70,000. The other three accused were caught when they were purchasing stones from Giribabu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/2-gangs-selling-fake-notes-coloured-stones-arrested/articleshow/79105063.cms||Siva G
November 8, 2020||Agra||Agra SSP tests Covid positive, 67 fresh cases in district||AGRA: Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babloo Kumar was tested Covid-19 positive along with his wife and mother-in-law following an antigen test. The officer and his family members are now under home isolation. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh has also quarantined himself for next 48 hours as he had come in contact with the SSP. At least 67 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 7,658. The patients included two staffers of the SN Medical College (SNMC) and a staffer of the district hospital. A 59-year-old man also died while undergoing treatment at the SNMC. The resident of Shahganj locality was suffering from hypertension, coronary artery disease, chronic kidney disease and acute respiratory distress syndrome. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 149 deaths of Covid-19 patients have been reported in Agra district. The current Covid-19 sample positivity rate in the district is 2.6% and the fatality rate is 1.9%. Moreover, 56 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 7,658 cases reported in the district, 7,021 [91.6%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district has increased from 478 on Friday, to 488 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-ssp-tests-covid-ve-67-fresh-cases-in-district/articleshow/79102921.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 8, 2020||Mangaluru||All our crackers are green, say distributors||Mangaluru: With chief minister B S Yediyurappa appealing to people to use green crackers for Diwali, firework distributors have claimed that all the crackers that they sell are green. Wholesale and retail dealers in the city said that manufacturers in Sivakasi were making only green crackers as per the Supreme Court’s 2018 direction. Dileep Bhandarkar, partner, B Ganapathi Bhandarkar & Sons, a leading wholesale and retail cracker dealer, said, “In 2018, the Supreme Court of India directed that manufacturers in Sivakasi will be getting licences only if they manufacture green crackers. The manufacturers then started making and selling green crackers, which have less chemicals. Hence, the new direction of the government regarding green crackers has little impact on our business. However, we are looking forward to seeing the detailed government order in this regard,” he said, adding that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they have not procured crackers in large quantities. Green crackers are said to be less harmful as compared to conventional firecrackers. Mohammed of Asian Crackers, a wholesale dealer, said that their shop has sufficient stock of green crackers. The Dakshina Kannada district administration, that banned the use of crackers during festivals in the first week of October, is now waiting for a fresh SOP on the use of green crackers from the state government for Diwali. In fact, there is no clarity as to what types of crackers come under the green category. Deputy commissioner K V Rajendra told TOI that the district administration will take a decision based on the directions of the government. “In fact, I had banned the stocking, sale and use of fireworks during Dasara and Diwali. I had pre-empted it, but it has become an issue of economic interest. Traders have started pouring in their woes, that they have invested money to procure crackers by availing loans. The chief minister has issued an order related to green crackers. However, we do not know how much we are geared up to adhere to the use of green crackers and pollution norms. There is a state executive committee under the National Disaster Management Authority headed by the chief secretary. We are expecting an SOP from that committee, and a revised order will be issued based on it,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/all-our-crackers-are-green-say-distributors/articleshow/79104546.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Bombay HC notice to Navi Mumbai civic body on holding pond clean-up||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday issued a notice to Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and environment ministry in a fresh PIL that seeks directions for a complete clean-up and restoration of a holding pond and its damaged flap gates. Stormwater management of Navi Mumbai has been planned on the lines of Netherlands and is called ‘Dutch method’, to solve this problem in the form of holding ponds, the PIL said. There are two in CBD Belapur and 11 in Navi Mumbai. The gates are affected due to growth of mangroves, trees and fungus, which, if not cleaned and maintained, leads to floods in Belapur (CBD), said the PIL by a senior citizen, Jayaji Nath, a former corporator. “Feeling absolutely aggrieved by inaction by NNMC,’’ Nath, in his PIL mentioned by advocate Abhijeet Desai, sought to highlight the need for “maintenance of the holding pond at Belapur (CBD) Sector 12 across 5.5 hectares (13.5 acres), half the size of Azad Maidan. The holding pond has in 15 years “intermittently led to severe flood in sectors 4, 5 and 6 at least thrice during the monsoon,’’ said the PIL. A bench of Justices K K Tated and Girish Kulkarni allowed private services too to all authorities and posted the matter on December 8. The bench said the petition was seeking an order to clean the pond “to secure the safety of people residing in the area of CBD, Belapur, Sectors 12/13, especially Sectors 4, 5 and 6 and areas around it.” A holding pond is an integrated drainage system in Navi Mumbai. Drainage outfalls are prone to flooding during high tide. Ponds act as retention basin in normal conditions. The holding pond acts as a storage during high tide and helps avoid water-logging. A holding pond can hold water up to a period equal to the tidal duration, said the PIL. Navi Mumbai is the only city, said the PIL, which has adopted the model of ‘holding ponds’ a measure implemented in Netherlands, as many places in the satellite city near Mumbai are low-lying. The aim was to prevent flooding in areas below high tide 4.5 metre levels. The PIL said CBD Belapur was under threat as “overgrowth of plans and shrubs and accumulation of sludge and silt’’ was “drastically reducing the holding capacity of the pond to the detriment of the purpose of its construction by Cidco’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/hc-notice-to-navi-mum-civic-body-on-holding-pond-clean-up/articleshow/79105358.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Tadikonda MLA Undavalli Sridevi claims threat to life, lodges police plaint||VIJAYAWADA: Tadikonda MLA Undavalli Sridevi on Friday lodged a complaint with Tadepalli police claiming threat to her life from one Sandeep, a dismissed YSRC functionary. In her complaint, Sridevi claimed she has been facing a threat ever since cops raided several gambling dens in her constituency and booked cases at Thullur and Guntur police stations. She claimed that Sandeep was involved in ‘illegal’ activities and was dismissed from the party. Reacting to the complaint, an absconding Sandeep shared an audio tape purportedly showing the MLA seeking his advice as to whether the gambling dens would be helpful in earning money. Sandeep is heard being sceptical about the issue and advised against it as ‘troublesome’ and acknowledged that there are activities in some villages. Along with the audio tape, Sandeep shared a selfie video, claiming he too was facing life threat from Sridevi and hence had to flee. “My family members are suffering because of my absence and they are in a helpless situation. I appeal to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to intervene and rescue them,” Sandeep was seen telling in the video. Explaining the backdrop of the targeting, Sandeep said he had helped Sridevi get some loans prior to the 2019 elections which she had failed to repay. “Just because I sought repayments, I am being implicated,” he alleged. Sources close to the MLA denied Sandeep’s allegations and said the recording was ‘fake’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mla-claims-threat-to-life-lodges-police-plaint/articleshow/79104996.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Siddi MLC wants Muslim, Christian members of tribe stripped of ST status||Karwar: A memorandum submitted by Shantaram Siddi, who was recently nominated to the Karnataka legislative council, to the President questioning the classification of those members of Siddi community from Muslim or Christian religions in the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category has yanked the spotlight back on the contentious issue again. Shantaram on Friday pointed out that only those Siddis identifying themselves as Hindus were to be classified under the ST category. “Those Siddis who converted to other religions and still deriving benefits owing to their classification as a ST community were putting the Hindu Siddis in a disadvantageous position. In 1967, as many as 235 Lok Sabha MPs had sought the exclusion of all those who had converted to other religions from the list of ST communities. But the department of minority welfare continues to issue continues to grant ST certificate to Siddis who have converted to either the Muslim or the Christian faith, in addition to qualifying as a religious minority. Siddi community members among the Hindus, however, only have the ST certificate,” Shantaram added. The newly-nominated MLC has for long been associated with the Girijana Suraksha Vedike, an outfit that has been fighting for the welfare of Siddis and other tribal communities. He said that the government must take cognisance of the fact those Siddis who could benefit from being members of either a religious minority or of a ST community, were likely to motivate members of the tribe among the Hindus to convert to other faiths owing to the obvious advantages of such a position. “All those Siddis who have converted to other faiths must be stripped of their ST status, and the departments concerned must be made to abide by the rules governing classification of ST and SC communities. Those who convert to other religions cannot be accorded SC or ST status,” said Shantaram, adding that he would raise the issue in the legislature. Members of the Siddi community trace their origins back to an African tribe, who sailed to India on board Portuguese ships, to serve as slaves in Goa. However, they escaped from their masters, making the thick forests of Yellapur and Haliyal in Uttara Kannada district, which was then under British dominion their new home. Many of them later accepted Hindu, Muslim or Christian identities. Incidentally, Shantaram Siddi is the first individual of African descent in India to have entered a legislative house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/siddi-mlc-wants-muslim-christian-members-of-tribe-stripped-of-st-status/articleshow/79105901.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||From food to music, revellers make most of traffic-free Church Street||BENGALURU: The nearly one-km Church Street stretch in central business district (CBD) transformed into a pedestrian-only zone on Saturday with fun and food occupying centrestage. While eateries set up tables on pavements for people to unwind by the roadside, many youngsters indulged in dance and music. Carefree walkers sauntered down the street, without having to worry about vehicles zipping by. People were seen cycling and riding electric two-wheelers. From goli sodas to elegant diyas, there was plenty to keep shoppers engaged. From now on, Church Street will be closed to motor vehicles during weekends, remaining a pedestrian-only stretch. Thermal-screening machines have been installed at all entry points of the road as part of Covid-19 precautionary measures. The weekend traffic ban, which is part of the Clean Air Street initiative launched by the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), will be in place till February. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa inaugurated the project and requested people to make the switch from private vehicles to public transport, cycling and walking to reduce air pollution. “Due to global warming and pollution, a clean environment has become a challenge, which is having a negative impact on human beings and the Earth,” Yediyurappa said, adding that conservation of the environment should be our priority. Pointing out that 50 per cent of air pollution is caused by vehicles, Yediyurappa said every year there is a 10 per cent increase in number of vehicles purchased and currently Bengaluru is home to 85 lakh private vehicles. “Every person should treat conservation of the environment as his or her primary duty and take an oath to actively get involved in it,” the CM added. Citizens were ecstatic about Church Street turning vehicle-free. “It feels so good to walk here now. I don’t have to bother about vehicles. I will bring my wave board on Sunday and ride on it,” said Siddhart K, a college student and resident of Jayanagar. Another Bengalurean, Preksha Prasad, said she loved the pavement vibe. “Bengaluru is growing more beautiful by the day. With the pavement-seating arrangement, our streets can be compared to those of France,” added Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/from-food-to-music-revellers-make-most-of-traffic-free-church-street/articleshow/79104796.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Students fear missing out on international campus experience||BENGALURU: The uncertainty pertaining to opening of borders is causing a lot of anxiety among students who have either enrolled in foreign universities or are waiting to take admission. While universities in Australia have a popular intake cycle that starts in late February/early March, varsities in New Zealand begin their academic year in February. For most institutions in Canada and the UK, it starts in September. Several students have started courses online and are hoping to shift to the on-campus mode soon, while others have acceptance letters and are waiting for some clarity before getting themselves enrolled. Students and parents shared their worries at a session on ‘International education – expectations of students & parents in the current times’ during Education Conclave 2020, a two-day virtual event organised by IDP Education India. Sneha Kulhalli, who is aspiring to start masters in artificial intelligence at an Australian University, and who was part of the panel, said the universities are providing students with all necessary support but the uncertainty is real. "There is no definitive date as to when we can go to campus and study, which can be slightly worrying," she said, pointing at the fear of missing out on the Australian campus experience if online classes are prolonged. "Online courses are available even locally at much lower costs. International experience is necessary when we enrol in foreign universities," she said. Mohit and Vandana Narula, parents of a student aspiring to study in Canada, said the way things are being handled is impressive. "If the onboarding process is frictionless, it will lead to better productivity among students. A buddy system, wherein a mentor is preassigned to the student even before s/he has left the shores, will be of much help. By the time they reach, they will know what to expect," said Mohit, adding universities must have a human interface for answering questions. Prof Maneek Kumar, whose daughter is presently studying in a university in Australia, said online education is important now, but the campus experience is also essential. "My daughter was able to return to India and has been attending online classes. She has been missing campus life. She wants to go back and even work there," Kumar said. Saurabh Malhotra, senior manager, international recruitment and market development, Fanshawe College, Canada, said institutions are still learning as they go forward and understand that international students did not sign up for online classes when they joined foreign universities. "We are trying to figure out how the Canadian experience can be replicated in the new setting," he said adding Canadian institutions are preparing to welcome students with all Covid precautions in coming days. Fee reduction not likely Even though most courses have gone online or are blended, most foreign universities may not reduce tuition fee but may offer funding options, discounts or scholarships. Bhanu Kaushik, director, University of Hertfordshire (India, Nepal & UAE), UK said it’s natural that people look for investment returns and the demand for fee reduction is for the same reason. "However, most universities won’t slash fee as they have to provide high-quality education and life-changing experiences to the ‘glocal’ student community and stay sustainable in the long term," he said, adding there are merit or need-based scholarships or travel funds. How to pick a university Choosing universities based on world rankings is a norm, but according to experts, it is just one of many factors to be considered. Abizer Merchant, director (India & Sri Lanka), Macquarie University, Australia, said the approach must be holistic and not just based on the university’s ranking and scholarships it offers. "Rankings are based on the research output and quality of the university, which is important for postgraduation students," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/students-fear-missing-out-on-intl-campus-experience/articleshow/79104737.cms||Farheen Hussain
November 8, 2020||Patna||Operations begin at Darbhanga airport today||PATNA: Darbhanga airport is set for maiden commercial flight operations with three SpiceJet flights landing at and taking off to Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai on Sunday. It would be the third airport in Bihar after Patna and Gaya for commercial flights. The Bengaluru-Darbhanga-Bengaluru (SG 493/494) flight would land at Darbhanga airport at 11.15am and depart at 4.25pm. The SG-495 flight would leave Darbhanga for Delhi at 11.45am and SG- 496 would return to Darbhanga at 3.55pm. The Mumbai-Darbhanga-Mumbai (SG-705/706) flight would reach Darbhanga airport at 12.10pm and return at 12.40pm. “The official booking window of the airlines would be formally launched at Darbhanga airport on Sunday. By Saturday morning, the incoming flights have 95% occupancy while it was above 90% for the outgoing flights,” an airlines executive said. SpiceJet would operate Boeing 737-800 aircraft. It has deputed 30 staff, including operations engineering, commercial staff for boarding, security, check-ins among others at Darbhanga airport. “The pre-fabricated terminal building has all passenger facilities,” said GK Chandana, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) project in charge of Darbhanga airport. The interim civil enclave built in 15,000 sq feet area would accommodate 200 passengers at peak time. It has six check-in counters and two aprons. Parking space for 30 vehicles has also been constructed near the terminal building. The airport has a runway of 9000ft. The foundation stone for the project was laid by CM Nitish Kumar and then civil aviation minister Suresh Prabhu and his deputy Jayant Sinha in December, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flight-ops-from-darbhanga-to-begin-today/articleshow/79105546.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 8, 2020||Lucknow||‘Diwali at Janmabhoomi to be grand after 500 years’||LUCKNOW: Diwali celebrations in Ayodhya will be grand this year as the festival would be celebrated at Ram Janmabhoomi after 492 years. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is personally monitoring the preparations for Deepotsava to be organized from November 11 to 13 in Ayodhya, over three months after the construction of Ram temple started at Ram Janmabhoomi. The CM has asked officials to ensure that 5.51 lakh diyas are lighted at Ram ki Paidi. The government is hoping to surpass its record of the previous year when 5.51 lakh diyas were lit across Ayodhya. The CM is scheduled to offer prayers to Ram Lalla at the Ram Janmbhoomi site. Arrangement will also be made to allow devotees to light diyas virtually, the first time ever, as crowds will be restricted this year due to the Covid pandemic. The government will also restrict the number of people at the celebrations, especially the symbolic rajya abhishek of Lord Ram upon his return to Ayodhya with Sita and Laxman due to the ongoing corona crisis. Over the past four years, the programme has been a major draw for people who line up to watch the actors playing the roles of Ram, Sita and Laxman descend from a helicopter and ride a chariot to the main venue to mark their homecoming after 14 years of exile. Officials said there would be entry restrictions at the venue this year and senior seers will not be allowed on the stage to ensure their safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/diwali-at-janmabhoomi-to-be-grand-after-500-yrs/articleshow/79106510.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Government releases Rs 143 crore for welfare of Kapus||VIJAYAWADA: The state government on Saturday deposited money into the accounts of Kapu beneficiaries who missed out earlier under the ‘Kapu Nestam’ scheme. Chelluboyina Venugopala Krishna, minister for BC welfare, credited Rs 143 crore in to accounts of 95,245 beneficiaries under Phase -2 of ‘Kapu Nestam’. Speaking to reporters on the occasion, the minister said that the state government is committed to the welfare of the Kapus and thus all the eligible women from Kapu, Balija, Ontari and Telaga communities who were not included in the scheme earlier in June will be receiving Rs 15,000 as financial assistance under Kapu Nestam. Although the scheme was launched in June, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy gave another opportunity for those who could not apply in time. As many as 3,30,605 women were benefited through Kapu Nestam scheme and Rs 495.87 crore has been credited to their accounts, he said. The minister said over Rs 5,542 crore was spent on Kapu welfare through the Kapu Corporation in the last 16 months, which was way more than what was promised by the chief minister during the election campaign. Hitting out at the TDP regime, Venugopala Krishna said that the Kapus were neglected completely. “Chandrababu Naidu promised to provide reservations to Kapus even though it was not in his hand and created a rift between the BCs and Kapus to get benefit out of the situation,” said Krishna. Meanwhile, Kapu Corporation Chairman Jakkampudi Raja said TDP betrayed the Kapus. He said Naidu failed to keep his promise of allocating Rs 1,000 crore for Kapu welfare. He said that Naidu used the BCs and Kapus for the sake of elections and left them after securing the power and thus people rejected him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-releases-rs-143-cr-for-welfare-of-kapus/articleshow/79105072.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: After Covid, many report severe anxiety||NEW DELHI: When Gaurav returned home in September last week after a week-long hospitalisation for Covid-19 treatment, he did not have fever, cough or breathing problems. But, the 41-year-old lawyer says, he continues to feel very weak. “I have pain in the legs. And sometimes, I also suffer mild fever,” he said. Swati Sharma, who recovered from Covid recently, says she wakes up in the middle of the night feeling she isn’t able to breathe. The 21-year-old underwent tests to rule out any serious complications. Her physician concluded that the unease was caused by anxiety disorder, a common complication in recovered patients. Anxiety, sleep disorder and depression are common in patients who have beaten any severe viral infection. Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, pulmonology and critical care, at Apollo Indraprastha Hospitals, however, added that complications are usually rare. “In case of Covid, we are seeing 20-25% of patients coming back with complaints about lack of sleep, headache and mood downswing. Detailed examinations reveal these are due to an anxiety disorder,” Dr Chawla said. According to Dr Vinit Suri, senior consultant, neurology, at Apollo, some patients require anti-anxiety medications. “We have seen that when such patients are put on anti-anxiety medications, their symptoms reduce or disappear,” he said. Other doctors point out that persistent headache arising from anxiety and post-traumatic stress are also common in Covid-recovered patients. Researchers in Italy recently published a study in the journal Brain Behaviour and Immunity evaluating the psychopathological impact on Covid survivors. It involved 402 adults (265 men and 137 women, mean age 58 years) who were investigated for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, anxiety, insomnia, and obsessive-compulsive (OCD) symptomatology a month after hospital treatment. According to the study, a significant proportion of patients scored in the psychopathological range, 28% for PTSD, 31% for depression, 42% for anxiety, 20% for OCD and 40% for insomnia. Overall, 56% scored in the pathological range in at least one clinical dimension. “Despite significantly lower levels of baseline inflammatory markers, women suffered more for both anxiety and depression,” the study added. The doctors involved in the study recommended psychopathology assessment of Covid survivors and to deepen research on inflammatory biomarkers to diagnose and treat emergent psychiatric conditions. Dr Nand Kumar, professor of psychology, AIIMS, agreed psychiatric evaluation should be considered in patients who continue to report extreme fatigue, low mood, lack of concentration, forgetfulness and insomnia four weeks after recovering from the disease. “If left unattended, some patients can slip into clinical depression,” he cautioned. Dr Shamsher Dwivedee, chairman, neurosciences, Vimhans Nayati, said the coronavirus that caused Covid is known to affect brain tissues. “Counselling alone may not help in many cases. Sometimes, medical intervention is needed to treat the patient,” he advised. (Names of the patients have been changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-covid-many-report-severe-anxiety/articleshow/79106541.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Two more held in rowdy sheeter murder case||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada District Police, have arrested two more people in connection with the rowdy-sheeter Umar Farooq murder case. The arrested, identified as Hafeez, 32, from Thokkottu and Irshad, 25, from Panemangaluru, were picked from Thokkottu on November 5. Umar Farooq, booked in 14 cases including rioting, was murdered near Bodogi in Melkar of Bantwal taluk on October 23. Assailants reportedly came in a car, stopped Farooq’s bike and attacked him with lethal weapons. He died on the spot. Following the murder, police arrested Ibrahim Khaleel the next day. Khaleel allegedly attempted to attack the police with lethal weapons near Dharmasthala on October 24. The police opened fire in self-defence leaving Prasanna, sub-inspector in-charge, Bantwal rural police station and Khaleel injured. Khaleel suffered bullet injuries on his leg and was arrested, while two others escaped. The relationship between Khaleel and Umar turned sour over a trivial issue. Khaleel, also, a rowdy sheeter was the prime accused in 2017 Kalladka communal riots. On a tip-off that Hafeez and Irshad were holed up in Thokkottu, the police arrested and produced them before the court. Irshad is accused of arranging a vehicle to escape after the murder. Ibrahim Khaleel, who was treated at the District Wenlock Hospital, was discharged on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-more-held-in-rowdy-sheeter-murder-case/articleshow/79104553.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||SEC: Prepare bandobust plans||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Election Commissioner C Partha Sarathi on Saturday asked the director general of police M Mahender Reddy to prepare a bandobust plan at the polling booths, strong rooms and counting centres and also identify sensitive, hyper-sensitive and critical areas for the ensuing GHMC election. At a high-level meeting with the DGP, additional DGP (law and order) and other officials, Partha Sarathi said the police should put in place a mechanism to attend and resolve election-related complaints on a day-to-day to basis. Mahender Reddy assured the SEC that the police, in coordination with other departments, will do the needful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-prepare-bandobust-plans/articleshow/79105545.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Lucknow||Language labs at 10 polytech institutes||LUCKNOW: The state government has sanctioned Rs 1.7 crore to set up language labs at 10 polytechnic institutes to help students improve communication and language skills. A government spokesman said the labs would be software-based where translation of text in various languages to local language (in this case Hindi) would be easily possible. “This will help students improve their technical knowledge and brush up their communications skills, thereby increasing their confidence level,” he said. The institutes which will receive funds for language labs include Rajkiya Polytechnic (Etawah), Sanjay Gandhi Polytechnic (Amethi) and Savitribai Phule Rajkiya Polytechnic (Azamgarh) besides Mahamaya Polytechnic for Information Technology (MMITs) established under Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) in Kanpur Dehat, Kaushambi, Shravasti, Shamli, Kushinagar, Sant Kabir Nagar and Kasganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/language-labs-at-10-polytech-institutes/articleshow/79106514.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Surat||Multi-state thieves caught by Surat cops||Surat: Two members of a multi-state gang of robbers were arrested from near Katargam Gotalawadi for alleged involvement in a series of thefts in cities like Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and several towns of Rajasthan.The crime branch sleuths recovered valuables worth Rs 16.64 lakh including cash from the accused identified as Amarsinh Rajput (26), and Jagdish Lohar (27). Police said that the duo was also involved in the theft that took place on Sumul Dairy road in the city. Police had earlier arrested Bheraram alias Bharat Meghwad who revelaed the role of the two accused. Police are yet to arrest Gordhansinh alias Pintu Rajput and Arvind alias Avsa alias Balelo Rajput. The accused were nabbed from near Katargam Gotalawadi over bridge based on specific tip-off. Investigations revealed that the accused had targeted a jewellery store in Bengaluru and decamped with gold jewellery after escaping the city. Police recovered 266 gram gold jewellery and Rs 4.15 lakh in cash. The accused are booked with Chickpet police station of Bengaluru, three police stations in Rajasthan, and Krushna Nagar police station in Ahmedabad for various crimes of thefts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/multi-state-thieves-caught-by-surat-cops/articleshow/79103693.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Patna||MGB to get 2/3rd majority in Bihar polls: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Hours before most exit polls gave Mahagathbandhan an edge in Bihar election, its CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said the alliance led by him will get two-thirds majority. “After the polling in the first two phases of assembly polls, Mahagathbandhan is heading towards two-thirds majority by the end of third phase. Bihar is all set for a change for the better,” Tejashwi told a news agency in Patna on Saturday morning. Tejashwi, who will turn 31 on Monday, also took a jibe at incumbent CM Nitish Kumar’s recent announcement that it was his last election. “I have already said that Nitish ji is tired now and he is not able to handle Bihar. Now, he has accepted that he is going to take retirement,” he said. Nitish also issued a statement in the morning, appealing people to exercise their franchise in the third and last phase. “I would appeal to voters in 78 assembly segments going to polls in the third phase to exercise your voting rights. Your single vote will provide the required support to maintain the pace of development in the state,” Nitish tweeted. BJP national vice-president and Purvi Champaran MP Radhamohan Singh, however, claimed that NDA is going to win Bihar election with two-thirds majority. “There is no doubt that NDA is going to form the government. More than two-thirds of our candidates will win the polls and Nitish ji will become the CM again,” he said. However, LJP chief Chirag Paswan reiterated that Nitish will not remain the CM after November 10, when the votes will be counted. “The performance of candidates of BJP as well as LJP has been quite good in the first two phases of polls and I am hopeful that our performance will be better in the last leg,” he said. JD(U)’s national secretary general K C Tyagi, however, told TOI that he was confident of good results. “We are waiting for November 10 as exit polls are not always true. We continue to stand with Nitish ji as he is the finest social leader after Karpoori Thakur,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-hopeful-of-two-thirds-majority/articleshow/79105555.cms||Piyush Tripathi
November 8, 2020||Surat||Coal dust harassment in Magdalla endless||Surat: Residents in the posh Surat-Magdalla road woke up to the heavy spillage of coal dust on the main road passing near the Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) on Saturday.The transport trucks carrying coal from the Magdalla port had spilled the coal dust during early morning hours. Residents had to face a tough time until the road was cleared off the coal dust by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC).In the last few years, the Udhana-Magdalla road has become the hotspot for coal dust pollution due to the constant movement of the trucks carrying coal from the Magdalla port which are delivering to the textile mills in Pandesara, Sachin and Palsana.Despite various representation by the citizens and cycling clubs to the concerned authorities including the SMC for resolving the issue, the nightmare still continues.Yogesh Mistry, a resident of Vesu told TOI, “It was a routine morning walk on the VNSGU road when I saw mounds of coal dust on the road. The wind was blowing the dust particles and it was difficult to pass from the road. I immediately contacted the SMC helpline number requesting them to clear the road of coal dust.”Mistry added, “This is not a new for the residents in Vesu. The coal dust pollution on the road is very heavy.”Yogesh Patel, founder of Life Cycling Green Association (LCGA) told TOI, “The road from Athwagate to Dumas beach is the only ideal track for cyclists. Our club members hit the road early in the morning to avoid pollution, but the stretch from Magdalla to VNSGU is ruining our 30km of cycling due to severe coal pollution.”A senior SMC officer asking anonymity said, “It is the responsibility of the RTO and the police department to check the overloaded vehicles transporting the coal from Magdalla without covering them with tarpaulin. We are getting complaints from the residents quite frequently for cleaning up the roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/coal-dust-harassment-in-magdalla-endless/articleshow/79103711.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Left parties, TDP, TJS decide to enter poll fray||HYDERABAD: The two main Left parties — CPI and CPM — will enter the GHMC poll fray with the twin objective of keeping their presence alive in the labour-centric pockets of the city and defeating the BJP in every possible way. The two parties will contest from 50 wards but do not mind to withdraw their candidates if a contestant from a secular party has more chances of winning against the BJP. The TDP and the Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) have also decided to contest the civic body polls. Sources said the Left parties will hold talks with the TDP and TJS for an electoral understanding but a formal poll-alliance may not work out.CPM state secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram told STOI that the CPM and CPI have come to an understanding to contest the poll in an alliance or through understanding. - Roushan Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/left-parties-tdp-tjs-decide-to-enter-poll-fray/articleshow/79105554.cms||Roushan Ali
November 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s Covid battle to be on Republic Day tableau||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government will showcase the development work done amid various challenges, the state’s tryst with the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak and how it ensured best health facilities and social security for its citizens in the crisis by depicting its achievements in the 2021 Republic Day parade in the state capital. The tableau of the state information department in the Republic Day parade will be designed to highlight the government’s achievements in law and order, economic and social progress, 2018 investors’ summit, implementation of the PM Garib Kalyan Rozgar scheme, employment generation and progress in the field of agriculture. On Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the theme for the UP information department’s tableau in the Republic Day parade in Lucknow, will be ‘Chunautiyon ke Beech Badhta UP’ (UP progressing amid challenges). The tableau will also showcase the efficient handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the massive efforts to provide healthcare facilities and social security to citizens during the crisis that turned out to be a model across the country and changed the perspective about the state. This tableau will be different from the state’s entry for the national Republic Day parade held in New Delhi. In 2019, UP’s entry, themed ‘Sarva Dharma Sama Bhav’ had won the second prize. It displayed UP’s cultural and religious tourism and showcased Sufi shrines like Dewa Sharif and Varanasi cultural stalwarts classical singer Girijia Devi and shehnai maestro Ustad Bismillah Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-covid-battle-to-be-on-r-day-tableau/articleshow/79106546.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Kin of road mishap victims paid Rs 30 crore in lok adalats||HYDERABAD: Speeding up the justice delivery methods, the Telangana judiciary on Saturday held virtual lok adalats in all the districts and ensured delivery of more than Rs 30 crore compensation cheques, mostly to scores of aggrieved families that have lost their breadwinners in fatal road accidents. All cases of road mishaps were fast-tracked through lok adalats in tune with the instructions of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan who is also the patron-in-chief of the state legal services authority. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kin-of-road-mishap-victims-paid-rs-30-cr-in-lok-adalats/articleshow/79105594.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Rajkot||Fire at Tata Chemical in Mithapur||Rajkot: Fire broke out in coal storage unit of Tata Chemical Ltd’s (TCL) factory in Mithapur town of Devbhumi Dwarka district on Saturday afternoon. However, there were no reports of any casualties in the incident.Thick black smoke was seen billowing even from a distance, said the locals.According to company official, the fire broke out in one of the units used for storing coal. “The fire has been completely extinguished and there is no impact on people or plant operations. The cause of the fire is under investigation,” stated the company spokesperson. He added “The company reiterates its commitment towards ensuring highest priority on safety, health and environment.”Tata Chemicals Ltd currently is the world’s third largest producer of soda ash with manufacturing facilities in Asia, Europe, Africa and North America.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fire-at-tata-chemical-in-mithapur/articleshow/79103727.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: At 57.9%, phase 3 sees highest turnout||PATNA: The three-phase election for the 243-member state assembly concluded on Saturday with an estimated 57.9% voter turnout recorded in the third and final round held in 78 constituencies in Seemanchal, Kosi, Mithila and Tirhut regions. The total turnout in 2015 Saturday’s turnout of 57.9% is the highest compared to the earlier two phases held on October 28 (55.7%) and November 3 (55.6%). The last leg of the election is important for both the ruling NDA and the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan. Out of 78, 24 seats are in Seemanchal region consisting Kishanganj, Katihar, Araria and Purnia districts, which have a sizable population of Muslims. “The stakes were very high for CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar, who played an emotional card in his campaigning for the last phase of polling,” said a poll analyst Professor D M Diwakar. In the Seemanchal region, the GA has an advantage due to a majority of the constituencies having a large number of Muslim voters. As per EC's data, Kishanganj recorded the highest voter turnout of 62.6% followed by Katihar (61.6%) and Purnia (59.3). Araria, however, witnessed a comparatively low turnout at 54.58%. Similarly, Kosi belt consisting Saharsa, Supaul and Madhepura recorded a huge turnout of voters. While Saharsa recorded 60.20%, Madhepura recorded 59% and Supaul 61.19%, respectively. A muscleman-turned politician Anand Mohan's wife Lovely Anand is contesting from Saharsa on an RJD ticket. The state energy minister Bijendra Prasad is also in the fray. On the other hand, the BJP-JD(U) combine has its strong influence in Mithilanachal comprising Darbhanga and Madhubani and Tirhut region consisting of Muzaffarpur and Sitamarhi. Madhubani recorded a voter turnout of 56.36% whereas polling percentage in Sitamarhi stood at 55.8%. Ritu Jaiswal, an award-winning mukhiya, is in the fray as RJD candidate from Parihar in Sitamarhi district. East Champaran and West Champaran recorded a turnout of 57.16% and 56.02%, respectively. In 2015 election, the BJP led NDA had managed to bag the majority of the seats in Champaran region despite the saffron party's overall poor performance. Majority of the exit polls gave an edge to the Mahagathbandhan comprising RJD, Congress and Left parties. State CEO H R Srinivasa said that the three-phase election passed off peacefully barring a sporadic minor incident of clashes. “It was a big challenge for the commission to conduct elections amid Covid19 pandemic in Bihar which has around 7.3 crore voters. However, a large number of voters exercised their franchise defying the fear of pandemic,” he added. Altogether 1204 candidates were in the fray in the last phase. Meanwhile, an independent candidate from Benipatti in Madhubani district Neeraj Jha succumbed to Coronavirus infection on Saturday. Jha, a former JD(U) leader, was undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna for the last 10 days after being infected with the deadly virus. A presiding officer Kedar Rai died due to heart attack at a polling booth under Katra block in Muzaffarpur district. Rai, employed with the state irrigation department, was deployed at polling booth number 190 in Katra block in the district. CEO H R Srinivasa confirmed an incident of firing outside a polling booth in Dhamdaha assembly constituency in Purnia district after a heated argument between some residents and the security personnel, who allegedly thrashed some voters for breaking the queue at polling booth number 282. In another incident, a brother of an RJD nominee Bittu Singh was killed near Sarsi village in Purnia district. The deceased, Beni Singh, was attacked by some assailants when he was moving from one booth to another in Dhamdaha assembly constituency. Also, an FIR was lodged against RJD nominee Sarfaraz Alam for defying model code of conduct by wearing a badge of the party while visiting his polling booth to cast his vote in Jokihat assembly constituency. Reports of poll boycott for lack of road also poured in from a few polling booths in Madhepura district. Valmikinagar bypoll The by-poll for the Valmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency in West Champaran district recorded an estimated voter turnout of 56.03%. In the 2019 general election, the polling percentage stood at 61.89%. Similarly, an estimated 55.09% voter turnout was registered at three polling booths in Hilsa assembly constituency in Nalanda district. Re-poll was held on polling booths 52, 52A and 55 on EC’s directive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/58-turnout-in-last-leg-of-polls/articleshow/79105599.cms||Ramashankar
November 8, 2020||Pune||No sealed areas in eight of 15 PMC wards||PUNE: Drastic drop in Covid-19 cases has resulted in zero micro-containment zones in eight of the 15 PMC wards. Even the remaining seven wards have just 13 sealed areas, the lowest since May. The latest micro-containment zones are in areas like Lohegaon, Phursungi, Hadapsar, areas along Paud Road like Sutardara, Ambegaon, Santoshnagar-Katraj and parts of Kasba Peth- Guruwar Peth. The localities of Shivajinagar, Aundh-Baner, Dhole Patil Road, Sinhagad Road, Kondhwa, Yerawada, Bibvewadi and Warje-Karvenagar do not have a single micro-containment zone. A civic official said, “Prior to this, there were 33 containment zones in the Pune municipal limits. Now, only a few areas have containment zones. The Hadapsar-Mundhwa and Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar ward limits have just three containment zones each, while Kothrud-Bavdhan and Ahmednagar Road-Vadgaonsheri have two each. The Kasba Peth, Bhavani Peth and Wanowrie ward areas have one containment zone each.” The official said the administration would continue to take stock of the situation every two weeks. As per the latest data released by PMC, the number of active cases have dropped below 5,500 in the municipal limits. Of these, 12% patients are admitted in various hospitals, while remaining are in home isolation. A month ago, PMC had over 14,100 active cases. PMC health officials said since last month, the cases had been coming up sporadically without any major outbreak. Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said the micro-containment zones had been on the decline in the city since October. “Many areas now have no containment zones. The spread of virus has been under control even in the congested localities like slum pockets. But people should understand that the virus has not gone completely. People should continue to wear masks and follow social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-sealed-areas-in-eight-of-15-pmc-wards/articleshow/79105592.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Governor weighing options on ordinance on Kerala Police Act||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Governor Arif Mohammed Khan is learnt to be examining the constitutionality of the draft ordinance to amend Kerala Police Act, 2011, that would include provisions giving unbridled powers to police in initiating action against not only cyber bullies but all types of media, including mainstream media. The proposed amendment has been pending with the governor, sources said. The governor, who was not in the state till Thursday, is learnt to be examining the various options available before him and discussing the matter with constitutional experts. Signing the ordinance or sending it back is not the only option available with the governor in this case, say experts. He can also refer the matter to the Centre. As per Article 254 (2) of the Constitution, “where a law made by the legislature of a state with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the concurrent list contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by the Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the legislature of such state, shall if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in the state.” Since law and order is a concurrent subject, the governor can send the ordinance to the President for consideration. This will invite the scrutiny of the Centre, which is still smarting from certain sections of similar legislation it had enacted being struck down as unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. The state had encountered a similar situation — dealing with another subject on the concurrent list — when it passed the Malayalam Language (Dissemination and Enrichment) Bill, 2015. The bill made its way to the governor, who then referred it to the President over doubts whether it would contravene the three language formula under the Official Languages Act. The bill is still pending with the Centre. “It is the governor’s prerogative to send legislation for the consideration of the President under Article 254 (2). The governor is also empowered to seek opinion on the constitutionality of legislation from the state government by returning the ordinance,” former law secretary B G Hareendranath said. A governor could also hold on to an ordinance without signing it as there is no time frame mentioned within which it is to be signed. Many NGOs and civil rights groups have made representations to the state government demanding review of the ordinance. Except for a missive from the state convener of BJP’s intellectual cell, T G Mohandas, most of these representations however have not made their way to the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/guv-weighing-options-on-ordinance-on-police-act/articleshow/79104580.cms||KP Saikiran
November 8, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Wrong spelling in ransom SMS lands boy’s killer in jail||LUCKNOW: Two misspelt words in the ransom note SMSed from a stolen mobile phone was a clue that helped police crack the abduction and murder of an eight-year-old Hardoi boy on Saturday. Holding the child hostage, the accused had texted the Rs 2-lakh ransom note in English format to his father and spelt police as ‘pulish’ and Sitapur as ‘Seeta-pur’ and this inadvertently gave him up in police detention. Scrambling for a breakthrough, police detained 10 persons based on a tip-off and cues from its phone surveillance apparatus. Lining up the 10 suspects in the thana, cops ordered them to write a sentence which had both words — police and Sitapur — and managed to zero in on the captor, Ram Pratap Singh, 22, who again misspelt the words as in the ransom text. Singh was a distant cousin of the child and a resident of Sandila. The case was worked out by SP, Hardoi, Anurag Vats, who told TOI that the missing complaint was received at Beniganj police station on November 4. The boy could not be traced since October 26 when he visited his grandmother’s house. At 11.30 pm on the same day, the boy’s father received a SMS which read — Do lakh rupay Seeta-Pur lekar pahuchiye. Pulish ko nahi batana nahi to haatya kar denge (Come to Sitapur with Rs 2lakh ransom money. Don’t inform police or your son will be killed). “We swiftly formed teams to track the kidnapped boy and called back on the same number, but it was switched off. The cyber surveillance cell was roped in and we detained the subscriber, who seemed illiterate and unable to write SMSes. Later, after scanning CCTV footage and acting on a tipoff, we detained 10 persons from the area,” said the officer. They were asked to write — “Main police main bharti hona chahta hun” and “Main Hardoi se Sitapur daud kar ja sakta hun” (I want a police job. I can run from Hardoi to Sitapur). Ram Pratap misspelt police for ‘pulish’ and Sitapur for ‘Seeta-Pur’ and was immediately arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wrong-spelling-in-ransom-sms-lands-boys-killer-in-jail/articleshow/79106561.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bareilly||15 booked, a BJP functionary detained for ‘thrashing’ dist hospitals lab technician||BAREILLY: As many as 15 unidentified people were booked and BJP Mandal president Mahesh Sharma detained for allegedly thrashing a lab technician at Bareilly district hospital. Mohammed Rizwan, an X-Ray lab technician, said, “I had only asked a person to wear the face mask properly as he was in the Covid-19 ward. As I started moving towards my room, he suddenly appeared along with 10-15 people, and they started thrashing me. A few of them were BJP local unit members, but I don’t know anyone of them personally.” The entire incident was recorded by CCTV cameras based on which an FIR was registered under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to a public servant), 353 (assault or criminal force to any public servant with intent to deter that person from discharging his duty) and 504 (intentional insult) against 15 unidentified people, said police. Civil Lines SHO Sudhakar Pandey told TOI, “We have detained Mahesh Sharma based on CCTV recording. The investigating officer (IO) is questioning him. There is no political pressure on us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/15-booked-a-bjp-functionary-detained-for-thrashing-dist-hosp-lab-technician/articleshow/79103724.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra Covid task force counters forecast showing 5 lakh cases in 30 days||PUNE: The state Covid task force has disagreed with a Union health ministry projection that estimates nearly five lakh more cases in Maharashtra between October-end and November-end. The ministry, as part of the forecast, also said beds and other health infrastructure should be readied ahead of Diwali and the winter. The projection relies on mathematical modelling. But members of the state task force said mathematical models often don’t work. “We have been recording a dip in Covid-19 cases and our health machinery is ready. Such projection models have never worked. They only scare people,” a task force member said. The expert said projection models have been failing right from the first month of the pandemic. “Covid does not follow mathematics. These models are also not peer-reviewed before release,” the official said. There state has had over 17 lakh progressive cases: 15.62 lakh have been discharged and over one lakh remain under treatment. In the letter to the state health ministry, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the projection (over 21 lakh cases by November 30) was based on mathematical modelling and does not take into account ongoing efforts to contain the pandemic. The letter goes on to ask states to modify the estimates by factoring in variables such as local surveillance. “Estimates for bed capacities required up to November 30 may be done at the state level after factoring in district-specific variables,” the letter said. State director of health services, Archana Patil, who received the letter, said the estimates would be shared with local authorities. “There are enough beds in most regions. But districts with high caseloads will be asked to retain the numbers they have now,” Patil said. A C Mishra, a former director of the National Institute of Virology, said focus should now be on enhancing health services. “No patient who has tested positive should be made to run around if there’s an emergency. While handing over beds, hospitals should also be geared up for Covid spikes. The health machinery should focus on such measures instead of contact tracing because there has been a surge in inter-state movement,” he said. District task force head Dr Subhash Salunke said private hospitals that are admitting general patients should be able to redirect beds — within 24 hours — if there is a rise in cases. “The step down process in the region is temporary as the 80:20 directive still stands. Half of Pune district's bed capacity should be on stand-by, as discussed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/task-force-counters-forecast-showing-5l-cases-in-30-days/articleshow/79105597.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 8, 2020||Bareilly||Woman accused of getting husband murdered by contract killers sent to jail||BAREILLY: A woman accused of getting her husband murdered on October 12 by hiring contract killers with the help of her paramour in Firozabad was sent to jail on Saturday. According to police, the accused, Vinita, wanted to get rid of her husband Avdhesh Kumar, who was 12 years older to her. The woman said with the help of her paramour, a police constable, she had hired the killers. When Avdhesh went missing for days, her mother filed an FIR at Izzatnagar police station in Bareilly on October 24. During the investigation, police recovered Avdhesh’s body from Firozabad on October 26. Police said fearing arrest, Vinita’s paramour committed suicide on October 27 after sending a message pleading his innocence. Police arrested Vinita on Friday evening, and she was sent to jail on Saturday. Izzatnagar SHO KK Verma said, “Avdhesh was killed on October 12. The accused had poured acid on the body to destroy the identity and dumped it in a field in Firozabad. We have collected evidence against Vinita. Firozabad police, meanwhile, arrested a contract killer. We will soon file a charge-sheet in this connection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-accused-of-getting-husband-murdered-by-contract-killers-sent-to-jail/articleshow/79103737.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 8, 2020||Vadodara||Boycott spurs friction in French lubricant’s biz in Godhra||Vadodara: While posters, demonstrations and representations have made the angst against France’s hurting religious sentiments widely visible across the city, a much stronger signal in this regard was sent in Godhra, albeit very silently.A section of people boycotted a French product in right earnest without going public with their intentions. The Simla locality in Godhra is dotted by a series of garages and workshops. Since quite some time now, a majority of these garages were using lubricants made by a prominent French company, with many garages even putting up signboards with the firm’s logo in the market. Simla market operators claim that the pocket is a formidable business force to reckon with. “There may be 300-odd garages here. Most had started using the same lubricant and even those using the vehicles were happy with it. Now, we have decided to boycott the product and nobody is using it,” said Altaf Jabha, who has a garage in the area. Jabha said that with discontinuing the product, the signboards too lost their place on the shutters. “If we do not use the product where is the need for the signboards?” he asked. Those operating from the area pointed out that the decision to boycott the lubricant company was taken about 15-20 days back, much before the recent demonstrations actually began. “I know of 15 to 20 garages of people known to me itself who have stopped using the lubricant. There are many others who have done the same. We felt hurt with whatever happened in France and hence took the decision,” said Rizwan Bhatuk, another garage owner. The garage owners point out that so far there have been no attempts to convince the to start using the product again. They said that it may not be of much use given whatever has transpired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/boycott-spurs-friction-in-french-lubricants-biz-in-godhra/articleshow/79103745.cms||Sachin Sharma
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Need to focus on early detection: FICCI president||HYDERABAD: Instead of directing all energies towards bringing down the cost of existing healthcare treatment, the ideal route is to ensure that there is comprehensive screening process at the primary healthcare level and an early detection of disease to enable early treatment, said FICCI president and Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Limited joint MD Sangita Reddy, on Saturday. “It is important to focus on prevention, early detection and wide-scale screening. Early treatment can remove the need for high-end therapies. This is a better way to bring down the overall cost of the healthcare system in the country” she said, while addressing participants virtually at the ISB PGPMAX Leadership Summit 2020. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/need-to-focus-on-early-detection-ficci-president/articleshow/79105606.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Pune||Business finally picks up for street food vendors in Pune after lockdown-triggered lull||PUNE: After being in the dumps for around seven months, things are finally looking up for street vendors in the city. “Business has picked up in the last two weeks. People are coming out on weekends for shopping and want to grab a bite,” said Raju Dalal, a corn cup seller on MG Road. “I had no business since March and could not send any money to my family back home. I did odd jobs and survived somehow. It was a big struggle, but things appear to be better now. I had to take a small loan to get back on my feet and buy stock and things like gloves. Unless people know that we are taking precautions and the food is safe, nobody will come to our stall,” he added. Rohit Bhore, a bhel puri seller near Sarasbaug, said, “Now that parks have reopened, I have been parking my cart here. Now, many customers come even after the park is closed. I use mineral water to make chutneys. I serve about 20-30 customers a day, but I used to cater to about 100-200 customers daily prior to the pandemic.” Pavan Chaudhuri, who sells kebabs on Modelina Road, said, “People were afraid of eating outside food, so there was no question of them buying food from a cart. Now that the festive season is on, people are having street food again. We take adequate safety precaution. Earlier, our stock would be exhausted by 9.30 pm, but we are preparing less food now, so that there is no wastage.” Anand Pradhan, a momo seller in Kondhwa, said, “People coming for walks in the area usually pick up a parcel of momos and eat them at home. Earlier, customers would prefer having the momos hot and freshly steamed, but now they cannot eat on the road. While I used to have over 100 customers daily before the pandemic, now I serve around 50.” Bidisha Verma, resident of Camp, said, “Street food is an important part of any city. Come festive time, everyone wants to enjoy themselves while shopping and gorging on street food. In the evenings, we go out for a stroll and bring home street food sometimes.” Rateesh Jadhav, from Swargate, said, “There are some street foods which you cannot enjoy at home, like bhel. It gets soggy. The best way to enjoy it is to have it at Sarasbaug.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/business-finally-picks-up-for-street-food-vendors-after-lockdown-triggered-lull/articleshow/79105604.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Vadodara||After decline from peak, cases stagnant||Vadodara: After peaking in September, the Covid-19 outbreak had provided some relief with cases going down consistently. But the decline now seems to have flattened and the numbers are going down at a snail’s pace. Covid-19 had peaked in the Vadodara city and district on September 19 when the highest number of cases was registered with 135 persons testing positive. After this a consistent decline was seen and n about a month the number of new cases testing positive on a day went down to below 100 with 99 persons testing positive on October 20. After October 20, the decrease in the number of cases has been sluggish. On Saturday, 91 new cases were reported in the city and district and on most days before this, the number stayed around 95 new cases a day. Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s medical officer Dr Devesh Patel said that the case positivity ratio had been constant and did not show a significant decline off late. “With beds remaining vacant, hospitals have stopped using some Covid-19 beds or wards and the total number of beds has reduced from 6,022 to 4,777. We are not denotifying any hospitals to ensure that beds are available if needed in the future,” Patel said. Patel added that a reason for the number not going down significantly could be people letting down their guard. “The movement of people has increased. Also, many of them believe that they should not worry as most of the cases are asymptomatic,” said Patel. Former professor and head of the department of community medicine at the Baroda Medical College Dr V S Mazumdar said that one should not rush to conclusions considering figures of positive cases alone. “The situation in hospitals, availability of beds, the situation in OPDs and other factors give a more realistic picture,” he said. According to Mazumdar the data from hospitals was truly encouraging. “We have the SSG Hospital taking up renovation in some wards as the number of patients went down. Both here at the GMERS Hospital, Gotri, floors where Covid-19 patients were treated are now vacant,” he said. The professor added that the new cases included both those of city and district. “If one considers only the city, 50 to 60 cases are reported. In a population of about 20lakh this is not alarming,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-decline-from-peak-cases-stagnant/articleshow/79103769.cms||Sachin Sharma
November 8, 2020||Kochi||Hareesh wins Rs 25L JCB Prize for ‘Moustache’||New Delhi: “Moustache” by S Hareesh, translated from the Malayalam by Jayasree Kalathil, was announced the winner of the Rs 25-lakh JCB Prize for Literature on Saturday. The book, which is the author’s debut novel, is a contemporary classic mixing magic, myth and metaphor into a tale of far-reaching resonance. It is the second debut novel as well as the second Malayalam translation to win the award. The book was selected by a panel of four judges — writer and translator Aruni Kashyap, professor, cultural theorist and author Tejaswini Niranjana, playwright and director Ramu Ramanathan, and head of the arts & culture portfolio at Tata Trusts Deepika Sorabjee. “‘Moustache’ is a fine work of Indian fiction by a highly regarded Malayalam author whose work is now coming into English translation. Hareesh engages in an agile and deeply insightful way with the caste and gender equations of the Kuttanad region in this intricate and highly readable story. “Jayasree Kalathil’s translation of the novel is fluent and energetic. She conveys the specificity of the context without missing the wood for the trees.” Niranjana, the jury chair, said. Kashyap said the book was “ astonishing and very original”. “I don’t know any other novel that is actually written in this way. It is political but also a feat in storytelling. “I think ‘Moustache’ will be discussed for sure for its representation of caste politics, magic realism or folklore, the community, history of an underrepresented region called Kuttanad, but I will remember this book for its daring storytelling,” Kashyap said. Hareesh has previously authored three short-story collections, as well as two screenplays. Previous winners of the JCB Prize for Literature include, Benyamin (Jasmine Days), and Madhuri Vijay (The Far Field). agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hareesh-wins-rs-25l-jcb-prize-for-moustache/articleshow/79104592.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bareilly||Woman stabbed 50 times, mutilated over ‘property dispute’, dad killed too||BAREILLY: A 27-year-old woman who was found murdered and mutilated along with her 58-year-old father at their residence in Nagphani area of Moradabad on Friday, was stabbed at least 50 times by her killers. She also had 20 stab wounds on the head and face, a postmortem report stated on Wednesday. A property dispute was said to be the motive. The report further disclosed that seven stab wounds were found on her father. Six police teams have been formed and the case is under probe. The accused are still on the run. Combing operation is underway and the case will be cracked soon, police said. A panel of doctors from Moradabad district hospital who conducted the postmortem on the two deceased mentioned that the woman was stabbed 50 times while her father's throat had a deep wound. Moradabad SP Amit Kumar Anand said, “Prima facie and according to the information from the family, it appears that the crime was committed due to an ongoing property dispute. However, we are probing the case and expecting results soon.” The deceased have been identified as Nazrul Hussain, a broker, and his daughter Samreen. They belonged to Kisraul locality under Nagphani police station limits. The police have registered an FIR against unknown persons under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-stabbed-50-times-mutilated-over-property-dispute-dad-killed-too/articleshow/79103755.cms||Maria Khan
November 8, 2020||Pune||PMR sees 772 discharges, 441 infections & 26 deaths||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded 772 recoveries as compared to 441 cases on Saturday. Besides, 26 patients succumbed to coronavirus-related complications in the region in the last 24 hours, taking its toll to 8,068. The recoveries surpassed new cases in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits as well as the rural areas. The PMC areas added 169 cases and 392 discharged on Saturday, while the PCMC limits recorded 97 cases and 161 recoveries. In the case of the rural and cantonment areas, they recorded 175 cases and 219 recoveries on Saturday. With this, the total cases in PMR reached above 3.27 lakh, while recoveries climbed past 3.08 lakh. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the rural areas reported 12 deaths in the last 24 hours, while 10 patients succumbed in the PMC limits. The death tally of the PMC areas has reached 4,495 so far. As many as 1,546 patients have died in the PCMC limits so far. Active cases dropped below 11,000-mark to 10,934 in PMR on Saturday. Of these, as many as 4,730 patients were admitted in various hospitals, while 6,204 were in home isolation. According to the DHO report, the rural and cantonment areas had 3,361 patients admitted in various hospitals, which was the highest in the region. In the PMC and PCMC limits, 579 and 790 patients were undergoing treatment at various hospitals, respectively. Health authorities conducted 6,952 tests in PMR on Saturday, pushing the total tests above 14.62 lakh. The sample testing in the PMC limits climbed past 7.52 lakh on Saturday night. The testing in the rural areas reached above 2.92 lakh and 4.17 lakh in the PCMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-sees-772-discharges-441-infections-26-deaths/articleshow/79105611.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 8, 2020||Pune||Long wait at Khed-Shivapur toll plaza irks commuters||PUNE: The acceptance of cash and card payments in all the lanes of Khed-Shivapur toll plaza, including the eight dedicated FASTag lanes, has irked motorists for the increased waiting time. Pune resident Yash Jalan, who recently travelled on the Pune-Satara highway, said, “During my travel last week, I had to wait for nearly 10 minutes during my onwards and return journeys at Khed-Shivapur toll plaza. The vehicles before me were paying in cash even though we were in a FASTag lane. People paying in cash in dedicated FASTag lanes need to be penalized.” Virat Ghadge, a regular commuter on the stretch, demanded better visibility for FASTag and cash lane markings. “There are two lanes for cash, but people cannot see these lanes till they come very close. A driver must be able to spot the cash lanes from at least 200-300 metres away,” he said. An official from Reliance Infra said 58% of the revenue at the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza came from FASTag. The official said though they were penalizing vehicles paying cash in the FASTag lanes, people continued to enter these lanes. “Discounts on return journeys are available only for those with tags,” he said. Ghadge said neither National Highways Authority of India nor Reliance Infra have put up any signage to demarcate the toll exempt lanes, which also increases the wait time. “Earlier this year, it was announced MH12 and MH14 registered vehicles are exempted from paying toll. However, no specific lanes are kept for movement of these vehicles,” he said. However, the Reliance Infra official said no such exemptions had been made for anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/long-wait-at-khed-shivapur-toll-plaza-irks-commuters/articleshow/79105616.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 8, 2020||Lucknow||Zip through Purvanchal expressway from January 14||LUCKNOW: The Purvanchal Expressway is likely to be thrown open to the public on January 14 next year. UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi made this announcement on Saturday after he and IIDC Alok Tandon made an aerial survey of the 341-km project connecting the state capital with Ghazipur. Awasthi told TOI after his inspection that the first two packages beginning from Lucknow will be started in December itself and the remaining six packages by mid-January. “The project is being completed in record time,” he said. The expressway will pass through nine districts, Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur. “Had there not been a stringent lockdown for two months in the wake of the pandemic, we would have dedicated the entire 341-km long Purvanchal Expressway on the scheduled date of November 14, but now most likely it will be around January 14,” Awasthi, who is supervising construction of multiple expressways worth Rs 75,000 crore in the state, said. Awasthi said that he and the IIDC made an inspection of the Purvanchal Expressway on the direction of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. “We did spot testing and checking of the quality of the construction and the material and were satisfied with the speed of the work as well as the material used,” he added. The Purvanchal Expressway is the dream project of the chief minister, who has been branding it as the lifeline of the state which will connect the eastern parts of the state to Delhi via Agra-Lucknow Expressway and give a huge boost to the economic activities. It was Awasthi’s 21st spot inspection of the work at Purvanchal Expressway since the beginning of the project and he has been pursuing it aggressively by holding weekly review meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/zip-through-purvanchal-expressway-from-jan-14/articleshow/79106567.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 8, 2020||Pune||Strife over mandatory mask rule casts poser on patience of police, public||PUNE: Police constable Abasaheb Sawant was “taken for a ride” when he tried to stop a car driver for not wearing a mask in Chinchwad on Thursday. He was dragged a kilometre on the bonnet of the four-wheeler. “Traffic offenders arguing with police personnel is not new, but never did I imagine going through such a horrifying experience,” said Sawant. Sawant suffered a fractured leg. It could have been worse had he not clung on to the car’s bonnet. Sawant’s is not a case in isolation. The Covid-19 pandemic and the administration’s subsequent stress on wearing of face masks in public places and while driving have prompted a strife of sorts on roads between a section of public and some policemen. According to experts, a sense of frustration creeped in among people amid lockdown and the subsequent phased relaxation. Also, they felt, the complacency with the declining number of Covid-19 cases was contributing to the spurt in police personnel getting abused by citizens. “People with frustration feel offended when someone imposes restrictions on them. Also, the general perception about the ‘police and their high-handed approach’ contributes to defiance of law,” clinical psychologist Kanchan Shelke told TOI. Clinical psychologist Amruta Kashikar said some people had a tendency to behave defiantly when restrictions were imposed on them. “Now, they are abusing and roughing up police over the mask rule. There were other reasons for such behaviour before the pandemic. The way the police communicate can also have a huge impact on the reaction they get from citizens,” she said. Some “disgusted” residents gave their own reasons to support the defiance. Nitin Memane from Kharadi said, “The police are targeting only those on two-wheelers or in cars. Those roaming around are not fined. Looks like the police are doing this to achieve the fine collection target.” Wagholi’s Nitin Kumar Jain said, “There are two sides to the issue. First, people ignoring norms intentionally and arguing with policemen. The second is unnecessary harassment by the police.” Diksha Kini, a businesswoman, differed. “The police are a soft target just like others in the administration. The cases of abusing the police personnel have seen a spike probably because there is more frustration among people now.” The police officers argued that some vehicle users indulged in name dropping to dissuade the men in uniform from collecting fines, triggering arguments. Ramakant Gard from the Deccan Gymkhana police said, “People who want to avoid paying fine tend to pick up arguments, no matter how politely we talk to them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strife-over-mandatory-mask-rule-casts-poser-on-patience-of-police-public/articleshow/79105614.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 8, 2020||Patna||Breach in embankment halts Kahalgaon power production||BHAGALPUR: Four power production units at Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Station (KhSTPP) were shut down after breach in the fly ash dyke embankment early Saturday morning. It hit total 1420MW power production from unit number 3 and 4 (210MW each) and units 5 and 6 (500MW each). Executive director of NTPC (Kahalgaon), Chandan Chakraborty, told this newspaper that a technical committee has been constituted to look into the issue. “NTPC experts from New Delhi will reach Kahalgaon on Sunday to probe the issue. We are working on a war footing to restore power generation,” he said and added, “Electricity is being generated from the two other units. The four units have been shut down as preventive measures only.” The KhSTPS has altogether seven power production units, 4 of 210MW and 3 of 500MW each, generating total 2340MW electricity. Bihar is one of the major beneficiaries of power generation by the KhSTPS. A KhSTPS official, preferring anonymity, said only 280MW is being produced as the sixth unit of 500MW is also under overhauling process. Meanwhile, the sources said preliminary investigation indicated that the overflow of residual water under the ash dyke embankment might have caused the breach. “A high-level technical inquiry committee has been formed for investigating the cause. There is no loss of life or damage to properties. We are monitoring the affected sites and are in touch with local administration and neighbouring villagers,” the official said, adding that electricity generation is likely to be resumed soon. Fly ash is a byproduct at coal-based power generating thermal plants. Fly ash, in slurry condition from the power plants, is disposed of in the ash dykes, which are also referred as man-made artificial ponds for filtration and storage. The Kahalgaon officials claimed to have initiated repair of the embankment to resume power production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/breach-in-embankment-halts-kahalgaon-power-production/articleshow/79105626.cms||Kumar Rajesh
November 8, 2020||Mumbai||Set up CCTVs to help solve crimes: Mumbai cops||MUMBAI: The Mumbai Police wants all establishments, including housing societies, malls and office complexes, to install electronic surveillance cameras within two months. The objective, the police said, is to use the surveillance footage for crime investigation and prosecution. "Whoever can install cameras should install them. We are aware that small establishments like small shops or housing societies with a handful of members may find it difficult to afford cameras. But upscale residential towers, malls and office complexes should be able to," said DCP S Chaitanya, spokesperson for the Mumbai Police. A statement issued on Saturday by the police said the cameras should have good resolution and should be mounted in such a manner that the area outside the establishment can also be captured. "In the event of a crime or an incident, we request establishments to hand over the footage to investigators if demanded," the statement said. Police clarified they did not intend to take a review after two months or register cases. "We want establishments to be proactive and not harass anyone. The period could be extended. But later, if a crime occurs in front of an upscale establishment and there was no camera installed in accordance with this order, we would consider whether or not to take penal action," said Chaitanya. Members of the Marine Drive Residents' Association had met joint commissioner, law and order, Vishwas Nangre Patil last month, pushing for more CCTV installation. "During the lockdown, there was a robbery attempt at a sea facing building on Marine Drive and it was because of surveillance cameras that the offender was caught. Security cameras are a great deterrent and many crimes can be solved quickly. Being extremely effective, we had suggested to the joint commissioner that cameras be installed by all establishments," said Kiran Shah and Mahendra Hemdev of the residents' body. But lawyers have a word of caution. "The police's order, in its current form, is issued with a good purpose as it's an appeal to establishments for using their surveillance footage for crime investigation and prosecution. But in the event that the footage is used for anything other than solving already registered offences, it could amount to invading privacy of individuals and create restrictions on freedom of movement and the right to privacy," said Tushar Ajinkya, senior partner at law firm, Economic Laws Practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-urge-shops-hsg-socs-to-set-up-cctvs/articleshow/79105314.cms||Nitasha Natu
November 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Medicos in temporary posts call for extension||PUNE: Representatives of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff who are holding temporary posts have now urged the government to ensure service contracts are extended as part of preparations for a possible second Covid wave. Many of these contracts are set to expire between December and January. The health department currently has a staff shortfall of at least 30%.  A state health department official said while the Covid crisis helped fill temporary posts, there are about 250 permanent posts lying vacant. “Manpower shortage has been an issue for several years. There are many regions that still don’t have district health officers. Even posts of deans have not been filled,” said a senior official. During the Covid emergency, jobs in data-entry and other sections were immediately outsourced. “Even these contracts are set to expire. The government has to issue directives,” the official said. State president of the Indian Medical Association, Avinash Bhondwe, who has received several requests from medical workers, said while many temporary positions were open for at least six months, there were other short-term jobs for which private medical practioners were asked to pitch in. “Our members also responded to jobs that were only for a month or two. But there was no remuneration for such short periods. This needs to be addressed by the state government,” he said. Others said doctors in temporary posts could be given extended service contracts considering the situation. “Cases may have reduced but the situation is not back to normal. The government needs to ensure each district has the required staff," a public health expert said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/medicos-in-temporary-posts-call-for-extension/articleshow/79105621.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 8, 2020||Pune||Inefficient helpline plagues SPPU exams||PUNE: Officials of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on Saturday refuted claims by some students that the helpline had not been adequate to address their problems during the final year examination held in October or the re-examination held between November 5 and 7. University officials said that fake grievances and using students as scapegoats to gain political mileage is the other side of the coin. Kamalakar Shete, a commerce student, said, “The helpline numbers are always busy. If there are over 2.50 lakh students attempting an exam, there should be enough people manning the helpline number. Unfortunately, that doesn’t seem to be the case. If students get an immediate response, then there would be no need to write about it on social media. It is the utter lack of an efficient grievance redressal system that leads to all problems.” However, director of examination and evaluation at SPPU Mahesh Kakade reasoned that there are enough people manning the helpline numbers. “There are 15 helpline channels set up by the private agency conducting the online exams. Apart from that, there are 10 university officials manning another helpline for university-related issues. Hence, in total, there are 25 people resolving students’ queries, which is a reasonably high number,” said Kakade. He further said that many a times some issues are blown out of proportion on social media by certain agents for their own goals and this may not be necessarily true on ground. When the university released the Google form for re-examination, it got a lot of responses but the actual number of students appearing for the retest tells a different tale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/inefficient-helpline-plagues-sppu-exams/articleshow/79105618.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 8, 2020||Pune||College questions varsity rule on re-evaluation||Pune: Students of an Ahmednagar college questioned the rule of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) to not allow re-evaluation of answer sheets. Seven final year students of New Arts Commerce and Science College, Ahmednagar, have claimed that there has been some mistake in the evaluation of their answer sheet of one subject in the Biotechnology course. They have demanded a photocopy of their OMR sheets. The college principal has also written to SPPU’s examination department seeking the same. The contention lies in the varsity’s circular stating that no photocopy or revaluation would be allowed for final year examination this year. Mahesh Kakade, director of examination and evaluation at SPPU, said that he will look into the matter. “The Biotechnology result this year is above 88%. It is a 22% rise over last year with many achieving First Class. I do not think there will be technical errors in the assessment process but I will look into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/college-questions-varsity-rule-on-re-evaluation/articleshow/79105620.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 8, 2020||Vadodara||Man slapped with Rs 40,000 notice for power theft||VADODARA: As the sarpanch of his village in Chhota Udepur, Prakash Rathwa takes all major decisions for the village. But it turns out that Rathwa is not setting a good example for other villagers as he is accused of serial power theft. In a surprise check conducted by Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Ltd officials, they found that Rathwa had taken connection directly from an electric pole. He did not have any legal connections for his home at Ratanpur (Kaprali) village in Naswadi taluka. Officials from the local sub-division found that Rathwa was using the connection from pole outside his house for operating water pump for a borewell, six fans, four bulbs, a television, and a lamp. After an assessment, Rathwa was slapped with a notice to pay an electricity bill of Rs 40,472 as he had consumed 3,199 units. Officials said that an offence under section 135 of The Electricity Act was registered against Rathwa at GUVNL police station as he was found stealing power for the third time in the past two years. In a similar surprise check in December 2018, Rathwa was slapped with a notice to pay an electricity bill of Rs 14,819. On March 11 last year he was asked to pay an amount of Rs 1,161.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-slapped-with-rs-40k-notice-for-power-theft/articleshow/79103777.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Increase in size of gathering at events to 250 offers huge boost to hotel industry||Jaipur: The state government’s decision to raise the number of people at a function to 250 just ahead of the wedding season has given some hope to most of the large hotels which are overly dependent on big-fat weddings.But the organisers are required to take permission from the district collector for such a wedding or event and adhere to the SOPs that state the number of people cannot exceed 50% capacity of the venues. The upper limit for the number of people has been fixed at 200 in indoor venues and 250 for outdoor areas.While the order says the new norm is applicable to all kinds of events, the immediate demand is expected to come from weddings in November and December which together have seven auspicious days. In fact, the season continues in 2021 having record 59 dates between January and July.Rajesh Rajpurohit, general manager of a leading hotel in the city, said, “The increase in the size of the gathering will help hotels reduce the price. When weddings were limited to100 people, the organiser had to pay extra money because venues were bigger. Now that additional cost will go down as the gathering size has been increased.Rajpurohit said even though November and December have seven dates, room bookings are spread over three weeks.The industry, which is still struggling to stop losing money, expects weddings demand will reduce losses and take them closer to break-even level.“The government’s decision will have a huge impact on the recovery of the hotels. And it has come at the right time when the season starts,” said Pankaj Gupta, general manager of another leading property in the city.However, other hoteliers said that the order has allowed all kinds of events. The meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE) segment will certainly get a boost as soon as people decide to hold events.Rishi Matto, general manager of another leading chain of hotels, said, “Jaipur is an emerging MICE destination. Officially, the government has now allowed events up to 250 people. It will now depend on people’s willingness if they want to hold events. Like everything started slowly after the restrictions were lifted, this segment will also chart a similar path. In that sense, the decision is a huge positive for the industry.”Big Fat Wedding SeasonMonth No. Of Wedding DatesJanuary: 4February: 8March: 5April: 9May: 17June: 10July: 6November: 7December: 7||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/increase-in-size-of-gathering-at-events-to-250-offers-huge-boost-to-hotel-industry/articleshow/79105630.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Body seeks Muslim candidate as mayor for Jaipur Heritage, holds stir||JAIPUR: Rajasthan Muslim Forum (RMF), a body of 20 organisations, on Saturday took out a protest march in the city against the ruling Congress party for not nominating any Muslim as its mayoral candidate from the Jaipur Heritage corporation. The protesters alleged that 29 Congress councillors out of 100 in the corporation are Muslims and one among them should have been nominated for the mayoral post. Similar demand is being made by Muslim groups in Jodhpur North and Kota North corporations. Muslim groups marched from Muslim Musafirkhana to a private hotel in Kukas where the newly elected counsellors of the Jaipur Heritage have been lodged fearing poaching by the BJP. The members of RMF wanted assurance from chief minister Ashok Gehlot that since the nomination process for the mayor is over, they should give us an assurance that after six months, the party’s mayoral candidate to step down, thus creating a space for a Muslim candidate. The march processed from Musafirkhana in the police escort to Kukas. Here they sought permission to meet the Muslim councillors. However, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi tried to convince the members, but in vain. He invited a delegation of five members to meet the Congress leaders. But, the meeting didn’t take place since the RMF members were adamant of holding a meeting with an 11-member committee formed to negotiate with the Congress. Calling the entire episode meant to suppress the Muslim leadership, Sayyad Anwar Shah, member of RMF and among the key members who led the protest says that Muslims wholeheartedly voted for Congress candidates in the polls which made it possible for the Congress to make a board here. “I would like to ask CM Sahab is our demand unfair? Have the 9% Muslim population of Rajasthan not responsible for bringing Congress to the power? Congress leaders should have rewarded the loyalty of their biggest support base by offering us the mayor post. The treatment shows that we are mere voters for the party,” said Shah. Reacting on the controversy, Amin Kagzi, MLA Kishenpole says that party has always honoured the sentiments of the Muslims. “The deputy mayor and members of key committees will be from the minority group. The decision on mayor has been taken by the newly elected counsellors and it is too late to make any alteration in the decision,” said Kagzi, who claimed that the entire controversy is staged by leaders of other smaller parties. He reminded community members that decision of converting single corporation into the double corporations to provide transparent governance has given much-needed representation to Muslims in the political space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/body-seeks-muslim-candidate-as-mayor-for-jaipur-heritage-holds-stir/articleshow/79105687.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Chain snatcher nabbed in less than 10 hours||Mangaluru: The Mangaluru City Police, who swooped on a chain snatcher, have nabbed him in less than 10 hours in Derlakatte, in the wee hours of Saturday. The arrested has been identified as Sultan, 28, native of Kannur in Kerala and working at a fast-food joint in Derlakatte. On Friday evening, at around 7 pm, when victim Nisha, 26, was returning home, the accused arrived on a bike, snatched away one-sovereign gold chain from her and fled the spot. The incident took place at Bagambila, behind Yenepoya Medical Hospital, Derlakatte. Police, who were informed about the incident, started checking CCTV footage available in the vicinity. The bike and clothes worn by the accused acted as a major clue. After yanking the chain, he went to his room in Kinya and returned to the fast-food joint, said police. A case has been registered at Ullal police station. Police are probing his involvement in other chain snatching cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/chain-snatcher-nabbed-in-less-than-10-hours/articleshow/79104608.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Discontent brews over selection of candidates for mayor’s post in Jaipur||Jaipur: Fear of cross-voting in mayoral elections looms large within both the parties — Congress and BJP — as discontent continues to prevail over the selection of candidates for the post in Jaipur city.In BJP, local MLAs have expressed disspleasure for selecting Somya Gurjar as mayor candidate in Greater Jaipur without their consent.Sources said, as Gurjar hails from Karauli, Vidhyadhar Nagar MLA Narpat Singh Rajvi opposed the move to field an outsider. The 150 wards of Greater Jaipur fall under five constituencies out of which three are ruled by the BJP. It is evident that MLAs are unhappy as none participated with Gurjar at the time when she filed the nomination for the mayor’s post. The name of Sukhpreet Bansal, proposed by senior BJP leader and MLA Rajendra Rathore, was also turned down. An office bearer in the BJP said, “Names of nine OBC women candidates, who won the election, were considered for the post. It was a tough choice. However, Gurjar looks promising as she is young and a PhD holder.”The BJP party workers are meekly questioning the decision to field Kusum Yadav in Heritage, who contested as independent candidate. A BJP source said, “Yadav was denied ticket earlier. As an independent, she defeated candidate of BJP party too. To boost the morale of workers, the party should have fielded a candidate who fought with its symbol.” Like BJP, Congress, too, is facing protest for denying top post in Jaipur Heritage to minority candidate, despite the community winning 30% of the seats.Mujahid Naqvi, spokesperson of All India Milli Council, said, “Our contribution is major in formation of boards and not a single top post has been given to us in any of the four boards.” In such circumstances, parties are on strict vigil before the elections as dissatisfaction could lead to cross-voting and change the political equations. Though, senior party members claim these minor tiffs will be resolved before the elections, but both Congress and BJP will lock their councillors till November 10. A source at BJP said, “Only party in-charge is allowed to interact with councillors, while a few leaders are kept at bay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/discontent-brews-over-selection-of-candidates-for-mayors-post-in-jaipur/articleshow/79105667.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Pune||IMA may move court for insurance of deceased doctors||PUNE: The Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) state chapter is planning to move the court for seeking insurance for private doctors, who died while treating Covid-19 patients. IMA-Maharashtra officials said though 61 members of the association died after getting infected while on duty, the insurance claims made by their families were rejected by the state government. “The Union government had announced post-mortem insurance scheme of Rs50 lakh for a doctor providing medical services in the wake of the pandemic. The state government had initially included only doctors working in its facilities for the scheme. State health minister Rajesh Tope subsequently agreed that the insurance scheme will also be applicable for the private doctors. A circular in this regard was also issued on August 17,” IMA-Maharashtra president Avinash Bhondwe said. “The state government, however, rejected the insurance claims raised by the relatives of the 61 doctors despite the circular. When we raised the issue with the state health minister and the chief executive officer of the state public health department, Sudhakar Shinde, we were told that the scheme was announced by the Union government,” he said. “In Delhi and Bihar, the families of private doctors, who succumbed to Covid-19, were granted the insurance. Why can’t it be then done in Maharashtra? We have written to every possible authority but haven’t got any response,” Bhondwe said, adding that several families of deceased doctors were going through a tough time. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) officials said the insurance claims for the deceased civic employees have been sent to the Union government for approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-may-move-court-for-insurance-of-deceased-doctors/articleshow/79105629.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 8, 2020||Pune||Bookstore on wheels promotes reading culture in societies||Pune: Ashay Walambe and his wife Rutika have a simple checklist while venturing out to set up their “bookstore on wheels” across housing societies -- whether there is open space and the size of the society.“We always try and set up our bookstores in an open space. It can be the parking lot or the park inside. We avoid community halls due to Covid-19 safety protocols. And we want to know the size of the society because it helps us to understand the number of books we need to take. Generally, we take around 600 to 700 books per housing society, but if it very big, we also take more copies,” Ashay, owner, Pustakwale, said.Wanting to maintain a culture of reading, Walambes started venturing out on weekends in August in their family car, loaded with books, and setting up bookshops for a few hours a day. Just like any other bookshop, potential customers can pick up books, browse through them, and buy them using multiple payment options.Pustakwale has been invited by over 25 housing societies across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, with a vast array of titles in demand, particularly from kids and senior citizens. Ashay said that at least seven to eight other housing societies are in contact with them and the bookstore-on-wheels is likely to continue at least till the end of the year.“We have not committed to any of the societies that we will make it there on a certain day because the Covid situation is dynamic, but many people are reaching out to us,” Ashay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bookstore-on-wheels-promotes-reading-culture-in-societies/articleshow/79105632.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Strict enforcement of traffic rules required on elevated road||Jaipur: The horrific accident by a speeding luxury car on Friday has exposed a glaring chink in traffic regulations on the Ajmer elevated road, which is now a highly accident-prone stretch. Since inception, the road has already claimed nine lives.Experts claim, in order to prevent accidents on the faulty structure, there is dire need of imposing traffic regulations strictly and installing speed calming devices.Neha Kullar, director of projects at Muskaan Foundation for Road Safety, said, “There is a dangerous 90-degree curve, which makes the stretch accident-prone. Proper signages and speed calming strips should be installed.”Commuters fear as vehicles are usually speeding on this stretch, there could be more disastrous mishaps in the future. It has also been learnt that there is a mismatch of speed among vehicles travelling on the elevated road. “Ideally, bicycles and pedestrians should not use the elevated road. However, we have a mixed traffic in our country. Big hoardings should be installed on the entry and exit educating them about the risk,” said Abhinav Dhakar, an engineer who works abroad. As there are no CCTVs installed and as no traffic policemen have been deputed on this stretch, vehicles can easily get away and violate traffic rules.Dilip Singh, an ex-army officer who travels on the road daily, says, “CCTV cameras must be installed on various points and high penalty should be imposed on overtaking speeding, racing or crossing speed limit on this stretch.” Commuters also complain that half of the lights on both sides of the road are not lit and driving on this road during night becomes more dangerous. Moreover, narrow entry and exit on either end has added to the commuters’ woes.An engineer with Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) said, “As the elevated road concept is new in the city, traffic police through workshops and advertisements must teach the commuters to abide by the speed limit on elevated road. Even travelling at very slow speed can be dangerous for two-wheeler riders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/strict-enforcement-of-traffic-rules-required-on-elevated-road/articleshow/79105651.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Pune||Pune couple put pole sport ‘mallakhamb’ on US map, earn praise from PM Narendra Modi||PUNE: The pole is a huge draw for Pune couple Chinmay and Pradnya Patankar, national and Maharashtra mallakhamb championships respectively. They have been promoting the ancient Indian sport in the US, where they are currently based, and in several other countries. Often described as ‘yoga on pole’, mallakhamb is an indigenous sport originating from Maharashtra. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently spoke about the couple and their efforts in making it popular in the US in his programme Maan Ki Baat. What started as a small initiative from the backyard of their home in Edison, New Jersey, in 2013 now has several mallakhamb centres in various states, with some opening beyond the country’s shores. When word spread, many began coming to their home to learn it. Encouraged, the couple bought wooden poles and ropes from India. “In 2015, we appealed to our friends to start a federation to promote mallakhamb in the US. My friends, Rahul Joshi and Mahesh Wani, helped set up the Mallakhamb Federation USA as a not-for-profit organisation,” said Chinmay. He completed his BE in production from Pune university and now works as a senior analyst with a ratings company in New York. Other friends and acquaintances opened a few mallakhamb centres in the US. In 2016, the federation started a new training centre in Los Angeles. The next year, a centre opened in Detroit, in 2018, another started in Philadelphia followed by another centre up in Jersey City in 2019. More centres are expected to open at Houston, Atlanta, Boston, and San Francisco. Success wasn’t easy. Chinmay personally led mallakhamb demonstrations. “In 2015, mallakhamb was performed at the UN for the first time on Yoga Day. More demonstrations were organised at Governor’s Island, Statute of Liberty, Lincoln Centre of Performing Arts, Boston Children’s Museum, Queens Children’s Museum, Times Square, and other places,” Chinmay said. He trained in the sport from Academy of Physical Education, Pune, and was featured on Fox News. Pradnya penned a Mallakhamb Book of Knowledge. “A curriculum was prepared and divided into basic, intermediate, and advanced skills in five categories of mounts, dismounts, balances, acrobatic skills, and intercepts. The curriculum helped create a structure for centres across the US,” Chinmay, a 2003 Chhatrapati Award winner, said. He also coached Team USA for the first Mallakhamb World Championship in Mumbai in 2018. “The second championship will be hosted by the US in July 2021,” he added. They need coaches fortheir training centres. “Most Indian coaches do not understand US style of coaching. Moreover, regulations entail coaches be paid $6,000 per month as salary. So, we are teaching local people ready to work part-time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-couple-put-pole-sport-mallakhamb-on-us-map-earn-praise-from-pm-modi/articleshow/79105624.cms||Avijit Chatterjee
November 8, 2020||Business||Awarding of NH projects doubles despite pandemic||NEW DELHI: The pace of award of national highway (NH) projects has almost doubled in the past seven months compared to last year despite the Covid pandemic situation. Overall construction is nearly 90% of last year and road transport ministry officials said it would be at par by December. They said a couple of steps have been taken including the relaxation in norms for release of funds to highway builders for the actual work done as part of Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. Awarding of highway projects has touched 5,679 km in the past seven months compared to 2,982 km during last year. Official data also show that construction has increased significantly from 210 km in April this year, which was barely 7 km per day, to 4,628 km by October end. This translates to nearly average construction of 22 km per day during the past seven months. “Construction was severely impacted due to complete lockdown. It has picked up as the restrictions on construction activities were lifted from April 20. We are confident of surpassing the total construction of last year,” said a senior ministry official. Officials from the ministry and NHAI told TOI that relaxations in release of funds to highway builders was made considering the extraordinary situation. “Earlier, the norm was to release the payment linked to a particular stage of construction. Now we are releasing funds based on the work done by the highway builders every month. This has improved their cash flow and it has a direct impact on the pace of construction,” said I K Pandey, director general (roads). Another NHAI official said this change in norm has also come as a bigger relief for highway builders executing projects under Hybrid Annuity Model. He said, “Greater pace of construction has a direct impact on employment and this has a multiplier effect on the economy.” Ministry officials said NH construction agencies have released the retention money, which is 6% of the project cost, to improve the liquidity of private road builders. Sources said the ministry is also considering reduction in the performance security by half, from 5% of the project cost to 2.5%. A senior executive of a major highway construction company said while all these interventions by the government have come when the industry needed them the most, getting enough labourers still remains a challenge at many locations across states. “At best we are getting 60-75% construction workers compared to last year. We are hopeful of improvement on that front to further push construction,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/awarding-of-nh-projects-doubles-despite-pandemic/articleshow/79107067.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 8, 2020||Agra||Authorities in west UP dists swing into action as bad air stifles people||Rampur/Agra/Meerut: With the unhealthy air quality in most of the western districts of Uttar Pradesh stifling people and making children and adults with chronic respiratory syndrome further seek, district authorities have swung into action warning people against burning garbage and issuing fines and booking offenders. Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh on Saturday imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on civic body officials for burning garbage near Gandhi Samadhi and Rs 25,000 for burning garbage near the stadium in Bhawanpuri locality. Recently, ADM JP Gupta had also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on Jal Nigam officials for burning garbage on their premises. “Following instructions of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal to curb pollution to protect the environment, we have ordered strict action against offenders. As the administration has already provided adequate land for the dumping of waste and garbage, we will not tolerate the burning and dumping of garbage near public places by the civic authorities,” the Rampur DM told TOI.Similarly, the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has ordered lodging of FIRs against individuals and organisations burning garbage under the Environment Protection Act, 1986. On Saturday, additional municipal commissioner KB Singh issued strict orders to sanitary inspectors to check the practice of garbage burning. If sanitary inspectors come across the burning of garbage, they will extinguish the fire and also impose penalties on offenders. Singh said, “NGT orders complete prohibition on burning waste. Sanitary inspectors have been asked to lodge FIRs against offenders and impose penalties. In case garbage burning is reported, action will be taken against the sanitary inspector concerned.” AMC executive engineer (environment) Rajiv Rathi said, “According to the NGT orders, if a person is caught burning garbage under any circumstances an on-the-spot penalty of Rs 5,000 will be imposed, while a fine of Rs 25,000 will be recovered on repetition. For burning waste in bulk in public or private space, Rs 50,000 penalty will be recovered. Since sanitary inspectors will be registering FIR in a majority of the cases, the offender may face imprisonment.”Seeking the help of residents in identifying offenders, Rathi said, “The identity of informers would be kept confidential. If sanitary officials fail to act against polluters, they would be held responsible for violating norms.” The Meerut Nagar Nigam has, meanwhile, got a notice from the pollution control board authorities after garbage was found burning at five spots in the city. The pictures and videos of the burning garbage along with a notice were sent to the civic body authorities. “We are conducting inspections across the district to curb air pollution. The pollution department team found burning garbage in Kankerkhera, on Garh road and Delhi road. If the civic body authorities failed to take action in the matter, state authorities in Lucknow will be informed,” said Yogendra Kumar, regional officer, Meerut pollution control board.Meanwhile, on Saturday, the air quality index (AQI) in Agra, which falls in the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ), was recorded at 417 — ‘severe’ category — highest this year so far. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was, however, recorded at 444 milligrams per cubic meter, considered hazardous to health by doctors. To reduce the dust, AMC workers sprinkle water on roads and trees. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), AQI in severe category affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/authorities-in-west-up-dists-swing-into-action-as-bad-air-stifles-people/articleshow/79103802.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bareilly||Five farmers climb atop a overhead water tank to protest against 'unfair' procurement process in Roza||BAREILLY: Unable to sell their paddy at a procurement centre in Roza in Shahjahanpur district, five farmers climbed atop an overhead water tank and threatened to jump from there on Friday. The farmers alleged that that they were not given any space to keep their produce at the local Roza mandi and "treated shabbily". It took nearly three hours for senior police and administrative officials to pursuade them to climb down. "We will take legal action after investigating the matter and receiving an official complaint from the officer concerned," said Sanjay Kumar, SP, city. There are 10 paddy procurement centres in Roza grain mandi. The farmers had brought their crop in trolleys on Thursday afternoon hoping to sell at the government centre at MSP (minimum support price). But their hopes were dashed after the centre in-charge allegedly refused to weigh the crop. After waiting for over 24 hours, the farmers -- Anil Kumar, Ajit Verma, Ashish Verma, Rajnish Kumar and Avdhesg -- climbed atop an overhead water tank and threatened to jump down. Anil Kumar told TOI, “The centre in-charge misbehaved with us. There is a direct nexus between officials and private buyers and that is why, we farmers cannot sell at the procurement centres. So, we had to take such a step.” Surendra Kumar, SDM, Sadar, said, “We have maintained a register to record the in-and-out movement of farmers. A few farmers try to weigh their crop by jumping the queue. We will look into the allegations levelled by these farmers and take necessary action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-farmers-climb-atop-a-overhead-water-tank-to-protest-against-unfair-procurement-process-in-roza/articleshow/79103808.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Six booked for forging documents to take flats’ possession||PUNE: The Dattawadi police have registered a case of cheating and forgery against six businessmen for allegedly forging documents of four flats, totally worth Rs9.33 crore, belonging to a prominent city builder by creating fake and fabricated documents sometime between 2016 and earlier this year. The building is located at Sahakarnagar and the six businessmen allegedly took possession of the flats illegally. The 31-year-old builder, a resident of Koregaon Park, has lodged a complaint with the Dattawadi police station. The case is being investigated by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW). A senior police officer said that all the six men, who purportedly prepared the forged and fabricated documents, are businessmen. According to an EOW officer, the builder constructed two buildings at Sahakarnagar. One of the businessmen approached the builder in 2016 and booked a flat in the society, the officer said, adding that the builder and businessman signed a sale agreement and other necessary documents. However, later the businessman cancelled the agreement citing personal reasons. The EOW officer said, “Following this, they used these photocopies of the flat documents and fabricated documents, including power of attorney of four flats located in the same project, totally worth Rs9.33 crores, and took possession of the flats.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-booked-for-forging-docus-to-take-flats-possession/articleshow/79105655.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||Singoli-Bhatwari hydroelectric project facing leakage in tunnel, may lead to disaster, alleges activist; firm executing project terms allegations ‘baseless’||Dehradun: Even as a case relating to the Singoli-Bhatwari hydroelectric power plant in Rudraprayag is ongoing in the Uttarakhand high court (HC), a Doon-based activist, in a letter written to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC), Central Electricity Authority, and the district magistrate of Rudraprayag, has claimed that the Head Race Tunnel (HRT) of the project has developed a leakage. The letter adds that the leakage can lead to tunnel bursting, endangering the lives of several people. In his communication to the Centre and the state government, activist Bharat Jhunjhunwala, who also submitted photos and videos taken by a local whistleblower as proof of his allegations, urged for an inspection of the tunnel and asked the authorities to ‘take a decision whether it would be safe to allow commissioning of the project in these circumstances’. Notably, private engineering and construction firm Larsen & Toubro (L&T) had announced 100% completion and readiness for commissioning of the 99 MW hydroelectric project in September this year. The company’s authorities, when queried, denied any such leakage, adding that “these allegations hold ulterior motives”. In a written communication to TOI via email, a company spokesperson said, “The allegations are baseless and motivated with vested interest. As the matter is sub-judice, we will not comment further on the specifics of the issue.” Meanwhile, in his letter, sent out on October 27, Jhunjhunwala said that the leakage in the HRT may lead to a disaster when the process of electricity generation would kickstart. The letter, accessed by TOI, reads, “The leakage may entail the water moving at a high speed in the tunnel. This is likely to scour the damaged area of the HRT, thereby leading to tunnel bursting and endangering the lives of people living below Adit-3.” The activist added that “Rudraprayag has already suffered a massive tragedy in Kedarnath in 2013 and this district might face another disaster if officials fail to address such sensitive issues relating to the hydroelectric power plant.” “Leakage from a stable tunnel is already happening. During electricity generation, things may go absolutely turbulent and there will be a high possibility of tunnel bursting. Such a disaster will be a major loss not just for the state but also for the entire country,” said Jhunjhunwala. Notably, Jhunjhunwala had earlier filed a PIL in the HC alleging that the construction of the Singoli-Bhatwari hydroelectric power plant went on despite the expiry of the environmental clearance issued for the project by MoEFCC. While hearing the petition on October 12, the HC had given four weeks’ time to the Centre, state government, and L&T to file their counter affidavits in the case. Reacting to the allegations of work continuing at the site despite lapse of environmental clearance, L & T officials had told TOI that all the construction work at the site was completed before August 23 (the date till when environmental clearance was obtained). “We had intimated the completion of work to the government of Uttarakhand via a letter dated June 27, 2020. We also informed the MoEFCC via letter dated August 19, 2020, about the completion of all works including environmental obligations and requested them to inspect the site,” a company spokesperson had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/singoli-bhatwari-hydroelectric-project-facing-leakage-in-tunnel-may-lead-to-disaster-alleges-activist-firm-executing-project-terms-allegations-baseless/articleshow/79103799.cms||Shivani Azad
November 8, 2020||Rajkot||House tax inspector booked in DA case||Rajkot: A Class III officer of Savarkundla municipality has been booked for amassing properties disproportionate to his known source of income.The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) found that Manoj Trivedi, a house tax inspector, had amassed Rs Rs 1.02 crore which was 101.13% more than his official source of income.“After carrying out the data visualization in graphical representation of money transaction and assets acquisition to prove the nexus theory of the accused, we found that accused Trivedi had earned Rs 51,06,559 from his known source of income. However, against this, he had the investment of Rs 1.02 crore,” said R N Dave, ACB inspector.After freezing his bank accounts, the ACB seized Rs 67.64 lakh and booked Trivedi under various sections of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.In all, 26 government officers have been booked for amassing disproportionate assets across Gujarat this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/house-tax-inspector-booked-in-da-case/articleshow/79103794.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Pune||Significant rise in PMPML ridership in two months||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has seen a quantum jump in passengers using its services in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad in the last two months. When the services resumed on September 3, around 65,000 passengers travelled daily on an average. The number increased to 3 lakh on November 2. “The number of buses also increased from 450 on September 3 to 1,012 on November 2. We have had to increase the number of buses in keeping with the increase in the number of passengers,” a PMPML official told TOI. During pre-Covid times, 10 to 11 lakh people travelled on PMPML buses daily. “The daily passenger traffic is still short by almost seven lakh. However, the number of passengers increased in a matter of two months and if things remain fine, we should be able to achieve the pre-Covid footfall by early next year. The cap on the maximum number of people allowed on a bus still remains the same,” the official added. The PMPML also allowed buses owned by private contractors to ply at currently. “Currently, 160 buses, belonging to private contractors, are being allowed to ply and their numbers will also be increased. This month, we aim to run almost the entire fleet of operational buses as used to be run by us earlier. Around 50 e-buses are running as part of the Pune airport bus service. The increase in the number of passengers has also been due to the launch of the ATAL service, which has become very popular in a short period of time,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/significant-rise-in-pmpml-ridership-in-two-months/articleshow/79105666.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 8, 2020||Pune||Student dies after bike hits speed breaker in Pimpri||Pune: A final year arts student (20) died after he fell off his speeding bike and crashed into a road divider on the Bus Rapid Transit System corridor just opposite to the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation on Thursday night.The victim, Ashish Avinash Durgawale, was not wearing a helmet. The employee of a cellphone shop in Pimpri succumbed to head injuries.“Ashish was going to his home at Rupeenagar in Nigdi. He did not notice the speed breaker because the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) route was poorly lit. His bike flung in the air and fell on the other side of the road. His head hit the median and he died on the spot,” said senior inspector Milind Waghmare, the Pimpri police station in-charge, on Saturday.Waghmare said, “The accident occurred around 9.30pm because the victim was riding at high speed. He could not retain control on his vehicle after his bike jumped over the speed breaker.”He said, “Ashish died due to multiple head injuries. We have registered an FIR against the victim for causing his death due to negligence under Section 304 (A), among other charges of the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act.”The victim’s cousin, Mahesh Durgawale, an internet businessman, said, “The passers-by rushed Ashish to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, but he was declared dead on admission. The police contacted his family members after identifying him through his driving licence and other documents.”He said, “A beat marshal who went to the spot soon after the accident told me that my cousin had entered the BRTS corridor and accelerated before he met with the accident.”Mahesh said, “My cousin worked in a cellphone shop to support his family. He is survived by his parents, grandmother and younger brother.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/student-dies-after-bike-hits-speed-breaker-in-pimpri/articleshow/79105681.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||List of politicians contracting Covid-19 is growing longer||Jaipur: The list of politicians getting infected with the virus is getting longer as three more politicians, including BJP state general secretary Madan Dilawar and, MLAs Narpat Singh Rajvi and Babulal Nagar, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.“I have come to know, BJP MLAs Narpat Singh Rajvi ji and Madan Dilawar ji have tested positive for #COVID-19. My best wishes for their speedy recovery,” chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted.Gehlot expressed his wishes for speed recovery for Dudu MLA Babulal Nagar. “Wishing speedy recovery to Dudu MLA, Babulal Nagar ji, who has tested positive for #COVID-19. May he gets well soon. #Rajasthan.”A former minister in Vasundhara Raje government, Rajpal Singh Shekhawat had tested positive two days ago.Among the list of MLAs and politicians who have already been tested positive in the past three months are Congress MLA from Mandal in Bhilwara Ramlal Jat and Congress MLA from Adarsh Nagar of Jaipur Rafeek Khan, BJP MLA from Churu Rajendra Rathore, BJP MLA from Sanganer Ashok Lahoti and BJP MLA from Kapasan in Chittorgarh Arjun Lal Jeengar. They had tested positive in September and have already recovered.Tonk-Sawai Madhopur MP Sukhbir Singh Jaunapuria, Jodhpur MP Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Bikaner MP Arjunram Meghwal and Barmer MP Kailash Choudhary are also on the list of those who have contracted the virus earlier and recovered. Rajya Sabha MPs Dr Kirori Lal Meena and Rajendra Gehlot are also on the list. Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal too recovered from corona in July.Cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and Sapotra MLA Ramesh Meena, BJP MLAs from Siwana Hameer Singh Bhayal and Chittorgarh Chandrabhan Singh Aakya too have defeated Covid.Besides, there are three politicians who died after getting infected with the virus. Congress leader Lalit Bhati, 61, died of post-Covid complications at Jawahar Lal Nehru Hospital in Ajmer on Wednesday night.Earlier, B D Agarwal, a prominent businessman of Sriganganagar who launched his own political party, had died of Covid and Congress MLA from Bhilwara Kailash Trivedi had died in a private hospital in Gurugram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/list-of-politicians-contracting-covid-19-is-growing-longer/articleshow/79105701.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Number of beds for Covid-19 treatment gets doubled in 49 days in Jaipur||JAIPUR: While Jaipur has been reporting over 300 new Covid cases daily, the healthcare facilities in the city have been expanded in hospitals for accommodating more patients. Despite the expansion of facilities, patients are finding it difficult to get admitted in some of the biggest private hospitals due to non-availibility of beds. In the past 49 days, the number of beds for Covid treatment has been doubled. On September 17, there were 2,263 beds available for Covid patients, but the number has been increased to 4,348 now. The number of beds has been increased as more hospitals have started providing Covid treatment. On September 17, there were 23 hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment, including five government-run hospitals. Currently, 46 hospitals, including seven run by the government, are providing treatment to Covid patients. Despite increase in facilities, patients are finding it difficult to get admission for treatment. “Availability of a bed is not possible,” said a doctor of a private hospital. Besides, another doctor from a private hospital, said, “All beds for Covid patients are fully occupied.” The situation is not encouraging as patients have to devote time to seach for a hospital where the bed is available. With more patients getting admitted to ICUs and requiring ventilator support, the number of beds in hospitals has also increased significantly in ICUs. Earlier, on September 17, there were 384 beds in ICUs and 156 with ventilator support, now they have increased to 471 and 127, respectively. Besides, the health department has expressed fear that the second wave is likely to hit in December and has directed its officials to increase the availability of oxygen required for Covid treatment, which should be 25,000 cylinders per day. The number of beds with oxygen support has also increased from 1,100 to 2,354 in the past 49 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/number-of-beds-for-covid-19-treatment-gets-doubled-in-49-days-in-city/articleshow/79105698.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Lucknow||‘UP Film City should offer what Mumbai one doesn’t’||LUCKNOW: Prominent filmmakers want the forthcoming Film City in Noida not to be the replica of the one in Mumbai. It should instead have facilities and infrastructure that Mumbai’s film city does not have, they feel. Like director, producer and screenplay writer Nikhil Advani said that UP film city should “incentivise” filmmakers. “There should be a reason to go there.” The virtual panel discussion on ‘Filmfare Talkies - Movie destination Uttar Pradesh and the Upcoming Film City’, on Saturday, held by Filmfare Talkies in association with Film Bandhu, UP, had filmmakers and actors welcome Noida film city and agree on perfect locales and diverse and varied culture of UP to be the USP for film shoots. Rajiv Menon, a well known name in the Indian film industry and ad film making, said, “Besides having a film city, UP should also work on raising a home grown talent, daily wage workers. That’s one way to also get cooperation from local people.” Filmmaking, he said, should be a self sustaining activity throughout the year. The Mumbai film industry has a lot of people from UP. Those people can be called back to UP to work in films here but, then, should not be made to take up some other job or move back again to Mumbai once filmmaking activity in UP halts. A film city certainly would be a gain, an advantage. “Hyderabad is an example. You can not imagine Bahubali without Ramoji film city,” he said. The infrastructure that is created should be multipurpose. Ad and feature filmmaker Amit Sharma also emphasised on generating local talent. “UP is very close to my heart. I have shot ad films here and also my feature films, Maidaan and Tevar. People in UP have matured towards film shootings. They let the crew shoot. But it will help producers if they can hire local talent like a unit of light boys.” It will not need to bring people from Mumbai to work here, he added. Malavika Mohanan, actor who has worked in Tamil and Kannada films, recounted shooting a movie in Varanasi with Rajnikanth. “To shoot a movie with Rajni Sir in Tamil Nadu is not easy. So we were flown to shoot in Varanasi because its topography is very much similar to Tamil Nadu,” she said. In situations like such, film city can always help. Filmmakers who have shot in UP hailed the warmth and support of its people. “It is very safe to shoot in UP. People have opened up. Your shoot does not get stopped. People in Malihabad are used to shootings. They know individual linesmen,” said Advani. Neeraj Ghaywan, director of critically acclaimed and award winning movie Masan said he loved shooting in Varanasi. “About 60% locations in ‘Masan’ were from people’s homes. They were hurt when we tried to pay them.” “When I and producer Deepa Motwani were location hunting we met a CA who had two offices. We asked him if we could shoot in one of his offices. He said he needed to ask his wife. Later, his wife said she could let us shoot but they would cook for the unit. This experience would stay with me for the rest of my life. Though I am a Hyderabadi and also a Maharashtrian I also feel I am a UPite,” he added. When asked by Filmfare editor Jitesh Pillai, what can make film city a film destination, Filmmakers agreed on it being technologically advanced. Director of films like ‘Stree’ and ‘Bala’, Amar Kaushik, who is from Kanpur, said he expects UP film city to be ahead technologically. “It should have aircraft, railway platforms that look realistic. Instead of going to real life locations we can shoot at the film city.” It should also help exploit the cultural capital of UP, said Ghaywan. Director of ‘Badhai Ho’, Sharma, said that it should be state of the art and have new technology. Aparna Purohit, head, India Originals, Amazon Prime Video, said, “There should be a single body to help shooting permissions. There should be offered subsidies and shooting packages.” Noida film city should have a pan-North Indian existence and should help filmmakers who want to shoot in Uttrakhand and nearby states. “There should be an advisory board to suggest the government on letting the film city function better,” said Menon. Filmmakers were also of the view that government investment is required to keep the film city maintained. To keep studio infrastructure maintained is not a profitable thing and that’s where the government has to focus. Also, there should be people who make it easy for the shooting crew on an everyday basis, be it getting shooting permissions, proper accommodation for the crew or food for the unit. Safety of the crew, that is busy shooting away from home for days together, is of paramount importance. “There is a need to be collaborative with the film industry,” said Advani. Given the Covid-19 pandemic, hygiene on the sets is the new shooting protocol and has to be looked into. Again, local people who are hired should be educated about shooting protocols. They need to know what they are doing and supposed to do. A need for a vocational training institute also came up during the panel discussion so that local people can be trained in allied crafts of filmmaking. Filmmaker Anirudha Roy Chowdhury said that the fact that there would also be a film school is like not only making films but also learning films. “Film school will get people from everywhere and not just UP,” he said. Filmmakers who have already shot in UP recounted their happy memories. Advani said he loved shooting in Varanasi. “Food is great. People are warm. My favourite city in the world is Varanasi. It is the only city that celebrates death.” “People in UP have no qualms. They are very welcoming. I shot in Varanasi for six days and every day had breakfast, lunch and dinner at a different home. People invited me to their place,” said Sharma. Purohit also had a bit of her happy memory shooting in Malihabad. “There were cartons of mangoes gifted for the crew. Malihabad is the Mango capital of UP and there are stories about different mangoes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-film-city-should-offer-what-mumbai-one-doesnt/articleshow/79106604.cms||Neha Shukla
November 8, 2020||Pune||Trio attack 2 brothers, rob Rs 650 & vandalize 5 bikes||Pune: The Chinchwad police on Friday arrested three men for attacking and robbing a paan stall owner and his brother on a service road at Bijlinagar on Thursday night, besides vandalizing five motorcycles for not giving them money for buying liquor. Those arrested have been identified as Sagar Mirghane (21), Ravi Koli (19) and Vikas Koli (21) all from Bijlinagar. Inspector (crime) Vishwajeet Khule of the Chinchwad police said on Saturday, “Paan stall owner Yogesh Chandanshive (21) was on his way home after closing shop for the day when the suspects accosted him and started demanding money from him for buying liquor. He refused to give them any money following which a quarrel broke out.” Khule said, “The three men abused and thrashed him in a fit of anger. They hit him with sticks and robbed his wallet which had a sum of Rs650. When Chandanshive’s brother intervened, they attacked him with sticks and vandalized five motorcycles which were parked on the bank of a canal at Chandrabhaga colony. They unleashed a reign of terror in the vicinity and fled.” “We have arrested the trio under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Criminal Law Amendment because they were known to Chandanshive,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-attack-2-brothers-rob-rs-650-vandalize-5-bikes/articleshow/79105700.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||3 from Gujarat drown as car falls in Alaknanda river near Badrinath||Dehradun: Three persons, all hailing from Gujarat, drowned and one other person, also from Gujarat, sustained injuries as the SUV they were travelling in fell into Alaknanda river near Govindghat in Chamoli district on Saturday evening. The accident was reported 15 kilometres ahead of Joshimath on the Badrinath route. While the body of one person has been recovered, the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), which was conducting search operations, could not trace the remaining two persons who are believed to have drowned till the time of filing this report. Local residents informed the police team that they had spotted a body getting carried away in the gushing water of Alaknanda river. However, the fact could not be ascertained by the teams involved in rescue operations. According to SDRF personnel, the vehicle fell from a height of 200 metres in the river. Kripal Singh Jala, a resident of Limbdi in Gujarat and Murgesh Thakur, a resident of Surendranagar, are said to be missing. The injured person was identified as 38-year-old Hitendra Singh Chauhan, who is also a resident of Surendranagar. The identity of the deceased whose body was found, was in the process of being ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-from-gujarat-drown-as-car-falls-in-alaknanda-river-near-badrinath/articleshow/79103832.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 8, 2020||Pune||Duo in net for stealing smartphone||Pune: The Samarth police on Friday arrested two men for robbing a jobless man’s smartphone on the premises of a housing society in Bhavani Peth on Wednesday evening. The arrested men — Sohaib Khan (19) and Mateen Khurne (26), both from Hadapsar — will be in police custody remand till November 9. Nitesh Dharyamukhte (34) said in his first information report (FIR) that he was playing songs on his cellphone in the parking area of the society when the duo snatched his phone and took to heels. Sub-inspector Pradeep Palande from the Samarth police said on Saturday, “A CCTV camera in the housing society captured images of the duo, following which we worked on certain clues and arrested them on the charge of robbery under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.” “We have recovered the smartphone from them,” Palande added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-in-net-for-stealing-smartphone/articleshow/79105703.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Surat||Schizophrenic Maharashtra woman to be reunited with her kin||SURAT: Had Devki (name changed), a schizophrenic woman from Maharashtra’s Akola district, who was abandoned by her marital kin in Rajashthan’s Alwar district, not been helped by an NGO in Kolkata, she would have ended up as another drop lost in the ocean of lost people. She had accidentally landed up in Kolkata in 2016. But providence helped and the woman has not only recovered, but is today poised to reunite with her kin in Akola almost 15 years later, thanks to Gujarat police chief Ashish Bhatia, who traced out the 30-year-old woman’s antecedents to her native of Basmath. Despite many an attempt to trace her kin for three long years, Iswar Sankalp, the Kolkata NGO, was unable to do so till they reached Bhatia. Volunteers of Friends for Women and Children (FFWC), an initiative of CID Crime Women Cell in Surat contacted the NGO and then got to know about Devki. With Bhatia’s intervention and along with the prompt action by Maharashtra police, her story finally reached a happy ending. Tapan Prodhan, reintegration coordinator of Iswar Sankalp said, “The intervention by Gujarat DGP and swift actions by Maharashtra police helped locate the woman’s family in just 72 hours!” Devki from Maharashtra’s Basmath village had been married off around 15 years ago in Peepli in Alwar district of Rajasthan but was abandoned a few years ago. Maharashtra police will take her brother Gangadhar from Basmath of Hingoli district to bring home his sister as their parents died a few months ago. “Few years ago she was abandoned and maybe she boarded a train that brought her to Kolkata. We found her on the road in 2016 and brought her to our shelter home,” said Prodhan, adding that she was treated successfully and could later describe her background too. The NGO also found an Aadhaar card from her with the address of Peepli. When they checked on the address, the family refused to identify her. “I was informed that the woman needs help hence I sought help from Maharashtra police. They traced the woman’s relatives soon,” Bhatia told TOI. “Iswar Sankalp officials were unable to locate her family and sought our help. Hence, we tried various methods and also approached the DGP office. Due to direct intervention of DGP police in Maharashtra took quick actions and traced her family,” said Piyush Shah, coordinator of FFWC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/schizophrenic-maha-woman-to-be-reunited-with-her-kin/articleshow/79103841.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 8, 2020||Pune||Grip on geopolitan scenario must to tackle hybrid threats: Air chief||PUNE: Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria on Saturday endorsed integrated approach among tri-services to counter the highly complex and multi-dimensional battles in present times. “The armed forces have to be prepared for hybrid threats emanating from multiple fronts. This mandates very high level of knowledge, dedication, commitment, sacrifice and leadership at all stages and at all times. This is what each service and the nation would expect from you,” he said after reviewing the passing out parade of the 139th autumn course of the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Khadakwasla. He also advised the passing out cadets to have a better understanding of the geopolitical scenario. “The joint training that the cadets received at the academy can play a crucial role to make this possible to achieve it,” the air chief said. He reiterated that the appointment of the Chief of Defence Staff and formation of the Department of Military Affairs were historic moves. The parade was conducted in a restricted manner amid Covid-19. The academy did not allow spectators, including the media and cadets’ parents, to attend the parade. It was telecast live on Doordarshan. In his address to the cadets, the air chief said, “The NDA is not only just the cradle of leadership but a true cradle of jointmanship. The vast experience of joint training at the academy needs to be carried forward to the respective academies. Today’s battlespace is highly complex and multi-dimensional, with unpredictable security scenarios and high operational tempo. Thus, operational response will demand synergy among the forces. Therefore, it is necessary to continue the bond that you have forged here with your coursemates and squadron mates throughout your military career.” The air chief is an alumnus of the 56th course of the NDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/grip-on-geopolitan-scenario-must-to-tackle-hybrid-threats-air-chief/articleshow/79105696.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||Move to open up Gorkha Rifles recruitment for non-Gorkhas gets mixed response||Dehradun: The Indian Army’s proposed move to recruit non-Gorkha youth from Uttarakhand into Gorkha Rifles (GR) regiments has drawn mixed responses from veterans and experts. Some welcomed the move, saying the criteria (to recruit only Gorkhas for GRs) was created during British rule and doing away with it is practical now, especially in view of the current tensions between India and Nepal (Till now, only Indian-domiciled or Nepal-domiciled Gorkhas were inducted into the 40 battalions that make up the seven Gorkha Rifles regiments of the Indian Army. Currently, the ratio of Nepalese and Indian troops in a GR battalion is 60:40). Others though condemned it, saying it will only distort the ethnicity of one of the oldest regiments of the Indian Army. Among those who hailed the move was chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat who thanked the Prime Minister and the defence minister for paving the way for recruitment of non-Gorkha youths of Uttarakhand in Gorkha Rifles. “The youth of Uttarakhand have been passionate about sacrificing their lives in the service of the country by joining the Army. The Prime Minister himself has said that besides Char Dham, Uttarakhand has a fifth dham - Sainik Dham (military abode). Hence, this move is a sign of respect for the patriotic sentiment prevalent among the state's people. The move will increase opportunities for youths of Garhwal and Kumaon to join the Army,” Rawat said. Lt Gen Shakti Gurung (retd), a senior member of the Gorkha community, who has held several crucial defence posts, including that of the military secretary, termed it “an inclusive move”. “We have been continuing the British legacy of inducting only Gorkhas to Gorkha regiments. Now, even the Gorkha community is venturing into sectors other than combat roles – like engineering and medicine, which is a good thing. However, this is diminishing the number of potential Army recruits. So, the Indian Army looking into the possibility recruiting non-Gorkhas is a positive move,” Gurung said. Col Ajay Kothiyal (retd), who runs a youth foundation in Garhwal that trains youngsters aspiring to join the Indian Army, claimed that the move will prove a boon for the youth of Uttarakhand. “We have to look at it with two perspectives — one is employment and the other is strengthening the Indian Army. Today, GRs provide trained soldiers and force to the Indian Army. If not many Gorkhas are signing up to join and the opportunity is given to Kumaoni and Garhwali youths instead, the Army will retain its force. People from Uttarakhand are accepted because they share the Gorkhas’ culture, language and traditions,” said Col Kothiyal. Retired brigadier PS Gurung, who has served as chief recruiter in Gorkha Rifles at the Gorakhpur recruitment centre, however said that “it is obvious that induction of non-Gorkhas (into GRs) will disturb the essence of the battalion, which has its own ethnicity and art of warfare.” Major VS Thapa, president All India Gorkha Ex-Servicemen Welfare Association, also criticised the move and called it “bad” for the regiment. “There are around 2 crore Gorkhas in India. Their maximum population is concentrated in Assam, Manipur, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and even in South India. So we have lot of potential staffers for the Indian Army. Why should they invite people from Uttarakhand in the Gorkha regiments, when the state already has its own two regiments, Garhwal and Kumaon regiments,” contended Thapa. “The Indian Army should keep Gorkhas separate as their traditions and core values are different. As far as India-Nepal tensions are concerned, the Army should stop recruiting from Nepal altogether if it has apprehensions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/move-to-open-up-gorkha-rifles-recruitment-for-non-gorkhas-gets-mixed-response/articleshow/79103854.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 8, 2020||Lucknow||Diwali bonanza for Gorakhpur: CM launches power projects worth Rs 216 crore||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced four new electrification schemes for Gorakhpur and inaugurated and laid foundations of power projects worth Rs 216 crore through a virtual ceremony. He inaugurated 12 projects of Rs 12 crore, laid foundation of seven projects of Rs 94.94 crore and proposed four new schemes of Rs 108.5 crore, while reiterating this would improve power supply and remove recurrent voltage fluctuation. Calling it a gift ahead of Diwali, he said, in past three-and-half years, the power department launched several programmes to transform the power situation, including electrification of 1.75 lakh villages. “Improving ease of living is our government’s priority. Power supply would be erratic in earlier regimes, while in our government uninterrupted power is being provided as per roster. Free power connections have been given to people and the infrastructure revamped. Old wires have been replaced and underground cabling has been done,” he said, adding the capacity of sub-stations was being increased with a focus on ensuring electrification of every hamlet and settlement. This would help in social and financial uplift of people, he said. The new projects include replacing 160km of old wires, replacing 1,000 damaged electricity poles and construction of 220/33 KV substation. The projects launched include setting up substations at Padri Market and Rani Bagh, a transformer in Khorabar and new transformers at various locations in Gorakhpur. Foundation was laid for projects to resolve low-voltage problem at Divyanagar and Bichiya, erect new electricity poles and transformers and construct sub-stations. These projects will have a positive impact on Padri Markeet, Pipraich Road, Sarawatipuram, Harsewakpuram, Hanumantnagar, Ranibagh, Kajakpur, Semra, Badgo, Ramgarh, Khorabar, Suvabazar and Siktor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/diwali-bonanza-for-gorakhpur-cm-launches-power-projects-worth-rs-216crore/articleshow/79106614.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad Cantonment Board razes illegal encroachment on open nala in Bowenpally||SECUNDERABAD: A reinforced cement concrete (RCC) slab, which encroached a major portion of an open nala was razed down by the officials of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) on Saturday at Malani Colony in Bowenpally. In the recent floods, the nala overflowed and sewage water gushed into several colonies, caused inundation. Cars were washed away in the floodwater and damaged household properties too. The SCB chief executive officer (CEO), B Ajith Reddy who noticed the severity of the flood damage, asked the Engineering wing to demolish all the encroachments on the nalas. At Malani Colony, officials identified a major bottleneck for flooding of the open nala and razed 170-meter length of slab. It obstructed the free flow of sewage water and caused overflow, said SCB additional engineer, Gopala Krishna Dass. The width of the nala was shrunk and became narrow due to construction of the slab. The flat owners of the apartments are using this slab for vehicle parking and put up sheds, which are being used as shelter, he said. Soon after floodwater receded, the SCB took up drive on demolition of encroachments on open nalas and till date, nearly 30 such encroachments have been razed down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-razes-illegal-encroachment-on-open-nala-in-bowenpally/articleshow/79105720.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Pune||Restricted flight operations deal another blow to hoteliers in Pune||PUNE: Restricted operation timings at the city airport and the ensuing fewer number of flights have brought hotel occupancies further down though travel picked up following withdrawal of many restrictions. In October, the hotels were on an average showing around 30% occupancy from guests, mostly business travellers to Pune. With less number of flights connecting Pune with other cities now, the occupancy has further plunged by 20%, rough estimates from the Poona Hoteliers Association (PHA) indicated. After Covid-19 pandemic, this is another blow to hotels, which had expected to cover some losses after being allowed to function at 100% occupancy. Hoteliers said while the dues owed to many of them by the district administration for accommodating healthcare professionals during Covid-19 remained pending, other “adverse developments” kept cropping up. PHA president Sharan Shetty said, “This is an actual hit, as reduction in number of flights will mean less number of business travellers will come to Pune and stay in hotels. People usually do not come to the city for leisure, especially during a pandemic situation.” Shetty said hotels were operating at approximately 30% occupancy on an average in Pune in October, which has reduced to 20%. “This shows a dip mostly in essential business travel to Pune. Banquet bookings for upcoming marriage season too are 20-25% on an average for several hotels due to the pandemic’s impact and 50-people cap on banquet functions,” he added. Ajay Kanojia, general manager, Sayaji Hotel, said, “The hotel was getting decent room bookings in October, mostly from business travellers to Pune. The bookings in last three to four days have dropped to 10-15 per day. We would wait for a fortnight or so to gauge whether this is an impact of the number of flights reducing.” Kanojia added this could also result in more hotel stays eventually, as people who could not travel back to their cities on the same day would have to stay overnight in hotels. A Lohegaon airport official said, “All airports as per the ministry of civil aviation guidelines are currently operating at 45% of their total capacity. The total flight movement at Lohegaon airport at present varies between 60 to 65 a day. Before October 26 (when flight movements were not restricted to 12 hours a day), the total flight movement was around 70 to 72. Given that restrictions are now in place at airport, it can handle three to four flights per hour.” According to airport authorities, there is still room for some new flights to add.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restricted-flight-ops-deal-another-blow-to-hoteliers/articleshow/79105714.cms||Neha Madaan
November 8, 2020||Bareilly||SDMs to face action if marginal farmers stay away from government procurement centres: Pilibhit DM||PILIBHIT: After finding that of the total 48,471 registered farmers in Pilibhit district, paddy from only 13,824 had been procured by the government agencies, district magistrate Pulkit Khare warned all sub divisional magistrates (SDMs) of stringent action for lapse in complying with the newly launched special procurement campaign. Khare had assigned lekhpals of all 721 village panchayats in Pilibhit the task of preparing a list of marginal farmers of their respective areas to facilitate their registration with the state government’s procurement related portal and ensure procurement of their paddy on priority at full minimum support price (MSP). The SDMs were to monitor the procurement campaign and send daily reports to the district control room, ADM (finance and revenue) Atul Singh and district food and marketing officer Avinash Jha. While reviewing compliance on Thursday, the DM found that 34,647 registered farmers have so far not approached any government procurement agency. A majority were from Puranpur and Kalinagar tehsils. Against this backdrop, Khare said the SDMs had been given the last warning to compulsorily hold a meeting of lekhpals in their respective areas at 6 pm everyday and to ensure that all marginal and small farmers bring their paddy to the government procurement centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sdms-to-face-action-if-marginal-farmers-stay-away-from-govt-procurement-centres-pilibhit-dm/articleshow/79103838.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||HMWSSB expedites levelling of 20,000 manholes in city||HYDERABAD: To ensure a smooth ride for road users, Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) will take up levelling work of over 20,000 manholes on the city roads. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao, who noticed about several manholes either over or lower than the road surface, asked the HMWS&SB to attend facelift works to avoid inconvenience to road users. On Saturday, HMWS&SB managing director, M Dana Kishore, who responded to KTR’s instructions, convened a meeting with officials and told them that 20,000 such manholes have been expedited for levelling. “For this, the water board was sanctioned Rs 16 crore and officials asked to begin the works as early as possible and complete them by November end,” he said. Dana Kishore advised officials to put up proper barricades at the time of levelling works and ensure to attend them during night. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hmwssb-expedites-levelling-of-20000-manholes-in-city/articleshow/79105731.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Surat||Tantrik, aides rape two sisters from Gujarat's Navsari; held||SURAT: Navsari cops pounced on a tantrik and two of his associates hiding in Nandurbar of Maharashtra on Saturday after the trio allegedly raped two sisters, one of them a minor, in Navsari’s Gandevi taluka. Vishnu Maharaj alias Vishnu Chatur Naik, 50, a tantrik from Lakhapur village in Nandurbar was arrested along with his two aides including a driver on charges of rape and and impregnating both on Saturday. Police revealed the heinous details and said that the father of these two sisters had come in contact with one Suresh Patel three months ago with whom he had discussed about the marital discord of his elder daughter. Suresh informed him about Naik, who he said could resolve such issues with the help of black magic. Suresh also took the father and his elder daughter to Naik in Nandurbar. According to the police, Naik demanded the father transfer him Rs 50,000 in his bank account so that he could perform exorcism to heal the victim and settle her in her married life. He also took the chance to rape the elder daughter several times in the name of exorcism and voodoo and also lured her minor sister in the name of getting her a good husband. Deputy superintendent of police (DySP), Navsari HK Rana told TOI, “Following the father’s complaint on November 3, we arrested the tantrik and his two associates from Nandurbar. Both the victims visited Nandurbar on several occasions after the tantrik provided a driver to ferry them to his place from Gandevi. The family came to know about their pregnancy only two months ago.” The accused have been booked under various sections of IPC for rape and kidnapping as well as provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, said Rana, adding that the accused will be presented before the court on Monday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tantrik-aides-rape-two-sisters-from-navsari-held/articleshow/79103869.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 4 pubs found violating Covid norms in raid||HYDERABAD: Task Force sleuths on Friday night conducted raids at pubs in West Zone and Jubilee Hills. Police registered cases against 4 pubs for violations of Covid-19 regulations. Task Force sleuths said they found that four pubs in Jubilee Hills had allowed public to use dance floor, a violations of the guidelines issued by Excise department, while allowing the pubs to open in state. “In all these pubs, people were dancing on the floor to music and public were allowed entry even when masks were not worn by customers. We have handed over the pub managers to Jubilee Hills police station for further action,” Task Force West Zone inspector G Mallu told TOI. According to Jubilee Hills police inspector, K Sattaiah, a case was registered against the four pubs on the charge of disobedience of government orders. Police said only cases was registered and no action was taken to shut these establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-pubs-found-violating-covid-norms-in-raid/articleshow/79105738.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nashik||Nashik’s Metro Neo to be model for smaller cities||Nashik: The Nashik metro model, which is called Metro Neo, will be the national model for mass rapid transit system in smaller cities.Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation, known as MahaMetro, came up with this unique model while preparing the detailed project report for a metro in Nashik city. The Rs 2,100 crore Nashik metro project is pending approval from the Centre. Durga Shanker Mishra, the secretary of the housing and urban affairs ministry, in a Twitter post, had said the ministry has issued the standard specifications for Metro Neo suitable for tier-2 cities with a projected per-hour-per-direction traffic of up to 10,000 for the next two decades. These standard specifications are on the same lines that the MahaMetro has designed for Nashik city.“This new model is safe, eco-friendly and comfortable. This model will enable several smaller cities get viable mass rapid transit system. The manufacturing of different sub-systems of Metro Neo would be promoted under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat campaign,” added Mishra.The Metro Neo model would be formally launched by minister of state for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri in Delhi on November 9 during the Urban Mobility India conference.MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit said it was a matter of pride that the Nashik model will now be a template for other tier-2 cities. “It took our team about four months to prepare the Metro Neo concept. We examined many models that are operating abroad before coming up with this model. Nashik would be the first city to have this unique model,” he added.The coaches in this model are lighter. There are 2-3 coaches with rubber tyres that are attached to each other. Each coach has a capacity to carry 200-300 passengers and is powered by overhead electric traction. The coaches would run on elevated/dedicated corridors. The capital expenditure for Metro Neo is also about one-fourth of conventional metro projects. Even the operation cost is less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashiks-metro-neo-to-be-model-for-smaller-cities/articleshow/79103872.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Healthy snacks, cool knick-knacks find place in Diwali gift hampers||Coimbatore: Instead of traditional Diwali sweets and savories as gifts, more and more people are opting for food items that have a longer shelf life, and even candles, diyas, coasters, napkins, calenders, beauty products and dip teas.Interior designer and animal lover Manav Mehta, who realized that many of his friends have become health conscious, decided to try a different concept this year. “I decided to gift some of my friends detox hampers, which have candles and potpourri, coasters, soaps and tea because many of them are stressed working from home,” he told TOI. “It also works for me because I am a vegan. I will also gift some of my vegan friends a 300gm cheesecake that can be eaten in one sitting.”Anamika Gupta Kajaria, a city-based food lover, ensured that 95% of her Diwali gifts were upcycled non-edible products. “I gifted notecards I made from handmade paper I bought from Puducherry, napkins I made from leftover clothes, cloth-covered pocket books and eco-friendly tissue paper I had ordered along with some candles,” she said. “I realized that so much food goes to waste. There is only so much we can give to our domestic helps because we don’t want them to get diabetic.”Preethika, a homemaker, gifted a pair of candles and a pair of napkins to 23 of her friends and relatives. “To me, Diwali is about lights, hosting friends and family and spending time with them. My gifts signify all these things.”Simran Wahan of Amaya Store on Race Course is getting a lot of requests for Diwali hampers consisting more of inedible items than edible. “Many choose a tray with a couple of diyas and six to 10 pieces of chocolates. Some skip chocolates and just pick up a tray with two diyas, sets of a journaling book, bookmark and prompts, tie a ribbon around them and gift. A customer bought calenders and gifted them for Diwali,” she said. “Some add soaps, a mini dreamcatcher, handmade coasters and a colouring book if the family has children. The inedible gift hampers start at Rs 470 and will remain with them for months or years.”There are also others who gift hampers with vegan cheese, health mix, protein bars and granola bars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/healthy-snacks-cool-knick-knacks-find-place-in-diwali-gift-hampers/articleshow/79105743.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: 197 new courses in higher education gets nod||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State higher education department has given administrative sanction for universities to start 197 new courses, on the basis of the recommendations of a committee headed by MG University vice-chancellor Sabu Thomas. The six-member committee had asked the government to introduce a number of hybrid courses in undergraduate and postgraduate levels as part of improving the bouquet of courses offered by universities in state. Though several academicians criticized the government for readily-accepting new courses suggested by the committee almost instantly after its formation – without ensuring adequate preparations and facilities– government gave its green light. The government, in its previous budget, had announced that new courses would be offered in higher education sector in the academic year 2020-21. While 47 government colleges would together offer 49 new courses, 105 aided colleges would offer 117 new courses. While university departments would offer 19 new courses, 12 new engineering courses would be available in eight engineering colleges. New courses are sanctioned in colleges that have scored fairly well in National Assessment and Accreditation Council ranking. However, this was not made applicable to colleges run by SC/ST sections and devaswom board. The new courses include nano science, space science, econometrics, business economics, financial marketing, sports management, international relations, sales management, multimedia and communication, clinical psychology, renewable energy, computational biology, musicology, comparative studies and data analysis. The courses include five-year postgraduation integrated courses. Soon after the governor approved the ordinance that brought out necessary changes in the Universities Act, universities had initiated steps for inviting application for admission to the courses. LBS invites application LBS has invited applications for admission to the four-year paramedical degree course- bachelor of occupational therapy. Courses are being offered in National Institute of Speech and Hearing in Thiruvananthapuram and National Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in Irinjalakuda. Candidates, who have found place in the paramedical rank list for admission in 2020, may submit options through lbscentre.kerala.gov.in before 5 pm on November 10, said a statement from LBS on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/197-new-courses-in-higher-edu-gets-nod/articleshow/79104706.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Walking in Gandhi’s footsteps, 700 kilometres||Coimbatore: A 49-year-old Madurai resident and his wife plan to cover 700 kilometres on foot to spread awareness about Gandhi’s life in South Africa.M Karuppaiya and K Chitra, national coordinators of the All-India Gandhian Movement, started the journey to Tiruvannamalai on Wednesday from the Thavathiru Santhalinga Adigalar Arts, Science and Tamil College at Perur here.The couple is carrying some clothes, utensils and groceries on a bicycle to cover the distance in 40 days. They spend nights at government buildings or on the veranda of houses. On Saturday, they distributed pamphlets and addressed the public in Tirupur.“We will pass through 24 places including Dharapuram, Oddanchatram, Kumbakonam, Pondicherry, Auroville and Tindivanam, and distribute pamphlets about Gandhiji and speak to the public about him. We have divided his life in South Africa into 84 parts based on the timeline of important events,” said Karuppaiya. “We had embarked on several foot marches to explain about Gandhiji, who went to South Africa to become a barrister. He stayed there for 21 years and led a freedom struggle there. People need to be informed about this part of his life.”Not many people, especially the young generation, do not know about the father of the nation, said Chitra. “We thought it is the right time to spread his message among them as schools are closed now due to the pandemic. We will walk at least 20km a day. By the end of 40th day, we would have travelled a total of 91,000km on foot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/walking-in-gandhis-footsteps-700-kilometres/articleshow/79105758.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 8, 2020||Coimbatore||City incubator ties up with Pune co||Coimbatore: Nehru Group of Institutions Technology Business Incubator (NGI-TBI) in the city signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with KPIT Technologies Limited in Pune recently to provide incubation support to 10 of the top 100 teams of KPIT Sparkle. KPIT Sparkle is a national-level design and development contest for science and engineering students. With the theme ‘Mobility & Energy for the Future’, the contest was held on September 30.“At the incubation centre, we will provide mentorship, training and technical and non-technical support to students for one year to ensure that they become entrepreneurs,” said chief executive officer and director-research of NGI-TBI S Prakash. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-incubator-ties-up-with-pune-co/articleshow/79105771.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Coimbatore||AR app makes shopping fun at Poompuhar outlet||Coimbatore: Shopping for a handicraft with the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation is a lot easier now. One has to neither visit one of its production units in person nor take a decision based on plain images only to regret later. All that one needs to do is to download the PoompuhAR augmented reality application on mobile phones, view 3-dimensional image of the handicraft, feel virtually how it would look when placed at a place in a room and place order.C Ronald Selvestin, manager, Poompuhar showroom in the city, says, “Most of the customers used to select the handicrafts based on 2D images of them. And we have been receiving complaints about their actual height, depth and thickness after delivery. We have developed the app to avoid such situations.” Poompuhar is the retail arm of the state handicrafts development corporation.Explaining that the app could be opened both on android and iOS phones, he said they have used photo geometric technology to allow the users to look into the height, depth, width and minute designs of the handicrafts. “They could also place the order on the app.”He says they had uploaded images of about 1,500 bronze crafts, brass lamps, Thanjavur painting, wood carvings, stone carvings and miscellaneous handicrafts, which are between 1ft-20ft high, on the app. “The price ranges from Rs 75,000 to Rs 50 lakh.”While the app was launched a month ago, the response has been lukewarm with only 63 downloads so far. Attributing it to the lack of awareness among the public, Selvestin says, “We are confident that the sale of large crafts would pick up significantly in some time.” Meanwhile, the state handicrafts development corporation has also developed a virtual reality application that would take one through its production units to see the crafts. “By logging in, customers could virtually see the crafts and do things such as opening draws of a table. They could also place online order,” says Selvestin.Pointing out that this application could be used only on laptops and desktops, he says, “We are working on to make it available for the public at the earliest.”Both the applications are developed at a cost of Rs 1.88 crore under the Tamil Nadu Innovation Initiatives fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ar-app-makes-shopping-fun-at-poompuhar-outlet/articleshow/79105777.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Ponzi firm director held for duping investor||Coimbatore: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) police have arrested the director of a ponzi firm for cheating an investor of Rs 1.25 lakh. Two other directors of the firm are on the run.An investigation officer said Sarva ITech Solutionz Limited at Udaiyampalayam had duped hundreds of investors of nearly Rs 50 crore.“We arrested its director R Rithu Varnan, 37, of Chinnasamy Avenue at Peelamedu, on Friday based on a complaint lodged by T Kesavan, 23, of Duraisamy Layout at Avarampalayam, on Thursday,” the officer said.He said the other two directors of the firm - Kelath Sri Hari and Velangappadi Balamurugan – were still at large.In his complaint, Kesavan said Sarva ITech Solutionz Limited had offered two ponzi schemes that promised a return of Rs 250 a day for 1,00 days for every investment of Rs 10,000 and Rs 400 a day for 100 days for Rs 1 lakh.“Kesavan had invested Rs 1.25 lakh in July. But he did not get any returns from the firm. When he approached the firm, he was told that he would get the returns from September,” the officer said.The firm was, meanwhile, shut down when hundreds of people, who invested their money, started to approach it, seeking returns as promised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ponzi-firm-director-held-for-duping-investor/articleshow/79105784.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Conman posing as K Chandrasekhar Rao’s gunman held||HYDERABAD: A conman, who had duped several persons by claiming himself as a gunman for chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and promising them to provide jobs in various government departments was nabbed by sleuths of Task Force on Saturday at Mallepally. Task Force police said they seized safari dress, a toy pistol, duplicate police identity card, fake police identity card with the name of Mahankali Prakash, sub-inspector, AR-Cyberabad city, from the accused, N Santosh. Santosh is an electrician and later became a car driver. Since his earnings were insufficient, he hatched a plan to cheat people. He claimed he was a sub-inspector who works as a gunman for CM at Pragathi Bhavan. “The accused promised to provide jobs as attender in judicial department and other government departments by taking money from job seekers. For last nine months, the accused started to introduce himself locally as gunman for chief minister,” police said in a press note. He saved phone numbers as those of the CM, camp office, collector office and others to make others believe him. “In October, he cheated one family and got engaged with a woman by posing as sub-inspector working for the CM,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/conman-posing-as-kcrs-gunman-held/articleshow/79105772.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Teen who left house in a huff raped by friend||RAJKOT: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 19-year-old boy who she had befriended about three months ago. The accused, Vicky Koli, was arrested on Saturday by the University Road police station after the girl’s mother lodged a complaint against him. On November 4, the girl had left her house after a verbal altercation with her mother and reached a mall on Kuvadva Road in a rickshaw. From there, she called up Vicky who lives near Greenland Chowkdi. Vicky took her to his maternal uncle’s house in Gandhigram area and the same night, he allegedly raped her. On November 5 morning, he dropped the girl near her house. However, she was afraid of going home and passed the entire day near a temple in Ramnathpara. Later in the evening, she went to the Race Course and spent the whole night inside, said AS Chavda, inspector, University Road police station. Their parents had even given an application for missing persons complaint. Ultimately, on November 6 morning she developed health issues and she called up her mother who reached there with other relatives. “The girl gained consciousness in the evening and narrated her ordeal after which her mother lodged a complaint on Friday night,” said Chavda. Koli was booked under IPC sections 376 (rape) and Prevention of Children Against Sexual Offences (Pocso). Representative image||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teen-who-left-house-in-a-huff-raped-by-friend/articleshow/79103876.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Topography key in water flow post-2018 flood, study||KOCHI: Many aspects of the 2018 floods in Kerala continue to be of great interest to research. Geologists looking into what caused the flood waters to discharge fast in some places and slow discharge in other areas have found that it is directly related to topography and landscape. A research paper published in the latest edition of Elsevier’s Science Direct, found that pooling of flood water over extended periods and rapid discharge of water, were seen in very specific ‘lineaments’ or ‘fault lines’ in the terrain. These played a vital role in the post-flood water discharge from the region. This study also validated the strength of multi-sensor satellite data in mapping flood hazards, i.e., magnitude and duration. The real-time satellite data enables efficient and reliable estimates of water cover, locating affected tracts and to assess the total financial loss and releasing compensation to those affected. “As climate change is likely to bring similar extreme monsoon rainfall events, future projects should consider the interaction between basement structure, river courses, and potential drainage issues following unprecedented levels of flooding. We hope that land-use planners and disaster managers could use this information to mitigate these potentially costly and deadly flood events,” said K S Sajin Kumar, assistant professor, department of geology, Kerala university, and one of the authors of the study. Data acquired from multiple satellites were used to demarcate area inundated by flood, which covered over 521km2 in the coastal lowlands. Flood waters receded rather abruptly during the initial days during August 18-21, 2018, where the flooded area dropped from 521km2 to 395km2 and water levels dropped from 10m to 5m. But subsequent level fall was tremendously slow, taking 40 days to reach 50% or 260 km2 on September 26, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/topography-key-in-water-flow-post-2018-flood-study/articleshow/79104731.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Dance teacher arrested for blackmailing lecturer, students||HYDERABAD: A dance teacher who was allegedly blackmailing an engineering college lecturer and few students of the same college, was arrested by Meerpet police on Saturday. Rachakonda police, in a press note, said the 22-year-old accused had been extorting money by blackmailing victims. The accused, an engineering drop-out, joined as a dance teacher in the same college. He collected private photos from faculty, students and blackmailed them. Based on the complaint by a lecturer, a case was registered and investigation is being done. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dance-teacher-arrested-for-blackmailing-lecturer-students/articleshow/79105788.cms||---
November 8, 2020||---||At 57.9%, phase-3 sees highest turnout in Bihar||PATNA/DELHI: Bihar’s electorate reserved its best for the last, clocking a 57.9% turnout in the third and final round of polling for 78 seats on Saturday to take the cumulative voting percentage in the three-phase assembly elections to 56.4%, just a shade below the 2015 figure of 56.6% and the 57.3% recorded in last year’s Lok Sabha polls. Election Commission secretary general Umesh Sinha said the successful conduct of the Bihar elections under the most adverse circumstances was a reflection of 70 years’ experience, the “confidence and maturity” of the voters and the “robustness of our electoral process”. Apart from the third-phase turnout being higher than that of the previous two rounds — 55.6% on October 28 and 55.7% on November 3 — the last leg of polling could be the make-or-break one for both NDA and the RJD-led grand alliance. Of the 78 constituencies that voted on Saturday, 24 are in the Seemanchal region comprising Kishanganj, Katihar, Araria and Purnia districts, which have a sizeable population of Muslims. “The stakes are high for CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar, who played the emotional card while campaigning for the last phase of elections,” said poll analyst D M Diwakar. In Seemanchal, the grand alliance is seen as having the edge over NDA because of Muslim voters being the dominant bloc in most of the seats. According to EC data, Kishanganj recorded the highest voter turnout of 62.6%, followed by Katihar (61.6%) and Purnia (59.3). Araria reported a relatively low voting percentage of nearly 54.6%. In the Kosi belt, Saharsa recorded 60.20%, Madhepura 59% and Supaul 61.19%. Don-turned neta Anand Mohan's wife Lovely is contesting the Saharsa on an RJD ticket. State energy minister Bijendra Prasad is in the fray, too. The BJP-JD(U) combine wields clout in Mithilanachal, comprising Darbhanga and Madhubani, and Tirhut, spanning Muzaffarpur and Sitamarhi. Madhubani recorded a voter turnout of almost 56.4% while Sitamarhi's stood at 55.8%. Ritu Jaiswal, an award-winning mukhiya, is in the fray as RJD candidate from Parihar in Sitamarhi. East Champaran and West Champaran reported a 57.16% and 56.02% turnout respectively. In the 2015 polls, NDA had won most seats in Champaran despite BJP’s tepid performance overall. This time, majority of exit polls have given MGB comprising RJD, Congress and Left parties a slight edge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/at-57-9-phase-3-sees-highest-turnout-in-bihar/articleshow/79107065.cms||Bharti Jain
November 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 50L loss in share market drives man to suicide||Coimbatore: A 48-year-old man self-immolated in front of an online trading firm’s office on Avinashi Road on Saturday morning after he incurred huge losses in share business. The Race Course (law & order) police identified the deceased as K C Dhanapal, 48, of Nanjundapuram Road in the city. He is survived by his wife Umadevi, 40, a headmistress with a panchayat union middle school near Podanur, and a son.Dhanapal, a police source said, reached the office of the stock broking company around 8am, stuck a suicide note on the building, doused himself with petrol, sat on his scooter that was parked on a vacant land opposite the building, and set himself on fire. On seeing him in flames, private security guards at the nearby business establishments alerted the Coimbatore South fire station. However, Dhanapal was charred to death before the firefighters reached the spot. The scooter was also gutted in the incident. Inspector Sakthivel said Dhanapal had lost at least Rs 50 lakh in share trading business and taken a loan of Rs 14 lakh on his wife’s name from a private bank. In March and April alone, he had suffered a loss of Rs 20 lakh as the shares were down. “He was frustrated as he could not repay the loan. He had also left a suicide note at his house.” In the suicide note, the officer said, Dhanapal said he had been facing huge financial problems during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-50l-loss-in-share-market-drives-man-to-suicide/articleshow/79105811.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Begumpet residents’ flood-ready plan fails||HYDERABAD: Residents of low-lying areas in Begumpet, who suffer with every downpour, had a nightmare when incessant rains lashed the city in October. BS Maktha, MS Maktha and Devnar School for the Blind on Mayuri Marg were the worst affected due to floods. Fortunately, as schools are yet to open, only furniture was damaged at the school for the visually challenged. Residents of these localities, who bounce back within a day or two of a downpour, have not been able to get back to their normal life till date. “As a precautionary measure, we keep motors handy to pump out water. During the October downpour, the motors failed as the water in cellars and houses was more than five feet. Adding to our woes, there was power outage and our houses were in water for more than five days. Our life has not returned to normal,” said Abdul Wahab, a resident of MS Maktha. Recalling the havoc unleashed by rain, another resident said they received help only after 24 hours. “We have telephone numbers of some officials and social workers who help us in case of emergency, but during the recent flood, officials of line departments and social workers were working elsewhere and we had to wait for a day to get help,” said T Kalyan from BS Maktha, who works as driver with a private company. A resident from the same locality working as a marketing executive said there was scarcity of food too. “A few residents living in less submerged areas waded through water, got food packets from a GHMC vehicle, which was distributing food in front of Raj Bhavan, and walked back in four feet water and distributed it among the ones stuck in inundated areas, such was the apathy,” he said. According to GHMC officials, permanent measures were being taken. “The kaccha nala near railway track running from BS Maktha is being converted into a drain and Rs 2 crore has been sanctioned. At MS Maktha, we have identified locations where static motor pumps need to be installed,” said Krishna Kumar, a deputy executive engineer at GHMC Khairatabad circle. Meanwhile, claiming they have not received any aid despite suffering heavy losses due to the floods, hundreds of victims on Saturday protested in front of GHMC Khairatabad zonal office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/begumpet-residents-flood-ready-plan-fails/articleshow/79105817.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Spike in elephant deaths worries forest officials||Coimbatore: Wild elephant deaths are on the rise in the Coimbatore forest division.While 12 elephants were found dead last year in the Madukkarai, Boluvampatti, Coimbatore, Periyanaickenpalayam, Karamadai, Mettupalayam and Sirumugai forest ranges, 19 died till September 17 this year. “While eight elephants were found dead in the Sirumugai forest range, five were found in Mettupalayam, two each in Boluvampatti and Periyanaickenpalayam ranges and one each in Karamadai and Coimbatore ranges,” a forest department official said. “While seven female elephants died last year, 11 have died this year. Most of the death were reported from Sirumugai, Coimbatore and Mettupalayam forest ranges.”Not all of them were natural deaths, district forest officer D Venkatesh said. “We arrested two farmers for shooting a wild elephant to death in the Mettupalayam forest range. Some elephants died due to ageing, some died following fight with other elephants. We provided medical care to many sick elephants. But we cannot check deaths due to infighting, heat stress and accidents,” he told TOI.In 2019, seven female and five male elephants died due to electrocution, diseases and starvation in the division. Five of them were found dead in Coimbatore forest range, two each in Madukkarai, Mettupalayam and Periyanaickenpalayam forest ranges and one in Sirumugai forest range.While 14 men and four women were killed by wild elephants last year in the division, 10 men and two women were killed till September 23 this year. Nine people were killed in the Coimbatore forest range last year, six in Boluvampatti, two people in Periyanaickenpalayam and one each in Sirumugai and Madukkarai forest ranges. Four people were killed in Boluvampatti range this year, three in the Coimbatore range, two each in Periyanaickenpalayam and Sirumugai ranges and one in the Mettupalayam range.An expert committee is studying elephant deaths in Pethikuttai in Sirumugai forest range, Venkatesh said. “Based on the study report, we will take necessary steps to check the deaths. We had requested people staying on the forest fringes not to go out of their houses late at night and early morning. The elephants had attacked workers of the brick kiln units at Thadagam, who had ventured out at night to answer nature’s call. We have requested brick kiln unit owners to provide toilet facilities to their workers to prevent man-animal conflict,” he said.The department has created seven WhatsApp groups to curb man-animal conflict in the division, assistant conservator of forests M Senthilkumar said. “As soon as we get information about wild elephants from farmers and villagers who are members of the groups, our teams chase them back to the reserve forest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/spike-in-elephant-deaths-worries-forest-officials/articleshow/79105803.cms||A Subburaj
November 8, 2020||Nashik||CBD to reopen library and jogging track||Nashik: The Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) will reopen the library and the jogging track from Monday due to drop in the number of Covid-19 cases in Deolali Camp.  However, the CBD has put up certain conditions for citizens to visit these places. Wearing masks will be compulsory for all those visiting the library and the jogging track. Nobody from the containment zone will be allowed to enter these places. Those violating such norms would be slapped with a fine. Senior officials of the CBD said it will also be mandatory for citizens to have the Swachhata app and the Aroyga Setu app on their cellphones to visit these places. People visiting these places without wearing masks and without the apps on their phones will have to pay a fine of Rs 500. If someone from a containment zone is found visiting these places, he or she will be slapped with a fine of Rs 5,000. The library and the jogging track have been closed for over seven months. But now citizens can visit these places. Officials said as the number of Covid-19 patients has reduced the Deolali Camp area, these places have been opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-to-reopen-library-and-jogging-track/articleshow/79103898.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Do not neglect fever in kids, docs tell parents||Coimbatore: The district logged 213 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the count to 44,889, even as the active cases came down to 1,000 with 213 patients getting discharged from treatment centres.At least 43,317 patients have recovered from the virus attack in the district so far at a recovery rate of 96.4%.The Covid-19 toll rose to 572 on the day with a 67-year-old diabetic and hypertensive man, who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on October 26, succumbing to the virus on Friday. The reasons cited for his death include respiratory failure and bilateral bronchopneumonia.The ESI Hospital, the main Covid-19 treatment centre in the region, has warned people not to ignore fever in children, especially when that is accompanied by symptoms like reddish eyes, stomach pain or swelling in the hands or legs. “They are symptoms of multi inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), which can be life threatening. It usually occurs within two to four weeks of children recovering from Covid-19,” said a source with the hospital, which recently had a Coivd positive child with the syndrome.On October 25, a 10-year-old girl from Tirupur was admitted to the hospital with fever, low blood pressure, mouth sores, swelling in her hands and feet, and enlargement of lymph nodes in her neck. A series of blood tests, including inflammatory markers and an ultrasound scan, revealed she was suffering from MIS-C.The hospital began supportive treatment and also arranged for immunoglobulin, which costs Rs 1.25 lakh per dose. On October 27 morning, they administered immunoglobulins through her veins for 24 hours and her symptoms began reducing gradually. “She is recovering well. We are grateful to the doctors and hospital staff for saving our child life,” the girl’s mother told. The treatment was offered free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/do-not-neglect-fever-in-kids-docs-tell-parents/articleshow/79105798.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Rajkot||Three held with firearms, ammunition||Rajkot: Three persons were arrested with firearms, ammunition and a knife from Jamnagar and Rajkot on Saturday. In Jamnagar, Bhimshi Ambalia was arrested with a pistol worth Rs 25,000, a country made pistol worth Rs 10,000 and 37 cartridges. “Ambalia was nabbed on the basis of a tip-off about him hanging out with arms and ammunition near Sonal Mata temple. During his interrogation Ambalia said he had procured the firearms and bullets from one Shashanksinh Thakur, a native of Chillivilla village of Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh. Following this revelation, we have launched a manhunt for Thakur,” said R B Gojia, inspector with Jamnagar local crime branch. Meanwhile in Rajkot, Mahendrasinh Zala (27) and Mahesh Solanki (20) were nabbed with pistols and a knife respectively. “Zala, who works as a financier, was found in possession of two country made pistols and two live cartridges worth Rs 20,000. Zala said that he had procured the firearms and ammunition from two persons from Kwat of Chhota Udepur district,” said Bhanu Miyantra, head constable with Rajkot special operation group. Another accused Solanki was nabbed from Thorala. “We arrested Solanki on the basis of a tip-off about him roaming around in Thorala with a knife,” said G M Hadia, inspector with Thorala police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-held-with-firearms-ammunition/articleshow/79103888.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Festive exhibitions go online to avoid mass gatherings||PUNE: The absence of large pre-festival exhibitions due to the Covid-19 pandemic does not mean shopping for goodies and gifts for Diwali and Christmas will get tough. Several annual pre-festival exhibitions, usually held around Diwali, have gone online this year amid restrictions on gatherings. Parul Mehta, managing trustee of Ishanya Foundation that organizes Yellow Ribbon NGO Fair annually, said, “Our commitment to the cause has been unflinching for over a dozen years now and we didn’t want to miss this year. Hence, the online avtar of the NGO Fair,” she said. Representatives of Seva Sahayog Foundation stated that the online fair will help them reach the masses. “Our products are made by underprivileged women. We are certain they will receive good exposure through the online exhibition,” a representative said. Entrepreneur Arti Nirwan, who recently started a crockery business, said that online exhibitions help highlight small businesses. Nirwan has displayed her products at an online festive exhibition launched by Rotary Club of Pune Westend. “I got the chance to display my products. I’m certain that I will get some sales,” she explained. The popular online platform Pune Ladies too organized an online exhibition, Pula Bazaar Live, to help women entrepreneurs. Designer Aarti Chauhan, who displayed her products at the exhibition, said, “We had half-an-hour to display our products. I started getting enquiries within the first five minutes of my session. People are still getting in touch with me. The online display definitely helped me tap onto a larger audience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/festive-exhibitions-go-online-to-avoid-mass-gatherings/articleshow/79105794.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Off-shops see brand downgrade as new liquor price regime kicks in||KOLKATA: Tipplers across the city have been vying for ‘old stocks’ and are switching brands after hard liquor prices rose by another 15%-20% translating to a steep rise of around 40%-50% from pre-Covid times. Although the price revision came into effect at the start of this month, shops across the city started selling at the new rates only from the middle of this week after the new stocks arrived. This has put tipplers in a spot of bother at the onset of the winter when hard liquor becomes the most favoured drink. There have been reports of arguments between off-shop owners and the because of unchanged stickers on some of the liquor brands supplied from Bevco even after November 3, when the state distribution arm resumed operations after two days’ closure. “On Thursday, I visited five shops in Central Kolkata looking for old stocks, which are still being sold at old prices. I finally found only one bottle at a Bowbazar off shop but had to buy another bottle at the new price. I don’t think it is justified to increase the price of liquor by close to 50% since the pandemic. The pandemic has also affected us and I believe the authorities should consider that too,” said Manoj Dutta, who works at a private firm in Dalhousie. Income tax lawyer Sinchan Saha, who loves his whisky and tequila and was all set to stock up his home cellar for the festive month, said he is now considering to scale down his taste and look for some cheaper brands. The state government, like many others, had imposed 30% Covid tax on all liquor, including beer, from April 7. This had led to a 35%-40% drop in IMFL demand and over 85% fall in beer demand. In mid-August, the state excise department decided to abolish the Covid tax and introduce a slab-based ad valorem structure. The new tax structure introduced on November 1 is based on ex-distillery price (EDP) and ex-brewery price (EBP). The new rates were supposed to be implemented from September, but were kept on hold following apprehensions of a further price hike by brands and liquor bodies. Off-shop owners across the city said, the price rise has had a direct impact on the sale of liquor. “We had good business during the Puja and with most people staying at home, we were hoping for better sales during Diwali. But the price rise has led to many of my regular customers shy away or choosing lower brands,” said an off-shop owner in Tollygunge. Restaurant and bar owners said that although they were yet to hike their liquor prices, it was inevitable in the coming weeks. “It couldn’t have come at a worse time. We are banking on our stocks to defer a price revision. But we are going to run out of stocks soon since liquor supply has been low since last week,” said a Park Street restaurant owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/off-shops-see-brand-downgrade-as-new-liquor-price-regime-kicks-in/articleshow/79105809.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana civic body proposes action against printers, publishers of illegal hoardings too||LUDHIANA: In order to take stern action against the defaulters who install illegal hoardings, banners or other advertisement materials, the municipal corporation (MC) officials will take a call on fixing heavy penalties in the house meeting on November 10. The civic body is now planning to take action not only against the company or firm for installing illegal hoardings, but also against the printers and publishers of the content. An advertisement sub committee was formed for keeping check on the illegal hoardings and advertisement material and in the first meeting, the members took note of the illegal hoardings dotting the city roads. The commissioner while heading the meeting took a few decisions. The civic officials will take in writing from the owners of company or firm who have put up illegal hoarding the details of the printers so that action could be taken against them. There is provision of penalty worth Rs 500 to Rs 50,000 on such defaulters, but it has been proposed that Rs 25,000 per banner/per day should be recovered from firm and printers. Similarly, for illegal boards, police booth and barricades too, Rs 25,000 per hoarding per day penalty will be recovered. The civic officials will also act against illegal hoardings at public properties. If any firm or publisher is caught using mobile vehicles for advertisements, then the MC should impose Rs 50,000 as fine. For the illegal LEDs Rs 25,000 per LED, for illegal advertisements on poles or kiosks Rs 15,000 per pole/kiosk will be recovered. Most importantly, for the religious hoardings or congratulating boards, Rs 2,000 per board for 10 days should be paid to MC but nobody deposits the same. So it has been decided to impose Rs 25,000 per board to the defaulters. For any other kind of illegal hoardings, Rs 25,000 per illegal board will have to be recovered. The officials will have to remove the illegal hoardings in 24 hours and if any official fails to perform his duty then Rs 5,000 per day penalty will be imposed on that officer. 2 acres for expansion of modern slaughter house In house meeting agenda, reserving two acres of land at Noorpur Bet will be discussed too. The firm had demanded some land for future expansion of the project but details of the project will be disclosed only when the MC will find the working satisfactory. Also, proposal to give land for establishing five modern meat shops will also be discussed in the meeting MC to identify slum area under Punjab slum dwellers The civic body will identify slums at government land to start process of implementation of act by conferring proprietary rights to slum dwellers within the MC limits. According to a previous survey, 182 slums were identified in the city, out of which 13 slums are already relocated and around 2,600 families were allotted flats in Giaspura and Mundian. Also, 17 slums having approximately 4,143 households have been identified. Out of these, seven are at GLADA land, six at railways land and two each on irrigation department and MC. Smart LED streets, centralised control and monitoring system Whereas LED street lights project is yet to be completed, in the house meeting members will discuss increasing the total number of light points and their maintenance by Tata Projects Limited. There is proposal to add 15,000 points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-proposes-action-against-printers-publishers-of-illegal-hoardings-too/articleshow/79105800.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Gurkirpal Singh elected new bar association president||LUDHIANA: Gurkirpal Singh Gill was elected as president and Parminder Singh Pari as vice-president in the DBA elections held on Friday. Meanwhile, the counting of votes for the posts of executive members started on Saturday afternoon. Giving details, assistant returning officer (ARO) for elections advocate Lalita Jain said that while Gill secured 1,276 votes, his nearest rival Ankur Ghai got 845 votes and third candidate for the post of president Harjot Singh Harikay got 209 votes. She added that Pari won the elections for vice-president post by securing 935 votes, whereas his nearest rival Rajnesh Mahajan got 886 votes and Karan Verma secured 492 votes. The election officer said that Gagandeep Saini won the elections for the post of secretary by securing 1,117 votes, whereas his nearest rival Gurmukh Singh got 802 votes and Sukhwinder Bhatia got 408 votes. She added that Davinderpal Singh Grewal won the joint secretary election by securing 1,646 votes, whereas his nearest rival Sachin Bawa got 554 votes. RO advocate Amardeep Bhatia said that Gautam Rishi had already been declared finance secretary as Yadwinder Singh Sadiora withdrew his candidature for the post. He further said 2,348 voters of the total 3,111 voters had cast their votes at a percentage of 75.5%. She added that counting of votes for posts of some executive member was remaining and it was started on Saturday afternoon. The RO said that the executive members who were elected included Gagandeep Batra (1,433 votes), Amit Gupta (1020 votes), Karan Singh Thakur (981), Sanal (934), Sagar Lakshya (886) and Dinesh Kumar (880). Even as the authorities concerned claimed to have made adequate arrangements to ensure that Covid-19 related norms were followed by advocates, such norms were seen going for a toss after the election results were declared on Friday evening. An advocate on terms of anonymity said that most of the supporters of many winning candidates didn’t follow norms related to Covid-19. He added that the supporters and some winners were not even wearing masks leave and neither maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gurkirpal-singh-elected-new-bar-association-president/articleshow/79105812.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Teen accident victim gives gift of life||Coimbatore: Organs of a 17-year-old boy, who was declared brain dead after suffering grievous injuries in a road accident, were donated on Saturday.Vaitheeshwaran of Ettimadai Pirivu met with the accident on Pollachi Road on Tuesday at 4.50pm. He was rushed to a private hospital for first aid and was later shifted to the Kovai Medical Center and Hospital (KMCH) on Avinashi Road. However, he did not respond to the treatment and was declared brain dead on Friday. The victim’s parents Gopal and Vimaladevi told hospital authorities that Vaitheeshwaran had consented to donate his organs. The Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu (Transtan) was informed about availability of the organs and doctors harvested the teen’s heart, lungs, liver, kidneys, eyes, bone & skin.While the liver and kidneys were donated to KMCH, eyes were sent to Aravind Eye Hospital and skin and bone to Ganga Hospital. The heart was sent to Chennai-based MGM Hospital and the lungs to KIMS Hospitals in Secunderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teen-accident-victim-gives-gift-of-life/articleshow/79105813.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Special awareness drive against Covid-19 ahead of festive season||HUBBALLI: District administration is mulling a special Information, Education and Communication (IEC) drive to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus during this festival season. Several IEC activities were conducted at large when the Covid pandemic was at the peak, but subsequently the drive ran out of steam as the cases started dropping. The new move comes as the epidemiologists warn of a second wave of infection during the festive season. Speaking to STOI, Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil said they are planning a special IEC drive during Diwali. He said the fight against Covid is not yet over. “People should not lower their guards. They should remain vigilant and celebrate festival in their homes,” he added. Covid-related jingles or messages to increase awareness will be played on the garbage collecting tippers and hoardings will be erected at prominent places about the SOPs to be followed, said the DC. Patil said other strategies to create awareness will be chalked out in a day or two. “People know what the coronavirus is and what are the ways to remain protected from the virus, but people have to follow the safety protocols. The administration is leaving no stone unturned to keep curb the spread,” he added. The deputy commissioner said action against norm flouters will be intensified in the coming days. One of the epidemiologists working in a government hospital said that IEC activities should be continued and it should not take a back seat. “It’s time for the administration to conduct aggressive testing, tracing and treating. People should compulsorily follow the SOPs while they are out,” said the expert. “This festive season and winter, the virus may prove to be a threat. It is important to follow Covid guidelines to curb the transmission of virus. High visibility IEC activities are the need of the hour,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/special-awareness-drive-against-covid-19-ahead-of-festive-season/articleshow/79105925.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Man assaulted for ‘puja subscription’||KOLKATA: A private car driver — identified as Ajay Kumar Mishra — residing in the Mullickpur area on the Haridevpur-Narendrapur border has alleged that a local club’s members assaulted him and snatched Rs 18,400 after he refused to pay a huge amount as Kali Puja subscription. Haridevpur cops have registered a case of hurt and snatching. So far, three of the accused have been identified. Haridevpur police, though, claimed that the incident was a result of local enmity and that the subscription angle was a facade. The incident occurred on Wednesday. However, locals demanded the arrest of the youths as Mishra’s eye swelled and he had to get four stitches. They also demanded the Kali Puja to be shut down. According to Mishra, he was returning from work after collecting his salary on Wednesday night when at least a dozen local youths surrounded him. “I know them by face, but do not know their names as I am a new in the area. One of them pointed towards the under-construction Kali Puja pandal next to my house and asked me if I had noticed how big the pandal was despite the pandemic situation. When I nodded in agreement, he said I had to pay a subscription,” Mishra said. “I agreed to pay Rs 151-Rs 201. This irked the youths. I told them that I have meagre earnings and that I cannot spend much. But they insisted that I pay Rs 10,000. They then started threatening me and pushed and shoved me. One of them picked up a rod and hit me on my head. As I slumped, they continued to kick me,” recalled Mishra. While leaving, the accused snatched Rs 18,400 from Mishra’s pocket. The police said that since the incident, the accused had switched off their mobile phones and shut the club. “I have not seen them after I went to the police,” said Mishra. Police said that they were talking to the locals to find clues to the accused’s whereabouts. Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma had earlier instructed all police stations in the city to take strict action against those forcing people to shell out money for Kali Puja. The directive to all the deputy commissioners and the officers in charge of police stations came after several complaints from last year were reviewed at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-assaulted-for-puja-subscription/articleshow/79105824.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 8, 2020||Meerut||Burglars break open ATM, decamp with Rs 11 lakh in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: Burglars broke open a State Bank of India ATM and decamped with Rs 11 lakh cash in Bulandshahr’s Kakod area, police said on Saturday. According to senior superintendent of Police (SSP) Santosh Kumar, though the CCTV inside the ATM was disabled by the assailants, four suspects and a vehicle have been captured on another CCTV installed in the area. A sub-inspector Ankit has been suspended by the SSP for “dereliction of duty”. “After scanning the CCTV footage, four suspects and the vehicle used in the incident are being traced. We are trying to solve the case at the earliest,” the SSP said. In a similar incident in February this year, burglars had decamped with Rs 28 lakh after breaking open an ATM of Punjab National Bank installed outside the gate of a sugar mill unit on the Khurja Pahasu state highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/burglars-break-open-atm-decamp-with-rs-11-lakh-in-bshahr/articleshow/79103902.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Leopard death: 2 held for placing snare||Udhagamandalam: Two people were arrested on Saturday in connection with the death of a female leopard, which was trapped in a cable snare that was placed on a private land at Selas near Coonoor.The leopard was found dead on Friday night. Sasikumar, forest range officer Coonoor, said, “We were alerted by the local residents. We had deployed a team there to keep the carcass safe. The animal was around five years old.”Inquiry with the local people revealed that the snare was placed by Selvam, a resident of Kilijjada near Coonoor, and Murugan, from Kerala, to catch wild boars and rabbits. The officer said it was Murugan who persuaded Selvam, to place the cable snare on his land. “They were arrested and remanded in judicial custody.”Postmortem, meanwhile, revealed the animal’s canine teeth and nails were intact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leopard-death-2-held-for-placing-snare/articleshow/79105816.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nashik||Vigilance awareness week at HAL||Nashik: General manager of aircraft manufacturing division of the Nashik-based Hindustan Auronatics Ltd (HAL) Deepak Singhal has stressed on the need for good governance in an organisation. He was speaking at the inauguration of the week-long vigilance awareness week which was organised by the company from October 27. GM (AOD) Saket Chaturvedi and GM (AURDC) R P Khapli were also present. The theme of the awareness week was ‘Vigilant India-Prosperous India.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vigilance-awareness-week-at-hal/articleshow/79103905.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Police station gets library to keep visitors engaged||Salem: Kitchipalayam police station has set up a library to keep the visitors utilize the time that they spend waiting to meet officials more efficiently and inculcate the habit of reading among them and police personnel. The library is equipped with tables and chairs. It could accommodate 10 people at a time. The library has general knowledge books, newspapers and psychology books, among other categories. It is equipped with drinking water and fans. Its walls feature drawings of Mahatma Gandhi and former President D. A P J Abdul Kalam and sceneries to lighten the ambience.Assistant commissioner A Manikandan inaugurated the library on Saturday evening.Talking to TOI, police inspector Sivakumar said people visiting the police station were often sitting idle while officers were busy with petitioners and other duties. “It will help them read some books and relax as they wait.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-station-gets-library-to-keep-visitors-engaged/articleshow/79105826.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Salem||Salem closes all Covid care centres as cases dip||SALEM: All the 17 Covid care centres that were opened in the district have been closed, thanks to the dip in positive cases. The district administration opened the Covid care centres in June when there was a surge in daily spike. They were set up in private and government schools and colleges after there was a shortage of beds in the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital (SGMKMCH). A senior health official said, “We had nearly 500 beds in the hospital. However, we were seeing more than 400 positive cases a day back then. So, we increased the bed strength by 2,700 by setting up the care centres, which were equipped with oxygen pipes, beds, nurses and doctors.” The centres had together treated close to 13,000 patients. The district administration subsequently intensified the containment measures, which has now paid off. The cases have come down to 100-150 today. “In the coming days the numbers will drop below 100,” the officer said. He said the educational institutions, which were used as Covid care centres, would be fumigated completely before handing them over to their managements. “Students need not worry about the chances of getting infected when the schools and colleges reopen.” Meanwhile, Dr R Balajinathan, dean, SGMKMCH, appealed the public to follow the guidelines prescribed by the state government to curb the virus spread during festival time. “The number of inpatients has reduced by half and we are seeing only a Covid death in a week. People should follow social distancing, wear face masks and use hand sanitizers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-closes-all-covid-care-centres-as-cases-dip/articleshow/79105820.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Meerut||Couple found dead at home in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Mystery shrouds the death of 50-year-old grocery shopkeeper, Sunil Daga, and his wife, Neera, (45), whose bodies were found at their house in Meerapur area here on Saturday morning. While there were no injury marks on Sunil's body, Neera had a bullet injury on the head. She was probably shot from point-blank range, police said. A .315 bore gun was seized from the spot. A suicide note, purportedly written by Neera and blaming her brother-in-law and his wife for harassment was also found, police added. The couple lived in a first floor apartment of the building where Sunil owned a shop. According to sources, Sunil was ill for a long time and was suffering from financial problems. After news of their death spread, a large number of people gathered at the spot, demanding a fair investigation of the matter. Nepal Singh, superintendent of police (rural), said, "We are waiting for the post-mortem report. Action will be taken accordingly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/couple-found-dead-at-home-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/79103907.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||Injured tusker treated at Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary||MYSURU: The foresters have successfully provided medical treatment for the tusker which was injured during an infighting with another tusker in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary. The 25-year-old tusker was injured in the rectum portion during the fight a few days ago. It was found venturing into a pond to get relief from pain and to avoid insects at Veerasandra village coming under Sangama forest range in the sanctuary. In order to provide treatment for the tusker, the foresters had summoned tuskers Abhimanyu and Gopalaswamy from Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. They had also invited wildlife vet Dr Umashankar from Bannerghatta National Park to do the needful. The foresters on Friday successfully traced the injured tusker near Veerasandra village. Using the camp elephants, the wildlife vet tranquilised the tusker for treatment. The medical team cleaned the wounds and provided antibiotics. Later the tusker was released back to the wild. Leopard rescued in HunsurA five-year-old leopard walked straight into a trap (cage) at an agricultural field at Chikaharadanahalli village in Hunsur taluk on Saturday. The big cat had created panic among the villagers over the last few months by hunting livestock and stray dogs in the village. Following complaints from the villagers, the foresters laid the trap at the agriculture field belonging to farmer Chandrashekar. On Saturday morning, the villagers noticed the leopard caught in the cage and informed the foresters. The forest staff, after medical check-up, released the big cat back in the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/injured-tusker-treated-at-wildlife-sanctuary/articleshow/79105190.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Vadodara||Auto driver harasses, stalks female passenger; booked||VADODARA: A 23-year-old Karelibaug resident was molested and stalked by an auto-rickshaw driver when she was going home from work. The woman who works in a car accessories’ shop told the police that the incident happened after she boarded the accused auto-rickshaw near Sursagar pond on Thursday evening. She hired the auto on sharing basis and the driver picked up a man from near Pratap talkies and another from near Gandhi Nagargruh. He then made her sit in the middle of the two passengers after which she asked him to stop the vehicle. Instead of taking the road towards her home, he took the auto on another route and when she insisted to stop, he kept abusing her despite the other two passengers asking him not to use foul language or misbehave with the woman. While passing by Karelibaug police station, the woman threatened to shout for help, but the accused held her hand and pushed her back in her seat. He, however, stopped his vehicle at a distance from the police station and let her get down. The woman who confessed of being frightened then, said she decided to head home. She boarded another autorickshaw and got down near VUDA circle to walk towards her home when she noticed the earlier autorickshaw driver following her till her home. She managed to take a photo of his auto on her mobile phone. On reaching home, she told her brother about the incident and gave a complaint of sexual harassment at Raopura police station on Friday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/auto-driver-harasses-stalks-female-passenger-booked/articleshow/79103910.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Smart learning of ‘bharana bhasha’ for govt officials||KOCHI: Whiteboards and marker pens with erasable ink used for displaying words of Malayalam in government offices would soon be out of fashion with the International Centre for Free and Open Source Software (ICFOSS) launching a smart solution for the purpose. As per an existing government directive, government offices are supposed to place a board where five words used for administrative communication are displayed with their Malayalam word equivalents. “Offices having smart TV monitors can link to a URL provided by ICFOSS and the electronic equivalent would populate five random words,” said a senior official with ICFOSS. The electronic board is available as a pop-up in ICFOSS website and can also be accessed on Kerala.gov.in portal. The first week of November is celebrated as ‘official language’ week by the state government. The words in the pop-up, which will be picked up from a ‘Bharana Bhasha’ database, would refresh every 30 seconds showing new ones. New words, curated by language experts, are added to keep the system dynamic. “In 2017, we had developed an online dictionary called Bharana Malayalam, which also has a mobile application. It has around 20,000 words used for administrative communication,” says R Sivakumar, a language expert who helps government departments identify proper Malayalam words for administrative communication. New words are admitted based on a policy formulated in 2005. “If there is a Malayalam word that is available and has a certain standard, it is preferred,” he said. For other language words, if there is no replaceable word in Malayalam, it is accepted as a loan word. “Sometimes we adapt other language words by slightly tweaking them,” he said. Sivakumar says they are now planning to revise the lexicon by adding another 3,000 words. “We hope to complete the exercise in another six months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/smart-learning-of-bharana-bhasha-for-govt-officials/articleshow/79104758.cms||Binu Karunakaran
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||After tech glitch, HC to hear 70:30 quota plea in-person||NAGPUR: After facing technical glitches in online hearing, Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Friday decided to hear plea in-person challenging Maharashtra government’s decision to abolish 70:30 regional quota in medical admissions. A division bench comprising Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Avinash Gharote directed senior counsels Subodh Dharmadhikari and Ashwin Deshpande, pleading for petitioner Nitika Lakhotiya, to file an application to Chief Justice for constitution of a special bench to hear the case during Diwali vacations. Earlier, senior counsel Anil Vinchurkar, appearing for the government, faced several disruptions in his audio and video communication during the online hearing. Dharmadhikari then requested the court to hold hearing in-person as the process of choice submission for various medical colleges has commenced from Friday and it would be over by November 22. Though Vinchurkar agreed to remain personally present on Saturday for urgent hearing as decided by the judges, later in the day mother-in-law passed away forcing him to request the court to grant him permission to appear on Monday. Both senior lawyers then agreed to plead the petition in-person on Monday. The bench, however, clarified that any one of them would be available during the vacations. The petitioner contended that the government has amended Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Education Institutions (Regulation of admission to the full time professional undergraduate medical and dental courses) Rules, 2016 by substituting new rule 9 to abolish the 70:30 quota that was in existence for 20 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-tech-glitch-hc-to-hear-7030-quota-plea-in-person/articleshow/79088676.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||V-P of US Nagar zila panchayat disqualified for using fake mark sheet||Rudrapur: Udham Singh Nagar district magistrate (DM) Ranjana Rajguru, in an order issued on Saturday, cancelled the election of Zila Panchayat vice-president Trinath Biswas after it was established in a probe that he used a fake Class X mark sheet to contest the elections in 2019. DM Rajguru has also ordered to file an FIR against the accused. In July this year, a complaint was filed at the DM's office by Kishore Haldar, the Congress candidate who fought against Biswas in the district council elections from Khatola seat of Dineshpur. The complainant had alleged that Biswas not only won the elections fraudulently but later made it to the vice-president post of zila panchayat after receiving support from the ruling BJP. Earlier, the DM had ordered a probe and set up a three-member committee to conduct the probe. A show-cause notice was also issued to Biswas by the DM office but he did not appear to present his side. Henceforth, DM Rajguru using the power, under sub-section (5) of Section 90 of Uttarakhand Panchayati Raj Act 2016, declared Biswas disqualified for the post of a zila panchayat member. A copy of this order has also been sent to the state government and the State Election Commission. Meanwhile, Biswas could not be contacted for comments despite several efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/v-p-of-us-nagar-zila-panchayat-disqualified-for-using-fake-mark-sheet/articleshow/79103929.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 8, 2020||Meerut||Farmers in western Uttar Pradesh want buying of crops below minimum support price to be made a 'criminal offence'||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Hundreds of farmers from different parts of western UP took part in a mahapanchayat organised by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), on Saturday, pressing for minimum support price (MSP) of sugarcane to be fixed at Rs 450 per quintal, discussion on pending cane dues and demand to make buying of crops below MSP a "criminal offence". Several local farm leaders, including that of the BKU, addressed the large gathering at the government inter college ground in Muzaffarnagar - all against the backdrop of the recently constituted farm laws. Farmers are also largely unhappy with the state's action against them for stubble burning. Heavy police force was deployed as a precaution. Speaking to media persons, BKU chief Naresh Tikait said, "The contentious farm laws should be amended and the UP government - like other states such as Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh - must make buying of crops below MSP a criminal offence." National spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said that the state government did not increase cane prices for the past two years. Now, the sugarcane price should be fixed at Rs 450 per quintal, he added. Notably, parts of western UP have been witnessing large farmers' protests for the past 10 days. A memorandum with 13 demands was sent to the state government. It included clearing of all cane dues and paying the bills within 14 days after purchasing the crop. "In the name of stubble burning, farmers are being booked and blamed for increasing the pollution level, while sugarcane mills are not paying the dues," Dharmendra Malik, BKU's media spokesperson, said. Confirming the memorandum, additional district magistrate Amit Singh said, "The farmers have given a memorandum with 13 demands, which is being sent to the government. We have discussed several of the farmers' demands. Some of them can be solved at the district level. The MSP demand is related to the government."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/farmers-in-western-up-want-buying-of-cropsbelow-msp-to-be-made-a-criminal-offence/articleshow/79103920.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC halts construction of road encroaching Katta Mallanna FTL||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court directed the Warangal Rural district collector to ensure that no construction takes place in the shikam land of Katta Mallanna lake in Gorrekunta village, Warangal Rural until further orders. The bench comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction while hearing a PIL filed by Kuchana Venkata Narayana challenging the action of the authorities in proceeding to lay a 13km Inner Ring Road through the Katta Mallanna lake bed in deviation of sanctioned Warangal Master Plan 1971. Petitioner’s counsel Arjun Kumar said the sanctioned master plan had the alignment such that the road passed outside the FTL of the tank but authorities are laying the road through the tank, in violation of law and the master plan. He also pointed out authorities have issued land acquisition notification wherein 2.26 acres of shikam land of the lake has been listed for acquisition and contended it was illegal. The bench, while seeking replies from the authorities within two weeks, said a viaduct would solve the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-halts-construction-of-road-encroaching-katta-mallanna-ftl/articleshow/79105829.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC earns Rs 1 cr from goods transport||Nashik: The state transport service’s Nashik division has earned an impressive Rs 1 crore in seven months after it started transporting goods. The Nashik division of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) began its parcel and transport services in May with three trucks that were modified from old buses. Now, it has 44 such trucks transporting vegetables, industrial goods, parcels and even electronic voting machines (EVM) to and from Nashik.State transport minister Anil Parab decided to look out for more avenues for earning revenue for the MSRTC and this option was developed during the lockdown.In the month of June, the Nashik division carried out 76 trips of its trucks that earned Rs 4.79 lakh. The next month, the number of trips were increased to 277 trips, brinig in Rs 20.5 lakh. The month of August got business of Rs 2.4 lakh. “The revenue is increasing with the good response from the industries, traders and even the vegetable transporters,” an MSRTC officer claimed. In the month of October, the MSRTC earned Rs 4.12 lakh with 432 trips of its trucks and in the month of November, so far, it has earned Rs 4.8 lakh more than what entire month of June had fetched. Mainly trade and industry businesses, besides government establishments using the service. Recently, a major consignment of delivering EVMs to Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh was taken up.Thirteen trucks had been dispatched for this service, an officer said.“It was a bit difficult in the beginning. We got our marketing teams to meet local traders and industries, and explained to them about our integrity. We assured them of deliverying goods in time and at the destination. It was a new venture for us and we had to manage manpower for it,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-earns-rs-1-cr-from-goods-transport/articleshow/79103927.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 8, 2020||Nashik||Game for RWH in government offices||Nashik: Divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game said he would ask the government offices to install rainwater harvesting systems on their premises.Addressing the review meeting of the Godavari pollution control committee — with government and non-government members — Game said: “When we harvest rainwater by containing it in a pool and later use the stored for different purposes, we contribute to water conservation. At the same time, we also help reduce Godavari river pollution.” Generally, government offices are built in the manner that there is adequate land available. Therefore, even if they are in old buildings or old structures, space for rainwater harvesting can always be made available.When a member raised the issue of increasing hyacinth growth in the Godavari river, the divisional commissioner sought a reply from the officials concerned. The member had pointed out that hyacinth growth was increasing despite the Nashik Municipal Corporation appointing a contractor to weed out the vegetation. The member also pointed out that the corporation had bought a machine to get rid of the hyacinth, but it was lying idle because there is no operator for the same. Game then asked the officials to look into the matter and ensure that hyacinth growth was removed at the earliest.He has also asked the Zilla Parishad to install a rainwater harvesting system and a sewage treatment plant in the Govardhan village, so that the water from this village does not get into the river. Game told the environmental activists, who were part of the committee, that security personnel would be deployed along the Godavari to discourage people from throwing waste in the water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/game-for-rwh-in-government-offices/articleshow/79103944.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Should our schools reopen after Diwali?||AHMEDABAD: Just as the state health and education department scripts SOPs for school and colleges and institution to reopen, the decision teeters on the edge of normalcy and a disaster. Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and Mizoram, which had reopened schools a few weeks back, had to shut immediately as many students and teachers contracted the virus. Odisha and Delhi governments have declared that they won’t reopen schools anticipating a second wave of Covid-19 during winter. Parents and teachers in city are worried of the disease, and also want normalcy should be achieved. But they voice their concerns on who would be responsible, when a second wave is anticipated during winter. “In colleges, a lecture room seats more than 60 students, there are professors and students with co-morbidities who can be exposed to the virus. What about students who live in crowded hostels or PG accommodations? Have these factors been accounted for?” asks Pratham Patel, a lecturer in a city-based college. “We don’t have many cases to prove that children who contract Covid are safe,” admits a senior health official who was part of discussions in the government. Bhavin Vyas a parent says, “If parents are happy with their children attending and teachers conducting online classes, our government should accept that. The safety of children and those working in schools is supreme. Let no child, teacher be affected by this decision.” Sonia Agarwal, another parent says, “If schools reopen it should be with utmost precautions. Full safety protocol should be ensured.” Jatin Bharad, vice-president, self-financed school management association, said, “We will follow every guideline that the state government declares for schools. But schools cannot be held accountable, if a child contracts the virus. A child remains in school for a maximum of 4-5 hours, and the rest of the time they are at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/should-our-schools-reopen-after-diwali/articleshow/79105976.cms||Bharat Yagnik
November 8, 2020||Kochi||UAVs to aid Kuttanad farmers in face of labour shortage||KOTTAYAM: Usage of drones and micronutrient fertilizers developed by the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) are expected to bail out farmers in Kuttanad from severe shortage of labourers owing to Covid-19 and the restrictions associated with the pandemic. Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) under KAU in Kumarakom launched a campaign to encourage farmers to use unmanned aerial vehicles to spray fertilizers in paddy fields. As per the recommendations of KAU, foliar application of fertilizers will enhance the yield of paddy in Kuttanad. According to G Jayalekshmi, programme coordinator KVK, Kumarakom, uniform spread of the sprayed fluid using drones will have a positive impact on grain quality and yield. “The technology implemented in larger areas will reduce the cost of production. This system will also reduce the time for spraying and improve the spraying efficiency,” she said. Drones can spray fertilizers on crops in one acre field in ten minutes. The cost for spraying an acre of field is around Rs 800. ‘Sampoorna’, crop-specific formulation for use in rice, banana and vegetables developed by KAU, has been provided free for the farmers by KVK. The agricultural department is planning to make available drones for farmers through krishi bhavans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/uavs-to-aid-kuttanad-farmers-in-face-of-labour-shortage/articleshow/79104782.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents revive Ranganna Kunta in Kondapur||HYDERABAD: This year, residents in and around Ranganna Kunta in Kondapur did not face flooding, courtesy restoration work taken up at the lake by the locals themselves. After a two-year revival process, the lake was opened to the public on Saturday. Thanks to the mosquito-ridden lake, teeming with algae and emitting a foul stench, residents were at their wits’ end. “We had decided to approach authorities two years ago to refurbish the lake. At that time, it was just a dumpyard,” said Rama Krishna, president of abutting Jagruthi Colony. Pavan Chandra, a resident of the colony, said, “We raised Rs 8 lakh to help improve the lake’s capacity. But, we needed GHMC support also. They soon put us in touch with companies that could support our effort. The facelift has been well worth the effort.” What followed was a combined effort by locals, civic officials, United Way Hyderabad (UWH), an NGO, and GE-India. Though spread over only two acres, the lake, located at Hanuman Nagar, was able to take in water this monsoon that would otherwise have been on the roads, say residents. The NGO overlooked the entire restoration process as part of their ‘Wake the lake’ campaign under which they adopted three lakes. GE-India funded the efforts. Among the steps undertaken were to clear the garbage from the lake, which included nearly 10 tonnes of plastic and 20 tonnes of stone debris. This was followed by desilting of the lake and creation of a bund. An inlet storm waster was created to help water run-off enter the lake and around 3,500 native saplings were planted all around the lake. Besides this, a walking track of 320 metre length was laid. Wasim Akhter of UWH said: “There is a need to spread the message of the importance of lakes’ restoration. Our efforts in restoring the lake finally came to fruition with us inaugurating the newly-restored lake..” Volunteers said the effort stood out because it was a collaborative project. “The fact that there were no conflicts among the stakeholders is an example of the way forward for more lakes,” said Rekha Srinivasan, who keenly participated in the efforts. Arekapudi Gandhi, MLA of Serilingampally, said the recent floods were a warning, highlighting the importance of reviving the lakes. “There are 60-plus lakes in Serilingampally constituency which I represent. Through the ‘adopt a lake’ programme, we are encouraging companies to come forward and support lake restoration efforts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-revive-ranganna-kunta-in-kondapur/articleshow/79105862.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Cops attach assets over Rs 1 crore from don Badan Singh Baddo’s bungalow||MEERUT: Two days after the Allahabad high court directed the principal secretary, department of home affairs, Uttar Pradesh, to file an affidavit stating complete details relating to the efforts made by the state to ensure arrest of convicted absconder Badan Singh Baddo, the local police in Meerut on Saturday attached moveable assets worth over Rs 1 crore from fugitive gangster’s palatial bungalow. A posse of cops from several police stations arrived at Baddo’s bungalow in New Punjabi Pura area on Saturday morning and began seizing all moveable items. “His movable assets amounting above Rs 1 cr have been attached. These involve very expensive furnishing, electrical appliances and housing equipment at his three-storey house in the New Punjabi Pura area have been seized. Notices have been sent to Meerut development authority to see if requisite approvals were taken for construction of the building,” Krishan Kumar Bishnoi, additional superintendent of police (ASP), said. Baddo, serving life sentence, had fled from Meerut during his transit from a Ghaziabad court in March last year. In a PIL filed recently, petitioner Abhishek Som had alleged that Baddo, convicted for life term imprisonment, absconded from custody on March 28, 2019, but no efforts have been made to arrest him. The petitioner also placed before the court certain documents to substantiate the fact that the convict is regularly operating his social media pages, including a Facebook account. Investigators, however, claimed Saturday's action has nothing to do with the recent intervention of the high court. “I have been working on this case for over a month. The process to initiate action under section 82/83 CrPc takes time and we were waiting for a go ahead,” ASP Bishnoi said. Local police and a special task force have been on his trail ever since his escape but with no success. Baddo had sprung a surprise with a social media post pinning his location to Rotterdam, a port city in Netherlands, in February this year, almost 10 months after dramatically slipping out of police’s clutches. Baddo, 48, has more than 30 cases of murder, loot, robbery and extortion lodged against him at various police stations in Meerut and adjoining districts. He was sentenced to life imprisonment on October 31, 2017, for the murder of Ravinder Singh, a lawyer, in 1996. Baddo is said to own businesses in Australia where his estranged wife and daughter are settled. In a Bollywood-style escape, Baddo had escaped last year after allegedly entertaining a police team accompanying him in a hotel where alcohol was served. Nine accused, including six policemen, were initially arrested but all were granted bail. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-hc-rap-up-cops-attach-assets-worth-over-rs-1-cr-from-don-baddos-bungalow/articleshow/79103926.cms||Piyush.Rai
November 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Tellapur residents at loss over NGT order on NOCs||HYDERABAD: Aggrieved residents of Tellapur voiced their concerns on Saturday following a recent order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that upheld cancellation of NOCs if projects were constructed on lakes. The residents said that their hard-earned money was at stake. Pratap, a techie and resident of one of the affected projects, said: “In 2006, an NOC was issued to the builder. In 2016, the building was declared as being part of the full tank level of the lake. We are completely at a loss.” Not just those living in Tellapur, but those planning to pay an advance are also on tenterhooks. Srinivas, a prospective buyer, wondered if he should go ahead considering the uncertainty in the area. In a first attempt of its kind, the petitioner in the case Rajkumar Thakur spoke to the residents clarifying on various issues, including on NOCs. “In any NOC, there is a line at the end that states it can be cancelled at any time if illegalities or encroachments are found. So, unlike what many gullible people believe, an NOC is not written in stone. One has to be extra cautious and I too have been fooled this way,” he said. Assuring residents that they need not panic, Thakur said that prospective customers could still buy properties, but need to keep in mind encroached spaces. “In the recent flooding, almost 300 apartments in one establishment were affected. So, prospective buyers must avoid such projects or part of projects that encroach water bodies.” He called for another meeting with all stakeholders, stating a resolution on the issue would set an example. Confident that even if the matter goes to the Supreme Court, it would uphold the environment-friendly order of the NGT, he said the rights of buyers must be protected. There are three major lakes in Tellapur, including Chelli Kunta, Medla Kunta and Vanam kunta, and several nalas. Ramana Eshwaragiri, president, Tellapur neighbourhood association, said a three-member residents’ committee would soon be formed to talk to affected residents. A combined petition would be placed before the government-appointed committee to look into the matter. The order was given by the NGT southern bench in Chennai on October 29. While stating that a government-constituted committee should look into the violations, it called for eviction of violators and action against those officials who issued NOCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tellapur-residents-at-loss-over-ngt-order-on-nocs/articleshow/79105920.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kochi||MP writes to AM Ariff on row over All India Radio transmitter||ALAPPUZHA: In the wake of the strong protest, Prasar Bharati’s order to decommission All India Radio’s (AIR) 200kW medium wave transmitter was put on hold for a week on Saturday. This was a day after Prasar Bharati ordered decommissioning of the transmitter with immediate effect; no reason was given. Alappuzha MP AM Ariff visited AIR Alappuzha station on Saturday and later talked to Union minister for information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar and Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar. The MP also sent a letter to Javadekar on Saturday. In the letter, he said the director-general of the Prasar Bharati had taken a unilateral decision to decommission the transmitter. “The 20kW transmitter attached to the broadcasting station of Akashvani in Thiruvananthapuram has limited coverage. The 200kW transmitter in Alappuzha is thus responsible for the transmission of signal to an extended area covering 93% of the territory of Kerala and far-away places like Lakshadweep, Tirunelveli and Madurai outside the state,” he wrote. The MP said that if Prasar Bharati failed to withdraw its decision, people will be forced to launch strong agitations. The Alappuzha transmitter was set up in 1971.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mp-writes-to-union-min-on-row-over-air-transmitter/articleshow/79104824.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fireworks danger for Covid survivors||KOLKATA: Fireworks may pose a major health risk to Covid-survivors in Bengal who are still recuperating from residual lung ailments, health experts have warned. High levels of air pollution can trigger fresh lung infections and if the air quality deteriorates like previous years, mortality rate may climb, said those who have been closely following the pandemic and Covid patients as frontline health workers. The pandemic has taken a massive toll on the health of those who have survived Covid, particularly on their respiratory system. “A large number of Covid winners are still recovering from persistent respiratory distress. For many, the recovery is very gradual. Since Diwali is in mid-November, pollutants will hang low at a breathable height for a longer duration due to temperature inversion. This is risky. The fireworks will be a recipe for disaster for both Covid patients and survivors,” said Arup Haldar, a consultant pulmonologist with Woodlands and Columbia Asia Hospitals. Since pollutants during Diwali include particulate matters, of heavy metals and noxious fumes apart from the regular vehicular emission, emission from eateries and waste burning, the pollutant loads are of far higher dimensions. “A large number of Covid-recovered patients are still in a compromised state. Many may have developed lung fibrosis. They will breathe the air laden with dangerous elements. So, people must collectively to show restraint for their fellow citizens,” said Sushmita Roy Chowdhury, consultant pulmonologist with Apollo Gleneagles. Patients who have had even mild infection as lung inflammation caused by the virus could take as long as 12 weeks to settle, she observed. The fear of aerosols from the fireworks may transmit the Covid virus more rapidly, added Dr Raja Dhar, pulmonologist with Fortis Anandapur. “There can be long chain effects of heightened viral density. If Covid comes with other lung infections, the risk will be always of higher proportion. Compliance to the court order is not an option but a life-and-death issue for the citizens,” he added. A government health official said: “So far, a majority of Covid patients have been asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Only a few have needed ICU or ventilators. But higher levels of pollution might alter it upside down. Because of pollution-driven complications, if more patients require advanced support system, there will be a big demand-supply mismatch, leading to a collapse of the health system.” Experts said poisonous gases, sulphur, carbon and other chemicals from firecrackers that pollute the air can exacerbate breathing problems and coughing and even cause death. This is particularly dangerous for the elderly and children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fireworks-danger-for-covid-survivors/articleshow/79104799.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||Gas cylinder blast in Manglaur injures 13||Roorkee: At least thirteen people sustained critical injuries in a cooking gas cylinder blast at a sweets shop in Manglaur near Roorkee on Saturday. The blast critically injured the passers-by and workers of the shop. The injured were rushed to the civil hospital in Roorkee. Five persons, who were critically injured, have been referred to higher centres, including AIIMS Rishikesh. The explosion took place at about 1 pm in the basement of Shree Balaji Sweets situated in a busy market of Manglaur, 8 km from Roorkee on Delhi-Haridwar national highway. According to sources, sweets were being prepared ahead of the Diwali festival when the accident took place. “The whole shop turned into a wreckage and many passers-by were hit by pieces of broken glass and metals,” said Akashdeep Sharma, who lives near the accident site. After the accident, all injured were rushed to the civil hospital at Roorkee but many of them had to be referred to higher centres due to their critical conditions. “At least, 13 injured were brought to the hospital but we referred eight of them to Coronation Hospital, Dehradun. Another critically injured person was sent to AIIMS Rishikesh. Among the injured, six were very critical as they had suffered 80% burns to their bodies,” said Dr Sanjay Kansal, chief medical superintendent of Roorkee Civil Hospital. Officials from the administration and the police carried on with the rescue and evacuation operation for several hours. “The accident was a terrible one. It surprised us that the shopkeeper had stored more than one dozen domestic gas cylinders there, putting the whole area at the risk. We will conduct a probe against the accident,” said Namami Bansal, joint magistrate of Roorkee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gas-cylinder-blast-in-manglaur-injures-13/articleshow/79103941.cms||Tapan Susheel
November 8, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Cleric, saffron activist booked for Hanuman Chalisa recital at mosque||MEERUT: Days after a purported video of Hanuman Chalisa recital at a mosque in UP's Baghpat, police, based on the complaint of a sub-inspector at Khekda police station, have booked four people, including the person seen in the video reciting the 'chalisa', and the cleric who allowed it to happen inside the mosque. The FIR was registered under sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 298 (uttering, words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person), 295-A (malicious acts intended to outrage the religious feelings) and other relevant sections of the IPC against cleric Ali Hasan, activist Manu Pal Bansal, his aide Rishipal and an unidentified person. "Without permission of the masjid committee, Hanuman Chalisa recital was done by Manu Pal Bansal, Rishipal, Ali Hasan and others and video of it was shared on social media. This was done to hurt the religious feeling of Muslim community," an excerpt from the complaint by SI Ashok Kumar read. Bansal is a member of Jansankhya Samadhan Foundation, a right wing organisation that has been seeking laws on population control. He recently streamed a purported video of him visiting the mosque in Vinaipur village and reciting the Hanuman Chalisa. Earlier, the mosque cleric was "removed" from his post after the video of the incident was streamed live online. The local police have already made cleric Hasan and Bansal sign a Rs 5 lakh bond to ensure there was no untoward incident following the recital at the mosque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cleric-right-wing-activist-booked-forhanuman-chalisa-recital-at-up-mosque/articleshow/79103939.cms||Piyush Rai
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Family of youth killed in Jaipur accident refuses to take body||JAIPUR: The family of the deceased police constable aspirant who was killed in a road accident on Friday refused to take the victim’s body till their demands were met. The family is asking for monetary compensation and the body is still at SMS hospital. The youth was killed after a speeding luxury car hit him on Sodala elevated road. The deceased was identified as 22-year-old Mada Ram who hailed from Pali and was to appear in the constable recruitment exam in Jaipur on Friday. Police sources told TOI that the deceased’s kin were asking for compensation. One of the sources said, “The family is talking to the senior officials and asking for monetary compensation as well as a government job for one family member. Till then the body is kept at SMS hospital’s mortuary. Even if the family agrees, the local leaders are the ones influencing them.” The aspirant was walking on the road when the car being driven by a woman hit him from behind. Mada Ram bounced off the road and landed on the roof of a house. The collision was so severe that he died on the spot. Meanwhile, senior police officials claimed that the family had different reason for not taking the body. An official said, “The family is not demanding anything from us and there is no compensation for road accidents. The family has stated that they are waiting for one of their relatives to come from Mumbai after that they will take the body to Pali. The accused has been booked and a chargesheet in the case will be submitted as soon as the investigation is completed.” A case under IPC section 304 A (causing death by negligence) as well as 279 (rash driving) was registered against Neha Soni, who the cops claimed, was questioned. No one has been arrested yet and the accused was allowed to go home on Friday. IPC section 304 A is a bailable offence and the offender can get bail at police station itself. Box Kota: Kin of 40-year-old man, whose blood-stained body was recovered from roadside near Kalighat river under Manhorethana police station of Jhalawar district late on Friday night, raised demonstration on Harnawdashahaji route while blocking the traffic on the road demanding post-mortem by medical board of doctors from district SRG hospital and a case of murder in the matter. Blood-stained body Gendalal Lodha, a resident of Jalampura village was recovered from roadside near Kalighat river on late Friday night, SHO at Manhorethana police station, Ajit Meghwanshi said. The deceased man was most likely to have been killed in accident with some unidentified vehicle, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/family-of-youth-killed-in-city-accident-refuses-to-take-body/articleshow/79106647.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: November 1st week sees dip in Rajasthan virus cases||JAIPUR: First week of November looked slightly better in comparison to last week of October as number of Covid-19 cases and deaths showed marginal dip. While October last week recorded 12,571 positive cases and 81 deaths, November first week saw a drop of 126 cases and nine deaths, The November figures as on Saturday stood at 12,445 cases and 72 deaths. November 3 had reported lowest daily Covid infections (1,725) in 52 days. However, since then, the daily new infections have not gone below 1,725 mark. The state reported 1,841 new infections on Saturday bringing the overall tally to 2,09,438. On Saturday, The state reported highest number of daily deaths in the past 11 days. Thirteen persons lost their lives to Covid in the state taking the toll to 1,979. On October 27, 14 deaths were reported. Since then, the state recorded a dip in daily Covid deaths – between 9 and 11. “The mortality rate due to Covid has gone down below 1%. We have expanded healthcare facilities and are helping the patients get treatment by setting up 181 helpline number,” said a senior health official. Two persons died of Covid in Jaipur taking the toll to 382 in the city. With two deaths in Jodhpur, its fatalities touched 192, Ajmer 147, Bikaner 144, Nagaur 60, Jalore 40, Jhunjhunu 30, Churu 28, Dungarpur 27, Karauli 16 and Dausa its 15th death. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (341), Jodhpur (221), Bikaner (181), Ajmer (169), Alwar (103), Sikar (99), Sriganganagar (79), Kota (69), Nagaur (63), Jalore (60), Pali (43), Bharatpur (39), Bhilwara (37), Churu (35), Barmer (34), Jhunjhunu (34), Udaipur (32), Hanumangarh (31), Tonk (31), Chittorgarh (30), Dungarpur (21), Dausa (20), Rajsamand (18), Sirohi (13), Sawai Madhopur (8), Jhalawar (7), Banswara (6), Karauli (5), Dholpur (4), Bundi (3), Baran (2), Jaisalmer (2) and Pratapgarh (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nov-1st-wk-sees-dip-in-raj-virus-cases/articleshow/79106653.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||Cong to hold tractor rally in CM’s constituency to oppose new farm laws||Dehradun: Uttarakhand Congress, on Saturday, announced that it will conduct a “tractor rally” in chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s constituency Doiwala on November 10. The farmers from Dehradun and neighbouring Haridwar are expected to reach Doiwala on their tractors, where party chief Pritam Singh would address them. Sharing the information, Congress vice president Suryakant Dhasmana told TOI, “Even when Uttarakhand was a part of Uttar Pradesh or after its creation, not a single farmer had committed suicide. But in the three years — since BJP came to office — dozens of farmers across the state have committed suicide.” He claimed that they were farmers who had taken loans and were unable to pay debts. “This has happened for the first time that farmers are committing suicide in Uttarakhand and we will not sit silent over the issue,” he added. Dhasmana pointed out that the protest has been termed ‘tractor rally’ as farmers from Dehradun and Haridwar would attend these rallies on tractors. “We have organised a number of protests across the state but our voices failed to reach the ears of our CM. Therefore, we have decided to hold the protest in the constituency which he represents in the state assembly,” added Dhasmana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-to-hold-tractor-rally-in-cms-constituency-to-oppose-new-farm-laws/articleshow/79103958.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cyclists take a stand against air pollution||KOLKATA: Twenty-five cycle groups across 12 cities in Bengal embarked on a unique campaign against fireworks this Diwali. Organized by Bengal Clean Air Network (Bengal CAN), a platform for environment activists, the “Cycles with Lights Parade” was launched on Saturday in front of the main gate of Victoria Memorial Hall. The event, organized across 14 major cities, saw over 500 participants who decorated their cycles with eco-friendly LED lights and posters about clean air. They also raised slogans against air pollution and distributed leaflets on how to make the upcoming festival cleaner, safer and pollution free. The participants included groups like Kolkata Cycle Samaj and Cycle Network Grow from Kolkata, Track and Trails from Haldia and Sunrise Cycling Group from Siliguri. There were some groups from Kalimpong and Asansol as well. Speaking at the event, Ekta Jaju, co-founder of SwitchON Foundation and Bengal CAN, said, “A large-scale awareness drive is needed to sensitize citizens on the harmful effects of air pollution from firecrackers. It is especially needed this year when we are in the middle of a pandemic and there is a ban on fireworks.” “We don’t need firecrackers to have fun during Diwali. There are more sustainable ways of having fun,” a participant said. “We are riding to spread joy and not pollution, so that our children can have a safe future. Festivals and spirituality should bring us closer to nature and not harm them,” said another participant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclists-take-a-stand-against-air-pollution/articleshow/79104822.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 8, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Keshod farmer’s scientific furnace saves trees from burning in pyres||RAJKOT: While many conservation efforts have been burnt to ashes along with the precious wood in Gujarat’s traditional open crematoriums, a Keshod-based farmer turned innovator is hellbent on deleting an age old saying from Gujarati books — ‘Sheth Ocha Lakde Nahi Bale’ ( Master will need more wood according to his influence!) Rough estimates project consumption of around 400kg wood in single cremation, while to grow one tree that would yield 100-150 kg wood will require at least 15-odd years. Such calculations made 56-year-old Arjun Paghdar see the annual colossal loss of greenery through wastage of logs in every pyre. He created a covered furnace that consumes only 25 percent of the wood for cremating a body compared to the ones used currently in crematoriums. On his way to install a fifth such furnace next week, the innovator has also been awarded for his revolutionary venture last year. The covered furnace Paghdar has made is designed scientifically keeping in mind the human body parts that need varied temperature levels to burn during cremation. Talking to TOI, Paghdar said, “I was 14 when I went for my uncle’s cremation and what I saw there remained etched to my memory. Thereafter, whenever I accompanied a funeral and suggested using less wood for the limbs, I was always chastised by the elders. But I didn’t want to give up on my theory and finally, utilized my observation to make this eco-friendly furnace.” It didn’t happen overnight. Paghdar must have visited crematoriums a thousand times to understand the body structure and heat requirement and made the first such furnace in 2015 which he installed in Keshod. He has continuously upgraded this furnace since 2015 and at present these furnaces are working in Keshod, Bhamnasa (Junagadh), Kodinar, Padli (Devbhumi Dwarka) and the fifth is to be installed at Alidhara of Junagadh district on November 8. Paghdar also got a railway pass and commuted daily to Junagadh crematorium for a month to convince people to use his furnace. Awarded by National innovation foundation in 2019 in a function organized at Grambharti in Gandhinagar for ‘National Grassroots Innovation and Outstanding Traditional Knowledge’, the innovator recounts the hurdles he crossed including getting a body for trial and convincing people while making the first prototype. All rituals as per tradition can be followed in this covered furnace, said the innovator who was funded by Gujarat Energy Development Agency (GEDA) of Rs 2.5 lakh to upgrade his model in three instalments with the help of Ahmedabad-based GIAN (Gujarat Grassroots Innovation Augmentation Network) “This furnace is environment friendly and consumes less wood. It could be costly for one time but saves the environment. It also provides space to complete Hindu rituals which is not possible in electric furnaces,” said GIAN CEO, Anamika Dey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/keshod-farmers-scientific-furnace-saves-trees-from-burning-in-pyres/articleshow/79103981.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
November 8, 2020||Nashik||No physical exchange of Q&A papers: Dy director||Nashik: Nitin Upasni, the deputy director of Nashik division’s education department, has asked the schools’ administration to not conduct examinations for students, where there will be physical exchange of question and answer papers and other study materials, amid the outbreak of Covid. Upasni has written to the district education officers of Nashik, Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Dhule and Ahmednagar asking them to ensure the schools’ administration refrain from any practise that involves physical exchange of materials between students and the school.In his letter, Upasni said the state government has already made it clear that the schools can only conduct online classes for the students till further orders and not about conducting examinations, as exams are likely to affect the students. “The state government has already said the teachers can work from home and conduct online classes. As far as examinations are concerned the schools may provide questions online and the students have to answer through the same,” he said.“There should be no physical exchange of question and answer papers, and other study materials between the students and the school till further order,” Upasni said.The officer pointed out that under the garb of examinations, schools were asking the teachers to physically come to the schools and carry out examination works, which is against the state government norm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-physical-exchange-of-qa-papers-dy-director/articleshow/79103966.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: ‘En Uru’ to showcase traditional tribal knowledge||KOZHIKODE ‘En Uru’, the first tribal heritage village in the state, which is intended to provide a permanent platform to showcase the diverse tribal traditional knowledge and heritage as well as enhance livelihood options to the tribal communities, was inaugurated at Lakkidi in Wayanad on Wednesday. The buildings constructed for the first phase of the heritage village was inaugurated by A K Balan, minister for welfare of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes & backward classes, via videoconferencing. The Rs 10-crore project is being set up jointly by the scheduled tribes development department and state tourism department in 25 acres near Lakkidi. Balan said that the heritage village will help showcase and preserve tribal indigenous knowledge as well as help the tribal communities sell their unique products to tourists and others without middlemen. “Once the project is completed it will provide direct employment to 50 persons and indirect job opportunities to about 1,000 people,” he said. The first phase of the heritage village comprises tribal market, tribal food outlets, facilitation centre and warehouse. P S Shyam Prasad, CEO of En Uru, said that the tribal market will have 16 individual shops and three exhibition halls to facilitate live manufacture and sale of unique tribal products like medicinal plants, traditional agriculture produce, forest produce, handicrafts, indigenous tribal medicinal products, bamboo products, tribal paintings, sculptures, etc. The second phase of the heritage village will have an open air theatre which will provide a venue to stage tribal art forms, tribal interpretation centre, heritage walkway and art and craft workshop for live production and sale of artifacts and other tribal products. The project is being implemented with Rs 5.5 crore from the scheduled tribes development department, and tourism department has earmarked Rs 4.5 crore for the second phase of the project. In his message, Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi said that despite growing challenges to their way of life, tribal communities are fighting to preserve their art, music, storytelling and culinary traditions. “However, ensuring the survival of this cultural heritage requires interventions that help generate sustainable livelihoods,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/en-uru-to-showcase-traditional-tribal-knowledge/articleshow/79104841.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Workers protest abrupt closure of paper recycling plant||MYSURU: Outraged by the abrupt and unannounced closure of a paper recycling unit in Nanjangud they had been working for, labourers of the factory on Friday staged a dharna in front of the Mysuru deputy commissioner’s office against the management. Assembling under the banner of the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) said that the sudden decision of the management to bring the curtains down on the factory had plunged the lives of the workers in fearful uncertainty. The protesters said that nearly 120 labourers had given four decades of their life to the factory, an association that had been brought to an end unilaterally by the management, which cited the mounting losses due to Covid-19 as the primary reason for downing the shutters on the unit. Pointing to the management’s flagrant violation of labour laws insofar as depriving the employees of termination benefits they were rightfully entitled to, the protesters urged the government to initiate legal action against the factory. The protesters even got into a sparring contest with the cops deployed by the district administration as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, the aggrieved labourers asked the government to rescue their jobs. Electrical contractors want tenders annulled On the other hand, members of the Mysuru district unit of the Karnataka State Licenced Electrical Contractors gathered in front of the corporate office of the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (Cesc) in Vijayanagar on Friday, and sought the cancellation of the contracts issued by the government for the implementation of various electrical projects across the state. Raising slogans against the government for ratifying the contracts, the protesters urged the state to keep the interests of the local contractors in mind. The protesting contractors warned of intensifying their stir if their demands were not met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/workers-protest-abrupt-closure-of-paper-recycling-plant/articleshow/79104754.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||Man found dead in car parked near hospital in Mandya||MANDYA: Mystery shrouded the death of a man whose body was found inside a car near Mandya Medical College and Hospital on Saturday. According to police, the deceased is Shivakumar, 42, a resident of Kiragavalu village of Malavalli taluk. He was found inside his car that was parked on the roadside for the last three days. Shivakumar, who was said to be suffering from an illness, had told his relatives that he would to to the hospital in Mandya for treatment. Vendors, who noticed the car parked on the roadside for the last three days, informed police, after which the latter found the body in the vehicle. Meanwhile, Shivakumar’s family lodged a missing complaint at Kiragavalu police station. His relatives told police that Shivakumar had left the house by saying that he was leaving for Mandya for treatment. Suspecting that he may have died due to illness, police are ruling out any foul play. “However, we will investigate the case from all angles,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-found-dead-in-car-parked-near-hospital-in-mandya/articleshow/79105797.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corpn chosen second best civic body in country for water conservation||Madurai: Madurai corporation has been adjudged the second best urban local body in the country by the department of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation, Jal Shakti Ministry, for the 2019 National Water Awards. The award was instituted in 2018 in order to promote groundwater augmentation by rainwater harvesting, artificial recharge, promoting water use efficiency, recycling and re-use of water and creating awareness.The ‘best urban local body’ award by the central government is the fruit of two years of work towards water conservation and enrichment of groundwater, say officials from Madurai corporation.A higher official from Madurai corporation said that they see the award as a recognition for the various initiatives taken in the past two years to enrich groundwater table. It is an important factor as far as Madurai is concerned since the place is historically known as water-starved ones. “The award is a shot in the arm for the corporation to work more in the field. We would not have got the award without the cooperation rendered by residents in every effort, hard work of corporation employees and officials and unflinching support from higher officials in municipal administration,” he said.Listing out the initiatives taken by the Madurai corporation, an official said that enumeration of houses and commercial buildings with the status of rainwater harvesting structure were carried out. A mobile app was launched to add live updates of the availability of RWH structure and its status in each household and commercial establishment. Although most residents and commercial establishments had RWH, it was found that they were constructed for namesake. Later, it was ensured that buildings have a workable RWHs. He said the restoration of Panaiyur channel was a mammoth task carried out last year. After restoration, a link was provided from Vaigai river to Panaiyur channel for the water to flow into Vandiyur Mariamman teppakulam, thereby restoring the natural system that was in place for centuries. “Water reached Teppakulam through the old system after 40 years” he added. Similarly, structures were created to drain rainwater into Tallakulam Perumal temple tank and Koodal Alagar Perumal temple tank in Town Hall Road.Another official said that 412 unused borewells were identified and converted into RWH and 266 water logging areas were identified and RWH system was installed. A sewage treatment plant with the contribution of a central government public sector undertaking is being constructed with the capacity of 2 MLD to treat water flowing into Panthalkudi channel before draining into the river Vaigai. Totally 33 water bodies in the city were taken up for revival. While 11 of them have already been revived, works in 16 waterbodies are underway. Works will commence shortly in the left out six water bodies, the official added.Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan will receive the award on behalf of Madurai corporation during the two-day event to be held in New Delhi on Wednesday and Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-chosen-second-best-civic-body-in-country-for-water-conservation/articleshow/79106667.cms||V Devanathan
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru city ramps up fight against pandemic with a War Room||MYSURU: One of the major problems faced by Covid-19 patients, when the infection had reached its peak in August and September, was finding a proper hospital for treatment. Several patients said that they had to pull strings to get a bed in a hospital. Now, the entire system has been streamlined through a dedicated Covid -19 War Room which started functioning from the new DC’s office in Siddarthanagar two weeks ago. This has helped the district administration improve patient management to a great extenrt. Lt. Col. Dr. Ashok SU who is the nodal officer of the Mandakalli Covid-19 Care Center has been appointed nodal officer of this center too.The War Room operates in two shifts with around 40 staff members. In both the shifts, a doctor and 19 other staff are available to help patients with their treatment, medical care including ambulance support, if required. An Arogya Mitra representative has been deputed in allprivate hospitals of the district to ensure that the Covid-19 patients referred from the War Room get proper medical care and do not face any inconvenience in the hospital. The triage, shifting, contact tracing, home isolation and home quarantine teams were scattered earlier, says deputy commissioner DC Rohini Sindhuri. “We have housed them all in the War Room which has improved coordination. The hospital bed management system software has been put in place in the War Room. With all relevant teams housed in one place the pandemic is being managed far more efficiently,” she added. According to Lt. Col. Dr Ashok SU, this War Room has 7 divisions. “We have provided two telephone lines i.e. 0821-2957711 and 0821-2957811 to help the public to get details regarding treatment protocol and other details including any support they need. As of now, it is working till 10pm in two shifts and, if required, it will be converted into a 24x7 system,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-city-ramps-up-fight-against-pandemic-with-a-war-room/articleshow/79105718.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||Suspecting wife’s character,man injures son with knife||Nagpur: An alert Ashika Khote, 24, was quick to move her two-year-old son Ayan away from his father Vikas who attempted to stab him with a knife in Thakre Layout on Thursday. After injuring the boy on his left leg, Vikas picked up a stone and hurled it at Ashika leaving her seriously injured. He then fled the spot. It’s learnt that Vikas and Ashika had a love marriage around six years ago. They have two sons. Ashika met Vikas when she had gone to meet a relative in Chandrapur. Ashika married Vikas without knowing about his criminal past in Chandrapur. He started torturing her after marriage and compelled her to return to the city to stay with her mother at Thakre Layout. She started working as a cook at different places to sustain herself and also to bring up her two sons. It’s learnt that Ashika had come back to her mother’s place when she was pregnant for the second time. Ashika said that Vikas would come to meet his sons but doubted her character. “Vikas wanted me to step out of the house to speak to him but I refused. He got enraged by my refusal and started bickering,” she said. “He tried to attack my son by questioning his fatherhood. I offered to get a DNA test done which angered him further more. Due to my alertness, I managed to save my son, who suffered a slash on his leg,” she said. Koradi police have registered an offence of attempt to murder against Vikas but he is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/suspecting-wifes-characterman-injures-son-with-knife/articleshow/79103970.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 8, 2020||Nashik||Outbreak dampens auction of Nashik firecracker stalls||Nashik: The auctioning of stalls — for the sale of firecrackers — organised by the civic administration every year ahead of Diwali has received a lukewarm response this year because of the Covid-19 outbreak. Of the 250 stalls that were up for grabs at the auction, only 90 stalls were sold. “Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, we received very poor response during the auction of stalls this year. Most of the sellers avoided taking stalls as the demand for firecrackers is expected to be very low this year,” said civic officials. The Nashik firecracker sellers association said that many of their members were unwilling to sell firecrackers as they were apprehensive about the response from customers this year. The association said that the firecracker stalls across the city would be lower than 50% this year. President of the firecracker association Jayprakash Jategaonkar said, “The production of firecrackers in Tamil Nadu has dropped to some extent due to the lockdown. This time, the order placed with us by the traders is 20% lesser than the orders placed every year.” The home department of the state government has already issued guidelines for Diwali. It has requested people that instead of bursting firecrackers, they should celebrate the festival of lights by lighting lamps. The officials from Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Nashik division, said that they have appealed to people to avoid bursting crackers to save the environment of Nashik.“The air quality index of Nashik city has improved a lot after the lockdown and is still under control. Bursting firecrackers during Diwali may increase the air pollution levels. Hence, we want Nashikites to celebrate Diwali by lighting lamps,” said a senior official from MPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/outbreak-dampens-auction-of-nashik-firecracker-stalls/articleshow/79103974.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||In one day, 200kg gold traded in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Come festive season and jewellers invariably have their hopes pinned on gold jewellery purchases, be it for upcoming occasions in the family or simply to honour the muhurat. The auspicious day of Pushya Nakshatra, however, failed to infuse the needed optimism among gold buyers. While most jewellery stores bore a deserted look, some saw movement of customers who had pre-planned purchases for weddings and other occasions. Industry estimates suggest that about 200kg gold was traded in a single day in Gujarat on Pushya Nakshatra this year. “We’ve seen good movement of customers through the day however, it is not so buoyant as previous years. The demand has surely improved against that in the past few months. People are coming out to make purchases but they come with a fixed budget,” said Jigar Soni, president, JAA. Gold price showed a sharp rise over the past few days and the high price of gold was somewhat a deterrent for gold sales, said jewellers. The yellow metal price stood at Rs 54,000 per 10 gram. “The sale is there but not as expected. People will come in in huge numbers on Dhanteras which is often considered a preferred muhurat for gold purchases,” said Hemant Choksi, a city-based bullion trader. Most jewellers hope that sales will pick up better on Dhanteras, Diwali and even New Year. Interestingly, jewellers are witnessing good sales for jewellery but not for bullion. “People had booked advance deliveries for wedding jewellery. Most demand is for jewellery only, and there is very little demand for bullion in terms of bars and coins. Sales have declined by 50% against last year,” said Manoj Soni, a city-based jeweller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-one-day-200kg-gold-traded-in-guj/articleshow/79105974.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Railways plans to resume operations with 50% trains||KOLKATA: The railways plans to resume operations in Bengal with over 600 services a day, up from 350 odd it was initially planning. This translates into resumption of nearly 50% services in the state. The decision to increase the number of services has been taken to reduce overcrowding on trains. On Friday, during a meeting with state government officials, the railways had indicated that it would start running about 25% services in the Howrah and Sealdah divisions of Eastern Railway and Kharagpur division of South Eastern Railway. “We can actually resume full operations whenever required. We have the assets in place and our motormen and guards are also working. Before the meeting with the state, we weren’t quite sure about it’s plans and had worked out a schedule for about 25% services. Later, when we realized that the state wants no restrictions, a decision was taken to run as many services as possible,” a senior railways official in Kolkata said. This means that Eastern Railway (ER) and South Eastern Railway (SER) will start running over 600 services from Wednesday. This will come as a big relief for commuters who were concerned that they wouldn’t even get a toehold during the morning and evening peak hours on trains if only 25% services are resumed. The railways feels that thousands of people from the suburbs are planning to resume their economic activities in Kolkata from Wednesday. “We anticipate large crowds from Wednesday onwards. People will certainly seek to travel to Kolkata for livelihoods. However, restrictions need to be in place due to the pandemic and fewer trains will lead to overcrowding. We wish to avoid overcrowding and plan to run more services. The details will be finalized before we publish the schedule. The overall percentage is likely to be around 47%-48%,” the railways official said. ER and SER run nearly 1,500 services daily. Both zones have already begun sanitizing stations and rakes to resume services from Wednesday. Officials indicated that there will be strict adherence to Covid-19 norms and people wouldn’t be allowed into railway premises without masks. However, there may be certain problems. One of the major issues would arise in controlling the number of illegal stalls at wayside stations where people gather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rlys-plans-to-resume-ops-with-50-trains/articleshow/79104830.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 8, 2020||India||Indian on panel that holds UN purse strings||NEW DELHI: In what is seen as a significant achievement, Indian diplomat Vidisha Maitra has been elected to a key United Nations committee that controls the financial and budgetary purse of the world body. Official sources said the government sees the development as important as it comes just when India is preparing to take over as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the next two years. Maitra was India’s candidate for the only post in the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions (ACABQ) from the Asia Pacific Group. The other candidate was from Iraq. India has been a member of the committee since its inception in 1946. The committee is one of the most coveted in the UN system as it controls its financial and budgetary purse. “ACABQ performs several functions including the examination of the budget submitted by the UN secretary-general to the General Assembly and advising the Assembly on administrative and budgetary matters referred to it. ACABQ is a crucial component in ensuring that resources of the member-states are used to good effect and that mandates are properly funded,” said a source. Members are elected by the General Assembly, consisting of 193 member-states, on the basis of broad geographical representation, personal qualifications and experience and serve for a period of three calendar years. Members serve in a personal capacity and not as representatives of member-states, added the source. Maitra is a career diplomat with the Indian Foreign Service and currently posted as first secretary in permanent mission of India to UN in New York. She has served in various capacities in New Delhi, Paris, Port Louis and New York over the last 11 years. “She has extensive work experience in strategic policy planning and research, formulation and implementation of development assistance and infrastructure projects, defence acquisition matters, international taxation issues, investment and trade promotion,” said a source. Vidisha Maitra’s selection in this committee is seen as crucial as the country will also be in the UNSC as non-permanent member for the next two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-on-panel-that-holds-un-purse-strings/articleshow/79107113.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad businessman cheated of Rs 1.6 crore||AHMEDABAD: Sanjiv Shah, a Navrangpura businessman, lodged a complaint with the city crime branch on Friday against four persons, accusing them of cheating him of Rs 1.57 crore. The accused are Paldi’s Tejal Choksi, his wife Sonali Choksi, and their son Rushabh. The other accused is Nayan Kalyan Sutaria of Khanpur. According to the complaint, Shah’s elder brother Dharmesh is a resident of Chandanbala Flats in Paldi. Below Dharmesh’s flat is the Choksi home. Crime branch sources said that in 2010, the bank from which Choksi had taken a loan for the flat had initiated the procedure to seal the flat. “Choksi and other accused had asked Dharmesh to help pay the loan,” a police source said. “Choksi had said that once the loan is paid he will sell his flat and shop at Manek Chowk and return the money.” Crime branch sources said that as Choksi was a friend of his elder brother, Shah was ready to help. “Shah gave Choksi the money required to pay the loan and other expenses totalling Rs 1.57 crore,” the source said. “Choksi had given Shah the documents of the flat and the shop as security.” But neither the money nor the properties came to Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/navrangpura-bizman-cheated-of-rs-1-6cr/articleshow/79104848.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Tribunal fines bank Rs 5 lakh||AHMEDABAD: The Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) has fined the Bank of India Rs 5 lakh as a condition for withdrawal of litigation in which the bank was seeking recovery from a defaulting borrower. Presiding officer Vinay Goel fined the bank for ignoring guidelines laid down by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and after filing the litigation, settling the matter with the borrower and urging the tribunal to withdraw the case. The bank had accepted a property worth Rs 18 lakh as security for a loan of Rs 1.25 crore. After the borrower defaulted, litigation ensued. When the bank sought the withdrawal of the case, the tribunal pointed to the lacuna and said that it is concerned by the step increase in non-performing assets in the banking sector and the increase in litigation for recovery. On the bank’s behaviour, the tribunal noted that this was not only a loss to the state exchequer, but also gave a platform to defaulters to prolong litigation using technical objections. The tribunal insisted on strict adherence to the Reserve Bank of India guidelines in extending loans and recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tribunal-fines-bank-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/79104842.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||OCHRI to resume non-Covid OPD services from Nov 9||Nagpur: Orange City Hospital & Research Institute (OCHRI) was requisitioned by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to manage Covid cases and it did that successfully with more than 300 patients recovering and getting discharged. With Covid cases reducing, OCHRI has announced the commencement of its non-Covid routine OPD and indoor services. OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar stated that since March 2020, the OPD was not functioning. Needy patients were really concerned and had been requesting the hospital to resume the services. Accordingly, from November 9, 56 specialists and super specialists will render their expertise on a regular basis at the OCHRI OPD apart from round the clock indoor and casualty services for non-Covid patients. With the induction of fresh talent, the rejuvenated OCHRI team intends to kick start its comprehensive non-Covid multi super speciality care on a 24X7 basis. RNHPL director Dr Usha Nair said that the casualty & emergency services were operating on a regular basis throughout the Covid period. However, regular patients in need of follow-up tests were finding it difficult to cope with their situation as transportation had virtually come to a standstill. With the situation easing out considerably, a 56-member strong OCHRI OPD team will provide the much-needed expertise to the needy patients of central Indian. After thanking everybody for their support to keep the staff motivated, medical superintendent of OCHRI Dr Noorul Ameen said that all diagnostic services, including cardiac and vascular cath lab and planned surgeries, have commenced on a regular basis. The OCHRI goodwill team comprising Anil Dhakate, Prakash Shende, Ramesh Pande along with Dr Sajan Nair led by Sunil Sure are reaching out to the public, all affiliated doctors and companies to announce regular resumption of OCHRI’s non-Covid multi-super speciality outdoor and indoor services. For appointments, patients can call the Priya Sashi-led team of relationship executives on 9372332910/ 9225211146/9225260606.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ochri-to-resume-non-covid-opd-services-from-nov-9/articleshow/79097603.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 8, 2020||Nashik||Demand for relocation of trees blocking city roads||Nashik: Some roads in the city have been built in a such a way that they have large trees either bang in the middle of the carriageway, or along the side blocking a part of the motorable carriageway. These 50-odd trees have been posing an accident threat to motorists.There have been many incidents of drivers ramming their vehicles into the trees. Some of the accidents have even been fatal. There is now a growing demand from motorists to relocate these trees. Corporator Varsha Bhalerao, who is also a member of the tree authority committee, said a man had sustained injuries after his two-wheeler rammed into a tree on the carriageway of the Gangapur road.Bhalerao has sent a letter to Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) chief Kailash Jadhav, asking that the issue of relocating these 50 trees be taken up for discussion, on priority, during the upcoming tree committee meeting.“I have already written to the municipal commissioner. There is a need to remove these trees, which are dangerously growing in the middle of the roads, and transplant them elsewhere in the city. We are also planning to hold a meeting with environmentalists,” said Bhalerao.Two former police commissioners — Ravinder Singhal and Vishwas Nangare Patil — too had written to the NMC, stressing on the need to remove such trees as they posed a threat to motorists, especially at night. Some policemen had died in the past after they dashed their vehicles into such trees.Civic officials said they had floated tenders five times to appoint a contractor to relocate the trees. However, they did not get the desired response. “We will float a fresh tender next week,” said the officials.In May 2019, a car driver was killed after he rammed his vehicle into a tree at the Horizon School junction in the Gangapur Road area. Thereafter, many accidents have taken place in which people have sustained injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/demand-for-relocation-of-trees-blocking-city-roads/articleshow/79103996.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 8, 2020||Nashik||No parking, halting vehicles between CBS, Racca junction||Nashik: The city police have issued a notification stating no vehicles can be parked or halted between Central Bus Stand (CBS) and Racca junction due to vehicular traffic on the stretch. This has come to effect from November 6. According to the traffic police, there are many important establishments on this stretch like the CBS, Mela bus stand, state excise department office and the Nashik Municipal Corporation’s head office. People coming to these establishments park their vehicles on both sides of the road on this stretch, which leads to traffic snarls on a large scale all through the day. Motorists are supposed to park their vehicles at the designated parking spaces that have been set up in various parts of the city. The police said motorists found parking or halting their vehicles on this stretch will be booked under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicle Act. As the stretch is in one of the central parts of the city, it witnesses heavy traffic through day and night. With Diwali around the corner, the rush is even more on this stretch. Given all such things, the city police have issued the notification about the ban on vehicle parking and halting||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-parking-halting-vehicles-between-cbs-racca-junction/articleshow/79104033.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur DM imposes Rs 50,000 fine on civic body officials for burning garbage||RAMPUR/AGRA/MEERUT: With the unhealthy air quality in most of the western districts of Uttar Pradesh stifling this weekend and making children and adults with chronic respiratory syndrome further seek, district authorities have swung into action warning people against burning garbage and issuing fines and booking offenders. Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh on Saturday imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on civic body officials for burning garbage near Gandhi Samadhi and Rs 25,000 for burning garbage near the stadium in Bhawanpuri locality. Recently, ADM JP Gupta had also imposes a fine of Rs 20,000 on Jal Nigam officials for burning garbage on their premises. “Following instructions of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal to curb pollution to protect the environment, we have ordered strict action against offenders. As the administration has already provided adequate land for the dumping of waste and garbage, we will not tolerate the burning and dumping of garbage near public places by the civic authorities,” the Rampur DM told TOI. Similarly, the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has ordered lodging of FIRs against individuals and organisations burning garbage under the Environment Protection Act, 1986. On Saturday, additional municipal commissioner KB Singh issued strict orders to sanitary inspectors to check the practice of garbage burning. If sanitary inspectors come across the burning of garbage, they will extinguish the fire and also impose penalties on offenders. Singh said, “NGT orders complete prohibition on burning waste. Sanitary inspectors have been asked to lodge FIRs against offenders and impose penalties. In case garbage burning is reported, action will be taken against the sanitary inspector concerned.” AMC executive engineer (environment) Rajiv Rathi said, “According to the NGT orders, if a person is caught burning garbage under any circumstances a on-the-spot penalty of Rs 5,000 will be imposed, while a fine of Rs 25,000 will be recovered on repetition. For burning waste in bulk in public or private space, Rs 50,000 penalty will be recovered. Since sanitary inspectors will be registering FIR in a majority of the cases, the offender may face imprisonment.” Seeking the help of residents in identifying offenders, Rathi said, “The identity of informers would be kept confidential. If sanitary officials fail to act against polluters, they would be held responsible for the violation of norms.” The Meerut Nagar Nigam has, meanwhile, got a notice from the pollution control board authorities after garbage was found burning at five spots in the city. The pictures and videos of the burning garbage along with a notice were sent to the civic body authorities. “We are conducting inspections across the district to curb air pollution. The pollution department team found burning garbage in Kankerkhera, on Garh road and Delhi road. If the civic body authorities failed to take action in the matter, state authorities in Lucknow will be informed,” said Yogendra Kumar, regional officer, Meerut pollution control board. Meanwhile, on Saturday, the air quality index (AQI) in Agra, which falls in the eco-senstive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ), was recorded at 417 — ‘severe’ category — highest this year so far. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was, however, recorded at 444 milligram per cubic meter, considered hazardous to health by doctors. To reduce the dust, AMC workers sprinkle water on roads and trees. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), AQI in severe category affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases. (With inputs from Ishita Bhatia in Meerut and Deepak Lavania in Agra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-dm-imposes-rs-50000-fine-on-civic-body-officials-for-burning-garbage/articleshow/79104036.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||Stabbed policeman gets a new lease of life at city hospital||Nagpur: Ravindra Chaudhary, a 50-year-old cop, got a new lease of life at Wockhardt Hospital after he was brutally stabbed by a criminal a few days ago. Bleeding profusely, Chaudhary was rushed to the emergency department where he underwent an operation that saved his life, informed the hospital.Chaudhary, a head constable at the Kanhan police station, was stabbed as many as eleven times on the thighs, chest and abdomen by a history sheeter whose brother he had arrested in the past. The assault was an act of revenge. After consultation with the general surgeon, Dr Hemant Chhajed, followed by evaluation by a team of doctors, the victim was immediately rushed to the surgery section.“After performing the rapid antigen test for Covid and routine investigation along with transfusing four units of blood, he was operated,” informed Dr Chhajed. “On examination, he was found to have omentum and bowel coming out from abdominal wounds. It was decided to immediately operate him for exploratory laparotomy which was necessary to save his life. The surgery was successful and he was discharged,” he added.“When I reached the hospital I was in shock but I was still glad to see that within such a short span of time all the necessary investigations were done,” said the victim’s wife. “I have no relatives in town but the way my husband was taken care of at Wockhardt Hospital, I did not even feel that I needed someone. Things were done very promptly and swiftly without wasting any time and everyone handled the situation with calm and a positive approach,” she added. “Policemen work so hard for us and all the more during this pandemic. It gives us satisfaction and pride to have been able to treat him successfully and contribute in saving a valuable life,” said K Sujatha, centre head, Wockhardt Hospitals, Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stabbed-policeman-gets-a-new-lease-of-life-at-city-hospital/articleshow/79097345.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC notice over plaint against PI||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has issued notice to the police authorities concerned and sought a reply in response to a petition filed by an ex-serviceman, who complained against the Ramol police inspector, that the latter has been acting as a recovery agent. The petition was filed by Jashwantsingh Yadav (57) who served in the Indian Army. He stated that after retirement, he is engaged in the construction business with his brother. They had a sale deed registered for a land parcel in 2016. However, Ramol PI S K Dave is pressuring him to pay money and dispose off the property. Yadav told the HC that he approached the joint police commissioner, Sector-2 with a complaint last month, but Dave’s alleged threats continued. The officer even made him sign certain documents against his will. Justice A C Joshi issued notice to the police authorities including the Gujarat State Police Complaint Authority and asked them to respond to the allegations by December 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-notice-over-plaint-against-pi/articleshow/79104869.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||Farmer dies after car strikes tree in Hassan village||HASSAN: A 27-year-old farmer died, while the friend the victim is battling for life after the car the duo was travelling in met with an accident near Balluru village in Belur taluk, Hassan on Saturday morning. Preetham, 27, a resident of Bettadakeshavi village in Belur, died after the car that was driven by Sharath, struck a tree in Balluru, police said. Sharath, meanwhile, has sustained injuries in his legs and his condition is critical. The duo was en route the venue where Hassan police have organised a shooting practice session for around 150 planters. Police attributed the accident to rash driving. “Neither Preetham nor Sharath was wearing a seat belt. Preetham may have survived had he taken the precaution. The car hit the tree, following which it toppled, resulting in the loss of one life,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmer-dies-after-car-strikes-tree-in-hassan-village/articleshow/79105773.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||Seema Banu’s family watches funeral live from Mysuru||MYSURU: Funeral of 37-year-old Seema Banu and her two children Asfira Riza, 11, and Faizan Syed, 6, who were found dead in their home in Dublin ten days ago, was held late on Friday at Newcastle Cemetery in South Dublin. Funeral prayers were performed at the Islamic Cultural Centre in Clonskeagh. Seema Banu’s husband, Syed Sameer led the funeral prayers and procession, according to sources. According to a family member, all their relatives, friends and kin watched the funeral live in Halaganahalli village under Bettadapura police limits in Periyapatna taluk, Mysuru. “It was a very emotional moment. We had arranged a projector. The entire funeral was streamed on it,” said Masood, a family member. According to the sources, the mortal remains of Seema were lowered first into the grave followed by son and daughter. “The rituals went on for nearly an hour,” he added. It may be recalled that Seema’s family had earlier requested both the state and Centre to help them bring the mortal remains to Mysuru to perform the funeral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/seema-banus-family-watches-funeral-live-from-mysuru/articleshow/79104807.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 8, 2020||Madurai||Madurai designer makes eco-friendly sanitary napkins||Madurai: A 25-year-old fashion technology graduate, who was forced to migrate back to Madurai from Mumbai due to Covid-19 lockdown, has started manufacturing ‘herbal sanitary napkins’, which are environment-friendly. P Neeraja, completed her B Tech in fashion technology from PSG Tech, Coimbatore before pursuing a course in National Institute of Fashion Technology, Mumbai, decided to use her knowledge with an aim to give back to the society.Neeraja was working in an embroidery firm in Mumbai. However, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, she lost her job and came back to Madurai. “When I came back, I started thinking that I wanted to do something that was good for the society,” she said.She added, “As fashion and women are closely related, I decided to do something good for them and the environment and the idea of herbal napkins came up.” She did her research at home and got her product certified before bringing it to the market.Sanitary napkins have chemicals, which are harmful for the women and also cause skin problems. The napkins also use a lot of plastic and gel, which pollute the environment. A single woman uses about 10 to 15 napkins per cycle—that is a lot of pollution, she said. The napkins are packed with mixtures of aloe vera, tulsi and neem, which is good for the skin and there is no odour, Neraja said. She added that they are handmade at home with the help of two helpers and her parents. Prices start from Rs 105 for a pack of eight. “I have sold about 100 packs in the last two months and the feedback is good,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-designer-makes-eco-friendly-sanitary-napkins/articleshow/79106698.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mumbai||Body found in toilet in Mumbai: I S Chahal to decide on hospital chief ’s removal||MUMBAI: Civic chief I S Chahal is likely to take a decision on Monday on an internal committee’s recommendation to remove Sewri TB Hospital’s medical superintendent from his post and initiate disciplinary action against other staff after a patient’s body was found in the hospital toilet 15 days after he went missing. “The committee report has been sent to the commissioner’s office and he will take a call on the matter on Monday or Tuesday,”' said additional municipal commissioner (health) Suresh Kakani. TimesViewThe failure to detect a decomposed body in a hospital toilet reveals failure at various levels, right from administrative to medical practices. A TB patient with Covid-19 is doubly vulnerable and a prime candidate for happy hypoxia or sudden breathlessness, and needs to be closely monitored. If a patient goes missing, toilets would be one of the places to be first checked.Suryabhan Yadav (27) was sent to the BMC’s TB Hospital by civic ward-level health officials in Goregaon after he tested positive for Covid-19 in the last week of September. As he was under treatment for tuberculosis, the officials suggested admission to Sewri TB Hospital. Doctors at the TB hospital said Yadav did not have severe symptoms and went missing on October 4. A helper found his body in a toilet locked from inside a fortnight later. A seven-member team, headed by Dr Daksha Shah from BMC’s public health department, recommended a detailed enquiry against some doctors, nurses and para-health staff, and suggested that warnings should be issued to some others. A senior doctor at the hospital said after Yadav went missing, a colleague had written that toilets should be checked for the patient. A committee member said the report was preliminary. “More investigations need to be done,” the member said. Hospital superintendent Dr Lalit Anande said he had not seen the enquiry report. Rafi Kidwai Marg police are looking into cases filed by BMC regarding Yadav going missing and discovery of his decomposed body. Police contacted Yadav’s father, who identified the body, but said he was too poor to afford his son’s last rites and requested police to do it. Police had registered an accidental death report after discovery of the body. They said it appeared to be a case of heart attack as he had tested positive for Covid, had TB and there was an issue with his ears. Police said the Yadavs were casual labourers in a stable at Aarey Colony in Goregaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/body-found-in-toilet-chahal-to-decide-on-hosp-chiefs-removal/articleshow/79105356.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Madurai||224 fresh cases in south TN, 238 in central region||Madurai/ Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state reported 224 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths. Fresh cases saw a marginal increase compared to the last two days. The deaths were recorded in Madurai and Kanyakumari. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 238 fresh positive cases taking the tally to 67,091, which include 1,856 active cases. The region also recorded two deaths pushing the toll to 878. All the districts in the region recorded less than 40 fresh cases. Madurai and Kanyakumari recorded 39 cases each, followed by Tirunelveli (34), Tuticorin (31) and Sivagangai (23). The five other districts recorded less than 20 cases each with Tenkasi (6) recording the lowest. It is followed by Theni (10), Ramanathapuram (11), Virudhunagar (14) and Dindigul (17). Total cases in Madurai touched 19,016 making it the first district in the region and 8th in the state to cross 19,000 cases. Sivagangai became the last in the southern districts to cross 6,000 total cases on Saturday. Except for Madurai (412) and Tuticorin (374), the other districts have less than 250 active cases. Tenkasi (62), Theni (62), Ramanathapuram (72) and Virudhunagar (89) are the districts with less than 100 active cases. Thanjavur (47) district is still on top in reporting fresh cases in the central region taking the tally to 15,685. At least 15,194 patients have been discharged so far. Trichy recorded 41 fresh positive cases and one death taking the total number of cases to 12,777. Tiruvarur recorded 37 cases pushing the tally to 9,922. Karur reported 35 cases, while the tally is 4,353. Nagapattinam reported 33 positive cases and one death, taking the tally to 6,955. Pudukottai reported 27 fresh cases, and the total count is 10,769. Ariyalur reported 11 fresh cases, while it is seven in Perambalur. Total counts of these two districts are 4,439 and 2,191.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/224-fresh-cases-in-south-tn-238-in-central-region/articleshow/79106686.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||Med students seek to crowdfund Rs 30L for fellow’s liver transplant||Nagpur: Medical students in the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here are trying to raise Rs30 lakh through crowdfunding for a liver transplant of a student. According to the appeal circulated by the Maharashtra Association of resident Doctors (MARD), Aniket Motilal Zodape, currently in 2nd year MBBS (2018 batch), has been recently diagnosed with end stage liver disease and advised liver transplant at the earliest. “He is suffering from portal hypertension with oesophageal varices with perisplenic collaterals since last 2 years. He had 1 episode of hepatic encephalopathy in the past year. Owing to his continued treatment from past few years, the family’s financial condition has taken a toll. The treatment plan is quite expensive,” reads the appeal signed by Dr Arpit Dhakate, president of MARD, and Dr Dharun Prasad, general secretary. Aniket’s sister Shraddha is a 2015 batch student and currently working as an at the GMCH. While doctors are hoping to raise some money through their fraternity, they are also looking at donations from philanthropists and common citizens. WHERE TO DONATEAccount no: 31265236671 Account holder: SHRADDHA M ZODAPE (sister) IFSC Code: SBIN0011590 Phone numbers: 8600758709/7517889441 (Google pay or PhonePay and for further details)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/med-students-seek-to-crowdfund-rs-30l-for-fellows-liver-transplant/articleshow/79104048.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Two Bangladeshis among 8 arrested in forgery case||NASHIK: The Malegaon police have arrested two Bangladesh nationals and six others in a case of cheating, forgery and other sections of the Foreigners Order and Foreigners Act, 1946. The Malegaon police said the people were preparing fake documents with the help of forged birth certificate, session card, to apply for passport. Chandrakant Khandvi, Additional SP of Malegaon, said that a few days back, a Bangladesh national was arrested from Malegaon by the Mumbai police in connection to a fake passport case there. On this backdrop, the Malegaon police stepped up intelligence gathering in the textile city to check if there were more people involved in preparing fake passports. During the course of the drive, police found a Bangladesh national – Alam Amin Ansari (38), currently residing in Hazar Kholi, Malegaon and six other residents of Malegaon, who prepared fake documents for applying for passport. The police seized a forged Indian passport, birth certificate, aadhaar card, passbook of a post office, a recommendation letter of a people’s representative. An offence in this regard was registered with the Ayshanagar police station. One Bangladesh national in the case is on the run. A similar offence was registered in the Pawar Wadi police station of Malegaon as well in which one more Bangladeshi – Tahir Ali Yusuf Ali and six others were booked. The suspects too were booked and arrested on the charge of preparing fake documents like birth certificate, aadhaar card, PAN card, etc for applying for a passport. Khandvi said that some suspects are common in both the offences. The suspects had managed to get one passport and had applied for two more passports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-bangladeshis-among-8-arrested-in-forgery-case/articleshow/79104054.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four years after Hanif Dadhi murder, son to take narco test||AHMEDABAD: The CID crime of Gujarat Police has asked Soeb Shaikh to take narco tests in connection with the killing of his father Hanif Shaikh, a builder, in 2016. The narco-test notice was issued on Friday. Hanif Shaikh, alias Dadhi, was shot twice in Jamalpur in September 2016 by two scooter-borne assassins. He later died in hospital. Soeb, a Jamalpur resident, is to undergo the narco tests at Forensic Science Laboratory in Gandhinagar between November 9 and 13. Dadhi’s killers were caught on CCTV cameras but neither the local police nor the city crime branch were able to crack the case. The case was handed over to the CID crime in September 2018 on the directions of the DGP Shivanand Jha. Police sources said that Dadhi was a controversial figure and allegedly had connections with some IPS officers and police officials. “He used to run Simran Builders. He allegedly had links with a Mumbai woman, which his family members did not like,” said a police official. DSP S S Raghuvanshi of the CID crime said that as the finger of suspicion had always been pointing at Soeb, police approached court seeking the nod for the narco tests. The permission was granted. Soeb said that since everybody consider him a suspect, he agreed to take the narco tests. “After the test, I will ask police to find the real killers,” he said. Shortly after his father’s murder, Soeb too had developed alleged connections with some police officials and politicians. Soeb also openly supported a rebel candidate of a prominent party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-years-after-hanif-dadhi-murder-son-to-take-narco-test/articleshow/79104905.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Madurai||10L flower shrimp seeds released in Gulf of Mannar||Ramanathapuram: About 10 lakh flower shrimp seeds were released in the Gulf of Mannar on Saturday, as part of efforts taken by the Centre to save the species, and to improve the economic scope of fishermen of the coastal district. “With this batch we have released more than one crore seedlings in the Gulf of Mannar and Palk Bay area in the last four years,” principal scientist and scientist in-charge of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) Mandapam regional centre, R Jayakumar told TOI. Unlike Vannamei (whiteleg shrimp), an exotic imported species and tiger prawns that are reared in brackish water and harvested, flower prawn is a native species that thrives in high saline water. The species is much sought after by fishermen for its demand and price in the export market. This resulted in the exploitation of the species. Efforts to raise seedlings and release them in the seas began to strike a balance to ensure that the species thrives while fishermen too are not disappointed. For this purpose, the mother shrimp is bought alive from fishermen. Each mother is capable of carrying 50,000 to 1.5 lakh eggs. The eggs are harvested and the process of nurturing the seedlings that hatch continues for 45 days before they are ready to be released in the sea. At 45 days old, they are one-inch-long and weigh around 100 to 150mg each. Released in sea grass beds that are conducive for them to grow, they gain weight to the range of 10 to 15g each in three to four months, when they are ready for harvest. On Saturday, the seedlings were taken in a boat and released at four sea grass beds two nautical miles (3.7km) off the coast of Thangachimadam. Spade work is under way to release two more batches of shrimp seeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/10l-flower-shrimp-seeds-released-in-gulf-of-mannar/articleshow/79106702.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||Minor booked for trying to rape 3-year-old girl||NAGPUR: After whisking his three-year-old neighbour to a desolate place, a 12-year-old minor from Wadi attempted to make sexual advances, but when the girl started crying loudly, he panicked and brought her back. He was booked and produced before the juvenile justice board (JJB) on Friday. Police said the girl was lured when she was playing with her younger brother in front of her house. When she returned, the girl’s family was stunned to see her crying. She narrated her plight to her family who took her as well as the boy to the Wadi police station. Sources said the boy had initially tried to mislead the cops by stating that he had taken the girl to the desolate place as somebody had told him to do so. After verifying the facts, cops found that he was lying. Apart from sexual abuse, the boy was also slapped with charges of kidnapping. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/minor-booked-for-trying-to-rape-3-year-old-girl/articleshow/79104073.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||All e-bikes checked for faults||Ahmedabad: The operators of electric bikes in Ahmedabad have begun taking safety measures and have replaced their battery circuit after an untoward incident was reported in Delhi. Sources said that no incident was reported in Ahmedabad but as a precaution the e-bikes were pulled off the roads for a day and their circuits and batteries checked. Officials said that with the e-bikes going off the road for a day there were rumours that the operator has stopped operations and there were also rumours that the system of the e-bikes was being hacked. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-e-bikes-checked-for-faults/articleshow/79106163.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Gurgaon||Two sham call centres busted in Gurugram, 10th case this year||GURUGRAM: The CM flying squad has busted two call centres operating from a building in Sector 35 that cheated US citizens. While one of them was duping computer users in the US by offering them technical support, the other threatened to cancel their social security number if a certain amount was not paid to them. Till now, a total of ten such sham organisations have been busted in Gurugram this year. Both call centres were being run by three partners each, who had previous experience in call centres. The employees of one of the call centres impersonated representatives of Microsoft to dupe foreigners. The modus operandi of this call centre was similar to the others busted till now — they would send pop-up messages to computer users in the US and use malware to block their screens, forcing users to call on the number given in the message. The calls landed in Gurugram. The persons working at the call centre would pose as Microsoft employees and seek payment for ‘resolving’ the problem. Left with little choice, the users would allow the callers to solve the technical problem against a fee of US$ 300 to US$ 700. The payment would be made via gift cards and the money routed through Europe and China. Roshan Thamas, a resident of Delhi, was the mastermind and one of the partners running the inbound call centre. He managed to escape before the raid, which took place on Friday, while police managed to arrest the other two partners, Delhi residents Manish and Sunil Tripathi. Several laptops and cash amounting to Rs 6.48 lakh were recovered from their possession. An FIR has been registered under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC and relevant sections of the IT Act at Badshapur police station. The other call centre busted on Friday operated from the same building. “The fraudsters used to call US citizens and threaten to cancel their social security number. They used to demand anywhere between US$ 500 to US$ 1,000 to ‘restore’ their social security number,” said DSP (flying squad) Inderjeet Yadav. Rahul Kumar, the main accused, managed to escape, while the other two partners, Jigar and Hansraj, were arrested from the call centre on Friday. A case has been registered against them at Badshapur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-sham-call-centres-busted-in-city-10th-case-this-year/articleshow/79105979.cms||Bagish Jha
November 8, 2020||Bareilly||14-year-old girl dies after roof of under-construction house collapses in Moradabad||BAREILLY: A 14-year-old girl died after the roof of an under-construction house collapsed on her while she was playing there in Civil Lines area of Moradabad on Saturday afternoon. Moradabad police said the girl was rushed to district hospital, but was declared dead upon arrival. The deceased, identified as Samreen (14), was playing with her elder brother when the incident took place. Locals informed the police that while her brother managed to escape, Samreen got trapped under the debris of the under-construction house belonging to her uncle. SHO, Civil Lines police station, Moradabad, Nawal Marwah told TOI, “The girl was playing outside her house in the afternoon where construction work at her uncle’s place was underway, who also lives near to her house. After being informed, police teams reached the spot for rescue operation. After a few hours, the girl was pulled out of the debris and rushed to the district hospital, but she had succumbed to her injuries.” The deceased, a student of class IX, is survived by her parents and two siblings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/14-year-old-girl-dies-after-roof-of-under-construction-house-collapses-in-moradabad/articleshow/79104069.cms||Maria Khan
November 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Scholarship exams to be held in April||AURANGABAD: The annual scholarship examinations for students of Class V and Class VIII will be held in April 2021 instead of the annual schedule of February due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Stating that exams are tentatively slotted on the fourth Sunday of April, the Maharashtra State Council of Examination (MSCE) said the detailed notification will be issued shortly. MSCE chairman Tukaram Supe said, “In response to our letter seeking guidance on holding the examination amid the current pandemic, the state government has given a go-ahead for conducting the annual scholarship examination either on the third or fourth Sunday of April next year. The examinations are most likely to take place on the fourth Sunday.” Over nine lakh students appear for these examinations across Maharashtra every year, Educational activist Prashant Sathe said it is a good move to postpone the scholarship examinations as there is no proper clarity on the current situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scholarship-exams-to-be-held-in-april/articleshow/79104083.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||No death in Amravati, Nagpur division records 18||Nagpur: For the first time in the last three months, no district in Amravati division reported deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday. Amravati, Akola, Washim, Yavatmal, and Buldhana — all five districts not only reported zero deaths, but also lesser number of cases despite the number of tests being conducted remaining more or less the same. All 18 deaths reported on Saturday came from Nagpur division. They include Nagpur (8), Bhandara (4), Chandrapur (3), Gondia (2), and Wardha (1). The death toll of Vidarbha has reached 5,633. The case fatality rate continued to be at 2.74% which is higher than state and national average. Of the 665 cases reported in a day, 170 came from Amravati division. These include 62 from Buldhana, 46 from Amravati, 28 from Yavatmal, 22 from Akola and 12 from Washim. Remarkably, Buldhana conducted more than 1,100 tests, Amravati (582), Akola (253), Yavatmal (319), and Washim (230). Overall, case positivity rate is coming down in these districts. Total 1,036 patients recovered in a day including Nagpur (308), Chandrapur (151), Bhandara (110), Gadchiroli (108), Gondia (97), Yavatmal (87), Buldhana (73), Amravati (43), Washim (29), Wardha (17), and Akola (13). Now, of the 2,05,165 cases, 1,88,658 have recovered. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is nearing 92% mark which is more than state’s average. The number of patients under treatment came down to 10,874 on Saturday. Of these, 2098 are from Amravati division which is less than 20% of Vidarbha’s total cases. This means, Nagpur division alone accounts for more than 80% of the total cases. Bhandara: Four Covid deaths increased concerns of Bhandara district on Saturday. This took the death toll of Bhandara to 228. As against 45 new cases, 110 patients recovered. Total cases in Bhandara surpassed the 9,000-mark. Now, of the 9,004 cases, 7,973 have recovered. This means the recovery rate of Bhandara is 88.54%. Total 803 patients are under treatment. Gondia: A 70-year-old from the city and 60-year-old from Arjuni Morgaon died during treatment on Saturday. Gondia’s death toll has reached 136. As a respite, only 26 new cases were detected while 97 patients recovered in a day. Now, of the 10,247 total cases, 9,479 have recovered. Total 632 patients are under treatment. Gondia’s recovery rate is 90.88%. The case fatality rate is 1.19% while the doubling rate is 107.3 days. Gadchiroli: Total 109 patients recovered in the district on Saturday. No death was reported. The number of new cases reduced to 71. Now, the district has 6,478 cases, 5,570 recoveries, 64 deaths and 844 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is 86%. Akola: Covid cases are reducing in Akola district constantly in November. Even on Saturday, only 22 new cases were reported and 13 patients recovered. No death was reported in Akola. Due to this, the caseload of the district has reached 8,536, including 8,051 recoveries and 282 deaths. Akola has 203 patients under treatment. Buldhana: The district received 1,158 reports on Saturday of which 62 tested positive taking the total case count of Buldhana to 9,865. Total 73 patients recovered in a day taking the number to 9,268. No death was reported. Now, 467 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district has only 157 patients under treatment which is lowest in Vidarbha. On Saturday, 12 new cases were detected while 29 patients recovered. No death was reported. Washim now has 5,766 cases, 5,465 recoveries and 144 deaths. Amravati: Not only the district, but the entire Amravati division did not report a single death on Saturday. However, 46 new cases were reported, taking the caseload to 16,655. A report from the civil surgeon’s office said that 534 active cases were under treatment after 43 recoveries that took the total to 15,763 for a rate of 94.64. Chandrapur: The district recorded 132 new patients, taking the Covid-19 total to 16,786 on Saturday. The day witnessed discharge of 151 patients and the total recoveries climbed to 13,843. Three deaths were reported during the day, raising the toll to 252. There are now 1,691 Covid-19 patients under treatment. Wardha: An 83-year-old man from Wardha died due to coronavirus on Saturday, while 62 new positive cases were detected and 17 recoveries were registered. The total count of cases in the district reached 6,673. In all, 418 patients are being treated in the district, and 6,041 recoveries have been registered so far. The death toll reached 214. Out of 847 test reports, 62 new patients tested positive and the patients are from Wardha (23), Deoli (17), Hinganghat (13), Selu (4), Samudrapur (3), Arvi and Ashti (1 each). Yavatmal: Of the 319 reports, 28 tested positive. There are 328 active positive patients under treatment. From the 10,487 found positive so far in the district, 9,399 later tested negative and were discharged. On Saturday, 87 patients recovered and were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-death-in-amravati-nagpur-division-records-18/articleshow/79104082.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||After 80 teachers test Covid-positive in Pauri, Uttarakhand parents’ body urges education department to close schools||Dehradun: The state’s parents body — National Association for Parents and Students’ Rights (NAPSR) — has issued a memorandum to the education department to shut the schools at least till November 30 due to the recent incidents of several students and teachers contracting Covid-19 in various districts of the hill state. “We have issued a memorandum to the district administration regarding immediate closure of the schools. In just four days after the reopening of the schools, more than 80 teachers tested Covid-19 positive in Pauri. Ranikhet also witnessed a similar situation. In prevailing circumstances, parents are not willing to send their wards to schools,” said Arif Khan, president of NAPSR. Meanwhile, some locals have claimed that the schools were reopened in the state only due to the pressure exerted by the lobby of the private schools on the state government. “The schools were reopened by the state government due to pressure from the private school owners. The government schools saw a better turnout and thus, more cases of Covid-19 surfaced from state-run schools. The same situation can arise in a private school as well and this is what we had been fearing. The outbreak of Covid-19 has already created havoc in all our lives. We don’t want to expose our kids to the infection,” said a parent on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, the opposition Congress has also demanded immediate closure of the schools in Uttarakhand. Notably, the majority of the private schools in the state are likely to reopen after Diwali when they fully implement the SOPs issued by the state government for the reopening of schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-80-teachers-test-covid-positive-in-pauri-uttarakhand-parents-body-urges-education-department-to-close-schools/articleshow/79104080.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 8, 2020||Aurangabad||HC: Can’t prosecute person for abetting suicide sans intention||(done-FP) Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has ruled that a person cannot be prosecuted for abetting suicide if there is nothing to show the existence of an intention to cause such death. The HC judgment makes it clear that the relief applies only to the extent of the two petitioners who had approached it following the lodging of an FIR against them with the Kannad police station in rural Aurangabad. “For proving the abetment of suicide, which is made punishable under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 107 of the IPC (which deals with abetment/instigation) needs to be used and if there is nothing to show that there was such intention in existence of the accused, he cannot be prosecuted for the offence of abetment of suicide,” a division bench of Justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar said in a judgment pronounced on November 3. The bench said, “The matters of committing suicide by debtors when it becomes impossible to return the debt are increasing day by day. Many persons help their friends and others by giving hand loans or by selling goods on credit. They are bound to ask the debtor to pay the dues. If the debtor feels such demand as harassment, on the basis of that circumstance, inference cannot be drawn that situation was created by the creditors due to which no other alternative was left to the debtor than to commit suicide.” The bench stated, “If a debtor finds himself unable to return the amount and he takes such step, the persons who are entitled to recover the amount and who have prosecuted legal action, which is permissible under law, cannot be blamed for suicide of such person even if he has blamed such persons for suicide in suicide note like present one.” The case The bench allowed a criminal writ petition filed by a father-son duo and quashed an FIR as well as a regular criminal case (RCC) against the two relating to the death of an irrigation contractor, Bhausaheb Ghuge, by suicide on January 16, 2019. Ghuge had left a note naming four people, including Subhash Bharuka (60) and his son, Sandesh (36), for harassing him over recovery of dues. The Bharukas had given him fuel worth Rs20 lakh on credit and had even moved to a court against Ghuge for issuing dud cheques as surety. Ghuge’s brother, Suresh, then lodged an FIR with the Kannad police station in rural Aurangabad alleging abetment of suicide and offences under the Maharashtra Money Lending Act against the four persons named in the note. Subhash and Sandesh later moved the high court challenging the FIR and seeking quashing of the case against them. The bench observed, “Subhash had specifically admitted that he had given a hand loan and for repayment of the hand loan, the cheque was given. Those matters need not be considered in the present matter. In the present matter, this court is expected to consider as to whether there was a money lending transaction between Subhash and the deceased. The aforesaid material does not show that there was such a transaction between Subhash and the deceased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-cant-prosecute-person-for-abetting-suicide-sans-intention/articleshow/79105977.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 8, 2020||Nashik||FDA raids shop, seizes edible oil worth Rs 3.9L||Nashik: The Nashik Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) raided a shop in Jalgaon on November 6 and seized edible oil worth Rs 3.93 lakh on the suspicion of adulteration. The oil has been sent to the government laboratory for investigation, following which action will be taken against the owner of the shop, who had stocked the edible oil for sale. Vivek Patil, the food safety officer (FSO) took the action under the guidance of assistant commissioner Y K Bendkule. The FSO suspected that the soyabean oil, which the trader had stocked, was adulterated. This can be harmful when consumed. On this backdrop, the FSO seized a 180 kg barrel of soyabean oil and 15 litre can of soyabean refiled oil. Chandrakant Salunke, the joint commissioner of FDA Nashik, said the raid was conducted in shop along station road in Chalisgaon. With the festive season around the corner, the demand for oil and various edible articles has increased like every year. Hence, the chances of adulteration is always there The FDA has stepped up to keep a check on adulteration. Also, sweets for sale in sweets stores will also be kept under check as they too are in huge demand during Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fda-raids-shop-seizes-edible-oil-worth-rs-3-9l/articleshow/79104075.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Rise in passenger footfall, flights at Aurangabad airport||Aurangabad: The graph of total number of flights at Aurangabad airport and passenger footfall has been showing healthy sign of recovery during the current pandemic. From merely eight flights in May, the total number of operations has surged to 232 flights by end of October, official data shows, highlighting surge in passenger movement in accordance. Aurangabad airport director D G salve said the air-travel in Aurangabad was pacing towards the pre-Covid state. “The confidence among passengers and airline companies is rising gradually during the current pandemic. It has reflected in terms of restoration of air-travel at Aurangabad airport,” he said. Salve said all precautions were in place at Aurangabad airport and the staff is ensuring complete safety of passengers during their travel. “We carry out regular sanitisation of all touch points, including passengers’ baggage at the airport. The washrooms and toilets, along with all offices, are also sanitized to maintain safety standards during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. In keeping with the increased flights, the passenger footfall at Aurangabad airport has been increasing gradually amid eased out restrictions during the outbreak of Covid-19. The footfall has increased from 12 passengers in May to 9,363 passengers by September, official data shows. The related official count of passengers for October could not be ascertained. As per the official guidelines towards passenger obligation, air travellers are expected to certify the status of their health through the Aarogya Setu mobile app or a self-declaration form before the journey. Having a land area of 557.5 acres, Aurangabad airport has the designed capacity of arrival and departure of 200 domestic flights and 150 international flights. Aurangabad city MP Imtiaz Jaleel, who has been nominated on the central government committee on Civil aviation, said Aurangabad has to has to have proper transportation connectivity if the city needs to grow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rise-in-passenger-footfall-flights-at-aurangabad-airport/articleshow/79105985.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||95% Covid fibrosis: Ahmedabad woman recovers||AHMEDABAD: Manisha Jograna, a resident of Dholka, was taken to a local hospital a fortnight ago when she started bleeding from her mouth while coughing. A farm labourer, the 30-year-old was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection. “Due to her condition, she was promptly sent to Ahmedabad. Her high-resolution CT scan (HRCT) revealed more than 95% fibrosis or damage of lungs,” said Dr Rajesh Solanki, head of the pulmonary department. “To put it in perspective, she had severe infection. Even in serious Covid-19 patients, the fibrosis is around 60-70%. HRCT score, revealing severity was 40 out of 40,” Dr Solanki said. She was immediately shifted to the ICU where her treatment consisted of remdesivir, tocilizumab and dexamethasone along with pentaglobin, an injection to strengthen the body’s immune system. Dr Kartikeya Parmar, in-charge of 1,200 bed hospital for Covid-19, said her condition slowly but steadily improved. “I can say without a doubt that it was one of the most difficult cases of Covid-19 infection we received in recent times. The biggest challenge was age factor – despite being in her thirties, she contracted a severe form of infection. Saving her life was an uphill task, and we are happy she recovered after 12 days of intensive care,” said Dr Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/95-covid-fibrosis-woman-recovers/articleshow/79105988.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur’s cinema halls may reopen just before Diwali||NAGPUR: Even though the state government has allowed cinema halls to reopen from November 5, there is little chance that they will do so before Diwali (November 14). The reason is that the owners are cleaning up the halls which were closed for more than seven months. A bigger problem is that distributors are unwilling to release movies with only 50% capacity permitted. Harish Hiranwar, manager of Buty Cineplex, said that he had regularly cleaned his multiplex during the closure period and hence was in a position to start it in a day or two. “However, the problem is that I am yet to get a movie from Mumbai. Let alone the hard disk, I am yet to get the name of the film that we are supposed to screen after the reopening. We are ready for reruns but we are not getting even those,” he told TOI. Joy Xavier of PVR Multiplex, Eternity Mall, said his company had prepared a standard operating procedure (SOP) even before the state SOP was out. “We have received sanitizing equipment and social distancing signages but are yet to receive instructions from our head office as to when to reopen. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is yet to give us a copy of the unlock order,” he added. Inox issued a press statement on Saturday stating, “Over and above the standard SOPs, Inox will also be introducing a slew of measures which would make cinema viewing safe, secure and comfortable.” Inox has visualized the entire cinema journey, identified all the possible physical touch points and ensured that all those touch points were sanitized and distancing could be maintained, thereby leaving no room for possibility of contamination. “There will be a lot of focus on the digital way of life. Inox will discontinue the use of papers tickets and only e-tickets will be issued. The walk-in guests can also make the booking by scanning the QR codes placed near the box office,” the release stated. Praneet Singh, owner of Sudama Theatre, said that he was planning to reopen his cinema hall on November 13 and was waiting for a movie from distributors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-cinema-halls-may-reopen-just-before-diwali/articleshow/79104104.cms||Ashish Roy
November 8, 2020||Madurai||Work begins on UGD project for 15 wards north of Vaigai||Madurai: Madurai Corporation has begun construction work on the underground drainage (UGD) system proposed at a cost of Rs 291 crore under the smart city scheme. The project aims at providing UGD facility for 15 wards located in the nor-th of Vaigai river.The project involves laying of sewer lines for about 308km, providing 10,500 manholes, 44,587 service connections, construction of three pumping mains at Anaiyur, Vanidyur and Vilangudi and providing main pipeline connecting pumping stations. A corporation official said that works like digging the streets, laying pipeline and providing manhole structure are being carried out in various areas like Pandian Street and Bharathiyar Street in Koodalpudur, Appadurai Nagar in Santhi Nagar and Vaigai North Bank River Road in Thathaneri ward.“The project was supposed to take off before Covid-19 pandemic stuck. The lockdown delayed the work as industries ran out of raw material required for manufacturing materials like pipes and manhole covers. After the lockdown was eased, required raw materials was stocked up to scale up the manufacturing. For a project of this scale, required materials are manufactured after getting approval for the samples from us,” said an official from the engineering wing.Once the project is completed, the issue of sewage water entering various waterbodies in the city including Vaigai river can be effectively addressed. The absence of UGD resulted in diverting the sewage water into waterbodies. With the sewage water treatment plant construction at Goripalayam also nearing completion, mixing of untreated sewage water entering the Vaigai would become a thing of the past, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/work-begins-on-ugd-project-for-15-wards-north-of-vaigai/articleshow/79106707.cms||V Devanathan
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||Man who duped many in Dehradun on pretext of providing job held from Andhra Pradesh||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun police arrested 40-year-old Mohammad Shahid from Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh on November 4 for allegedly duping people of big amounts of money on the pretext of providing them a job in foreign countries. Shahid, who hails from Hyderabad, was based in Dehradun for a period of two years after his marriage in the state capital in 2017. When the fraud got busted, he escaped back to Hyderabad in 2019 and to avoid getting caught, he changed his address and used different sim cards. Later, he shifted to Kurnool district, where he was staying in the Karwanpet Adoni area. DIG Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi said that Gaurav Pal, a resident of Gajiawala area, in his complaint with the Cantt police station on February 24, 2020, had alleged Shahid and Nayagaon area-resident Dheeraj Khanal duped him of Rs 5 lakh on the pretext of providing a job in New Zealand. To convince their targets, the duo had opened an office in Nayagaon area. In the complaint, Pal said that other locals like Sachin Kumar and Sunita Rawat too had fallen for their fake offers. Following which, a case under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 120 (concealing design to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), was registered at the Cantt police station on February 24. “Taking into account the seriousness of the allegation, we constituted a team to crack the case at the earliest,” the DIG said. While Dheeraj was caught in a few days, the police continued the search for Shahid, who was traced in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh. With the help of their Andhra Pradesh counterparts, the Uttarakhand police arrested Shahid and brought him to Dehradun on a transit remand. After his arrest, Shahid told Dehradun police that he hails from Hyderabad and in 2017, he got married in the Raipur area of Dehradun. After marriage, he started staying in Dehradun and with the help of Dheeraj Khanal, he hatched a conspiracy to dupe people on the pretext of getting them jobs in foreign countries. Both Shahid and Dheeraj lured their targets and took a sum which would range from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh as per the financial condition of the person. However, the locals started asking for refund as they did not get a job abroad. Following which, Shahid escaped to Hyderabad. Fearing that he might be caught, Shahid changed his address in Hyderabad and used different mobile numbers. On being caught, Shahid claimed that he had duped people of an amount between Rs 14 lakh and Rs 18 lakh and had spent the entire money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-who-duped-many-in-doon-on-pretext-of-providing-job-held-from-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/79104094.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 498 Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||DEHRADUN: With 498 fresh infections of Covid-19 reported from Uttarakhand on Saturday, the total number of cases shot up to 65,036 in the state. Also, eight more fatalities pushed the toll of the virus to 1,063 in the state. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, told TOI that the maximum of 148 cases of the virus were reported from Dehradun, followed by 62 from Chamoli, 51 from Pauri, 46 from Nainital, 36 each from Haridwar and Pithoragarh, 32 from Tehri, 21 from Almora, 19 from Udham Singh Nagar, 15 from Bageshwar, 13 from rudraprayag, 10 from Champawat, and nine from Uttarkashi. The official added that among the eight deaths reported on the day, three each were recorded in Dehradun and Haldwani, and one each in Rudraprayag and Udham Singh Nagar districts. Apart from deaths and fresh cases, 337 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection on Saturday. With this, the tally of cured cases rose to 59,564 in the state. Meanwhile, the health department has completed the data collection of healthcare professionals in the state who would be given the Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase. The health department has also sought authorisation of cold chains from the state government to preserve the vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-498-covid-19-cases-8-deaths/articleshow/79104085.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad’s minimum temp dips to 14 degrees||Aurangabad: The minimum temperature in Aurangabad city has dipped to 14 degree Celsius on Saturday, marking the arrival of winter season. Among other major cities from Marathwada, Parbhani also reported the same minimum temperature as Aurangabad whereas Osmanabad and Nanded reported 15 and 16 degree Celsius respectively. At the state level, Chandrapur was the coldest in Maharashtra having registered minimum of 11.5 degree Celsius on Saturday, data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows. Weather expert Kirankukar Johare said that the onset of winter season could see a break during Diwali as there are chances of rain during the festive season. “The possibility of extended rainy season this year, including the withdrawal phase of monsoon, may lead to shrinking of winter days. Also, winter this year may witness relatively higher difference in maximum and minimum temperature as compared to normal, especially during November,” he said. On Saturday, the maximum temperature in Aurangabad was 31.3 degree Celsius which was more by over 17 units as compared to the minimum temperature. “The difference of over 10 units between maximum and minimum temperature is considered as a noticeable difference. Such difference can be attributed to ‘October heat’ phenomenon which is observed in November this year,” Johare said. Meanwhile, the woollen market in the city has been witnessing surge in crowd due to arrival of winter season. The local market is also witnessing bulk arrival of custard apples fruit, which is synonymous with the winter season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabads-minimum-temp-dips-to-14-degrees/articleshow/79105987.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Nurse who would be doctor!||AHMEDABAD: Come 2021, and Krupali Patel, a native of Vadodara, who was trained as a nurse at Civil Hospital, will receive her doctoral degree from University of Bonn in Germany! Krupali is currently working on her thesis on zoonotic diseases and understanding the transmission of superbugs such as Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) from animals to humans and vice versa. Patel, the daughter of a lab technician and homemaker in Vadodara, recently connected with students and researchers at her alma mater, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar (IIPH-G), in a webinar, sharing her experiences. “I got interested in the healthcare sector and pursued a diploma in nursing, followed by a BSc degree,” recounts Krupali. “But I wanted to go beyond the routine and got an opportunity to work on a project linking WASH (water, sanitation and hygiene) with maternal mortality rate (MMR) in India and Bangladesh.” The project got her interested in public health and she enrolled in the Master in Public Health (MPH) course at IIPH-G. Her interest in zoonotic diseases (diseases spread from animals to humans) and drug-resistant bacteria continued even after her graduation, as she got selected in a very competitive process for a doctoral study at the Centre for Development Research at University of Bonn. “My focus is on MRSA and factors affecting it such as weather conditions. I collected the samples from 300 households in Ahmedabad keeping cattle in different seasons and studied the distribution pattern,” she said. “The data analysis is on, and I am hopeful of submitting my findings soon.” Deepak Saxena, a professor at IIPH-G and mentor to Patel, said that she’s working in a field less explored. “In India and elsewhere, the superbug study model is primarily hospital-based. But she has taken the community health approach where she has taken samples from animals and humans to understand the spread pattern of the drug-resistant bacteria,” he said. “I am sure it would add a new dimension to how we look at the subject in the context of India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nurse-who-would-be-doctor/articleshow/79105991.cms||Parth Shastri
November 8, 2020||Bareilly||Man, nephew buried alive after soil caves in while cleaning well||BAREILLY: A 40-year-old man and his 10-year-old nephew were buried alive after the mound of a soil caved in when they were cleaning a 20-foot-deep well in Berikheda village under Bahjoi police station, in Sambhal, on Friday. One Rajvir, a local, who was outside and assisting them in the work, immediately informed the police and locals. Police said the duo was rescued after around three hours and taken to a CHC where they were declared brought dead. The deceased were identified as Nem Singh and his nephew Rinku. SHO, Bahjoi police station, Sambhal, RP Singh said, “After we were informed, a police team was rushed to the spot. A JCB machines was also sent. After three hours of rescue operation, the duo was taken out and rushed to Bahjoi community health centre, where they were declared them brought dead.” “The bodies have been sent for postmortem,” added SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-nephew-buried-alive-after-soil-caves-in-while-cleaning-well/articleshow/79104143.cms||Maria Khan
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Three nabbed with firearms in 2 cases||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch sleuths caught three persons with illegal firearms in two separate incidents on Friday. The weapons seized were two country-made pistols and one muzzle-loading gun. According to crime branch sources, while they were on patrol in the Amraiwadi area of the city, they received a tip-off that a 26-year-old man named Puran Singh alias Arjun and his associate Vijay Sharma, 27, were going to the Vastral Canal through CTM Crossroads with illegal firearms. “We laid watch and identified both of them. On searching them we found two country-made pistols and two empty magazines. “On questioning, both accused said that they were involved in the murder of man named Nikhil alias Kancha. To avoid being caught, sometime ago they tried to destroy the weapons but could not and they were going to Mahemdavad to destroy the weapons,” said a crime branch official. In a separat incident, a 27-year-old man named Sajan Sandhi, a resident of Mehsana district, was caught near Vaishnodevi Circle on SP Ring Road with a muzzle-loading gun. “He had wrapped it in a cloth and hidden near the fender of his motorcycle. We have taken all three accused into custody and have sent them for pre-arrest Covid-19 tests,” said a crime branch official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-nabbed-with-firearms-in-2-cases/articleshow/79104929.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||Elephant row: Foresters pursue case against actor Dhanveer Gowda||MYSURU: The Nagarahole Tiger Reserve authorities are planning to seriously pursue the case booked under the provisions of Wild Life Protection Act against Kannada actor Dhanveer Gowda. Gowda was first accused of entering the restricted forest area at Bandipur Tiger Reserve in the late hours following a social media post. However, but he wasn’t found guilty for the incident. Days later, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve foresters slapped a case on the actor under WLP Act 1972 for riding on camp elephant. According to forest officials, Gowda and his five associates had illegally entered Mathigodu Elephant Camp in Anechowkuru forest range and rode on camp elephant Mahendra. A video of the incident had gone viral on social media platforms. The actor and his associates had visited the camp on September 25 and the incident is suspected to have happened the same day. The foresters procured the video clip from social media and after tracing the address of Dhanveer, his friends Vishwas Aiyar, Darshan and three more persons, they were brought into books under WLP Act 1972. They have been booked for illegally entering the elephant camp in Nalkeri reserve forest area. Notice was also served against the staff who was in-charge of the camp, said an official. Sources told TOI that the actor and his friends had recently visited the Nagarahole forest office where their statements were recorded. During the inquiry, foresters also collected the photographs and videos which they had taken during the elephant ride. Nagarahole Tiger Reserve director D Mahesh Kumar told TOI that the inquiry is still underway. “The accused were summoned, and their statements were recorded. We are investigating the case and cannot reveal the details of the inquiry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/elephant-row-foresters-pursue-case-against-actor-dhanveer-gowda/articleshow/79104763.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||Srinagar municipal council to be turned into a corporation||Dehradun: The state urban development department has approved the expansion of Srinagar (Garhwal) municipal council into a municipal corporation. The decision was taken during a meeting chaired by urban development minister Madan Kaushik on Friday. The minister has also asked the concerned district magistrates to submit a report for the expansion of the Srinagar civic council and the formation of a municipal corporation within a week's time. During the meeting, the expansion plan for the municipal area of Rishikesh municipal council was also discussed. The minister, after the review meeting, said that a nod has been given for awarding of tender for the ropeway to be set up between Har-ki-Pauri and Chandi Devi temple in Haridwar. A proposal for the formation of nine urban local bodies in Udham Singh Nagar’s Lalpur, in Sirorikala, in Nagla, in three panchayats of Bagheshwar, and in four panchayats of Haridwar was also discussed during the meeting. The officials said that the proposal is being considered and the formation of municipal bodies will take place at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/srinagar-municipal-council-to-be-turned-into-a-corporation/articleshow/79104122.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eight missing from isolation at home, AMC warns of charges||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has warned those in home isolation to strictly adhere to the guidelines and avail free treatment or else pay for the services provided by the AMC in various Covid care centres. The AMC on Saturday issued a list of eight home-quarantined people who were missing from their homes when the AMC health team went on checks. In three cases, it was also revealed that despite being home-quarantined patients had left for Prantij and Surendranagar. A senior official said that in the last two days, the AMC teams checked people who were home-quarantined especially in eastern part of the city and found eight of them including three from Vastral, two from Saijpur, and one each from CTM, Danilimda and Shahpur missing. The officials said that these people, who are supposed to be in isolation for 14 days had left their homes either for work or had gone to their offices. There have been instances when people who were supposed to be home-quarantined were seen at the urban health centre. An AMC officer pointed out a recent incident where a home-quarantined person walked into the urban health centre in Jodhpur seeking help. The staff asked him how he came there and after argument when he was threatened of police complaint the person fled from the centre. The AMC is also planning to lodge police complaints against all eight persons found missing from home quarantine. Also the district health officers of Surendranagar and Sabarkantha have been alerted about about the Ahmedabad patients coming to their areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-missing-from-isolation-at-home-amc-warns-of-charges/articleshow/79106031.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Dehradun||Probe complete, officials remain tight-lipped over minister-IAS tussle||Dehradun: Additional chief secretary Manisha Panwar has completed her probe in the matter relating to the allegations levelled against an IAS officer by Rekha Arya, minister of state for women and child development department. Confirming the completion of the probe, chief secretary Om Prakash said, “Yes, I have received the probe findings but am yet to go through the report. I will do it most likely on Sunday. Thereafter, I will seek time from the chief minister to hand over the report to him. Only after handing over the report, I will be in a condition to comment any further on the matter.” Meanwhile, state government’s spokesperson and urban development minister Madan Kaushik said that before taking any action, it is important to go through the findings. “If anyone is at fault, we will not shy from taking action,” said the minister, who assured that the matter would be clear in a few days. To recall, Arya, in September this year, had written a letter to DIG Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi claiming that IAS officer V Shanmugam had gone missing and claimed that he “might have been kidnapped”. The allegations were made by the minister as the officer wasn't responding to her calls or messages. However, the police team found that the IAS officer was in his house under self-isolation. He had taken leave for self isolation from his senior officer. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had to intervene in the matter and later, chief secretary Om Prakash gave the charge of probe into the matter to additional chief secretary Manisha Panwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/probe-complete-officials-remain-tight-lipped-over-minister-ias-tussle/articleshow/79104110.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Convicted of graft, 37 govt employees still not fired||Aurangabad: Thirty-seven government employees from different departments, who have been convicted on charges of corruption, have not yet been dismissed from services. Of them, one is a Class-I officer, five are Class-II officials, 28 belong to Class-III, two are Class-IV workers and one is a people’s representative. As per service rules, any government employee on being convicted in any case must be dismissed from service. However, the ACB officials said despite the change in government as well as officials, some convicted government employees are not dismissed. As per statistics obtained from the anti-corruption bureau, some of the convicts, who have not been dismissed even after five years of being convicted by the special ACB courts, include two talathis from Beed and Aurangabad convicted in the 2012 and 2015 and three gram sevaks (of the rural development department) from Nanded convicted between the years 2012 and 2013. MSEDCL junior engineer from Yavatmal (convicted in 2013), a police sub-inspector from Gangapur of Aurangabad rural (convicted in 2015) and a Latur-based irrigation department deputy divisional engineer (convicted in 2005 and his conviction was upheld by the High Court in 2016) are still in service. A Class-IV staffer of Thane’s judicial magistrate first class (convicted in 2015), a junior technical officer of the department of telecom (convicted in 2011), assistant deputy chief officer of MHADA’s estate department (convicted in 2013), are the government employees who, despite being proven guilty, for over five years are yet to be dismissed from their respective services. Some senior officials, who too have been convicted by the court, but are yet to be dismissed, include revenue department’s woman deputy collector from Osmanabad (convicted in 2017), a woman section engineer (water supply department) from Vasai in Thane (convicted in 2018), Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s assistant engineer (convicted in 2018), Bhandara district industries development office’s assistant project officer (convicted in 2019). A senior ACB officer said the ACB office regularly sends reminder notices to the respective heads of departments, due to which, the hope for their dismissal remains alive. The officer said that ACB ensures transparency in this process and readily keeps this data and statistics in the public domain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/convicted-of-graft-37-govt-employees-still-not-fired/articleshow/79105993.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 8, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Man’s kidnap drama exposed after wife’s police complaint||CHENNAI: A 40-year-old woman’s complaint that her husband was kidnapped by a gang which abandoned him at Thirumangalam on Friday night after extorting money led police to discover that the man staged the drama to avoid telling his wife he had paid off his girlfriend who gave him her jewels to pledge. CCTV camera footage showed police that Amarnath, an iron merchant, got out of his car, withdrew money from an ATM at Thirumangalam and got back into the car. The Thirumangalam police then questioned Amarnath and his wife Nalini Kumari before deciding not to register a case. They have summoned his girlfriend Subha (name changed) for questioning. An investigating officer said Subha gave Amarnath six sovereigns of gold jewellery and asked him to pledge it to get money for her mother’s treatment. But, he didn’t pledge the gold and Subha began demanding that he return it. On Friday, Amarnath drove to an ATM kiosk at Thirumangalam and withdrew Rs 40,000. He then gave it to Subha along with his gold ring. Later, he went home and told his wife that five men had intercepted his car as he was returning home. They kidnapped him and took him to an undisclosed spot where they extorted Rs 2 lakh apart from snatching the Rs 40,000 he had withdrawn from the ATM and his gold ring before pushing him on to the road and fleeing, he said. He managed to get back to the place where his car was left and drove home, he told her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mans-kidnap-drama-exposed-after-wifes-police-complaint/articleshow/79104951.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Goa||Work on new Goa Board bldg stuck due to pandemic||Panaji: Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has stated, in its annual report, that work on its new building has been stuck since April this year due to the pandemic. The existing board building had developed leakages and other defects within a short span of its existence. The new structure has been designed to include many new features which are expected to provide better security and storage for the confidential Class X and XII exam work. “The frame structure of new building of the Board is complete up to first floor. Masonry work of lower ground floor is completed as informed by project manager. The building work is held up since April, 2020 due to pandemic situation,” Goa Board’s annual report for 2018-19 states. The new board building is being constructed at Porvorim within the existing compound wall of the Goa Board, in the large vacant space available opposite the present board building. The new structure is being constructed by the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) and the construction work began in February 2019. The Rs 27.3 crore-building will have a separate section for ‘confidential work’ related to the Class X and XII public exams. The present Goa Board building is less than 30 years old, but suffers leakage during the monsoon, which necessitated construction of the new structure. The building will also include a parking area for 48 two-wheelers and 78 four-wheelers. It will house 10 meeting rooms, an executive meeting room for 40 people and a conference room with a seating capacity of 100 people. The structure is coming up on an 8,000 sqm plot with a built-up area of over 10,000 sq m with three flours, with an additional one on stilts. “It consists of four custody rooms, three strong rooms, two store rooms, two labs for IT section and a library with a capacity of 50 people. It also has a recreation room, tiffin room for staff, canteen and dining area with an attached kitchen. The proposed building also has 2 security, operation and maintenance rooms,” the GSIDC document states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/work-on-new-goa-board-bldg-stuck-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/79106078.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Chennai||SHRC asks its probe wing to look into death||Chennai: State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has asked the director of its investigation wing to investigate the death of a remand prisoner in Virudhachalam sub-jail. The commission had earlier issued notices to the home secretary and director general of police, prisons, regarding the issue. Subsequently, the superintendent of Central Prison, Cuddalore, had sent a response to the commission elaborating the sequence of events. According to the superintendent’s report, M Selvamurugan, 39, a burglary suspect, was arrested by the Neyveli township police and was remanded in the Virudhachalam sub-jail on October 30 after being produced before the judicial magistrate. He developed an epileptic attack on November 2, was treated, but died on November 4, according to the prison report. His family members and the chief judicial magistrate were informed and an inquiry will be conducted by a magistrate and the report will be sent to the government, the SP said. Selvamurugan’s relatives have alleged that he died because of police torture. He is a native of Kadampuliyur near Panruti and has five pending cases against him. Following the SP’s communication, SHRC has asked its own investigation wing to conduct an enquiry and submit a report within eight weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shrc-asks-its-probe-wing-to-look-into-death/articleshow/79104975.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Ranchi||9 shubh muhurats bring relief for wedding organisers||BOKARO: The decrease in the number of Covid-19 infection has brought some relief to wedding organisers, banquet hall owners and caterers, as bookings have increased somewhat in the recent months. Also, with nine dates considered auspicious for marriages falling in November and December, those dependent on the wedding industry are expecting better business during the fag end of what has truly been a bleak year. The number of visitors at the wedding ceremonies, though, is expected to be less compared to the pre-lockdown months, owing to the government’s Covid-19 guidelines. Even priests, who faced a difficult time as temples remained closed to public for almost half the year, were expecting an increase in income as they were getting more calls to solemnize marriages. A priest, Dashrath Pandey of Navnath Temple in Sector-9 here, said: “I recently received a request to perform a marriage, this was the first such offer I got after the lockdown was lifted. The organisers have asked me to wear a mask, and they will provide a hand sanitiser to me at the venue.” Several prominent hotels and banquet halls like Hans Regency, Western Farm and Zaika Resorts, among others, have received bookings for marriage ceremonies in the coming weeks. Incidentally, most such places were sealed during the lockdown or were turned into quarantine centres for Covid-19 suspects. Amit Johar, the proprietor of Western Farm, said, “We have started receiving bookings for marriages. Going by the Hindu almanac, only nine days are left in this year when brides and grooms can tie the knot. Although we have got bookings for each of those nine days, the profit margin would be lower as there would be fewer invitees.” Dipak Gupta of Hans Regency said: “Organising marriages with fewer guests is also an experiment for us. The manpower involved in setting up the venue would be the same like before, but the turnover will be less than half. But we are happy that the things have start moving.” Vikram Shanan, a prominent wedding planner, said: “People are still scared of Covid-19 and do not want to take any unnecessary risks. For the time being, most weddings would be low-key and a simple affair.” There are many families who deferred marriages after the outbreak of the pandemic. Jitender Singh, a groom-to-be who had postponed his marriage, said he will get hitched in December. “My wedding will have limited number of guests from both the sides.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/9-shubh-muhurats-bring-relief-for-wedding-organisers/articleshow/79104359.cms||Divy Khare
November 8, 2020||Ranchi||2 Covid deaths in Jharkhand, 340 new cases||RANCHI: With two new Covid deaths – one each in Ranchi and Hazaribag – the coronavirus toll in Jharkhand touched 897 on Saturday. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state 0.86%. Meanwhile, with 340 new cases and 411 recoveries recorded through the day, the number of active cases of Covid infections dropped to 4,566, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As per government data, as many as 1,04,239 people have been infected by the new virus till date and 98,776 have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate up at 96.75%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.3% against the national average of 0.48%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 232.58 days against the national figure of 145.86 days. Of the 240 cases detected on Saturday, 86 were from Ranchi alone while Dhanbad and East Singhbhum got 44 patients each. Bokaro (31) was the only other district with more than 30 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-cov-deaths-in-state-340-new-cases/articleshow/79104616.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 8, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM announces financial aid for 44 children rescued from Delhi||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday said his government will provide Rs 2,000 per month to 44 children, including three boys and mostly under 18, rescued from traffickers in Delhi in the recent past. Assuring that the children will get the money till they attain 18 years of age, Soren also promised to help them in their studies, skill training or in their efforts to reunite and live with their parents. Talking to the children during a meeting, the chief minister said, "My government is taking the issue of trafficking seriously and many agencies have rescued several children, mostly girls, from the traffickers." He added, "We are trying to help you in your studies. But merely completing studies may not help you get jobs later in your life. Therefore, my government is providing you with skills which will be linked to employment. A large number of girls from our state has become para-medical staff and nurses in reputed hospitals. I urge you to encourage your friends working at different places to come back home." District Child Welfare Committee chairperson Rupa Verma said the 44 children were rescued after they either fled or raids were conducted in various parts of Delhi. Later, they were kept in shelter homes before bringing them back to Jharkhand. She added, “After getting tip-offs, a team was sent to rescue the children and bring them back home. Most of them fell into the trap of traffickers who took advantage of their poverty by making false promises. A few of the girls were also sexually exploited by those who made them work at their houses."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cm-announces-financial-aid-for-44-children-rescued-from-delhi/articleshow/79104399.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Jamshedpur||Dipping Covid graph pushes up TMH recovery rate||JAMSHEDPUR: With a decline in the number of fresh Covid cases in East Singhbhum and adjoining districts, the recovery rate at Tata Main Hospital (TMH), one of the biggest Covid centres in the Kolhan region, is gradually rising. In the last fortnight (October 23-November 5), TMH clocked 110 recoveries against 72 admissions. This week, the recovery rate has come up to 89.2% from the 88.82% in the previous week. Although upbeat, authorities of the hospital cautioned people and advised them to exercise restrain during Diwali and Chhat. “The more people adhere to the safety guidelines, sharper will be the rise of the recovery rate,” said TMH advisor, medical services, Ranjan Chaudhry. Appealing people to celebrate the festival by following the guidelines properly, a doctor at the hospital said, “We are going through a critical phase of the battle against Covid-19 and any lax may lead to a second wave.” Till Friday, 3,897 patients with Covid were admitted to TMH, of which, 3,476 were discharged after recovery. With 363 deaths so far, including three in the last week, the hospital has reported a mortality rate of 6.22% (figures include those who got tested at TMH and turned out to be positive, but were not admitted to the hospital). The hospital has conducted 76,040 tests so far, including 37,334 RT-PCRs. A total of 5,838 patients were found positive among all the tests conducted at TMH. Of the total deaths at the hospital, maximum patients (292) hailed from home district East Singhbhum, followed by Seraikela-Kharsawan (50) West Singhbhum (9), Dhanbad (6), Ramgarh (2), and other districts (4). The hospital, the first healthcare centre in the state to be allowed by the Indian Council of Medical Research to conduct RT-PCR tests, reported a considerable dip in the positivity rate of RT-PCR tests from 30% nine weeks ago to 2.54% in the current week. The positivity rate last week stood at 4.05%. Similarly, the positivity rate of Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) dropped from 9% eight weeks ago to 1.73% this week. The positivity of RATs stood at 2.06% in the previous week. In terms of admissions, TMH saw 3,210 patients from East Singhbhum, followed by 292 from Seraikela-Kharswan , 40 from West Singhbhum, 33 from Dhanbad, 30 from Ramgarh and 105 from other districts. The first Covid patient was admitted on May 12 at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/dipping-covid-graph-pushes-up-tmh-recovery-rate/articleshow/79104383.cms||B Sridhar
November 8, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Gyms cope with new normal, people ready to sweat it out||RANCHI: After staying shut from months, gyms across the state were allowed to reopen from November 1 under the Unlock 5.0. Drowned in financial crisis, gym owners speak to TOI about the challenges ahead, change in diet plans for enthusiasts and how social distancing is working out while sweating it out. Devendra Singh, an executive at Gold’s Gym, said, “We have introduced a shift system keeping our customers’ convenience in mind. We have a capacity of accommodating more than 60 persons at a time but with the pandemic here, we are allowing only 30 in each shift.” Explaining the shifts, Singh said, “Earlier we used to be open from 5.30 am to 10 pm and customers were allowed to visit anytime as per their convenience. But now, we have made one-hour shifts which start at 6am and end at 12pm, with 15-minute breaks between them for sanitization of equipment and the area. We are also closing the gym for two hours in the afternoon to carry out complete cleaning and fogging between 12 noon and 2pm.” Many gymnasiums have started suggesting immunity booster diets to their customers. Vivek Kumar, one of the proprietors of Fitness Plus in Kokar, said, “We started suggesting immunity boosting diet plans to our customers keeping in mind the virus. The new diet plans contain increased intake of vitamin C and supplements with Branch Chain Amino Acids (BCAA).” On being asked about footfall and charges after reopening, Kumar said, “The footfall has decreased between 25% and 30%, but the charges remain same as people who had active memberships during the lockdown are continuing with the same plan. We cannot afford to decrease the rates as we have suffered enough losses.” Meanwhile, fitness enthusiasts said that they are ready to return to their exercise schedules and the gym owners are doing enough to ensure proper sanitization. “We aren’t allowed to enter gyms wearing our normal footwear and only clean footwear are allowed. Availability of hot water and a push to carry our personal water and juice bottles are good steps to prevent the spread of the virus. I will request all gym lovers to get back to their favourite places as it will help in boosting their immunity which is a very important during the tough times,” said Himanshu Raj, a gym enthusiast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gyms-cope-with-new-normal-people-ready-to-sweat-it-out/articleshow/79104369.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||Despite HIV, major road mishap, he survives to tell an inspiring tale||Nagpur: With a positive approach and moral support from his family, a 38-year-old man battling HIV, low immunity, low platelet count, multiple comorbidities, a complex fracture and severe injuries due to an accident, survived at Wockhardt Hospital to tell an inspirational tale. Doctors told TOI that a rare and complex orthopaedic surgery had to be performed. “The patient met with a life-threatening road accident a few days ago near Warora (Chandrapur) where he was rushed to a nearby hospital. He was denied admission because the case was complicated. Due to the pandemic, such cases are being rejected by several hospitals,” said K Sujatha, centre head of Wockhardt Hospitals. The patient was admitted but it was just the beginning of several complications. “The patient’s CT scan showed a complicated fracture in the hip bone and also a large wound on his thigh and knees. To save his life, surgery was inevitable. At the time of admission, the platelet count of the patient was less than 4000. Normally, the platelet count ranges from 1.5 to 3.5 lakh,” said Dr Manoj Pahukar, senior consultant. For any such surgery, it is advisable to have a platelet count of at least 50,000 as the chances of bleeding are higher. “After conducting various tests, we found that the patient was also HIV positive which complicated the case manifold,” said Dr Pahukar. The patient, as per doctor’s advice, was put on antibiotics and single donor plasma with continuous monitoring. As a result, his platelet levels increased significantly and reached 1.2 lakh on the fifth day. After the platelets increased, doctors performed the surgery successfully. “With his positive approach and family’s moral support, the patient recovered soon. Such complex surgeries, if done in optimum time, not only save the life of patient but also improve their quality of life,” said Dr Pahurkar. The patient said he was satisfied with the treatment and the care that he got. Post-surgery, he showed remarkable improvement and started physiotherapy as well. “We also extended a helping hand by reducing the treatment cost substantially as the patient was not financially well off to afford the treatment,” said Sujatha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-hiv-major-road-mishap-he-survives-to-tell-an-inspiring-tale/articleshow/79104185.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||India’s U-19 age group has one of lowest BMIs: Global study||NAGPUR: Boys and girls aged 5-19 years in India have one of the lowest body mass index (BMI) in the world, according to a study published in the renowned medical journal The Lancet. The global analysis tracked child and adolescent physical growth trends in 200 countries since 1985. In the global BMI analysis chart, Indian girls were ranked the third lowest whereas boys were at the fifth lowest spot. Coincidentally, India’s mean BMI for both boys and girls was the same at 20.1. Much lower than the world’s highest of 29.6 (Cook Islands) and marginally better than the lowest 19.2 (Ethiopia). And when it came to a 19-year-old’s height, even neighbouring China is faring well. As per the study, an average Indian adolescent stood at 5.5 feet as compared to his Chinese counterpart at 5.9 feet. Indian girls of the same age group had an average height of 5.1 feet, whereas their Chinese neighbours stood at 5.4 feet. For BMI, Vietnam was the only other country from the neighbouring region to feature in the lowest five rankings. It’s only when the list is expanded to ‘lowest 10’, that others from the region like Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, Cambodia and Sri Lanka come into the picture. For those who turned 19 last year, the lowest average BMI was seen in south Asia countries like India, Bangladesh and some others in Africa. The highest average BMI was seen among those living in Pacific Islands, Middle East, USA and New Zealand. When it came to analysing height, the study found that Netherlands had the tallest children with a mean height of 183.8 cms. The shortest were from Timor Lieste at 160.1 cms. India’s mean height for the same age group was 166.5 cms. The gap in height is best explained with a comparison cited in the study. A 19-year-old Indian girl has the same mean height as that of a 12 year-old Dutch girl. Though the height gap between Europe and Asia is wide, the study reveals that developing countries are slowly catching up. “Northwestern European children and adolescents were on average the tallest in the world in 2019, much of this advantage was achieved before the late 20th century”, the study says. The largest gainers in height over the last 35 years were those from some emerging economies, including China (largest gain for boys) and South Korea. Study’s lead author Dr Andrea Rodriguez Martinez said, “These highly variable height and BMI trajectories over age and time across countries are a stark indicator of how important diet quality, and the conditions of home and school, are for older children and adolescents.” According to Dr Rajiv Mohta, MD paediatrics and adolescent counselor from the city, lower BMI means the body has not been able to reach its full growth potential. “This potential depends on genetic structure and then fuelled by diet plus exercise. But since so many factors are involved, one must not conclude that India has a weak population. Poverty, access or habit of consuming a healthy diet also play a vital role,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/indias-u-19-age-group-has-one-of-lowest-bmis-global-study/articleshow/79104222.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh gets Rs 67 crore to fight air pollution in Vizag, Vijayawada||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Union government has released Rs 67.5 crore to Andhra Pradesh as part of the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), including Rs 31 crore to Visakhapatnam and Rs 36.5 crore to Vijayawada. The NCAP is aimed at reducing the air pollution levels in the identified cities by decreasing the PM 10 and PM 2.5 concentrations by about 20-30% by 2024, taking 2017 as the base year. These funds will be spent on improving pollution monitoring infrastructure, identifying air quality violations, developing preventive and corrective measures, and understanding the environmental cleansing procedures. Under the NCAP, 122 cities, across 23 states and union territories, have been identified as non-attainment cities, including 13 cities/towns of Andhra Pradesh. A non-attainment city is the one which does not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board. Speaking to TOI, Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board chairman BSS Prasad said that funds were already released for two cities having more than one million population, including Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada, while the initial funds were sanctioned for the remaining cities. “The city-specific action plans have already been prepared, covering measures for strengthening the monitoring network, reducing vehicular/industrial emissions, increasing public awareness, etc.” said BSS Prasad. Explaining the measures to be taken in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada under the NCAP, the APPCB chairman said that these cities will get continuous ambient air quality monitoring systems, dust suppression and extraction system, water sprinkler systems in the dusty areas of the cities, mobile pollution monitoring system with dedicated staff, etc. “For instance, in Vijayawada, The main problem is not with sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides or any other industrial pollutants. It is mainly dust, vehicular emission and construction activity. Even though the levels are within the permissible levels on the majority of the days, the annual average exceeds the limits,” said BSS Prasad. Prasad also explained how the bowl shape of Vizag city with mountains on the three sides and sea on the other side is preventing the coal dusts to get released in the open area. “The major objectives of our city-specific action plans include stringent implementation of mitigation measures for prevention, control and abatement of air pollution. The air quality monitoring network would be augmented for this purpose under NCAP,” said Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-gets-rs-67-crore-to-fight-air-pollution-in-vizag-vij/articleshow/79104228.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No confirmed reinfection in AP; doctors call for further research||VISAKHAPATNAM: Only four to five proven cases of Covid-19 reinfection have been reported across the world and most other so-called recurrence reports do not conform with the standard definition of reinfection, say doctors, who believe that such reports are speculative and cases require further research. However, doctors maintain that chances of getting re-infected cannot be ruled out if a cured patient is exposed to the novel coronavirus after a few months of recovery or if no effective antibody or Covid-19 fighting cells develop in patients after the first infection. Healthcare professionals and those in the high-risk category are more prone to such reinfection. Explaining what constitutes reinfection, Andhra Medical College (AMC) principal Dr PV Sudhakar said, “Medically, it (a case) can be termed reinfection only if the Covid-19 attack happens a second time at least 90 to 120 days post recovery from the first instance of Covid-19 contraction. Moreover, the RT-PCR genome sequencing for the subsequent infection should be different from the first.” “Going by this standard definition, there is no actual and proven case of reinfection in AP but only speculative ones where laboratory investigations into genome sequencing have not been performed,” Dr Sudhakar added. Assistant professor and epidemiologist at King George Hospital (KGH), Dr P Manoj said that at KGH, doctors have come across two patients who complained of the same Covid-19 symptoms only a few weeks after apparent recovery and had to be treated again. “However, we cannot declare this reinfection because the patients had comorbidities and metabolic disorders. One had had an antigen test while the other an RT-PCR where they initially tested positive. It is possible that the patients had traces of the previous infection,” added the epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-confirmed-reinfection-in-ap-doctors-call-for-further-research/articleshow/79104240.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 8, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Health wing officials make lists for Covid vaccination||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district health wing officials are collecting data of frontline health workers for the potential first phase of Covid-19 vaccination in accordance with directions of the state and Union governments. District medical and health officers across the state are engaged in collecting data. With Covid-19 vaccines in the third phase of clinical trials, the government is now focused on creating an effective supply chain. Vaccination for Covid-19 is expected to be taken up on a phased manner on the basis of priority. Healthcare workers and high-risk groups are expected to be given top priority. Health department commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said, “We have been asked to prepare a list of healthcare workers who wish to get vaccinated in the first phase. “There has been no official confirmation from the Union government on vaccinating only health workers in the first phase. But we are preparing lists as they are in the high-risk zone treating complicated Covid-19 cases.” The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has informed all doctors and frontline health workers to submit their data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/health-wing-officials-make-lists-for-covid-vaccination/articleshow/79104254.cms||Venu Lanka
November 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||2,367 fresh Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,367 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking its tally to 8,40,730. The toll increased to 6,779 as 11 more people died succumbed to the virus. As many as 2,747 patients were declared cured. There are currently 21,434 active cases, with 8,12,517 cumulative recoveries. East Godavari reported 386 new infections, followed by West Godavari (361), Krishna (358), Chittoor (255) and Guntur (226). Four districts recorded less than 100 cases. Of the 11 deaths, three are from Krishna, two each from Anantapur and Chittoor, and one each from East Godavari, Kadapa, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari districts. East Godavari currently has 4,450 active cases, the highest among all districts, while Krishna and Guntur have 3,430 and 2,800 active cases, respectively. Krishna district is believed to be experiencing the second wave, whereas the numbers continue to be on the higher side in Guntur. Even though there has been a significant improvement in the daily case numbers in East Godavari, the district still leads in new infections. Active cases have been limited to some 300 in Vizianagaram and Kurnool districts. The state has so far tested 85.87 lakh samples, including the 80,082 people tested on Saturday. The overall case positivity rate remains under 10 per cent, while the mortality rate is at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/2367-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-ap/articleshow/79104262.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: 26-year-old woman constable found dead||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 26-year-old woman constable was found dead under suspicious circumstances at police quarters in Nakapalli early morning Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Chandaka Bhavani. Bhavani was working at Nakapalli police station in Visakhapatnam district. According to police sources, the deceased constable’s husband, Ch Simhadri, informed the police that his wife had committed suicide at midnight while he was sleeping. Simhadri reportedly woke up at midnight and saw his wife hanging from the ceiling fan. He said that he immediately cut the rope and brought her down, but the woman had ceased breathing by then. Nakapalli police sub-inspector Ramakrishna, who is investigating the case, told the media that a case of suspicious death was registered because the body was brought down before the cops reached the area. The investigation is focussing on angles around family disputes and harassment among others, the sub-inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/26-year-old-woman-constable-found-dead/articleshow/79104277.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Divya murder: Accused in judicial custody for 2 weeks||VIJAYAWADA: Disha cops produced accused Nagendra Babu, alias Chinna Swamy (25), before the first additional magistrate court in the city on Saturday, which remanded him in judicial custody for two weeks. Nagendra is accused of stabbing 21-year-old engineering student Divya Tejaswini on October 15. He had barged into her house at Christurajupuram under Machavaram police station limits when Divya’s parents were away, stabbed her multiple times and slit her throat before trying to kill himself. He was taken to Guntur government general hospital for treatment. He was arrested after his recovery 21 days later. Magistrate S Kamalakar Reddy ordered that Nagendra be transferred to Rajahmundry central jail in a two-week judicial remand after conducting Covid-19 test at Machilipatnam special court. Police said they took the accused to ESI hospital earlier in the day and conducted necessary tests. Cops further said that they would seek police custody and a petition in this regard would be filed soon. They are also collecting evidences to check the accused’s claim that he had married Tejaswini. While cops and family members of Divya say it was murder, Nagendra has claimed that it was a suicide pact. His claims, however, were debunked by the post-mortem report which noted that the 13 cut injuries didn’t seem ‘self-inflicted’. Police have collected statements from 50 persons pertaining to the incident. A charge-sheet will be filed soon to ensure a speedy trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/divya-murder-accused-in-judicial-custody-for-2-weeks/articleshow/79104287.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||North-easterlies prevail over state||Visakhapatnam: Low north-easterlies have been prevailing over Andhra Pradesh over the last few days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. IMD director for Andhra Pradesh, S Stella, said, “Since north-easterlies carry moisture collected from the sea, when they enter the state, they can trigger light to moderate rainfall. Some parts of Nellore and Prakasam received moderate rains under the influence of these winds.” Vakadu in Nellore district received 55mm rain, the highest in the state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/north-easterlies-prevail-over-state/articleshow/79104307.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Srikakulam only district with rainfall deficit||VISAKHAPATNAM: Srikakulam was the only district in Andhra Pradesh that saw a rain deficit, nearly 23 per cent less than average, this year. Low pressures, depressions, upper air cyclonic circulations led to showers in Rayalaseema and south-coastal AP. But Srikakulam remained largely untouched. According to Andhra Pradesh State Development Planning Society (APSDPS), Srikakulam received 730.6mm rainfall since June 1 till date against the average 960mm. Andhra Pradesh received 903.1mm rainfall against the average 769.5mm, 17.5 per cent excess, the weatherman added. “Interestingly, neighbouring districts like Visakhapatnam received more than average rain with a little rise of around 7 per cent against normal,” said an IMD weatherman. An agriculture officer from Srikakulam district said that the deficient rainfall in fact favoured paddy farmers in the district. “Otherwise, they too would incur huge losses like in other districts which suffered heavy losses due to the rains. Crops like paddy suffer in both extremely deficient and extremely heavy rains,” the official told TOI. Last year, almost all Rayalaseema regions received nearly average rainfall. Districts of north-coastal AP, like Srikakulam, received excess rain. Overall, Kurnool district received the highest rainfall. The district received 52.3 per cent excess rainfall against the average 579mm rain. Kurnool was followed by Anantapur and Kadapa districts with 48 per cent excess rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/skulam-only-district-with-rainfall-deficit/articleshow/79104299.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Waltair touches record freight load||VISAKHAPATNAM: Despite the Covid-19 outbreak, Waltair division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) has recorded freight loading of 4.56 million tonnes in October compared to 4.59 million tonnes in September. From April to October, the division loaded 29.12 million tonnes of freight and generated a revenue of Rs 3,402.69 crore. It operated an average of 36.6 rakes per day, said Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, divisional railway manager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/waltair-touches-record-freight-load/articleshow/79104315.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||NTPC marks 46th Raising Day||Visakhapatnam: NTPC-Simhadri observed its 46th Raising Day on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, executive director V Sudarshan Babu highlighted the four-decade-long history of the organisation. He spoke fondly about the thermal power corporation’s journey till 62,910MW. NTPC seeks to go from its current production capacity of 62GW to 130GW by 2032. A gradual shift towards renewables is part of NTPC’s commitment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ntpc-marks-46th-raising-day/articleshow/79104326.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Gitam conducts 11th convocation||VISAKHAPATNAM: Gitam Deemed to be University conducted its 11th convocation ceremony online on Saturday. Biocon Limited founder-chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw was the chief guest. Speaking on the occasion, she said that The Covid-19 pandemic has brought with it huge healthcare challenges, but has also opened up opportunities. She added that while biotech start-ups were struggling to find venture capitalists early on, suddenly they have attracted a large number of investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gitam-conducts-11th-convocation/articleshow/79104338.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Tax collection drive exceeds target||Tirupati: AP commercial taxes department collected over Rs 350 crore in October against a set target of Rs 332 crore. “The department has started a special drive to make up for revenue losses due to Covid-19. A target of Rs 960 crore has been set. While Rs 332.5 crore was the target for October, the department collected Rs 350.8 crore. The targets for November and December are Rs 292.2 crore and Rs 332.5 crore respectively,” said K Narayana Swamy, deputy chief minister in charge of commercial taxes. The special drive, which was launched in October, will end in December. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tax-collection-drive-exceeds-target/articleshow/79104350.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Air quality 'severe' for third straight day; no relief likely in next 48 hours||NEW DELHI: The air quality in the national capital remained in the 'severe' category for the third consecutive day on Saturday, Central Pollution Control Board data revealed. Delhi's air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 427, which was worse than Friday's 406 (severe). Track the pollution level in your cityA drop in wind speed has once again negatively impacted air quality in the region, while the share of farm fires continues to remain high. Despite recording 4,528 fires on Friday - the highest so far this season, SAFAR, however estimated the share of stubble burning to be around 32 per cent on Saturday. Experts say a combination of low wind speed, low temperatures and stubble contribution is trapping pollutants over Delhi-NCR. Similar conditions are expected to continue for the next 48 hours. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said calm wind conditions were recorded at Safdarjung, hovering around 5-6 km/hr, and north-westerly winds were also bringing adequate pollutant share from Punjab and Haryana. "We have recorded calm wind conditions and wind speed has again dropped, however, it was high at Palam, touching even 16 km/hr. Overall, it remained around 5 km/hr and we are recording stagnant conditions again. With low temperatures continuing, we expect these conditions to persist for at least the next 48 hours and there will be no significant improvement," added Srivastava. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, a body under the ministry of earth sciences, too forecasts similar conditions to prevail in the region for the next two days. "Despite moderate daytime dispersion condition, air quality has declined owing to sustained unusually high fire emissions. Surface winds are likely to decrease on November 8 and 9 and no quick recovery is expected unless a drastic reduction in fire counts takes place," SAFAR predicted on Saturday. "Air quality is forecast to stay in the 'severe' to the higher end of 'very poor' category for the next two days," it added. Delhi recorded a minimum of 11.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday - two notches below normal for this time of the season. Lodhi Road was the coldest location across Delhi, recording a low of 10.8 degrees Celsius. Data according to CPCB's central control room showed Delhi-NCR's average 24-hour PM 10 concentration was recorded at 489 micrograms per cubic metre at 6 pm on Saturday. At the same time, the average PM 2.5 concentration was recorded at 301 micrograms per cubic metre. The standard for both PM 2.5 and PM 10 is 60 and 100 micrograms per cubic metre, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-air-quality-severe-for-third-straight-day-no-relief-likely-in-next-48-hours/articleshow/79107163.cms||---
November 8, 2020||India||Punjab Congress MPs meet Shah, urge him to start goods train services to state||NEW DELHI: Congress MPs from Punjab met home minister Amit Shah to lobby for restoration of goods trains to the state while urging him to initiate talks with protesting farmers on the controversial farm laws. Among the issues raised by the group of eight Lok Sabha MPs were running goods trains to Punjab, payment of GST compensation to the state and the farm laws. According to a senior Congress MP, Shah agreed to the need for talks and indicated that he may discuss the issue with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. There is a possibility of creation of a panel of Union ministers to hold talks on the contentious issue. The MPs impressed upon Shah that the farmers had to be spoken to and that not listening to the protesting groups may create further complications. They argued that a panel of senior ministers could be formed for discussions. What seems to have created complications is that farmers are willing to clear the passage for goods trains while saying that passenger trains may be allowed later. But the Centre is not ready for such a piecemeal resolution. The MPs said that “a way out has to be found”. The Punjab government, meanwhile, is under pressure to ensure urea supplies to farmers, which have been affected by the blockade. With non-payment of GST compensation and shortage of fertiliser and coal, a member argued that it was giving the impression of economic isolation of Punjab. Among the MPs who met the home minister were Parneet Kaur, Amar Singh, Ravneet Bittu, Manish Tiwari and Gurjeet Aujla. The MPs had also met railway minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-congress-mps-meet-shah-urge-him-to-start-goods-train-services-to-state/articleshow/79107150.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Only green crackers on sale till November 16||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Saturday issued a Standard Operating Procedure for sale and bursting of only green firecrackers in the state. After the flip-flop on Friday by chief minister BS Yediyurappa on this issue, chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar issued an order allowing the sale of only green firecrackers, and that from November 7 to November 16. All stalls should be set up in open grounds or in places where there is two-way ventilation along with ample space. They should be set up 6ft apart and should be sanitised every day. Violation to result in fine or jail term Stall owners will have to use thermal screening and keep hand sanitisers for customers. Only those who have secured permission from relevant local authorities for sale of green firecrackers will be allowed to set up stalls and the person who procures it must mandatorily be present at the stall. Violation to result in fine or jail termThe person who has secured nod from local authorities for sale of green firecrackers must be present at the stall. The government has urged people to have a simple Deepavali amid Covid-19. Violation of the order would mean a fine and/ or jail term between one and two years under National Disaster Management Act, 2005. What is a green crackerAccording to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, green crackers are those which emit 30% less emission, apart from having less harmful chemicals and are less dangerous. Green crackers are sold under three categories — SAFAL, STAR and SWAS — certification as per CSIR. The category of certification indicates dust suppressants or release of less gaseous material, reduced decibel level and release of additives like water/air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-only-green-crackers-on-sale-till-november-16/articleshow/79107185.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Most labs store positive samples for maximum 30 days||BENGALURU: Private labs are preserving positive Covid-19 swab samples for a maximum 30 days as they don’t have adequate storage facilities. Ideally, the samples should be safely stored for a longer period as they are needed for the research on coronavirus reinfection. The research involves genetic analysis of SARS-CoV-2, the formal name of the virus, from different swabs. For this purpose, the specimens are stored in deep freezers at minus 80 degrees Celsius. There have been multiple reports of suspected reinfection and scientists are investigating the possible causes, patterns and timelines of such cases. Recently, health minister K Sudhakar cited a technical advisory committee’s observation that 5 per cent of recovered patients could face reinfection. He said that the issue should be studied further. Government-run labs at the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), National Institute of Virology, Bengaluru branch, and some other centres have been preserving all positive samples. “We have tested more than 1.5 lakh samples. Of these, nearly 9,500 were positive. We have stored them. So far, we have not detected any case of suspected reinfection that required analysis of the first sample,” said Dr Ambika R, an associate professor in the department of microbiology, BMCRI. At Nimhans, one of the leading Covid-19 testing centres, 6,000 to 7,000 samples can be stored for three months. “We have two freezers of 350 litres each. We can keep up to 3,000 samples in each freezer. We store positive samples for three months before discarding them scientifically,” said Dr V Ravi, who heads the department of neurovirology at Nimhans. He is also a member of Karnataka’s Covid-19 task force. Earlier, Nimhans preserved all samples, but storage became an issue as cases increased. “The same was communicated to ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research]. Now, we store samples for three months,” Dr Ravi added. In June, the ICMR issued guidelines on how positive swab samples should be stored. “All samples testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 must be retained for at least 30 days from the date of testing before being destroyed,” it stated. The guidelines also say that if a lab lacks the storage capacity to keep all samples for more than 30 days, it should retain at least 10 per cent of specimens with varying viral load detected in a month for at least a year. Many private labs store positive samples for a month. Dr Sneha S Hegadi, a consultant microbiologist at Neuberg Anand Reference Laboratory, said that the facility followed the ICMR guidelines, preserving samples for 30 days. “That’s apart from storing a section of samples showing low, high and moderate viral load,’” she added. According to Dr Ravi, in case of reinfection, the comparative genetic analysis of the patient’s two sets of samples can happen smoothly only if they are collected at the same lab. “If the tests are done in different labs, it will be difficult to trace the first swab,” he said. Dr CN Manjunath, the nodal officer for testing in the state’s Covid-19 task force, said absolute clinical recovery between two episodes of illness should be considered while determining a case of reinfection. “Given the situation, not all positive swab samples are stored forever. Hence, we have to take into account the clinical recovery experienced by the person who had two infections and a negative certificate, if any, after the first episode,” he said. Every Covid-19 patient who recovers at a hospital is not tested before discharge. Therefore, studying genomic sequencing to distinguish between two episodes of infection won’t be possible in all cases, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-most-labs-store-positive-covid-19-samples-for-30-days/articleshow/79106910.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 13% of rise in Covid cases due to bad air, says IMA||NEW DELHI: Delhi has reported more than 6,000 Covid-19 cases daily in the past few days and 13% of this increase has been estimated to be due to air pollution, the Indian Medical Association said on Saturday. Stating that N-95 masks and air purifiers may not provide full time protection, the doctors' body stressed on the implementation of long-term measures to bring down pollution levels. Track the pollution level in your cityAir pollution damages the inner lining of the lungs and hence increases the severity of Covid-19 infection. "Increased air pollution leads to increased inflammatory response. In the last few days, Delhi has reported more than 6000 Covid-19 cases per day. 13% per cent of the increase has been estimated to be due to pollution," the IMA said. In the last 10 days, the national capital and its neighbouring areas have seen a sharp spike in air pollution levels. The Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi on Saturday remained above 350 while safe limit is 0-50. The WHO's ambient air pollution data shows that the levels of PM10 and PM2.5 in Delhi are way above the normal levels, the IMA stated. Poor air quality may result in the aggravation of asthma, COPD, high BP and even cardiovascular diseases. Merely walking could result in health complications due to the high concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 in Delhi's air. "N-95 masks and air purifiers may not provide full time protection. An AQI of above 300 makes is difficult not only for people with respiratory problems, but healthy people as well. Hence, it is advisable that people do not go out early in the morning when pollution levels are the highest. Elderly and children are more likely to develop infections and allergies due to smog," the doctors' body said.  "Implementation of long term measures is important," the IMA added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-13-of-rise-in-covid-cases-due-to-bad-air-says-ima/articleshow/79107191.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Suspected Covid-19 reinfection among healthcare staff||BENGALURU: Two doctors and three other staffers of the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) tested positive for coronavirus four to six weeks after recovering from the disease in a possible case of reinfection. Their samples, from the two times they tested positive in a period between July and September, have been sent for genomic studies to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. The analysis will help determine if the five healthcare workers, who are now completely healthy, suffered reinfection and whether the coronavirus strains in the two episodes were the same or different. The five staffers, who work in Covid-19 wards, were asymptomatic when they were first diagnosed with the disease in July. They stayed in home isolation as they didn’t require extensive treatment. Subsequent tests, conducted after about a week, were negative and they returned to work. Healthcare workers require a negative report to rejoin active duty. In the August-September period, the five developed severe symptoms, prompting them to take fresh tests. The results were positive and the five were hospitalised for up to a week. RGICD suspects they were reinfected. Of the five, two are women. The youngest member in the group is 28 years old and works in the hospital’s pharmacovigilance section. The oldest member is a 50-year-old male nurse. “Both sets of samples were preserved at NIV’s Bengaluru branch,” said RGICD director Dr C Nagaraja. The branch dispatched the samples to Pune on October 31. “We suspect it’s a case of reinfection and it needs to be ascertained through genomic sequencing research,” Dr Nagaraja added. One of the doctors in the group, which has fully recovered, told STOI that the understanding of Covid-19 was not definitive as research on the virus was still in a nascent stage. “I first tested positive in the fourth week of July. It was a routine Covid-19 test, which healthcare workers must take after every 14 days of work. I had a very mild fever for a day. I self-isolated at home,” the doctor said. “A week later, another test was done and this time, it was negative. I returned to work thinking I was done with Covid-19.” An antibody test in the third week of August showed that the doctor had no antibodies in the system. A week later, he developed acute body pain and fever. “The second time, the infection was moderate and I needed hospitalisation,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-suspected-covid-reinfection-among-five-healthcare-workers/articleshow/79106915.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 8, 2020||Mumbai||Schools can reopen from November 23, shrines could too after Diwali: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday allowed schools in the state to reopen for classes IX to XII after Diwali. Shrines, too, may be opened after the festival, he said. The school education department, whose proposal to resume schools TOI reported in its Saturday edition, has set November 23 as the date to resume physical classes. The CM chaired a meeting of the department to review the standard operating procedures that schools must follow. Min: Physical classes only for subjects like maths & scienceCM Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday allowed schools in the state to reopen for Classes IX to XII after Diwali. At Saturday’s meeting, state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said a mass drive of RT-PCR testing of teachers will be conducted by local administrations between 17 and 22 November. Only those teachers whose reports are negative will be allowed to conduct classes. She further said in order to follow Covid protocols, thermal screening of all students will be done before they are allowed inside classrooms and seating arrangements will be changed to allow only one child per bench. “Classes will be held on an alternate-day basis. And physical classes will not be on for more than four hours. Only select subjects such as maths and science where teachers’ intervention is required will be taken up for physical classes, the remaining subjects will continue online,” Gaikwad said. Senior officials said starting physical schools is not compulsory for schools and even for students. Online classes for all subjects will continue. A consent form from parents will be mandatory for allowing students to attend classes. Most schools may still decide to wait and watch. Principals whom TOI spoke to said that they would consult parents about their views before taking a call on reopening. Gaikwad said the department will hold discussions with local administrations, and schools will be started in a phase-wise manner. As part of the new normal, there will be no tiffin breaks for students; they will have to eat from home and go to school. Water bottles will have to be carried individually and common water-filling spots will be discontinued. While the Centre allowed partial reopening of schools for higher standards from September 21, the Maharashtra government had decided in a Cabinet meeting in October that the state would think about this post-Diwali. Thackeray said the next few days after Diwali will be crucial as cases are expected to increase. Also, there are several schools, especially government ones, that were converted into quarantine centres. These centres cannot be closed yet. “A decision by the local administration should be taken. An alternate site can be made available for classes to be held for such schools,” Thackeray said. The CM further said even for schools and parents of students, it is important that all guidelines are followed thoroughly. “Sanitization of classrooms, screening of staff and students are important, and parents have to be made aware that if there is anyone unwell in a family, students should not be sent to school.” State officials said the state will review cases post-Diwali as experts have warned of a possible surge, and there are pa rts in the state where the temperature falls sharply and where ca ses cou ld rise. According to the draft SoP, sports, morning prayers and gatherings will not be allowed as these can lead to crowds, and wearing of masks while in school will be mandatory. The education department had first issued a SoP in June and another one more recently in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/schools-can-reopen-from-november-23-shrines-could-too-after-diwali-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/79107193.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 8, 2020||Thane||Schools can reopen from November 23, shrines could too after Diwali: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday allowed schools in the state to reopen for classes IX to XII after Diwali. Shrines, too, may be opened after the festival, he said. The school education department, whose proposal to resume schools TOI reported in its Saturday edition, has set November 23 as the date to resume physical classes. The CM chaired a meeting of the department to review the standard operating procedures that schools must follow. Min: Physical classes only for subjects like maths & scienceCM Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday allowed schools in the state to reopen for Classes IX to XII after Diwali. At Saturday’s meeting, state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said a mass drive of RT-PCR testing of teachers will be conducted by local administrations between 17 and 22 November. Only those teachers whose reports are negative will be allowed to conduct classes. She further said in order to follow Covid protocols, thermal screening of all students will be done before they are allowed inside classrooms and seating arrangements will be changed to allow only one child per bench. “Classes will be held on an alternate-day basis. And physical classes will not be on for more than four hours. Only select subjects such as maths and science where teachers’ intervention is required will be taken up for physical classes, the remaining subjects will continue online,” Gaikwad said. Senior officials said starting physical schools is not compulsory for schools and even for students. Online classes for all subjects will continue. A consent form from parents will be mandatory for allowing students to attend classes. Most schools may still decide to wait and watch. Principals whom TOI spoke to said that they would consult parents about their views before taking a call on reopening. Gaikwad said the department will hold discussions with local administrations, and schools will be started in a phase-wise manner. As part of the new normal, there will be no tiffin breaks for students; they will have to eat from home and go to school. Water bottles will have to be carried individually and common water-filling spots will be discontinued. While the Centre allowed partial reopening of schools for higher standards from September 21, the Maharashtra government had decided in a Cabinet meeting in October that the state would think about this post-Diwali. Thackeray said the next few days after Diwali will be crucial as cases are expected to increase. Also, there are several schools, especially government ones, that were converted into quarantine centres. These centres cannot be closed yet. “A decision by the local administration should be taken. An alternate site can be made available for classes to be held for such schools,” Thackeray said. The CM further said even for schools and parents of students, it is important that all guidelines are followed thoroughly. “Sanitization of classrooms, screening of staff and students are important, and parents have to be made aware that if there is anyone unwell in a family, students should not be sent to school.” State officials said the state will review cases post-Diwali as experts have warned of a possible surge, and there are pa rts in the state where the temperature falls sharply and where ca ses cou ld rise. According to the draft SoP, sports, morning prayers and gatherings will not be allowed as these can lead to crowds, and wearing of masks while in school will be mandatory. The education department had first issued a SoP in June and another one more recently in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/schools-can-reopen-from-november-23-shrines-could-too-after-diwali-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/79107205.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 8, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Schools can reopen from November 23, shrines could too after Diwali: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday allowed schools in the state to reopen for classes IX to XII after Diwali. Shrines, too, may be opened after the festival, he said. The school education department, whose proposal to resume schools TOI reported in its Saturday edition, has set November 23 as the date to resume physical classes. The CM chaired a meeting of the department to review the standard operating procedures that schools must follow. Min: Physical classes only for subjects like maths & scienceCM Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday allowed schools in the state to reopen for Classes IX to XII after Diwali. At Saturday’s meeting, state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said a mass drive of RT-PCR testing of teachers will be conducted by local administrations between 17 and 22 November. Only those teachers whose reports are negative will be allowed to conduct classes. She further said in order to follow Covid protocols, thermal screening of all students will be done before they are allowed inside classrooms and seating arrangements will be changed to allow only one child per bench. “Classes will be held on an alternate-day basis. And physical classes will not be on for more than four hours. Only select subjects such as maths and science where teachers’ intervention is required will be taken up for physical classes, the remaining subjects will continue online,” Gaikwad said. Senior officials said starting physical schools is not compulsory for schools and even for students. Online classes for all subjects will continue. A consent form from parents will be mandatory for allowing students to attend classes. Most schools may still decide to wait and watch. Principals whom TOI spoke to said that they would consult parents about their views before taking a call on reopening. Gaikwad said the department will hold discussions with local administrations, and schools will be started in a phase-wise manner. As part of the new normal, there will be no tiffin breaks for students; they will have to eat from home and go to school. Water bottles will have to be carried individually and common water-filling spots will be discontinued. While the Centre allowed partial reopening of schools for higher standards from September 21, the Maharashtra government had decided in a Cabinet meeting in October that the state would think about this post-Diwali. Thackeray said the next few days after Diwali will be crucial as cases are expected to increase. Also, there are several schools, especially government ones, that were converted into quarantine centres. These centres cannot be closed yet. “A decision by the local administration should be taken. An alternate site can be made available for classes to be held for such schools,” Thackeray said. The CM further said even for schools and parents of students, it is important that all guidelines are followed thoroughly. “Sanitization of classrooms, screening of staff and students are important, and parents have to be made aware that if there is anyone unwell in a family, students should not be sent to school.” State officials said the state will review cases post-Diwali as experts have warned of a possible surge, and there are pa rts in the state where the temperature falls sharply and where ca ses cou ld rise. According to the draft SoP, sports, morning prayers and gatherings will not be allowed as these can lead to crowds, and wearing of masks while in school will be mandatory. The education department had first issued a SoP in June and another one more recently in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/schools-can-reopen-from-november-23-shrines-could-too-after-diwali-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/79107206.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 8, 2020||Pune||Schools can reopen from November 23, shrines could too after Diwali: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday allowed schools in the state to reopen for classes IX to XII after Diwali. Shrines, too, may be opened after the festival, he said. The school education department, whose proposal to resume schools TOI reported in its Saturday edition, has set November 23 as the date to resume physical classes. The CM chaired a meeting of the department to review the standard operating procedures that schools must follow. Min: Physical classes only for subjects like maths & scienceCM Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday allowed schools in the state to reopen for Classes IX to XII after Diwali. At Saturday’s meeting, state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said a mass drive of RT-PCR testing of teachers will be conducted by local administrations between 17 and 22 November. Only those teachers whose reports are negative will be allowed to conduct classes. She further said in order to follow Covid protocols, thermal screening of all students will be done before they are allowed inside classrooms and seating arrangements will be changed to allow only one child per bench. “Classes will be held on an alternate-day basis. And physical classes will not be on for more than four hours. Only select subjects such as maths and science where teachers’ intervention is required will be taken up for physical classes, the remaining subjects will continue online,” Gaikwad said. Senior officials said starting physical schools is not compulsory for schools and even for students. Online classes for all subjects will continue. A consent form from parents will be mandatory for allowing students to attend classes. Most schools may still decide to wait and watch. Principals whom TOI spoke to said that they would consult parents about their views before taking a call on reopening. Gaikwad said the department will hold discussions with local administrations, and schools will be started in a phase-wise manner. As part of the new normal, there will be no tiffin breaks for students; they will have to eat from home and go to school. Water bottles will have to be carried individually and common water-filling spots will be discontinued. While the Centre allowed partial reopening of schools for higher standards from September 21, the Maharashtra government had decided in a Cabinet meeting in October that the state would think about this post-Diwali. Thackeray said the next few days after Diwali will be crucial as cases are expected to increase. Also, there are several schools, especially government ones, that were converted into quarantine centres. These centres cannot be closed yet. “A decision by the local administration should be taken. An alternate site can be made available for classes to be held for such schools,” Thackeray said. The CM further said even for schools and parents of students, it is important that all guidelines are followed thoroughly. “Sanitization of classrooms, screening of staff and students are important, and parents have to be made aware that if there is anyone unwell in a family, students should not be sent to school.” State officials said the state will review cases post-Diwali as experts have warned of a possible surge, and there are pa rts in the state where the temperature falls sharply and where ca ses cou ld rise. According to the draft SoP, sports, morning prayers and gatherings will not be allowed as these can lead to crowds, and wearing of masks while in school will be mandatory. The education department had first issued a SoP in June and another one more recently in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-can-reopen-from-november-23-shrines-could-too-after-diwali-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/79107204.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 test a must for Sabarimala devotees||HAVERI: Kerala has set new guidelines for Sabarimala pilgrims, making Covid-19 tests mandatory for the visit. Accordingly, K Dayanand, the commissioner for the Karnataka Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments Department has issued an advisory for people in the state who plan to join the annual pilgrimage. Every year, the 41-day annual pilgrimage to Sabarimala begins in mid-November. Lakhs of devotees from across the country make the journey. This year, the number of visitors has been capped because of the pandemic. Devotees must first register on the Sabarimala Temple’s portal, sabarimalaonline.org. Registrations will be approved on a first come, first served basis. On weekdays, 1,000 devotees will be allowed per day. On the weekend, 2,000 will be allowed. The Kerala government has said that those aged below 10 and above 60 and the ailing won’t be granted entry. According to Dayanand’s advisory, only people who produce a medical certificate stating that they were Covid-19 negative 48 house before the visit will be permitted for the darshan. Devotees can also undergo a rapid antigen test near entrance points. They will have to pay for this test. “Pilgrims with BPL or Ayushman Bharat cards can seek a free test,” he added. The Kerala government has fixed a route for the journey. “Most importantly, devotes should know they will not be allowed to stay at Sannidanam, Pamba, and Ganapathi temple this time,” Dayanand said. Somanna Tippannavar, a Lord Ayyappa devotee who has been visiting Sabarimala for the past 25 years, welcomed the health-safety guidelines, but said more visitors should be allowed. “The number of 1,000 devotees per day is very low. It should be at least 5,000 per day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-test-a-must-for-sabarimala-devotees/articleshow/79106917.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Govt support for work-from-home trend worries transport firms||BENGALURU: Transport firms are worried that their business will suffer again as the central government has relaxed rules to facilitate remote working for IT and BPO employees. Urban mobility experts, however, are pleased with the move, saying it will help reduce traffic congestion and air pollution levels in the tech capital. The new guidelines issued on Thursday removed requirements which prevented companies from adopting work-from-home and work-from-anywhere policies. Transport firms that ferry office workers say the pandemic has already shrunk their earnings and they will struggle to survive if employees continue to log in remotely. “The employee transport business has been in distress since the Covid-linked lockdown. The central government’s latest move will deal another blow. Many transport operators catering to corporates are selling their vehicles to cut losses,” said K Radhakrishna Holla, the president of the Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association. Most IT and BPO firms, which are trying to reduce operational costs like transport and office rent, have already told their employees that they can continue remote working. A large number of employees are happy with the WFH arrangement as they don’t have to commute and endure frustrating traffic snarl-ups. According to the comprehensive mobility plan report, 65 per cent of the trips in the city are for work and business and about 17 per cent for other purposes. “The Centre’s step creates a win-win situation for IT companies and the city. Earlier, several tempo travellers and other vehicles used to ferry office workers. That has reduced because of WFH, which will help decongest Bengaluru,” said RK Misra, an urban planner. Urban mobility expert Ashwin Mahesh said Covid-19 had accelerated the shift to remote working. “Traffic patterns depend on factors such as jobs, schools and housing. Covid-19 has affected all these. Many people started moving to peripheral areas to avoid the density in core areas and jobs are also likely to be scattered around the city. But it is still not clear how things will be once a vaccine is available,” he said. According to Vishwanath Seetharam, founder-secretary of the Outer Ring Road Companies’ Association, only 10 to 20 per cent of vehicles are currently being used, that too mainly for critical staff. “Traffic congestion and pollution have decreased because of WFH, but employees may return to offices once a vaccine is available. Many firms have set up infrastructure at their employees’ homes or paid them money to buy necessary equipment,” Seetharam said. “But many workers who have returned to their hometowns may return to Bengaluru because of the exposure and opportunities. Government agencies should come up with a plan to prevent traffic congestion in this case.” Holla said WFH would affect other sectors, and not just the transport industry. “Security guards, maintenance staff and people working in cafeterias of big IT parks may lose their jobs if WFH becomes the norm. The state government will also incur heavy losses in terms of taxes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-govt-support-for-wfh-trend-worries-transport-firms/articleshow/79106919.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Galleries near empty, art thrives online||BENGALURU: Bengalureans love for art, especially paintings and sculptures, goes back a long way. But the pandemic and subsequent lockdown were a big blow to the numerous art shows and seminars. With the brakes on physical shows and gallery sales leaving many creators in dismay, the scene has shifted online and opened up new avenues for artists and curators. Nalini S Malaviya, a Bengaluru-based art curator and consultant, describes the post-lockdown art scene as “a new dawn”. “While physical presence in art galleries has been restricted and events cut down completely, the pandemic has given rise to online platforms,” she added. Malaviya had planned an art exhibition in November with three accomplished women artists from Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai, but she has been forced to cancel the event. “I floated the exhibition through my blog which had been dormant for a while. The show, much to my surprise, gave it fresh life and within 24 hours, 700 people had viewed it, many more than a physical show. We’ve done well with our maiden online venture,” she said. Low footfall, reduced price tag Another fallout has been prices of art works dipping quite a bit. “We’re seeing bargaining in the art scene with even a few top artists having to reduce prices. It’s unfortunate to see this in an art-appreciating city like Bengaluru,” rues Rajini Rekha, an artist with 15 years experience and runs Reves Art Gallery in Bengaluru since 2015. Covid norms have forced most galleries to invite people as per appointment only. Sources say some artists have started directly approaching clients as sales are hard to come by. But artists and curators like Rekha believe the art scene will bounce back in Bengaluru, thanks to a large section of people who support good art and creativity. Premilla Baid, owner of Gallery Sumukha, said business is good despite moving out of physical spaces to the internet. “We are not doing shows at the gallery as a precautionary measure but our online presence has got good response. We’re not like an e-commerce venture and art lovers have reached out to us online. We have arranged gallery visits only with prior appointment by following all Covid protocols,” Baid added. Most curators say the pandemic has opened up more online avenues where physical boundaries have been limiting. People have now started to invest in online platforms for promotion and sale of art like never before. And this has provided access beyond Bengaluru, bringing new audiences to local artists and curators alike. It now appears online ventures are here to stay post-lockdown, even when the situation returns to normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-galleries-near-empty-but-art-thrives-online/articleshow/79106921.cms||Petlee Peter
November 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: When nature calls, forgetting key in car is not negligence!||AHMEDABAD: Would you get an insurance claim of your vehicle if you left keys in the ignition? Conventionally, such an act falls in the ‘gross negligence’ category and claims are rejected. Interestingly, an Anand resident has recently won compensation for his stolen car as he was able to convince the court that he left the keys in the car out of haste to relieve his bursting bladder! As per the case details, Dilip Patel from Ode in Anand owned a Toyota Innova, which was insured with New India Assurance Co Ltd. On May 16, 2014, he was returning home when he stopped to relieve himself leaving the key in the ignition. Patel watched helplessly as two persons took advantage of the situation and drove the vehicle away. He lodged an FIR the next day and claimed insurance payout a few days later. The insurer rejected his claim saying that leaving the key in ignition was ‘gross negligence’ and a ‘breach of policy conditions’. He moved Anand district consumer forum, which rejected his complaint in December 2017. He challenged the order before the Gujarat State District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission. Not a deliberate act: PanelThe insurance company reiterated that the claim was repudiated because the theft took place due to the negligence of the driver, who left the vehicle, leaving keys inside. Upon hearing the case, the consumer commission concluded that leaving the vehicle key in the ignition was not a deliberate act on the part of the driver because he was in a hurry to relieve himself. Hence, it cannot be termed a fundamental breach of conditions. The commission orderedtheinsurer to pay 75% of the declared insured value, which was Rs 9.75 lakh then. Patel was held entitled to Rs 7.31 lakh from the insurance company with 9% interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-when-nature-calls-forgetting-key-in-car-is-not-negligence/articleshow/79107233.cms||Saeed Khan
November 8, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Hospital in Shivamogga gives dead baby to wrong mother||SHIVAMOGGA: In a heartbreaking mix-up, the Shivamogga district hospital handed over the dead baby of one woman to another, and the newborn was buried before the mistake was discovered. The hospital is conducting an inquiry. Two babies born at McGann Hospital on November 2 were admitted to ICU since they were underweight. While Suma Gopal from Sagar gave birth to a girl, Suma Anjanappa from Honnali in Davanagere had a boy. On Thursday night, the boy died but the hospital staff informed Suma Gopal’s family. Erring staff will face action, says Shivamogga hospitalSuma Gopal did not look at the face of the baby, who was wrapped in a cloth and handed over to her. The boy was buried in Sagar town early Friday. On Saturday, the baby girl in ICU showed signs of improvement and the staff called up Suma Anjanappa’s attendants. The clueless family members said the baby was not theirs. In a state of panic, hospital staff rang up Suma Gopal’s husband and informed him that their child was alive and requested that the baby’s body handed over to them be brought back in an ambulance. Anjanappa’s family rushed to police when told that their baby boy had died and been buried by mistake. No complaint has been filed. “Due to the hospital staff ’s carelessness, we couldn’t even see the baby’s face for the last time. We cannot afford to legally fight against the hospital,” said Thimmappa, father of Suma Anjanappa. “A departmental inquiry has been initiated. Erring staff will be punished,” said Dr S Shridhar, medical superintendent of McGann Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hospital-in-shivamogga-gives-dead-baby-to-wrong-mother/articleshow/79107229.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Navi-mumbai||576 new Covid-19 cases lowest in 6 months in Mumbai; Maharashtra figure drops below 4,000||MUMBAI: The state and the city reported a significant drop in new Covid-19 cases at 3,959 and 576 positive detections, respectively, on Saturday. The state number was the lowest in 12 days and the city figure was the lowest since May 12, which was nearly six months ago. The patient tally since the pandemic reached the state touched 17,14,273. There were 160 fatalities, taking the death toll to 45,115. The city tally reached 2.63 lakh. New deaths numbered 23, taking the toll to 10,422. With more discharges than the daily additions, active cases in the state dipped below a lakh and stood at 99,151 for the first time since July 11. Total discharges stood at 15.7 lakh and the rate of recovery was 91.5%. The city has hit a downward trend, with a doubling rate for Covid cases of 222 days and 90% recovery rate. BMC officials said Covid care facilities would not be reduced, the drive to fine people not wearing masks would continue and daily number of tests will be increased from the 13,000-15,000 at present to at least 20,000. On Saturday, while chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said Covid-19 cases could go up in the 15-day period post-Diwali as a result of mingling of people and the opening up of services, experts said winter could also lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases. “In order to avoid a second peak, the state should be alert about a drop in temperature and rise in pollution levels,” Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said. Delhi, which saw an unusual dip in temperature, is witnessing a third surge in Covid-19 cases. “Testing and tracing cannot be reduced if we want to avoid the second wave of Covid-19,” Joshi said. He said the second wave, if at all, would appear in the last week of December. “Given the Covid pattern, I would say we will witness a surge between December 25 and January 31,” he said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region saw 1,148 cases and 40 fatalities, taking the total number of cases so far to 5.9 lakh and the toll to 18,002. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 120 new cases and two deaths, taking the tally to 50,763 and the toll to 1,016 deaths. The recovery rate in Kalyan-Dombivli reached 95.62%. In Thane, 106 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 47,730. With three deaths reported, the virus toll has climbed to 1,109. The recovery rate in Thane improved to 93.9% . In Navi Mumbai, 72 positive detections were reported along with three deaths. The total Covid-19 count has shot up to 45,360 with a 94% recovery rate. The death toll touched 921. Panvel reported 37 Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the all-time case count there to 23,994 and the death toll to 561.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/576-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-6-months-in-mumbai-maharashtra-figure-drops-below-4000/articleshow/79107254.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 8, 2020||Pune||576 new Covid-19 cases lowest in 6 months in Mumbai; Maharashtra figure drops below 4,000||MUMBAI: The state and the city reported a significant drop in new Covid-19 cases at 3,959 and 576 positive detections, respectively, on Saturday. The state number was the lowest in 12 days and the city figure was the lowest since May 12, which was nearly six months ago. The patient tally since the pandemic reached the state touched 17,14,273. There were 160 fatalities, taking the death toll to 45,115. The city tally reached 2.63 lakh. New deaths numbered 23, taking the toll to 10,422. With more discharges than the daily additions, active cases in the state dipped below a lakh and stood at 99,151 for the first time since July 11. Total discharges stood at 15.7 lakh and the rate of recovery was 91.5%. The city has hit a downward trend, with a doubling rate for Covid cases of 222 days and 90% recovery rate. BMC officials said Covid care facilities would not be reduced, the drive to fine people not wearing masks would continue and daily number of tests will be increased from the 13,000-15,000 at present to at least 20,000. On Saturday, while chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said Covid-19 cases could go up in the 15-day period post-Diwali as a result of mingling of people and the opening up of services, experts said winter could also lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases. “In order to avoid a second peak, the state should be alert about a drop in temperature and rise in pollution levels,” Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said. Delhi, which saw an unusual dip in temperature, is witnessing a third surge in Covid-19 cases. “Testing and tracing cannot be reduced if we want to avoid the second wave of Covid-19,” Joshi said. He said the second wave, if at all, would appear in the last week of December. “Given the Covid pattern, I would say we will witness a surge between December 25 and January 31,” he said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region saw 1,148 cases and 40 fatalities, taking the total number of cases so far to 5.9 lakh and the toll to 18,002. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 120 new cases and two deaths, taking the tally to 50,763 and the toll to 1,016 deaths. The recovery rate in Kalyan-Dombivli reached 95.62%. In Thane, 106 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 47,730. With three deaths reported, the virus toll has climbed to 1,109. The recovery rate in Thane improved to 93.9% . In Navi Mumbai, 72 positive detections were reported along with three deaths. The total Covid-19 count has shot up to 45,360 with a 94% recovery rate. The death toll touched 921. Panvel reported 37 Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the all-time case count there to 23,994 and the death toll to 561.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/576-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-6-months-in-mumbai-maharashtra-figure-drops-below-4000/articleshow/79107252.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 8, 2020||Thane||576 new Covid-19 cases lowest in 6 months in Mumbai; Maharashtra figure drops below 4,000||MUMBAI: The state and the city reported a significant drop in new Covid-19 cases at 3,959 and 576 positive detections, respectively, on Saturday. The state number was the lowest in 12 days and the city figure was the lowest since May 12, which was nearly six months ago. The patient tally since the pandemic reached the state touched 17,14,273. There were 160 fatalities, taking the death toll to 45,115. The city tally reached 2.63 lakh. New deaths numbered 23, taking the toll to 10,422. With more discharges than the daily additions, active cases in the state dipped below a lakh and stood at 99,151 for the first time since July 11. Total discharges stood at 15.7 lakh and the rate of recovery was 91.5%. The city has hit a downward trend, with a doubling rate for Covid cases of 222 days and 90% recovery rate. BMC officials said Covid care facilities would not be reduced, the drive to fine people not wearing masks would continue and daily number of tests will be increased from the 13,000-15,000 at present to at least 20,000. On Saturday, while chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said Covid-19 cases could go up in the 15-day period post-Diwali as a result of mingling of people and the opening up of services, experts said winter could also lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases. “In order to avoid a second peak, the state should be alert about a drop in temperature and rise in pollution levels,” Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said. Delhi, which saw an unusual dip in temperature, is witnessing a third surge in Covid-19 cases. “Testing and tracing cannot be reduced if we want to avoid the second wave of Covid-19,” Joshi said. He said the second wave, if at all, would appear in the last week of December. “Given the Covid pattern, I would say we will witness a surge between December 25 and January 31,” he said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region saw 1,148 cases and 40 fatalities, taking the total number of cases so far to 5.9 lakh and the toll to 18,002. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 120 new cases and two deaths, taking the tally to 50,763 and the toll to 1,016 deaths. The recovery rate in Kalyan-Dombivli reached 95.62%. In Thane, 106 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 47,730. With three deaths reported, the virus toll has climbed to 1,109. The recovery rate in Thane improved to 93.9% . In Navi Mumbai, 72 positive detections were reported along with three deaths. The total Covid-19 count has shot up to 45,360 with a 94% recovery rate. The death toll touched 921. Panvel reported 37 Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the all-time case count there to 23,994 and the death toll to 561.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/576-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-6-months-in-mumbai-maharashtra-figure-drops-below-4000/articleshow/79107253.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 8, 2020||Mumbai||576 new Covid-19 cases lowest in 6 months in Mumbai; Maharashtra figure drops below 4,000||MUMBAI: The state and the city reported a significant drop in new Covid-19 cases at 3,959 and 576 positive detections, respectively, on Saturday. The state number was the lowest in 12 days and the city figure was the lowest since May 12, which was nearly six months ago. The patient tally since the pandemic reached the state touched 17,14,273. There were 160 fatalities, taking the death toll to 45,115. The city tally reached 2.63 lakh. New deaths numbered 23, taking the toll to 10,422. With more discharges than the daily additions, active cases in the state dipped below a lakh and stood at 99,151 for the first time since July 11. Total discharges stood at 15.7 lakh and the rate of recovery was 91.5%. The city has hit a downward trend, with a doubling rate for Covid cases of 222 days and 90% recovery rate. BMC officials said Covid care facilities would not be reduced, the drive to fine people not wearing masks would continue and daily number of tests will be increased from the 13,000-15,000 at present to at least 20,000. On Saturday, while chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said Covid-19 cases could go up in the 15-day period post-Diwali as a result of mingling of people and the opening up of services, experts said winter could also lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases. “In order to avoid a second peak, the state should be alert about a drop in temperature and rise in pollution levels,” Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said. Delhi, which saw an unusual dip in temperature, is witnessing a third surge in Covid-19 cases. “Testing and tracing cannot be reduced if we want to avoid the second wave of Covid-19,” Joshi said. He said the second wave, if at all, would appear in the last week of December. “Given the Covid pattern, I would say we will witness a surge between December 25 and January 31,” he said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region saw 1,148 cases and 40 fatalities, taking the total number of cases so far to 5.9 lakh and the toll to 18,002. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 120 new cases and two deaths, taking the tally to 50,763 and the toll to 1,016 deaths. The recovery rate in Kalyan-Dombivli reached 95.62%. In Thane, 106 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 47,730. With three deaths reported, the virus toll has climbed to 1,109. The recovery rate in Thane improved to 93.9% . In Navi Mumbai, 72 positive detections were reported along with three deaths. The total Covid-19 count has shot up to 45,360 with a 94% recovery rate. The death toll touched 921. Panvel reported 37 Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the all-time case count there to 23,994 and the death toll to 561.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/576-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-6-months-in-mumbai-maharashtra-figure-drops-below-4000/articleshow/79107250.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka daily Covid-19 fatality rate drops below 1%||BENGALURU: Bengaluru reported just seven Covid-19 deaths on Saturday — the lowest since August 23 when the daily toll stood at five. In all, 22 deaths were reported across the state, bringing down the daily fatality rate below 1%. Eighteen districts reported zero fatalities, the government bulletin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-daily-covid-19-fatality-rate-drops-below-1/articleshow/79107263.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mumbai||Commuters on CR, WR up by 2.5 lakh in last week||MUMBAI: Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) have cumulatively added 2.5 lakh more commuters within a week of increasing services from 1,410 to 2,773. Till November 1, CR used to run 706 services while WR operated 704. From November 3, the number of services on CR was increased to 1,572 and on WR to 1,201. CR’s chief PRO Shivaji Sutar said, “To ensure social distancing, carrying capacity of each train is capped at 700 passengers. We are now carrying 5.9 lakh passengers a day.” As for, WR it carries around 5.2 lakh commuters. Till October 30, CR was carrying 4.57 lakh and WR 3.95 lakh. A CR official said, “More people are joining the workforce as frequency improved. Both CR and WR are running 88% of total services that ran prior to the lockdown.” Another official said numbers have risen though there has been no addition of any new category of passengers. The state government had written to the railways it wants local services to be opened up for the general public. But to avoid crowds and follow Covid protocol, the state fixed slots when essential service providers can travel, which is during peak hours and the general public can travel during non-peak hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/commuters-on-cr-wr-up-by-2-5-lakh-in-last-week/articleshow/79107264.cms||Manthan K Mehta
November 8, 2020||India||You can’t set terms, says Rail Board refusing to run only freight trains||NEW DELHI: The railways on Saturday said it can’t resume only goods train services in Punjab, a day after the state government claimed protesters are no more on tracks and freight movement will be possible. Terming the state government’s claim as “misguiding”, Railway Board CEO and Chairman V K Yadav said the railways can’t run trains in any state with conditions that only certain services carrying some commodities and on certain corridors be allowed. “The statement that came from the state government was similar to what the protesters had been conveying to our station masters - the tracks are clear for freight trains only. We cannot operate trains in that manner. If tracks are clear, they are clear for both freight and passenger trains. We request that the running of trains be left to the railways…there is no meaning of tracks cleared only for freight trains,” Yadav told reporters. The blockage of rail services by anti-farm law protestors, backed by Congress and other parties in the state, has created a shortage of urea for farm use. This led to several farm organisations saying that they will withdraw the stir. Since then Punjab Congress leaders have met the railway minister but without a breakthrough as the Centre has pointed out that a "conditional" restoration of services is not possible, with the issue getting a political colour. The Railway Board chief said it was correct that the protesters are no more on tracks. But they were at one railway station and had assembled just outside station premises in 22 other places. “They have been sending messages to the station masters that they will return to tracks, if we operate any passenger train,” he said. Train operations were stopped completely from September 30. Though the railways had resumed running freight trains on some sections on October 22, this had to be stopped as well after incidents of protesters blocking trains. Yadav said the drivers, guards and other staff are not confident and are worried to run trains because of the risk of protesters returning to the tracks. A source said railways was aware that a single accident on track will have serious ramification and railways may be blamed in such a situation. Responding to why railways was not considering at least running freight trains to break the deadlock in such an extraordinary situation, Yadav said they had tried this last month when they resumed freight train operation for two days after getting feelers from the Punjab government that tracks would be cleared in days. “Trains were stopped to check whether they were goods or passenger services. We cannot stop trains for protesters to give us certificates to run trains.... There were times when possible accidents were averted. If people come in front of trains and try to stop trains, it is damaging for both railways and the persons involved,” he said. Yadav said protesters may even stop the trains run for maintenance purpose which has coaches for staff. “This is not possible operationally in any part of the country. We have conveyed this to the Punjab government again and again. If this is done, the entire railway system won’t be able to work and people will start making similar demands of which trains to run, from every corner of the country. We run trains depending on technical feasibility of tracks only and safety and security are our priority,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/you-cant-set-terms-says-rail-board-refusing-to-run-only-freight-trains/articleshow/79107256.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Nagpur||Teachers’ body slams edu joint director over promotions claim||Nagpur: The National Forum for Quality Education (NFQE) has again slammed the joint director (higher education) Mahesh Salunke for claiming that there was “no delay on his part” in clearing promotions of teachers by Nagpur division and all cases were speedily cleared.TOI on November 6 had reported about the delay in promotions which are pending despite the NFQE and other teachers writing to Salunke. They have also shared with TOI copies of the letter. Teachers complained the delay not only deprives them of their legitimate right of career advancement but it is also taking a financial toll of more than Rs 6 lakh annually. “What joint director (JD) Mahesh Salunkhe is saying is a usual practice. His claims are absolutely baseless and without facts. He changed the date of CAS (career advancement scheme) promotion of NET/SET teachers in colleges of Chandrapur district in recent time. Also, JD not naming nominee with the prejudice of not having PhD. Understanding the mala fide intent of JD, we will request the government to inquire into CAS process in Nagpur region,” said NFQE president Ramesh Zade. NFQE secretary Kushal Mude said the Gondwana University set up an expert committee in January 2020 for one of its affiliated colleges. The college concerned and teachers sent three reminders but to no avail. “Last was in August 2020. JD is still violating citizen charter and section 7.3 of state GR and section 6.3 of UGC regulation 2018," he said.Salunke reiterated that no promotion letters are pending. “Though Saturday being a holiday, we cleared 12 promotions. Less than 1% out of 6,500 teachers in the Nagpur division are under process and not pending. A day before, we received some reminder but again there were shortcomings,” he said.Officials said the reminders didn’t have government nominee signature on letters cleared in a 2018 promotion camp, which is held to clear backlog and cater to more number of teachers. Due to Covid, not more than five candidates are invited for CAS interviews now.Salunke said it is not possible to clear all promotions in one go.On November 5, Salunke had told TOI that there were no pendency of promotions and all proposals were speedily processed.Several teachers from Nagpur and other places called up TOI and tore into the claims. Some of them even shared images of their letters to the joint director, the latest ones sent in August and September.They alleged that while those deserving are unnecessarily facing harassment, several ineligible have been questionably promoted to the professor grade. Salunke said, “We are appointed to give promotion as per norms. Everyone claims their proposal is perfect. We check eligibility, research score, publications in tenure, on primarily basis before clearing files.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teachers-body-slams-edu-joint-director-over-promotions-claim/articleshow/79104152.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 8, 2020||Mumbai||No relief for Arnab Goswami, Bombay HC order on interim bail plea to come on Monday||MUMBAI: Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, had to spend his fourth night behind bars with the Bombay high court granting him no urgent relief on Saturday. The HC bench of Justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik, after a day-long special hearing via videoconferencing, reserved his plea for interim bail for final orders. The HC order will be pronounced at 3 pm on November 9, Monday. The bench in an interim order said pending judgment, Goswami could invoke Section 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code and apply for bail before sessions court. If he does file for such bail, the sessions court can decide it expeditiously, no later than “four days,” after hearing all parties, the HC directed. All parties would include the state, police and wife of interior designer Anvay Naik whose 2018 suicide Goswami and two others are accused of abetting and have been arrested for. A magistrate in Alibaug on Wednesday remanded Goswami and two others arrested, Neetish Sarda and Feroze Shaikh, in judicial custody for 14 days. The HC said pendency would also not preclude Sarda to file for bail before trial court. Sarda’s counsel Vijay Aggarwal said HC had wide powers to undo injustice and said the 26-yearold was willing to pay back Rs 55 lakh to Naik if let out on bail. Goswami sought release on interim bail. He had invoked HC’s plenary powers to do justice when fundamental rights are flouted. His counsels Harish Salve and Aabad Ponda said his right to life and free speech as a journalist were violated by “an illegal arrest” and authorities acting with “malice.” Salve, citing an SC judgment, said right to liberty is “non-negotiable.” On Saturday, Amit Desai, senior counsel, and public prosecutor Deepak Thakre for the state government opposed Goswami’s plea Desai said the “question of arrest cannot be dealt with at this stage. He is in judicial custody under a lawful order passed by a magistrate.” Desai said, “Malice in fact is not pleaded in his interim application.” Goswami’s habeas corpus and quashing petition seeking a stay on probe as well as the challenge to closure of the abetment case by Naik’s daughter Adnya will next be heard on December 10 before HC. Replies are to be filed in four weeks, the HC said. Desai cited apex court judgments to submit that “HC cannot intervene under its extraordinary powers under Article 226 (plenary power to do justice for violation of fundamental rights) and give a go-by to procedures and provisions of criminal law which allow for a remedy to file for bail before the trial court.” The HC cannot change the hierarchy under CrPC, he said, and added if HC grants interim bail, it would “open floodgates to an already overburdened court.” The HC observed it would not want to “undermine the authority of the sessions court which is empowered to hear regular bail plea.” Desai said, “Probe is on as state felt the need for further probe,” adding, “Power of State to direct investigation is distinct from power of court.” Desai stressed an ‘A’ summary case closure has to be treated differently. He pointed out there is challenge to the fact that it was categorized an ‘A’ summary, which only means investigation is incomplete or inconclusive and hence the argument of Goswami’s counsels that there is a need for a “court nod for further probe is wrong”. Senior counsel Shirish Gupte for Adnya said, “Matter was high-handedly handled by police earlier.” It is a “serious case,” and to release him now “would be injustice to victims.” Salve said irrespective of the right of an accused to seek bail in trial court, HC is empowered to direct interim release too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-relief-for-arnab-goswami-bombay-hc-order-on-interim-bail-plea-to-come-on-monday/articleshow/79107287.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||60% of flights now back in Kolkata airspace||KOLKATA: More than 60% flights that dotted the sky in the Kolkata flight information region (FIR) in February 2020 are back in air despite Singapore, Bangkok and Kuala Lumpur — major airline hubs in the region — yet to resume operations. Air traffic controllers, too, are back to being their busy selves. For two months beginning April, their workplace that used to always buzz with transmissions between the controllers on the ground and pilots in the sky had suddenly gone silent. Now, the chatter is back. From hardly any flights to monitor earlier in the year, they witnessed a steady rise in flight activities since June and a sharper spike in operations in September and October. The recovery would have been more impressive had curbs on flights from six high-traffic cities to Kolkata been lifted. “Given the current trend, we expect 70% of the flights that traversed Kolkata FIR prior to the pandemic to be back in air by January 2021. Already, the number of controllers that are deployed in Kolkata to track and guide flights criss-crossing the sky has been increased to 70% after being whittled down to the bare minimum when the lockdown came into force in March-end and hundreds of flights were grounded,” said air traffic services general manager R S Lahauria. In the initial days of the lockdown, half the air traffic controllers in each shift were kept on standby to ensure that Kolkata ATC continued to function even if a controller in one shift got infected and required all others in that shift to be quarantined. But with flights on the rise, providing the buffer manpower is proving to be a challenge. Of the 38,945 flights that streaked across the sky in October in the Kolkata FIR that spans 18.5 lakh sq km, 8,525 flights landed or took off from Kolkata. This figure could have been around 10,000 flights had daily flights been allowed to operate to the city from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur. At present, they operate only three days a week. The remaining 18,228 planes that passed through the Kolkata FIR were overflights, or aircraft that flew over Kolkata without landing or taking off from here. Of these, 11,303 planes overflew India. The strategic location of Kolkata FIR means flights between South-East Asia and Australia to the east and south-east and Gulf, Europe and the US to the west and north-west fly through this airspace. In October 2019, the flight count in Kolkata FIR was 63,906, of which 48,700 were overflights. The flight count increased to 64,648 in November 2019 before it hit the first Covid bump. Early reports of a yet-to-be identified strange flu in China saw the number of flights dip to 51,400 in December. Though the flight count soared to 69,531 in January 2020 as travel resumed, it again slowed down in February as the novel coronavirus began to spread beyond China. The controllers in Kolkata saw the flight count decline from 62,330 in February to 49,752 in March. And then as India went into a lockdown, it nosedived to 9,564 flights in April. After a brief lull, overseas repatriation flights began to operate in May along with cargo flights that shipped critical medicines and medical equipment. When domestic flights resumed operations in May-end, the flight count jumped from 14,724 in May to 25,081 in June. Since then, growth has been steady with the skies being opened up gradually. In September, the airport handled 31,721 flights, half as many flight controllers in Kolkata had handled in October 2019. “The second wave of infection in Europe is also delaying international air travel to European destinations. Once Gulf-based airlines like Emirates Airlines, Etihad Airways, Qatar Airways deploy their full fleet and Thai Airways, Malaysia Airlines and Singapore Airlines resume operations, air traffic in Kolkata will be as busy as ever,” Lahauria said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/60-of-flights-now-back-in-kolkata-airspace/articleshow/79106778.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||In a first, the demoiselle crane spotted in Bengal||Jalpaiguri/Kolkata: The demoiselle crane, a migratory bird native to central Euro-Siberia, has been spotted arguably for the first time in Bengal along the Teesta riverbed in Jalpaiguri town. While the Covid lockdown and resultant low pollution levels may be contributing factors, birders are not ruling out other reasons such as “wrong route”. Sujan Chatterjee, the secretary of Birdwatchers’ Society, said birds from western Eurasia usually spend the winter in Africa while those from Asia, Mongolia and China visit the Indian subcontinent. “These cranes undertake one of the toughest migrations in the world and may have landed here (in Bengal)following a wrong route. In late August through September, they gather in flocks of up to 400 individuals and prepare for their flight. They reach altitudes of 16,000-26,000ft (4,900-7,900 metres), along with their arduous journey over the Himalayas, to get to their over-wintering grounds in India — mainly Rajasthan and Gujarat,” he said. In March and April, the demoiselle cranes begin their long spring journey back to their northern nesting grounds. Animesh Bose of Himalayan Nature and Adventure Foundation said climatic conditions at their native place also impact migration. “Such lo-ng-distance migratory birds often take rest during the course of their journey. We may not see them a few days later. As of now, I won’t link the cranes’ arrival directly to the lockdown. However, during lockdown, people had more time to observe nature and photograph birds,” he added. Chatterjee said in Khichan, Rajasthan, villagers fed the cranes and their congregations had become an annual spectacle. “These birds are known as ‘koonj’ in local parlance and figure prominently in poetry and prose of the region. Women are often compared to the ‘koonj’ because of its slender frame and grace,” he added. Refusing to divulge the exact location of sighting in Jalpaiguri, a senior forester said they were keeping a close watch on the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-a-first-the-demoiselle-crane-spotted-in-bengal/articleshow/79106719.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu Adhikari's rally isn’t just for Midnapore||KOLKATA: Suvendu Adhikari’s Nandigram rally on November 10 is not going to be a Purba Midnapore affair only. Messages have been sent to “Dadar Anugami” across districts to come down for the mega show on Tuesday. Posters for ‘Tekhali cholo’ (Nandigram) rally describe Suvendu as “chief patron of Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee” that could bring about a rainbow coalition of forces against the Left Front government during the Nandigram land stir. Not one names him as Trinamool general secretary. Organizers held block meetings at Nandigram and Khejuri on Saturday in which local TMC MLAs were not involved. “The rally on November 10 will be a showdown without party banners,” said an organizer. The rebel leader has been taking his angst mainly to Trinamool old-timers who feel left out in the current dispensation. It continued three days after Suvendu’s father and Trinamool district chairman Sisir Adhikari rolled out a “consensus” party panel for Purba Midnapore to keep all factions happy. Suvendu had been to Bharat Sevashram Sangha’s Beldanga ashram in Murshidabad on Friday and will attend a condolence meeting in memory of Murshidabad Zilla Parishad karmadhyaksha Mafijuddin Mandal in Margram village on Sunday when TMC is holding a condolence meet at Khargram the same day. Murshidabad Zilla Parishad sabhapati Mosharaf Hossain Mandal and saha-sabhapati Baidyanath Das are likely to attend the Margram programme. The TMC karmadhyaksha died of Corona. ‘Amra Dadar Anugami’ posters have also come up at Behrampore town from where Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury got a huge lead in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Suvendu has consented to inaugurate the Kali Puja organized by Jharkhand (Naren) Party leader Chunibala Hansda at Magura village in Jhargram on November 14. Chunibala and Adivasi heroine Birbaha Hansda are among the chief organisers of the 36-year-old puja. There was speculation about Birbaha Hansda getting a Trinamool ticket for the Jhargram Lok Sabha seat in 2019. But Birbaha Soren got the ticket and Hansda fought the polls as Jharkhand (Naren) Party candidate. (Inputs from Suman Mandal, Sujoy Khanra, Sukumar Mahato, Subhro Maitra and Pinak Priya Bhattacharya||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-rally-isnt-just-for-midnapore/articleshow/79106721.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Trinamool reaches out to Amit Shah’s Adivasi host||BANKURA: Trinamool organizers on Saturday reached out to the Adivasi family at Bankura’s Chaturdihi village with whom Union home minister Amit Shah had lunch with on November 5. They gave food items and garments to Bibhishan Hansda and his family. Hansda said a few women took entry initially introducing themselves as NGO workers. “I am not connected to any party. There was a huge crowd in front of my house two days ago when the Union home minister came. I played the host,” he said. TMC organizer Sonai Mukherjee said: “Theirs is a poor family. Bibhishan has an ailing parent and a daughter. I went to their place to find out how they are keeping. I gave them food items and some puja gifts,” Mukherjee said. Bengal BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu “welcomed” TMC’s move. “We have decided that our party seniors will have lunch with poor families during their district visits because that will help them get support from the Trinamool. The state government couldn’t give jobs to the deserving teachers, but gave Gita Mahali a homeguard’s job. The reason is BJP leader Amit Shah had lunch with the Mahali family of Naxalbari three years ago in 2017,” Basu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-reaches-out-to-shahs-adivasi-host/articleshow/79106717.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Congress MLA defects to TMC||BASIRHAT/COOCH BEHAR: A Congress MLA from Baduria in North 24 Parganas took up the Trinamool flag on Saturday, weeks after a CPM MLA from Uttar Basirhat joined TMC, giving clear indications of the shifting sands in Basirhat subdivision ahead of the 2021 Bengal assembly polls. Congress’s Baduria MLA Qazi Abdur Rahim, son of legendary Congress leader Abdur Gaffar, joined Trinamool at the party headquarters in presence of seniors Partha Chatterjee and Firhad Hakim. “I have realized that Didi (Mamata Banerjee) is the only hope in the fight against BJP,” Rahim said. The defections point to a bipolar fight between TMC and BJP, crunching space for the Congress-Left combine that had won the Baduria seat in the 2016 assembly polls. There has been a remarkable jump in BJP’s vote share in the Baduria assembly segment during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Rahim is the latest casualty from the Congress camp after 18 of its 44 MLAs elected in 2016 switched to TMC. Among them, Manas Bhuiyan is the only legislator to have resigned from his Sabang MLA post before he got elected to Rajya Sabha on a Trinamool ticket. Other than the Baduria MLA, former BJP Mahila Morcha vice president Moumita Basu Chakraborty and some retired bureaucrats also joined TMC on Saturday. This also coincided with 10 former policemen joining Trinamool Congress. They included Krishna Chandra Chowdhury, a former Kolkata Police officer, Saroj Gajmir, a retired IPS officer, who was also the Intelligence Branch special superintend in North Bengal, Kalyan Bandyopadhyay, also a retired IPS officer, who was an IGP and served the UN forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Satyajit Banerjee, also a retired IPS officer, who was an IGP. Banerjee, along with Bandopadhyay, are UN peace medal winners, Bhuban Chandra Mandal, also a retired IPS officer, Debkumar Mukherjee, also a retired IPS officer and former senior officers like Dipankar Chakraborty, Biswajit Chakraborty, Md Mokaffar Hussein and Dipak Kumar Das joined TMC. But TMC, too, has its share of ‘dissident’ problems. Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami sparked a controversy by making a Facebook post on Saturday. Goswami, who resigned from all party posts a few days ago, wrote: “A contractor think tank company has intruded into Didi’s party. Didi has no response when insulted public representatives are raising their voice against this.” TMC Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta spoke out against the “professional company” and announced that he was not going to contest the coming polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/congress-mla-defects-to-tmc/articleshow/79106718.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
November 8, 2020||Ranchi||BJP asks Jharkhand govt to refrain from cracker ban||RANCHI/BOKARO/JAMSHEDPUR: The government must not ban use of firecrackers for Diwali alone and in case it does choose to restrict fireworks for the Hindu festival, the same should also apply for Christmas and New Year, BJP’s Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth said on Saturday. Adding that he, being the people’s representative, understands that the pollution and smoke emanating from the fireworks could pose a threat to public health amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Seth, who won the Ranchi Lok Sabha constituency for the first time last May, said, “I am also concerned about public health and safety, but everyone’s religious sentiments should be respected equally. The state government should take these into consideration and not just disrespect or offend one particular religion and its festival while issuing any guidelines,” he added. Talking to TOI amid the debate over use of crackers in the wake of concerns raised by medical experts, Seth said, “I am opposed to any such ban if it is only for Diwali. Let’s ban it during festivals celebrated by other communities as well. Why only during Hindu festival? Ban it on December 25 (Christmas) and New Year when more crackers are used than Diwali.” Meanwhile, RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) also has urged the state to refrain from imposing a blanket ban on crackers on Diwali. Only firecrackers imported from China cause pollution, but governments in various states have been banning all crackers without a proper study on their effects, it said. SJM’s regional convenor Sachinder Kumar Bariar said, “Chinese crackers, imported illegally, have potassium nitrate, sulfur and other harmful chemicals that cause pollution. There are made-in-India eco-friendly crackers in the market that are free of any chemicals. These green crackers are certified by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research - NEERI. It is unfair of the governments to impose a ban on all types of crackers on Diwali.” Recalling a Supreme Court order in 2018 which permitted crackers for two hours on Diwali to continue with the tradition and livelihood, he added that thousands of livelihood are dependent on the cracker industry and trade during Diwali,. Meanwhile, with just a week left for Diwali and a fortnight for Chhath, the state government is still to clear its stand on how the two festivals will be celebrated even though doctors have been warning the government about complications for Covid patients and also those who have recovered due to spurt in air pollution due to the use of crackers with the onset of winter. Former chief minister and BJP national vice-president Raghubar Das has written to chief minister Hemant Soren seeking early notification of Covid-19 guidelines for Chhath festival, which takes place six days after Diwali on November 14, to clear the confusion prevailing among organising samitis. Das aid, “Lakhs of Chhath devotees are keenly awaiting the guidelines to prepare (for the festival) accordingly. The government should announce the festival norms at the earliest.” Several Chhath puja organising samitis recently told TOI that they are waiting for the government to issue guidelines so that they start work pertaining to sprucing up Chhath ghats and prepare puja material packets for distribution among devotees. Meanwhile, Chas Municipal Corporation (CMC) in Bokaro has floated a WhatsApp number (9939069533) seeking suggestions from residents on the ways to host the festival safely amid the pandemic. CMC chief Shashiprakash Jha said, “The step has been taken to take ideas from the citizens to prepare our own standard operating procedures. The Covid pandemic is not over and we need to be vigilant while celebrating.” He added that they will start preparations for the festival next week. “It is certain that Chhath this year will not be organized like previous years. It will be mandatory for everyone to comply with safety guidelines,” he said. With inputs from Divy Khare in Bokaro and B Sridhar in Jamshedpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-asks-govt-to-refrain-from-cracker-ban/articleshow/79104463.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 8, 2020||Jamshedpur||BJP asks Jharkhand govt to refrain from cracker ban||RANCHI/BOKARO/JAMSHEDPUR: The government must not ban use of firecrackers for Diwali alone and in case it does choose to restrict fireworks for the Hindu festival, the same should also apply for Christmas and New Year, BJP’s Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth said on Saturday. Adding that he, being the people’s representative, understands that the pollution and smoke emanating from the fireworks could pose a threat to public health amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Seth, who won the Ranchi Lok Sabha constituency for the first time last May, said, “I am also concerned about public health and safety, but everyone’s religious sentiments should be respected equally. The state government should take these into consideration and not just disrespect or offend one particular religion and its festival while issuing any guidelines,” he added. Talking to TOI amid the debate over use of crackers in the wake of concerns raised by medical experts, Seth said, “I am opposed to any such ban if it is only for Diwali. Let’s ban it during festivals celebrated by other communities as well. Why only during Hindu festival? Ban it on December 25 (Christmas) and New Year when more crackers are used than Diwali.” Meanwhile, RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) also has urged the state to refrain from imposing a blanket ban on crackers on Diwali. Only firecrackers imported from China cause pollution, but governments in various states have been banning all crackers without a proper study on their effects, it said. SJM’s regional convenor Sachinder Kumar Bariar said, “Chinese crackers, imported illegally, have potassium nitrate, sulfur and other harmful chemicals that cause pollution. There are made-in-India eco-friendly crackers in the market that are free of any chemicals. These green crackers are certified by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research - NEERI. It is unfair of the governments to impose a ban on all types of crackers on Diwali.” Recalling a Supreme Court order in 2018 which permitted crackers for two hours on Diwali to continue with the tradition and livelihood, he added that thousands of livelihood are dependent on the cracker industry and trade during Diwali,. Meanwhile, with just a week left for Diwali and a fortnight for Chhath, the state government is still to clear its stand on how the two festivals will be celebrated even though doctors have been warning the government about complications for Covid patients and also those who have recovered due to spurt in air pollution due to the use of crackers with the onset of winter. Former chief minister and BJP national vice-president Raghubar Das has written to chief minister Hemant Soren seeking early notification of Covid-19 guidelines for Chhath festival, which takes place six days after Diwali on November 14, to clear the confusion prevailing among organising samitis. Das aid, “Lakhs of Chhath devotees are keenly awaiting the guidelines to prepare (for the festival) accordingly. The government should announce the festival norms at the earliest.” Several Chhath puja organising samitis recently told TOI that they are waiting for the government to issue guidelines so that they start work pertaining to sprucing up Chhath ghats and prepare puja material packets for distribution among devotees. Meanwhile, Chas Municipal Corporation (CMC) in Bokaro has floated a WhatsApp number (9939069533) seeking suggestions from residents on the ways to host the festival safely amid the pandemic. CMC chief Shashiprakash Jha said, “The step has been taken to take ideas from the citizens to prepare our own standard operating procedures. The Covid pandemic is not over and we need to be vigilant while celebrating.” He added that they will start preparations for the festival next week. “It is certain that Chhath this year will not be organized like previous years. It will be mandatory for everyone to comply with safety guidelines,” he said. With inputs from Divy Khare in Bokaro and B Sridhar in Jamshedpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/bjp-asks-govt-to-refrain-from-cracker-ban/articleshow/79109101.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 8, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro: BSL introduces shorter working period scheme for employees’ welfare||BOKARO: In order to allow its employees to have a better work-life balance, Bokaro Steel Plant has introduced a shorter working period scheme for those who have completed 10 years of service in the company, chief of communication Manikant Dhan informed in a statement. However, he also said, “Employees who avail the scheme will be entitled to only 50% of their basic pay, dearness allowance, perks and other grants.” Employees under the scheme have been given the option to work three days a week or work every alternate day or four hours every working day or half a working day in the month. The scheme shall be applicable for regular employees up to E7 grades. However, they will get the benefit of the scheme only with the consent of the head of the department. Dhan said, “The decision of whether or not to give the benefit to any worker will be made by the management and even after getting permission, the management can cancel it at any time. The benefit of this scheme will be given for the participation of workers in the education of children, treatment of parents, self-development and social work. During the shorter working period, the employee shall not be allowed to undertake employment with any other employer.” The shorter working period will be allowed for a period of one year at a time which can be extended. BSL is a SAIL subsidiary, which arguably is the second organisation after Air India to introduce the shorter working period scheme for its employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsl-introduces-shorter-working-period-scheme-for-employees-welfare/articleshow/79104547.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ranchi||Congress worker shot dead inside her shop in Dumka||DUMKA: An active cadre of the Congress's Dumka women wing was shot dead in broad daylight by her husband's relatives at the Tin Bazar road here on Saturday. The deceased, identified as 35-year-old Pushpa Himatsingka, was shot in the head and died inside her steel box shop. She was rushed to Phulo Jhano Medical College and Hospital but was declared brought dead by the doctors. Raju Himatsingka, the husband of the deceased, said his nephew, Rocky Himatsingka, fired at his wife because of business rivalry. Raju and his family members accused police of negligence, saying their complaints of life threats to Pushpa was not registered. Pushpa's son, Keshav (12), said, "After shooting my mother, the culprits also tried to kill me and my father as we are all inside the shop." SP Ambar Lakera said a dog squad has been pressed into service to find the accused. “Rocky and his father Shiv Kumar Himatsingka, the brother-in-law of the deceased, have been named in the complaint filed by the family. The killing was a result of family rivalry and we will nab the accused soon." The local unit of the ruling Congress criticized the police for failing to maintain law and order. Opposition BJP said the Mahagathbandhan government has failed to check criminal activities in the state's sub-capital. Former minister and candidate of the recently concluded Dumka bypoll, Lois Marandi, said, "The incident has exposed the policing system in the sub-capital which the ruling JMM and chief minister Hemant Soren claim as their 'karmabhoomi'. We have resolved not to cremate the deceased till the culprits are arrested."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-worker-shot-dead-inside-her-shop-in-dumka/articleshow/79104519.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 8, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Raids on to curb food adulteration ahead of Diwali||RANCHI: The Ranchi district administration has started checking of sweets, food items and ingredients sold by sweet shops in the district to curb adulteration ahead of the Diwali festival. Officials said apart from the crackdown on shops, the masses will be made aware of the adulterated foods and their health hazards. Anti-tobacco drive will also be taken up in collaboration with the National Tobacco Control Programme cell, they said. Talking to TOI, SDM Sameera S said: “We are planning to extend our crackdown against adulterated food and sale of tobacco products ahead of the festival of lights in rural areas. In the urban areas, we have already started the drive.” The awareness-cum-crackdown is also meant to educate the public so that they come forward and report it to the authorities, Sameera said, adding that the rural areas will be covered in the surprise raids as the rules were always ignored there. Ranchi food safety officer S S Kullu said: “We have received complaints from various areas on the adulteration of food items from both urban and rural areas. Our checking drive will include rural areas, too." On the ongoing inspection in urban areas, Kullu said: “In last two days, I have visited over 50 shops in the city spread over areas like Dhurwa, Kanke, Bariatu and Main road and collected samples which will be sent for quality testing to the state food testing laboratory.” Meanwhile, district tobacco control officer Sushant Kumar said: “We haven’t received any correspondence from the administration on raids in rural areas, but we are ready.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/raids-on-to-curb-food-adulteration-ahead-of-diwali/articleshow/79104534.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 8, 2020||Ranchi||Jharia to get new master plan, 1.4 lakh families identified for rehabilitation||SINDRI: After years of delay, Jharia Rehabilitation Development Authority (JRDA) has decided to prepare a new master plan to rehabilitate 1,04,946 families from areas affected by underground fire. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the new plan will be approved in the next two months. The decision for a new master plan was taken at a meeting chaired by North Chhotanagpur Commissioner cum JRDA chairman Kamal John Lakra on Saturday. Singh said, “The new survey conducted by JRDA has identified 1,04,946 families for rehabilitation, of which 32,064 families have their own land and home, while 72,882 families are living by encroaching upon land owned by Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL). The BCCL management has also decided to transfer 8,000 company quarters to JRDA, which will be used to shift those who have their own land. Those who don’t own lands will be shifted to Belgaria Township. Land holding families will be rehabilitated on a priority basis and no new plan will be prepared until 50% to 60% of the identified families are shifted.” Lakra directed the officials to complete the work of water supply system at Belgaria within 10 days. It can be mentioned here that the earlier master plan, approved in 2009 for 12 years, had decided to rehabilitate 54,154 identified families. JRDA so far has been able to shift only 4,500 families to Belgaria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharia-to-get-new-master-plan-1-4l-families-identified-for-rehabilitation/articleshow/79104496.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Interim bail for accused in cattle smuggling case||KOLKATA: Enamul Haque, who was arrested by the CBI in connection with cattle smuggling, was granted interim bail by a special CBI court on Saturday. He was asked to furnish a personal bail bond of Rs 1 lakh and a local surety of a similar amount. Earlier, the CBI had said that Haque was trying to flee the country and was taken into custody. On Saturday, counsel for the agency opposed the bail plea. However, the judge granted bail and ordered that Haque must not leave country or contact any witness/accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cattle-case-interim-bail-for-accused/articleshow/79106722.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: In pandemic year, responsible Puja award makes its debut||KOLKATA: This Durga Puja, most organisers exercised restraint and put up Covid-prevetion protocols. Working behind the scene for this major shift in mindset were healthcare professionals, who successfully convinced many organisers on the need to scale down on the pomp this year due to the pandemic. On Saturday, Protect the Warriors (PTW), a platform of doctors, honoured some organisers, for responding to the call of the medical fraternity. “We feel extremely proud and honoured that our effort on Covid containment measures during the festival has been recognised. We took the decision not to allow visitors in our pandal after the doctors approached us. It was a tough decision but it was necessary as we never witnessed a pandemic of this nature during the festivity,” said Sajal Ghosh, general secretary of Santosh Mitra Square puja committee. Santosh Mitra Square, which was the only committee that announced closure of the pandal to visitors even before the Calcutta High Court order, got a special prize. Ten other organisers that took extreme measures to prevent revellers from thronging the pandals were also honoured. Some had also adopted the digital way to showcase their pandals live, while many had tried to have Covid preventive protocols for its visitors in place at the best possible way. “We are happy that the Puja this year was under so much of restriction. Due to this we have not seen the kind of spike in Covid cases happened in Kerala after Onam. We are thankful to organisers who had responded to the appeal,” said ENT specialist Abhik Basu of PTW. Doctors from PTW had visited pandals in and around the city before the festival to check preventive measures the organisers had adopted. Many organisers had adopted preventive measures the doctors had suggested. Out of the 100-odd pandals the PTW members visited, 11, including Santosh Mitra Square, were honoured with ‘Covid Joyee Sharod Samman’ on Saturday. The others were Ahiritola Sarbojanin, Badamtala Ashar Sangho, Ballygunge Samajsebi, Dumdum Park Bharat Chakra, Hatibagan Sarbojanin, Jodhpur Park, Kumartuli Sarbojanin, Saltlake AK Block, Santoshpur Trikon Park and Shivmandir. They also honoured 100 doctors from the state. Principal of ID Hospital Beliaghata, Anima Halder, and doctors Jyotirmoy Pal, Sauren Panja, Sourav Maji and Amitabha Chakraborty were among them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-pandemic-year-responsible-puja-award-makes-its-debut/articleshow/79105064.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 8, 2020||Noida||Noida: Youth posing with gun shoots himself||GREATER NOIDA: A 22-year-old youth died after he accidentally pressed the trigger of a loaded country-made pistol with which he was posing for a selfie. Saurabh Mavi was accompanied by his friend Nakul Sharma, who was driving a Brezza, when the incident happened near Ace City in Noida Extension. Nakul told police that Saurabh, who was from Kheda-Dharmpura village, hhad accidentally pressed the trigger while loading and unloading the gun repeatedly. He told the cops that Saurabh would not have realised that there was a bullet in the chamber Nakul took Saurabh to Sharda Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. Additional DCP (central Noida) Ankur Aggarwal said Nakul had been detained for questioning. “Nakul took him to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The bullet got lodged in the chest,” he added. Police have sent the body for an autopsy and are trying to find out who the gun belonged to. The incident happened around 3pm when Nakul was driving towards a friend’s home in Pi III sector in Greater Noida. The Brezza (UP16BK-3000) belongs to Nakul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/youth-posing-with-gun-shoots-himself/articleshow/79106032.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 8, 2020||Indore||Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh's Sanwer shot up 126% during bypoll campaign||INDORE: Prize bypoll seat Sanwer, which voted on November 3, reported a 126% increase in Covid-19 cases between October 16 and November 1 when campaigning was at its peak. The timing suggests electioneering triggered this surge in infections. The lifting of curbs on outdoor gatherings didn’t help matters, either. The startling figures were revealed during an area-wise analysis of Covid-19 data at the Covid Command Centre (CCC). The data shows Corona cases in Sanwer more than doubled — from 218 to 494 — during this 16-day period. In comparison, Indore district’s Covid count increased by only 8% in the period — from 31,408 on October 16 to 34,119 on November 1. Community medicine expert Dr Rajshekhar Wavare attributes the Sanwer spurt to public gatherings during the election campaign. “Big election rallies are the foremost reason behind this surge in infection,” he said. He warned of another spurt in mid-November because of intensification of campaign in the frantic lead to voting day. “Anyone who comes in contact with a spreader might develop symptoms between seven and 15 days, which is the incubation period of virus,” he pointed out. A senior community medicine professor at MGM Medical College, requesting anonymity, said, “Obviously, the big public gatherings at election rallies in Sanwer are the reason behind this surge.” FIRs were filed for Covid guideline flout in SanwerSanwer assembly constituency, where key Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalist Tulsiram Silawat is seeking re-election after following him to BJP, was one of the most high profile seats in the November 3 bypolls. It was a toothand-nail fight between Congress-turned-BJP leader Silawat and BJPturned-Congress leader Premchand Guddu. And the intensity was clear well before the poll dates were declared. Over a dozen big political rallies were organised by both BJP and Congress. BJP’s Kalash Yatra drew large crowds. Top leaders from both sides campaigned extensively. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia held three rallies, PCC chief Kamal Nath held two and Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh campaigned intensively in the last leg. Half a dozen FIRs for violation of Covid-19 guidelines at election rallies were registered at Sanwer police station and a few litigations were filed in court. Now, the effect of these rallies is showing on the Covid chart. Block medical officer Dr Hemant Raghuwanshi sounded surprised when asked about the reason for the Covid spurt and said, “Generally, the number of new infections has been going down in the district. It’s similar for Sanwer.” But, he was unable to give exact figures. “Health workers have intensified sampling in Sanwer block, from 50-100 a day to around 200, to trace as many positive cases as possible,” Raghuwanshi said, adding that those who attended campaign rallies had been screened properly as part of Cpovid-19 protocol. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-cases-in-madhya-pradeshs-sanwer-shot-up-126-during-bypoll-campaign/articleshow/79107328.cms||Antriksh Singh
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt may defer reopening of schools to December||BENGALURU: The state government is likely to defer the reopening of schools to December amid some worrying news from Andhra Pradesh. A high number of coronavirus infections among teachers and students in Andhra, which reopened schools on November 2, has prompted the Karnataka government to adopt a wait-and-watch approach, said senior officials, who didn’t want to be named. Objections raised by Congress and JD(S) and apprehensions among a section of parents have also influenced the government’s thinking. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy have urged the government not to open schools in a hurry as that would put students and teachers at risk. “These factors have made the government do a rethink. It will see how the situation unfolds in other states before reopening schools in Karnataka. In all likelihood, schools will remain shut till December 1,” said a senior official from the department of public instruction (DPI). Education officials on Saturday completed consultations on the issue with stakeholders such as teachers’ associations, parents and school development and monitoring committees. DPI will now prepare a report incorporating the stakeholders’ suggestions and submit it to chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who is likely to make an announcement by next weekend. Some teachers’ associations favour opening of schools but in a staggered manner or as a trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-may-defer-reopening-of-schools-to-december/articleshow/79107333.cms||Anil Gejji
November 8, 2020||Bhopal||Tribal burned alive for failing to repay Rs 5,000 lockdown loan in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: A 32-year-old tribal was allegedly burnt alive by a farmer in Guna late Friday night because he hadn’t repaid Rs 5,000 borrowed during the Covid-19 lockdown. The victim, Vijay Sahariya, died in hospital on Saturday. A relative recorded his statement on mobile phone just before he died, and the video has since gone viral. The Sahariya are listed as a vulnerable tribal group. Guna SP Rajesh Kumar Singh said Vijay had borrowed some money from a farmer named Radheshyam Lodha of Ukawad Khurd, who was pressuring him to return it. “He asked Vijay to repay the loan by working at his farm. Vijay’s father has lodged a complaint that Lodha doused him with kerosene and set him on fire,” said Singh. Lodha has been arrested and booked for murder and under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. In the short video clip, Vijay is heard naming Lodha. Preliminary investigation revealed that Lodha was into money-lending, say police. Like many others, Vijay was left jobless during the Covcid-19 lockdown and had borrowed money on interest from Lodha to meet his daily expenses. He even started working on Lodha’s agricultural land so that he could return the money, say police. After almost two months, when Vijay asked him for wages deducting the borrowed money, Lodha refused to pay. This triggered an argument between them. Guna collector gives Rs 20,000 aid to the family. On Friday night, when Vijay went to collect money, Lodha got furious and beat him. “When he fell on the ground, he went inside his house to get kerosene. Vijay had no chance of escape,” his family members told police. Hearing Vijay scream, villagers rushed to the spot and tried to douse the fire but his burns proved fatal. Guna collector Kumar Purshottam extended a financial aid of Rs 20,000 to the family to perform last rites, and said they will get all the necessary support under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tribal-burned-alive-for-failing-to-repay-rs-5000-lockdown-loan-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/79107329.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM announces festival advance for state staff||BHOPAL: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday announced festival advance and arrears to state government employees ahead of Diwali. Orders have been issued to pay 25% of the third installment of the 7th pay commission and Rs 10,000 to Class IV employees as festival advance. Chouhan announced that a decision has been taken for payment of medical expenses of Covid-19-infected government employees and their dependents too. The CM hinted at a hike in salary of state employees soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cm-announces-festival-advance-for-state-staff/articleshow/79107339.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Indore||Cracker crackdown in Madhya Pradesh's Dewas over deities’ pics||INDORE: Dewas district administration has launched a drive to seize firecrackers with photographs of gods and goddesses and those of Chinese origin after banning its sale under Section 144 of CrPC. The action came a day after videos went viral showing men wearing saffron scarves threatening shopkeepers against selling crackers with pictures of gods and goddesses. Dewas collector Chandramauli Shukla said, “We have banned the sale of Chinese crackers and firecrackers with pictures of any deity under Section 144 of CrPC. The ban is being enforced.” Two days ago, the state government had warned of two years’ imprisonment for sale and use of Chinese crackers, and asked people not to use crackers that have pictures of gods and goddesses. Additional chief secretary, home, Rajesh Rajora, had explained that day it was an “appeal to people and not a ban”. On Saturday, a joint team of administrative and police officials led by tehsildar Poonam Tomar and Kotwali police station in-charge Umrao Singh carried out searches at some firecracker shops on Jaiprakash Road. Crackdown after alleged threat video went viralThey seized 75 boxes of firecrackers having images of gods and goddesses. They had been stored in the kitchen at the trader’s residence, which is extremely risky. “We have seized the firecrackers and handed them over to the Kotwali police. Appropriate action will be taken soon” said Tomar, adding the drive will continue. Shopkeepers will be prosecuted under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) if they don’t follow the ban on such crackers. Action may also be initiated under the Explosives Act, sources said. District collector Shukla said local shopkeepers have agreed and put up notice boards outside their outlets that they are not selling China-made firecrackers or those with images of deities. “Our teams are also visiting all fireworks shops to ensure law and order is maintained,” he said. The Dewas administration’s crackdown comes soon after viral videos emerged of alleged saffron activists threatening firecracker traders of minority community and warning them of dire consequences if they sold any firework having images of deities on it. The authorities say they haven’t got any formal complaint against the people issuing the threats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cracker-crackdown-in-madhya-pradeshs-dewas-over-deities-pics/articleshow/79107345.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: PCB study into pollution impact on people of Nagda||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh pollution control board (MPPCB) has initiated an in-depth investigation into the impact of air and water pollution on people living in 20 villages in the small industrial town of Nagda in Ujjain district. Track the pollution level in your cityThis comes after various studies, complaints and assembly questions on fears of the impact of industrial pollution on the health of people in the region. It’s feared that pollution may be causing a disproportionate number of mental and physical disabilities. MPPCB is getting ICMR and National Institute for Research in Environmental Health (NIREH) to study air and groundwater pollution in areas within 10km radius of Nagda. The survey is to be completed by January 10, 2021. The National Green Tribunal has been hearing multiple complaints of industrial pollution of this town. In October 2019, NGT had come down heavily on the state government and MPPCB over undue delay in submission of a report on an allegation that pollution from some industries was contaminating water and damaging the environment and public health. NGT had asked the member secretary, PCB, to be present with the report, and warned that if there’s further delay, the tribunal would have to take ‘coercive measures’, including issuance of warrants for enforcement of the order. ‘Will take harsh action if cos fail to comply with safety norms’Submitting its reply, MPPCB had maintained that ample measures were being taken by the department to monitor the situation and remedial measures were on to ensure zero effluent discharge by these companies. MPPCB officials admitted, however, that dissolved solids, hardness and chlorides were found to be above standard parameters in water samples of surrounding residential areas — Durgapura, Ajimabad, Pardhi, Takrawada, Amlavadiya, Bhatisuda, Nayan, Mehtawas. Samples were collected from borewell and hand pumps. “We are conducting a study of the region. Our pledge is to ensure zero discharge and companies are cooperating. Harsh action would be taken if the companies fail to comply with safety norms,” said A A Mishra, member secretary MPPCB. It is alleged that in villages like Pawarkheda, every second house has a disabled member. The concern has been raised with the central ministry also. In 2019, pollution in River Chambal due to effluents from factories was taken up in Lok Sabha. Central Pollution Control Board has identified the stretch of Chambal from Nagda to Rampura as a polluted one. The state PCB had prepared an action plan for rejuvenation of the river in 2018. A joint of CPCB, state PCB and representatives nominated by MP had conducted a survey of the region on January 7, 2020. They found that the water near Parmer Khedi village was not fit for irrigation as high levels of mercury were found in six of the samples. Most of the samples were found unfit for drinking. A study by CSIR-NEERI, Hyderabad, in 2018 had found high concentrations of lead in a 5km radius of a factory. Two years later, a CPCB report said this unit and another had “achieved zero liquid discharge”. However, the same report found high levels of sulphate in water samples. Senior officials at MPPCB say industries in Nagda have made big changes over the last two years in easing pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-pcb-study-into-pollution-impact-on-people-of-nagda/articleshow/79107353.cms||P Naveen
November 8, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida to get first underpass at Kisan Chowk||GREATER NOIDA: To handle the growing traffic needs, the Greater Noida Authority is mulling over a proposal to construct the city’s first underpass at the busy Kisan Chowk. The underpass would link the Bisrakh-Ghaziabad route directly and facilitate seamless traffic movement between Noida and Greater Noida (west), officials said. Since Kisan Chowk acts as a vital link for commuters heading towards Ghaziabad, Meerut and Hapur via Delhi-Meerut Expressway, the stretch remains congested through the day and the condition worsens during the morning and evening peak hours. Also, the presence of scores of apartment complexes, including Gaur City, has led to massive growth in the vehicule population. In November last year, the Greater Noida Authority had appointed state-run RITES to prepare a holistic plan to handle the growing traffic needs of the city. As a solution to the traffic woes plaguing the Noida–Greater Noida (west) stretch via Vikas Marg, the consultant has recommended the construction of an underpass at the stretch. Additional CEO of the Greater Noida Authority Deep Chandra said that the report submitted by the consultant “is being examined” and a decision will be taken after Diwali. RITES had been asked to study the traffic issues at five busy crossings in Greater Noida and come up with solutions to fix the problems on an urgent basis. The traffic cell of Noida police has unsuccessfully experimented at the stretch by blocking entry at the rotary from different ends. Commuters heading to Gaur City from Bisrakh have to take a U-turn to negotiate the stretch since permanent barricades have been set up at the Kisan Chowk rotary to block the direct traffic movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/gr-noida-to-get-1st-underpass-at-kisan-chowk/articleshow/79106562.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Ghaziabad||‘Car-free’ plan for 17 pollution hotspots in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: To check vehicular pollution, the district administration is planning to turn several parts of the city into car-free zones. Track the pollution level in your cityIt has identified 17 pollution hotspots and is conducting a survey to identify prominent marketplaces that are prone to pollution — all of which will be declared as car-free zones. “With the situation worsening in the district, we are devising ways to check independent pollution sources. Vehicles are one of the major sources,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. “To deal with that, an idea was mooted in a meeting held on Saturday. The possibility of declaring pollution hotspots as car-free zones was declared and everyone agreed that it is worth trying” added Pandey. The UP pollution control department and the RTO have been tasked with identifying vehicular pollution hotspots. “In a recently conducted survey, we had identified 17 vehicular pollution hotspots and now we have to identify busy marketplaces where people tend to drive and shop,” said Pandey. “It will be a prerequisite in marketplaces, where we plan to make car-free zones, there should be a parking space within a kilometre. This would mean that people would park their cars and walk down the marketplace. This way, we can keep vehicular pollution near hotspots at bay,” added Pandey. The district administration plans to put the plan in motion from Tuesday before the festive season shopping kicks in. Pandey also pointed out that there is a state government advisory, according to which it discourages residents to use cars within 500m-radius of their houses. “Car-free zones after being identified will be implemented from Tuesday and we plan to continue with it till this month and if results are encouraging, it will be extended,” said Pandey. A TERI report on pollution source appropriation in NCR in 2018 found that vehicular pollution is a prime contributor. “According to the report, vehicular pollution in winter contributes 30% of PM2.5 and 18% of PM10 pollutants,” said Vikrant Sharma, a city-based environmentalist “Though the study is not specifically for Ghaziabad, it gives a hint of how much vehicular pollution contributes in the area and the idea of car-free zones around pollution hotspots should be given a try,” added Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/car-free-plan-for-17-pollution-hotspots-in-gzb/articleshow/79106571.cms||Abhijay Jha
November 8, 2020||Bhopal||HRC seeks report from Madhya Pradesh govt on doctor suicide||JABALPUR/BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh human rights commission (MPHRC) on Saturday sought a report from the chief secretary and other authorities on the suicide of a junior doctor, allegedly due to ragging, at Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College and Hospital, Jabalpur, on October 1. Two days ago, local police had registered an FIR against five senior doctors of the hospital abetment to suicide. The victim, 26-year-old Bhagwat Dewangan, was found hanging in his hostel room on the evening of October 1. He was from Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh and had taken admission in a PG course last year. His family alleged murder. Police took the help of forensic experts in the investigation. Five doctors — Vikas Dwivedi, Salman Khan, Aman Gautam, Subham Shinde and Abhishek — were booked for allegedly ragging Dewangan and driving him to the brink. Garha police station incharge, Vinay Bundela said, “Police parties are being sent out to look for the accused. There are no arrests yet.” The victim’s elder brother, Prahlad, told TOI that he had attempted suicide on June 24, too, and had filed a complaint with the anti-ragging committee on July 15, but no action was taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hrc-seeks-report-from-madhya-pradesh-govt-on-doctor-suicide/articleshow/79107383.cms||---
November 8, 2020||India||Booze scam ‘kingpin’ gets bail because of ‘mental illness’||CHANDIGARH: The Panipat district court has ordered the release of Ashok Jain, chairman of the group worth Rs 1,300-crore that owns N V Distillery and one of the alleged kingpins of Haryana’s liquor scam, for around a month on bail considering his “mental illness” and “suicidal tendencies”. Jain had sought interim release for a month on the grounds that he has a bipolar personality and suffers from an anxiety disorder and panic attacks. He has suicidal tendencies and psychotherapy and psychosocial intervention is being carried out. “Keeping in view the medical condition of the applicant, it will be in the interest of justice if the applicant is released on interim bail. The doctor present in the court has stated that at least three weeks shall be required for providing requisite treatment to the applicant. On his request… the applicant is ordered to be released on interim bail for a period of three weeks,” observed additional sessions judge Vimal Sapra. The accused has been told to surrender on December 2. As the prosecution failed to rebut Jain’s contentions regarding medical conditions, the judge also observed, “The prosecution although filed to reply to the application but there is no whisper in it about the medical condition of the applicant (sic). It has nowhere been verified by the prosecution that the applicant is not suffering from such illness as described by his doctor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/booze-scam-kingpin-gets-bail-because-of-mental-illness/articleshow/79107397.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Check BBMP website to get project details||BENGALURU: To know the civic project being taken up in a locality and the money spent on it, you now need to go to the BBMP website and click on a new feature called Citizen Zone. It will provide details about roads, drains and other civil works being undertaken in each ward and the money spent on them since June 2015. The civic agency said it is in the process of uploading latest information on infrastructure projects to bring in transparency in their execution. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad on Saturday said: “People are constantly complaining about lack of transparency in development works being undertaken in wards. We now want to ensure everyone is aware of what’s happening in their area.” Citizens can view details of job code, estimates, work order, measurement book, photographs of the work done, payment made or under process at various stages and all other information uploaded by contractors and officials during and after completion of works. Citizens can post feedback/ comments against each work, anonymously if they want to. The objective of this is also to reduce the load on BBMP with regard to information being sought under the Right to Information Act. “The Palike receives nearly 150 RTI queries daily — and most are about ward development and other civil works,” Prasad pointed out. Tulasi Madineni, special commissioner (finance), has created a new dock in the BBMP website where people can log in and type in their ward number, and the respective civil works will be displayed. “Projects from 2015 have been updated and soon we will give information about new ones too,” the official said. BBMP administrator Gaurav Gupta said: “Every time a project is taken up, we will immediately put up its details on the website. People are free to give suggestions or raise queries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-check-bbmp-website-to-get-project-details/articleshow/79107419.cms||---
November 8, 2020||India||Indian teens rank low on BMI, among the shortest: Study||MUMBAI: While authorities claim Indian children are not as malnourished or stunted as they used to be until a decade ago, a global analysis of data spanning 34 years from 200 countries ranked India at the 196th place with respect to BMI (body mass index). The normal BMI ranges between 20 and 25. The country’s 19-year-old boys and girls have a BMI of 20.1 compared with, say, China that ranks 88th with its boys having a BMI of 23 and 119th for its girls at 22.2. As BMI is a function of height, the corollary is that Indian teens are also among the shortest in the world. The review, published in the international medical journal ‘The Lancet’ on Thursday, said India’s boys ranked 180th with an average height of 5.46 feet while girls ranked 182th with an average height of 5.06 feet. China performed better with regards to height as well. Its 19-year-old boys today were 8cm taller than they were in 1985, with their global rank changing from 150th tallest in 1985 to 65th in 2019. China’s 19-year-olds, on an average, are 5.76-foot tall; Chinese girls were 54th on the global chart, with an average height of 5.35 feet. “Poor nutrition in school years may have created a 20cm height gap across nations,” said the analysis led by Imperial College London. This 20cm difference between 19-year-olds in the tallest and shortest nations represented an eight-year growth gap for girls and a six-year growth gap for boys, said the study’s authors. “For instance, the study revealed that the average 19-year-old girl in Bangladesh and Guatemala (the nations with the world’s shortest girls) is the same height as an average 11-year-old girl in the Netherlands, the nation with the tallest boys and girls,” said the authors in a statement . They listed highly variable childhood nutrition, especially a lack of quality food, as the reason for stunted growth and for a rise in childhood obesity, affecting a child's health and wellbeing for their entire life. Experts in India blamed malnutrition caused either due to a liking for nutritionally-deficient fast foods in urban areas or due to poverty in rural India. “There is a great disparity in height and weight in various regions of India, the biggest denominators being urban and rural habitat and socio economic statum,” said Delhi-based endocrinologist Dr Anoop Misra. He said rural children in India had poor nutrition because of low protein and essential micronutrient intake, while urban children hailing from upper socio-economic strata have excess carbohydrates and saturated fats. “The former have low BMI and insufficient height, and latter have better height and BMI and many of them are obese,” added Dr Misra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-teens-rank-low-on-bmi-among-the-shortest-study/articleshow/79107422.cms||Malathy Iyer
November 8, 2020||World||Kamala’s native village ready for cracker of a Diwali||THULASENDRAPURAM: For the people of Thulasendrapuram village in Tiruvarur district, preparations for Diwali seem to be secondary. Their primary concern is celebrating the victory of Democratic Party vice-presidential candidate Kamala Harris in the US election, whose maternal grandfather was a native of the village. Though the village catapulted to limelight when Kamala’s nomination was announced in August, it was after the US presidential elections began that anxiety gripped the villagers thinking about her prospects. Special pujas for her family deity, Sri Dharma Sastha, at the eponymous temple in the village, annadhanam and rangolis were some of the activities carried out by the people since then. The villagers have ramped up preparations for celebrating Kamala’s victory. “I have got firecrackers ready. As soon as the results are out, there will be a huge celebration,” said S Vijayan, 40. A native of a 300-year-old agraharam (colony of Brahmin residents), former Indian diplomat P V Gopalan was the grandfather of Kamala. She was born to Donald Harris and Shyamala Gopalan in California. Grocery shop owner G Subramani, 60, said, “Whether we know their family or not, it is a matter of pride for us that her grandfather was from our village.” R Amirthavalli, 47, has vowed to offer pujas at some temples including that of her family deity. “There is nothing much to think about celebrating her victory. She has roots in our village. That’s it. We don’t expect anything from her,” she said. None of the contemporaries of either Gopalan or his daughter Shyamala resides in the village now. Admitting that they have no clue about Kamala’s family, the villagers expressed joy at having a woman connected to their village figuring in an election in the world’s most powerful country. None of them had any idea about the present ownership of Kamala’s ancestral property at Otha street in East agraharam. “I never heard about their family until her nomination for the election was made in August,” said 55-year-old R Vijayakumar of the village. S V Ramanan, 70, is the only resident who knows little about Gopalan’s family from what he heard from his father R Seshadri. Being the administrator of the family deity temple of Gopalan, he is in touch with Kamala’s aunt Dr Sarala Gopalan in Chennai. “Their family regularly donates to the temple. On behalf of Kamala also, her aunt donated funds during the latest consecration in 2014,” said Ramanan, adding he used to send prasadham to Dr Sarala whenever she called for conducting pujas in the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/kamalas-native-village-ready-for-cracker-of-a-diwali/articleshow/79107446.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 8, 2020||Noida||Same village names, neighbours: New homes like old for airport displaced||GREATER NOIDA: In another eight months, the new township in Jewar Bangar is expected to be ready. The Yamuna Expressway Authority recently floated over half a dozen tenders to commission work for developing the township, which is critical to the timely handover of land for the Jewar airport project because it's where the 3,600 displaced families will be rehabilitated. Officials said the township will be divided into seven pockets and each will be named after the seven rural settlements of three of the six villages — Rohi, Kishorepur and Dayanatpur — acquired for the construction of an international airport in Jewar. Of a total of nearly 8,000 affected families, 3,627 will have to be rehabilitated. In the other three villages — Ranhera, Parohi and Banwaribas — only agricultural fields are coming under the impact of the airport project. Rohi consists of the rural settlements of Rohi, Nagla Ganeshi and Nagla Phoola Khan. Kishorepur will be the least affected with only 46 houses in the village coming under the impact of the project. Similarly, Dayanatpur consists of Dayanatpur Khera, Nagla Sharif and Nagla Chitar. A total of 2,660 houses will be razed during the construction work in the seven settlements. YEIDA CEO Arun Vir Singh said, “We will give developed plots in the seven pockets of Jewar Bangar. Tenders to commission various development work have been issued and the township shall be ready in six to eight months.” To maintain social cohesion and bonding among the villagers, YEIDA will set up seven pockets and name them after the seven affected rural settlements of Rohi, Kishorepur and Dayanatpur. “Also we will try to provide the same neighbourhood. Close relatives and neighbours shall be given plots in the same block if they are inclined to stay close to each other,” said Shailendra Bhatia, OSD to YEIDA. While husband and wife are considered a single family under the Land Acquisition Act, unmarried children over the age of 18 are counted as a separate unit or family. “That is how you see a huge difference among houses being affected (2,660) and plots being offered (3,627),” added another official. The villagers are also happy with the move since they would continue to stay close to their neighbours. “We have spent generations together. Unlike highrises where neighbours are not even aware of each other’s names, in villages we stand by each other during celebrations as well as tragedies,” said Kallan from Nagla Sharif who gave up eight bighas of agricultural land for the project. During the social impact assessment surveys, villagers had expressed the desire to stay with each other in the new colony. The seven pockets in Jewar Bangar will be developed at a cost of Rs 238 crore. The latest tender was issued by YEIDA on November 5 for the construction of three tubewells in order to supply water to the households. The plots will be handed over once water pipelines, water tanks, sewerage lines, electric lines, parks, roads and footpaths are developed, along with hospital, college, school, mosque, temple and other amenities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/same-village-names-neighbours-new-homes-like-old-for-airport-displaced/articleshow/79105972.cms||Shalabh
November 8, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Mom throws 4-year-old from 17th floor, jumps to death||GREATER NOIDA: A 26-year-old woman allegedly threw her four-year-old son from the 17th-floor balcony of their flat in Supertech Ecovillage in Noida Extension and then jumped to death on Saturday morning. Minutes earlier, she had thrown a bowl of hot oil on the face of her sister-in-law. Priyanka Tyagi lived in the Supertech flat with her husband Nishant and their son Divyansh. Her sister-in-law Reema (17) had come to live with them after her Class XII exams were over. Nishant was not at home when Priyanka jumped off the balcony around 8.15am — he had gone to his hometown in Moradabad. Neighbours quoted Reema and said the 17-year-old had just woken up when Priyanka called her to the kitchen and threw the hot oil on her, grievously burning her face. There was no immediate clarity on whether any argument had preceded the attack. Police are still trying to piece together the sequence of events. But it is suspected that soon after Reema ran out of the house to seek help from neighbours, Priyanka went to the room where her son was sleeping and jumped off the balcony after throwing him to the ground. Little Divyansh first hit a tin shade just below the balcony before landing on the green belt at the base of the tower where the Tyagis lived. “His mother then jumped to her death. Both the bodies lay face down, oozing blood. We informed police, but both the mother and her son had died on the spot,” a neighbour said. Reema, who had run out of the house screaming after Priyanka poured hot oil on her, was taken by neighbours to the nearby Sumitra Hospital. Her parents and brother were then informed. “Reema told us that when she woke up, Priyanka was sweeping the floor. She then called the 17-year-old to the kitchen. After the oil was thrown at her, Reema ran out of the house screaming for help. Our door was bolted from outside as I had gone to get milk. When I returned, I saw that her face had burnt. We rushed her to a hospital,” the neighbour said. Reema, who lives with her mother in Ghaziabad, had come to stay with her brother Nishant recently. Priyanka’s parents-in-law said they had no idea what could have driven her to take such a harsh step. Priyanka’s parents have, however, alleged that their daughter would be harassed by her husband and parents-in-law. They have also urged police to scan footage of all CCTV cameras installed near the tower, saying their daughter could not have jumped on her own. Later in the evening, Priyanka’s father lodged a police complaint. Additional DCP (central Noida) Ankur Aggarwal said it was unlikely that Priyanka had been murdered. “There were only three persons in the house and one of them had run out. The other was her son. And the possibility of another person coming into the house seems remote. It seems the motive was to kill herself. There could have been an argument or an old dispute might have cropped up,” the officer added. Nishant, a private firm employee, has been detained for questioning. Meanwhile, the autopsies on both the bodies have revealed multiple fractures and organ damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/mom-throws-4-year-old-from-17th-floor-jumps-to-death/articleshow/79105807.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 8, 2020||Gurgaon||How logistics and technology are changing the way customers buy||By: Shivaji Dasgupta From an unexposed intermediary to a technology-enabled entrepreneur, the solo retailer has certainly come a long way. The way they sell is changing rapidly and this is vitally transforming the way we buy. Customers are self-curating a hybrid offline-online protocol that is rooted equally in culture and convenience, leading to sustainable consumerism. Most recently, my work with three varying entities has firmed this hypothesis of integrated technology. Nikhil Agarwal of Z1N Capital, who passionately espouses the philosophy of Dukan Tech, has been experimenting with business models which make the elephant prance like a deer, as an economy and as individuals. Rakesh Kaul of Somany Home Innovation Limited has been a diligent pioneer in e-commerce and responsible for significant innovative acts. Kumar Saha and Viresh Oberoi of nextdoorhub.com are committed to empower every stakeholder — seller, buyer and manufacturer. It is certainly true that the quality and efficiency of delivery are defining this relationship with a lessening role of historical equity. During the lockdown, only those brands with robust supply chains could ably support the customers and this has led to “Duress Loyalty” — where customers are willing and able to forgo desirable, emotional and imagery benefits for the core transactional values. Technology can play a crucial role in pre-verifying inventory, so that the discovery process is seamless and brands do not suffer from dissonance. The seamless marriage of choice and convenience is a key driver for Dukan Tech as customers do not have to wait for what they really want. But the good news for brands is that preference can be made to count as long as products are available. This can well lead to the “Representative Distribution” model, where companies place products in a few outlets as opposed to maximum penetration. A blessing equally for MSME or bespoke manufacturers who do not have historical field force muscularity. An underrated aspect of dealer empowerment is dealer collectivism, under an identical platform. Which in turn means a robust and concerted voice against unfair trade practices, as the country is no longer divided into isolated pockets. This holds true for customers as well and it will just take a few R&D moments to convert any Dukan Tech platform to a unified customer voice. It will be easy for customers to talk to each other and both dealers and corporations to listen and react as this becomes a merged retail reality platform. It would be interesting to see how the mindset of the retailer evolves, as he becomes a hub and not just an intermediary. Over time, a knowledge satrap marrying insight to data and thus creating matchwinner demand predictions. While his role as an influencer gets significantly enhanced, as he can educate his curious customers from a much wider and indeed global perspective. Companies will seek newer and more potent bridges with this community, to fulfil the real potential of meaningful influence. Another compelling sidelight of the Dukan Tech evolution will be the enhanced participation of senior citizens and children, whose movements are restricted by choice or decree. The canvas will now be wide open and in the age of digital money, latent demand can be fulfilled with great gusto. In far flung areas, this will also include women and this inorganic growth will certainly keep businesses very interested. Most certainly, the marketing communication strategies will change as micro marketing takes on an integrated avatar. The serviceable radius being the target segment for acquisition and growth, reachable through the transaction platforms as well as other innovative conduits. Imagery formation may well occur elsewhere but the final mile for conversion and retention is clearly the solo retail outpost. In the end, it is not quite the last mile but actually the final frontier. Where logistics, culture and technology converge to make customers happy, manufacturers happier and retailers happiest. (The author is Managing Director, Inexgro Brand Advisory)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/how-logistics-and-technology-are-changing-the-way-customers-buy/articleshow/79106122.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata gets 130 more beds as state turns Jadavpur hospital into Covid unit||KOLKATA: The city has got one more dedicated Covid hospital with the state government converting KS Roy TB Hospital in Jadavpur as a 130-bedded Covid facility with 50 HDU beds (high dependency unit). The health department has also taken up a massive augmentation drive to add more HDU beds to cater to Covid patients across 20 hospitals in the state. While the overall bed occupancy in government Covid hospitals currently is just about 34%, the hospitals in Kolkata have 72% occupancy. “And most of the vacant beds are general beds as patients nowadays prefer to stay at home unless they get moderate to severe symptoms. So, we had to convert a part of these general beds into HDU and ICU beds so that we can cater to more patients who come for hospital care,” said a senior health department official. The city will have 175 more HDU beds across four hospitals — 52 at MR Bangur Hospital, 50 at KS Roy TB Hospital, 50 at CNCI Rajarhat and 23 at NRS Medical College and Hospital. An HDU is a step-down unit of an ICU bed with facilities like oxygen support for a patient. Currently, most of the Covid patients are coming to hospital only when they feel breathlessness. “HDU beds will come very handy in treating patients who need oxygen therapy,” said SSKM gastroenterology head GK Dhali. The doctor, who has been deployed as officer on special duty (OSD) to combat Covid by the health department, said he had pointed out and told doctors in few hospitals to regularly monitor these patients. The OSD has also suggested to the health department that ESI Hospital Joka — a teaching hospital with 500 beds — be taken over as a dedicated Covid facility. The hospital has 100 ICU beds that could cater to patients not only from South 24 Parganas but also from parts of Kolkata. “What we are observing nowadays is that only patients with co-morbid conditions and respiratory distress are coming to the hospital. We had anticipated a huge rush of patients after Durga Puja. Thankfully, that has not happened. But the demand for HDU and ICU beds is on the rise while many general beds are empty. Now, we are equipped with 50 more HDU beds in addition to our existing 50 critical care beds,” said an official at the 425-bedded CNCI. Among the other hospitals close to the city, College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Karamhati will also get 25 more HDU beds. The 500-bedded Covid hospital currently has 18 critical care beds and 25 HDU beds. North 24 Parganas is only second to Kolkata in terms of number of Covid-infected patients. Being the biggest Covid facility, currently it has an occupancy of 46%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-gets-130-more-beds-as-state-turns-jadavpur-hosp-into-cov-unit/articleshow/79105056.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Bureaucrat’s houses, office searched||BENGALURU: Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths on Saturday searched the houses and office of B Sudha, senior KAS officer and assistant director (IT & BT). Led by ACB SP Kuldeep Kumar Jain, officials split into teams and carried out searches at seven places — her palatial bungalow in Tindlu near Kodigehalli, her flat in Shivanahalli near Yelahanka, her office in Shantinagar, houses at Doddaballapura, Mysuru, Udupi and the residence of her close friend at Byatarayanapura on Ballari Road. Sudha was earlier BDA’s special officer for land acquisition. ACB officials said the searches were carried out following a court direction. A private complaint filed in court accused Sudha of amassing wealth beyond her known sources of income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-bureaucrats-houses-office-searched/articleshow/79107479.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Rs 35 crore to be set aside to conserve wildlife near Jewar||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) has decided to set up a corpus of Rs 35 crore to look after the animals, birds and other wildlife that will be affected once the construction and development work begins at the airport site in Jewar. Officials said provisions are being made to set aside Rs 25 crore from YEIDA’s budget while the remaining Rs 10 crore will be raised through corporates. Sketching elaborate plans to protect the affected species, the YEIDA has decided to set up a rescue centre and a veterinary hospital under its jurisdiction. Besides the two facilities, a portion of the building will be used as a monitoring centre through which noise pollution levels along with environmental parameters will be examined. CEO of the authority, Arun Vir Singh, said that a meeting with Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India has been scheduled next week to discuss the finer points and prepare a blueprint. “We will float tenders or invite prominent animal care societies or NGOs to work with us to implement the conservation plan. We have set aside a budget for establishing an animal rescue centre and hospital,” said Singh. As the institute has recommended considering 25 km around the airport site as the ‘impact area’, the YEIDA has also sought details of the equipment, devices, technology and resources required for long-term animal and bird care. Singh said that Rs 25 crore will be spent on construction of the rescue and monitoring centre while Rs 10 crore will be utilised to equip it with latest technology and resources. “The population in this region will also grow substantially in the next five to seven years. The facility will be also be used to provide trauma and emergency care to animals in the entire region,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/rs-35-crore-to-be-set-aside-to-conserve-wildlife-near-jewar/articleshow/79105997.cms||Shalabh
November 8, 2020||Gurgaon||RWAs: Demolition waste dumping rampant in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: As blanket of dust and smog surrounded the city, the residents of several housing societies have expressed grave concern over the rampant dumping of construction and demolition (C&D) waste in their areas. They have sought immediate action to deal with the dust pollution citing the spike of pollutants in the air. The residents raised the issue of illegal dumping of C&D waste in many areas, especially Golf Course Road (Extension), Nathupur, DLF-3, Sunset Boulevard Road and Sector 65, which is causing serious health issues among children and elderly people. They alleged that several complaints were made to the authorities but no permanent relief provided to them. Amit Choudhary, RWA president, Palm Drive in Sector 66, said, “There is a continuous illegal dumping of C&D waste along the roadside and green belt area. Even several incidents of open garbage burning are being reported from here, still no serious inspections have been done by the civic authority.” The residents claimed that after repeated complaints to the concerned authorities, the C&D waste was cleared, however, soon after that the illegal dumping resumed in many areas. Meanwhile, a Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) official maintained that an intensive drive to keep a check on illegal dumping of C&D waste is underway across the city. “We are already taking prompt action against such complaints,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/rwas-demolition-waste-dumping-rampant-in-gurgaon/articleshow/79106744.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Drug network run from Oz busted, 4 held with Rs 27cr heroin||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana unit of Special Task Force (STF) nabbed four men, including a former sarpanch, with 5.39kg heroin worth Rs 27 crore, three illegal weapons with live cartridges, Rs 21 lakh drug money and eight high-end cars. According to STF, these smugglers are a part of an international organised drug network being operated from Australia. The arrested accused are identified as Gurdeep Singh Rano, a former sarpanch of Rano village in Payal area, Ravej of Mahavir Colony, Iqal Singh of Payal area and Randeep Singh of Khanna. STF officials said Gurdeep was the main smuggler, who owned all the high-end cars and made a lot of property by smuggling drugs. IG (STF) Balkar Singh said the seized weapons were a .315 bore rifle with cartridges, 12 bore pump action gun and .32 bore revolver with cartridges. Eight cars seized from Gurdeep were a Toyota Fortuner, Audi Q7, two Toyota Innova cars, two BMW cars, one Mercedes Benz and one Jaguar. The official said the accused are a part of a high-level international organised drug network being run by Tanveer Singh Bedi of Barnala settled in Australia. Tanveer is also wanted by the STF Border Range in 197.8 kg heroin seizure of January 29, 2020. On October 29, Ludhiana STF had recovered 28kg heroin and 6kg ice drug. Tanveer was wanted in that case too. All these consignments belonged to the same network headed by Tanveer. An STF official said Gurdeep is a high-profile person who has good relations with politicians too. He had hired some bouncers too. He used to smuggle drugs in the high-end cars as police did not stop these vehicles at checkposts. Further STF is also checking the properties owned by the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/drug-network-run-from-oz-busted-4-held-with-rs-27cr-heroin/articleshow/79106253.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Payment con: Youth held for duping traders in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 25-year-old man from the city who allegedly tricked shopowners, including jewellers, in Bengaluru and other parts of the country with fake payment receipts has been arrested on cheating charges. Vishal R is a resident of KG Nagar in Doddaballapura and belongs to Bidar. Police said he was pursuing MBA at a college near Yelahanka but dropped out around two years ago. Investigators said the accused adopted a novel way to dupe traders. Vishal would pose as a techie, income tax officer or a wealthy person and purchase costly items like high-end mobile phones or gold ornaments. He would gain shopowners’ confidence with his elegant dressing style and eloquence. After choosing the items, Vishal would ask for the shopowner’s bank account number, saying he would pay through National Electronic Funds Transfer. Then he would resort to trickery, said deputy commissioner of police (northeast) CK Baba. “Vishal would act like he had initiated the payment through NEFT. But instead of making the payment, he would fill the amount and other details in a payment confirmation receipt template already saved on his mobile phone. He would show that to the merchant, who would assume the amount has been remitted into his account. While pretending to key in the shopowner’s bank account number, Vishal would quickly edit the template and write the trader’s name and a message saying the amount has been transferred.” “Vishal’s template had the date, time, amount spent on the purchase, shopowner’s name and account details. It looked original,” said Baba. Many merchants would trust Vishal after seeing the fake receipt. “He would leave the shop immediately. The con would come to light when the shopowner checked his bank account,” police said. However, not all traders fell prey to his tactics. Many would tell Vishal they would hand over the items only after getting a message on the money having being transferred. “At such times, Vishal would say he will come back after 10 minutes and walk out leaving the goods behind,” an officer said. With cash in hand, Vishal would travel to places in Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “He would stay in posh hotels and visit jewellers to con them in the same fashion. Probe revealed Vishal had stolen gold ornaments in Jaipur, Nizamabad and Vijayawada. We have contacted our counterparts from these states, asking them to share more information on the cases,” an officer said. Till now, Vishal is facing seven cases, including three in Bengaluru. “We suspect his involvement in more cases,” police said. Cops have recovered 252 grams of gold ornaments worth Rs 12.8 lakh from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/payment-con-youth-held-for-duping-traders-in-bengaluru/articleshow/79107502.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
November 8, 2020||Gurgaon||523 new Covid cases reported in Gurugram, tally nears 34,000||GURUGRAM: The city reported 523 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. Gurugram’s Covid tally now stands at 33,778. The health department said 451 people recovered from the infection on Saturday, bringing the total number of recoveries to 28,920. An official said that person succumbed to the infection in the past 24 hours. Till date, 225 people have died of Covid-19 in the city, of whom 170 had comorbidities. The district has been witnessing a rise in Covid cases again since Oct 21. The daily positivity rate is around 15%. On Saturday, 22 people were sent to institutional quarantine facilities. The district has a total of 4,562 active cases, of which 4,261 are in home isolation. The health authorities have collected 3,722 samples in the past 24 hours for antigen and RT-PCR tests. So far, 3,81,730 people have been put under surveillance in the district. The health department has sent 3,78,414 samples for testing, of which 3,40,914 turned out to be negative, while the results of 2,545 are still awaited. The city had on Friday witnessed the highest single-day spike with 704 fresh Covid cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/523-new-covid-cases-reported-in-gurgaon-tally-nears-34000/articleshow/79106746.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Amritsar||‘Will not sit quiet till all missing saroops are traced’||AMRITSAR: Protest continued near the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) office over the issue of 328 missing saroops of Sri Guru Granth Sahib (SGGS). Akal Takht former jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh asked acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal to reveal the whereabouts of the missing saroops or “else face the wrath of panth”. Panthic Akali Lehar president Ranjit Singh Ranjit Singh and his supporters staged a sit-in near the Akal Takht secretariat demanding answers on the questions raised by the advocate Ishwar Singh’s investigation report in the matter. Later, addressing the gathering Ranjit alleged that a few former and incumbent senior officials of SGPC were behind the “missing saroops theory”. He alleged that a former senior official of SGPC had gone to Canada to handover a pen drive with digitised copy of SGGS for printing the saroops matching the SGPC official version. Ranjit said, “Panth need to know the persons who are pulling strings behind the curtain and we have to expose them.” He added that not only the saroops were missing but also several handwritten rare saroops and rehatnamas. “A manager-level employee of SGPC can’t give holy saroops on its own to anyone,” said he. SGPC was quick to file FIRs against persons sitting on dharna in front of its office demanding to know the whereabout of saroops but cannot act against the persons held guilty in the probe report, he alleged. He said he wouldn’t sit quiet but continue to rake up the issue of missing saroops till each and every saroop was not accounted for. He also alleged the original investigation report was tempered with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/will-not-sit-quiet-till-all-missing-saroops-are-traced/articleshow/79106262.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gets 1,467 new smart schools||CHANDIGARH: Even as he distributed 2,625 tablets to students in 372 primary government schools, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday launched Mission Shat Pratishat (Mission 100%) for the year 2020-21 to empower schools to achieve 100% results despite the Covid-19 crisis and also virtually inaugurated another 1,467 smart schools in the state. At the virtual event, which connected him to teachers, students and their parents from more than 4,000 schools and ministers, MLAs, officials and non-teaching staff through WebEx, Facebook and YouTube, the chief minister also announced the creation of 8,393 pre-primary school teachers posts and said the same would be filled up soon by the education department. Pointing out that as many as 14,064 contractual teachers had been regularised by his government, he listed out various measures undertaken for the welfare of the teaching staff. Captain Amarinder disclosed that self-defence training was being given to female physical education teachers below the age of 50 to equip them to provide karate training to all girls studying in government schools. To mark the conclusion of the Punjabi Week, he directed minister Tript Bajwa to draw out a detailed plan for the promotion of the Punjabi language and revival of the Patiala Central Library, which was facing an acute funds shortage. Pointing out that Punjabi became the official language in Patiala in 1940, replacing Farsi, he recalled Patiala’s long-standing relationship with Punjabi. Maharaja Bhupinder Singh had made the first Punjabi typewriter in 1938, he noted. Amarinder said of the total 19,107 schools in the state, 6,832 were smart schools, to which another 1,467 were now added. He said 13,859 projectors would be provided to the remaining schools too, in order to make them smart schools, adding that a budgetary provision of Rs 100 crore had been made this year for digitisation of schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-inaugurates-1467-smart-schools/articleshow/79106258.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Calls for Punjabi school education in Pakistan||Bathinda: While Punjabi Week came to an end on Saturday in India with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh inaugurating many schools converted into smart schools, a rally was organised at Lahore, capital of Pakistan’s Punjab province, with a demand to make Punjabi a medium of instruction in school education and a compulsory subject till postgraduation. Punjabi singer Gurdas Mann’s songs on the language were also played at the rally as Punjabi language aficionados came to the roads. They were angry with the provincial government of Punjab for not implementing even the high court’s directions which were passed more than 20 months ago and directed the provincial government to place before the cabinet the draft bill of ‘Punjab Promotion of Mother Language as Compulsory Subject at Primary Act 2015’ for approval. The court, while disposing of a petition filed by Punjabi Parchar Society, had given the directions on February 12, 2019. Earlier, the Supreme Court of Pakistan had issued directions to various provinces for taking concrete steps for promotion and use of provincial languages. “After the court directions, the state government had told the court that the draft bill had been prepared and likely to be placed before cabinet for approval,” said society president Ahmed Raza Wattoo. In Pakistan’s Punjab province, Punjabi is not the medium for instruction in schools eventhough over 40% of the population speaks the language. It is taught as an elective subject in intermediate, graduation and postgraduation levels. Punjabi is written in Shahmukhi, a modified Perso-Arabic alphabet similar to the scrips used for Urdu, in Pakistan. In India, it is written in Gurmukhi. Social activist Diep Saeeda told TOI over the phone from Lahore that all provinces of Pakistan, except Punjab, had provided the right of education to students in their respective mother languages, but Punjab government was meting out injustice to its vast population. Noted poet Baba Najmi said students from Punjabi families should have the option to get education in their mother language. “Snatching the right of getting education in mother tongue is like snatching a basic fundamental right and government must correct it,” said Najmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/calls-for-punjabi-school-education-in-pakistan/articleshow/79106282.cms||Neel Kamal
November 8, 2020||Chandigarh||3 booked for smuggling urea to Punjab||AMBALA: The district agriculture and farmers welfare department and the district police, on Saturday, seized 1,675 bags (45kg each) of urea loaded in four trucks from the grain market in Ambala City. The consignment was allegedly being black-marketed and smuggled into Punjab from Haryana. On the complaint of Ambala district deputy director, agriculture (DDA) Girish Nagpal, a case has been registered against three accused, Keshav Kumar, Suresh Kumar and owner of Krishi Sewa Kendra, Ambala City under Section 7 (penalties) of the Essential Commodities Act and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Ambala City police station on Saturday. In his police complaint, DDA Girish Nagpal stated, “I received information on Saturday that some persons are procuring urea fertiliser in the name of Haryana state and black-marketing it in Punjab. I reached the grain market, Ambala City and found four trucks loaded with urea under shed no 4 and some vehicles being loaded. Upon checking, it was found that four trucks were loaded with 1,675 bags of RCF Ujwala brand urea. Some bills of these bags were recorded and found deducted from KH Store, Yamunanagar and in the name of Krishi Sewa Kendra, Ambala City. A Punjab number truck was found loaded with 18 urea bags without any bills.” Nagpal added, “We found one Keshav Kumar of Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, who said he works at Punjab Khetibari Centre, Anaj Mandi, Kharar and today, as per directions of his employer Suresh Kumar of Shivalik City, Kharar, he had come to Ambala. Keshav said he has already transported some bags of urea in a canter to Punjab.” DDA Girish said the fertiliser is being bought for farmers of Haryana and is being sent for black-marketing in Punjab.” Ambala City police SHO Ram Kumar said, “We have registered a case after seizing four trucks. As per preliminary investigations, the bags of urea were loaded from Yamunanagar and they were meant for farmers of Ambala. But some of them have been smuggled into Punjab. We are investigating the matter.” Photo caption: Trucks loaded with urea bags at grain market, Ambala City on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-booked-for-smuggling-urea-from-haryana-to-punjab/articleshow/79106295.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Honour for APS, Dagshai||Chandigarh: The prestigious Army Public School, Dagshai has been adjudged as the best school for its Class X board result among all Army Public Schools included under the Western Command. This year, the academic performance Index (API) of Class X at APS, Dagshai is 306 points. The result was declared during the virtual meeting of chairmen and principals of Army Public Schools of the Western Command. The meeting was chaired by Lt Gen R P Singh, Army Commander, Western Command who gave away the trophy and a financial incentive of Rs 80,000 to the school. Gen Singh congratulated the principal, staff and students for their exemplary board result. Brig N Mahajan, Commander, 95 Brigade and chairman of APS, Dagshai also congratulated and appreciated the principal, staff and students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/honour-for-aps-dagshai/articleshow/79106326.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man who sent nude photos to random numbers nabbed||BENAGLURU: Chitradurga police on Friday arrested a 54-year-old man who was allegedly harassing people for the past six months by sending nude photos to them. Initial investigation revealed he had sent explicit images to more than 200 people, including 120 women. O Ramakrishna is a resident of Challakere in Chitradurga. According to police, many residents in Challakere had complained they had been receiving nude photos from an unknown number. Police decided to probe the claims but couldn’t make any headway as Ramakrishna had switched off his mobile. However, when he switched on the phone on Friday, police managed to trace his location and arrest him. During questioning, Ramakrishna is said to have confessed to sending obscene pictures. He said he would pick a random phone number and would send the photos if it was ringing. At least 50 of the women who received the photos are from Challakere. While many women were initially hesitant to approach police due to stigma, the brother of one of them filed a police complaint. She repeatedly received nude photos from Ramakrishna. After his arrest, many women came forward with complaints. It was also discovered he had asked several women to send their photos to him, said a police officer. “Ramakrishna has been booked under the Information Technology Act and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-man-who-sent-nude-photos-to-random-numbers-nabbed/articleshow/79107531.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Navi-mumbai||As numbers drop, NMMC halts plan for 125 ICU beds||NAVI MUMBAI: With the number of Covid cases declining steadily, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) put on hold its proposal to create 125 ICU units with 50 ventilators for critical Covid patients at the Vashi-based ESIC hospital. The number of daily cases dropped to 100-150, as against the previous 300-400 cases a month ago. Seven of the 12 Covid care centres have been shut due to low occupancy. NMMC also halted work on developing a 2,000 bed nonoxygen Covid care centres in Nerul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/as-numbers-drop-nmmc-halts-plan-for-125-icu-beds/articleshow/79107562.cms||B B Nayak
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Issue provisional degree certificate to medical student: Bengaluru HC||BENGALURU: Because of the ‘conspiracy of circumstances’ such as the Covid-19 pandemic, it has become difficult to maintain the regularity and periodicity of convocation ceremonies. Universities have to devise viable alternatives to mitigate the likely hardships their students/alumni are put to. The high court made this observation while coming to the rescue of Lanson Brijesh Colaco, a medical student from Kurunji Venkataramana Gowda Medical College and Hospital, Sullia, Dakshina Kannada. “Aggrieved students can’t be asked to wait in silence for an indefinite period since it will have many repercussions like time bar for admission to a course, non-compliance of conditions of recruitment and age bar for employment,” Justice Krishna S Dixit pointed out. The judge directed Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) to issue a provisional degree certificate for MBBS to the petitioner within two weeks. It must contain a specific certification that it should be treated on a par with the awarding of degree, for all practical purposes. In his petition, Lanson had claimed there’s a delay in awarding degree certificates as the RGUHS convocation is being deferred, and the same is affecting his study as well as employment prospects. During the hearing, the panel advocate for RGUHS informed the court there’s a provision in the statute of the health university for providing graduates a provisional degree certificate, followed by awarding of degree in the convocation. He added a specific text will be introduced in the certificate or by way of an annexure to the effect that it should be treated on a par with awarding of degree. The court expressed hope that university authorities, when requested by students/ alumni like the petitioner, address appropriate communication to other varsities/employers for easing difficulties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/issue-provisional-degree-certificate-to-medical-student-bengaluru-hc/articleshow/79107546.cms||P Vasanth Kumar
November 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: We will wait and watch, say school principals, parents||MUMBAI: Even as the government has issued directions to start schools in a limited fashion, school principals and parents plan to adopt a waitand-watch policy for now. Schools, on their part, had conducted surveys among parents about their willingness to send children for physical classes and they had expressed fear and skepticism. Most parents, said principals, had asked schools to continue with online schooling and push the entry dates as much as possible. School heads plan to speak to parents again, before the managements can take a call on the final decision. TimesViewEven as states direct schools to open up, the safety of students is of utmost priority. Parents and school authorities must jointly draw up safety protocols that will be adhered to on campuses. In several parts of the world where schools opened doors again, there has been a rise in Covid-positive cases, forcing schools to shut down again.Avnita Bir, director principal, R N Podar School, said, “We agree that students can come in small groups to complete their laboratory work. However, doubt solving is already happening online. We will first speak to our parents, assess what is safe for our children and teachers, and then discuss the same with our management.” Her thoughts were echoed by most principals. Frazer Mascarenhas, manager, St Stanislaus High School, said, “We reached out to our parents yesterday (Friday) to see if they are comfortable about sending their children back to school. We want them to give us a declaration for the same. We only plan to open Grades 9 and 10, by following all norms of social distancing. We feel just online classroom teaching is not sufficient.” Another principal of a suburban school said they will have to take a call after the government notification is released, but parents had expressed their displeasure about sending students to schools. “In a meeting with school principals on Friday, we discussed various options available. But across the board principals feel that even if there is one child or staff who is positive, the infection may spread among many. Also, the online programme is doing well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-we-will-wait-and-watch-say-school-principals-parents/articleshow/79107573.cms||Hemali Chhapia
November 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Don’t discuss CM candidature, KPCC panel tells MLAs||BENGALURU: The KPCC disciplinary committee has taken Bengaluru MLAs Zameer Ahmed Khan and Sowmya Reddy to task for making public statements on who will be the CM candidate if the Congress returns to power after the next assembly polls. The committee headed by former MP and Union minister K Rahman Khan in its recent meeting told the duo and also other party functionaries not to comment on the issue and warned of disciplinary action. Chamarajpet MLA Zameer Ahmed recently said nobody could stop Siddaramaiah from becoming the CM again, while his colleague from Jayanagar Sowmya Reddy, during her campaign in RR Nagar, had claimed KPCC president DK Shivakumar will be the next CM. “This talk is unnecessary as the elections are still twoand-a-half years away. Moreover, it’s something to be decided by the party,” Khan said. “To allow such a debate to continue might lead to groupism, which is not good. The party wants to nip it in the bud,” said a senior functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-dont-discuss-cm-candidature-kpcc-panel-tells-mlas/articleshow/79107583.cms||---
November 8, 2020||Mumbai||Places of worship may open post Diwali to avoid crowding: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday the state will take a cautious view on reopening of religious places and hinted that permission may be granted to them after Diwali festivities to avoid crowding. Terming the 15 days after Diwali as “most crucial” for the coronavirus trajectory, Thackeray has asked the BMC to maintain all Covid-19 facilities, ensure the use of face masks, and ramp up testing despite a drop in cases at present. BMC commissioner I S Chahal said the civic body would ensure that 20,000 Covid tests are conducted in the city every day. The BMC recently set up 244 walk-in free testing centres to push up the number of tests conducted daily. Thackeray chaired two meetings, one with all district collectors and the other with BMC officials, to review the state’s preparedness ahead of the festive season, and also with temperatures starting to dip in some parts of the state. He further said local administrations should appeal to the public against the use of firecrackers as an increase in pollution levels will aggravate health issues. BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the chief minister wanted Mumbai to remain on high alert despite a falling number of cases. “Steps will be taken to ensure no facility is closed and that medicine and oxygen beds are in adequate supply. The idea is to be prepared in case of a second wave,” said Kakani. On reopening of temples, Thackeray said since senior citizens visit them regularly and are more vulnerable to the virus, a decision will be taken after taking more precautions. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid task force who was present at the chief minister’s review meeting, said the focus will remain on Covid-appropriate behaviour such as the use of face masks and social distancing. “Due to the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign, we have information from across the state about vulnerable people who are elderly or have diabetes, hypertension and obesity. It would be easier to isolate or quarantine (at home) this section in case of a second wave,” said Dr Joshi. Thackeray also suggested testing of service providers such as milkmen, house help, vendors and people working in public transport. Thackeray has directed the administration to ensure the death rate in the state is brought down. He also said there were many European countries that have had to announce a fresh lockdown as the cases there have surged. “We have gradually unlocked in a scientific manner. The health protocols of wearing a mask at all times in public, washing of hands and avoiding crowds should be followed,” said Thackeray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/places-of-worship-may-open-post-diwali-to-avoid-crowding-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/79107591.cms||Malathy Iyer
November 8, 2020||Mumbai||BMC collects Rs 4.8 crore from people not wearing mask||MUMBAI: The BMC has collected nearly Rs 4.8 crore in fines from people caught outdoors without a mask since April. The municipal corporation has so far fined 2.36 lakh people Rs 200 each for failing to wear a mask. The highest collection of Rs 86 lakh came from Zone 1, comprising A, B, C, D and E wards, where over 40,000 people were fined. On average, around 416 people were fined by the BMC per ward per day. In May, the government began Mission Begin Again and over the past few months several restrictions on movement and doing business were eased. More people go to work now, but public transport remains restricted. To ensure masks are accessible, the government has issued rates at which different varieties may be sold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-collects-rs-4-8-crore-from-people-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/79107598.cms||---
November 8, 2020||World||Many world leaders express hope, relief after Biden win||World leaders swiftly congratulated US President-elect Joe Biden on his victory Saturday, cheering it as an opportunity to fortify global democracy and celebrating the significance of Americans having their first woman vice president. Although U.S. President Donald Trump did not concede defeat, relief was a common theme expressed in many parts of the world to the news that his reelection bid had failed. ``The Americans have chosen their President. Congratulations (at)JoeBiden and (at)KamalaHarris! We have a lot to do to overcome today's challenges. Let's work together!'' tweeted French President Emmanuel Macron. Other leaders who sent congratulations included German Chancellor Angela Merkel, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi. The president of Ukraine, whose country was central to Trump's impeachment and an attempt by the Trump campaign to paint Biden and his family as corrupt, offered speedy congratulations. Most Western allies quickly welcomed a fresh start with a new administration in Washington. ``We're looking forward to working with the next U.S. government,'' German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas tweeted. ``We want to work in our cooperation for a new trans-Atlantic beginning, a New Deal.'' Word of the victory in Pennsylvania that pushed Barack Obama's former vice president past the threshold of 270 Electoral College votes needed to take over the Oval Office cascaded around the globe on social media and live news broadcasts, sparking celebrations. But the election's outcome inspired disbelief in Slovenia, the homeland of first lady Melania Trump. Prime Minister Janez Jansa was the only world leader who congratulated Trump even before all the votes were counted, and continued to show support after Biden's win was announced. It also drew mixed reviews in Iraq. Many Iraqis remember Biden as having been a champion of the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003. Activists who have been protesting neighboring Iran's heavy hand in Iraq, had supported Trump and cheered the U.S. assassination of Iran's top general in an airstrike at Baghdad's airport at the beginning of the year. Still, Iraqi President Barham Salih tweeted his congratulations to Biden, describing him as a friend and trusted partner. Indeed, detractors were outliers. Congratulations poured in from nations that disagreed with Trump administration policies, as well as from leaders who had gotten along with the Republican president but now were essentially ignoring his claims that the divisive election wasn't over. United Arab Emirates' Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, who was particularly cozy with Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, extended his best wishes to Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on Twitter. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has been known for public displays of bonhomie with Trump, shared a photo of himself with Biden and offered his congratulations ``on your spectacular victory!'' British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, another Trump ally, hailed Biden's win and said he looked forward to ``working closely together on our shared priorities, from climate change to trade and security.'' Both Modi and Johnson commented on Harris' election as the first Black woman vice president. Modi celebrated Harris' ``pathbreaking'' success and said her win is a ``matter of immense pride'' for all Indian-Americans. Harris' late mother was from India. Kamala is Sanskrit for ``lotus flower,'' and Harris gave nods to her Indian heritage throughout the campaign. Her election struck an immediate chord internationally. It inspired calls in parts of Africa for governments long run by men to think again. ``Kamala Harris lights up the tunnel for many women who continue to advocate for gender equality and inclusion in leadership!'' tweeted Anne Waiguru, one of two female governors in Kenya, where the Supreme Court president recently advised the country's president to dissolve parliament for failing to have enough female lawmakers. ``The time has also come to give our women the chance to occupy such a high office in our country and even the number one position,'' tweeted a Nigerian Cabinet minister, Festus Keyamo. Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari said Biden's track record ``gives us hope that he will add value to the presidency,'' and urged the President-elect to tackle the ``negative consequences of nationalist politics on world affairs - which have created divisions and uncertainties.`` While outspoken disappointment was scarce, several prominent leaders who have maintained warm relations with Trump's administration kept silent in the wake of the announced results. That included Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the powerful ruler of Saudi Arabia. Mexico's President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who struck up a cordial working relationship with Trump, also avoided congratulating Joe Biden. ``We are going to wait until all the legal issues are resolved, we do not want to be reckless,'' Lopez Obrador said in answer to a reporter's question at a news conference in the southern state of Tabasco where he is overseeing flood relief efforts. He added that Trump has been ``very respectful of us.'' There was also no immediate statement from Russia's President Vladimir Putin. Many people, particularly in nations that have been fraught with turbulent politics, took Biden's win as improving the outlook for respect of democracy going forward. Among them was Tanzanian opposition leader Zitto Kabwe, who was arrested and charged with terrorism-related offenses after his country's bruising presidential election. ``This victory symbolizes the hope for democracy at a time when many other parts of the world are seeing that light diminishing. It gives hope that integrity, honesty and perseverance still matter,'' Kabwe said. In Egypt, where the government launched a crackdown on dissent in recent years, pro-democracy activists welcomed Biden's win. Many took to social media to express their joy. ``It's over. The world is without Trump. The sweetest news in 2020,'' Anwar el-Hawary, the former editor of Egypt's Al-Masry Al-Youm newspaper, the country's largest independent daily, said in a Facebook post. Argentine President Alberto Fernandez tweeted congratulations to Biden and Harris and described their election victory as a ``clear expression of the popular will.? Biden's win also encouraged people living under populist governments in central Europe that have have eroded democratic norms in recent years. Trump has been friendly with the right-wing government in Poland, and it is widely believed there that his support allowed the Polish government to go far in undermining judicial independence. ``Trump's defeat can be the beginning of the end of the triumph of far-right populisms also in Europe,'' said Donald Tusk a former European Union leader Donald Tusk and former Polish prime minister. ``Thank you, Joe.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/many-world-leaders-express-hope-relief-after-biden-win/articleshow/79107607.cms||---
