November 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru folk enjoy a weekend of al fresco dining, hula hooping and much fun on Church Street||Church Street wore a festive look on Saturday, as the first No-Vehicle weekend got underway. The event, which was inaugurated by chief minister BS Yediyurappa, is a part of the Clean Air Initiative by the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), under which vehicular movement has been restricted on Church Street on weekends till the end of February 2021. Bengalureans who stepped out were thrilled with the chilled out vibe, making the most of the al fresco dining arrangements set up by restaurants and cafes along the stretch on the pavement, enjoying live sessions by street musicians or just having a fun time leisurely strolling down the pedestrian-only road. "Church Street truly feels pedestrian-friendly now and enjoying a quick meal at a table on the pavement had quite the European feel to it," says Samhita K, a PhD scholar, who was out taking in the sights and sounds of the event. Temperature monitor hubs had been set up at all entry points to Church Street, while air purifying systems dotted key areas of the stretch. Electric vehicles will to ferry senior citizens and electric bikes for others were also highlights.  "Day 1 of the Clean Air Initiative was quite the success. It was a peaceful fun evening. The only hitch was the parking situation in the vicinity, which will take a while to be sorted out. Those heading to Church Street on four wheelers will have to look out for options on MG Road, Brigade Road or Rest House Road,” says Irfan Noor, Secretary, Church Street Occupants Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-folk-enjoy-a-weekend-of-al-fresco-dining-hula-hooping-and-much-fun-on-church-street/articleshow/79114187.cms||---
November 9, 2020||World||More than 500 held in Belarus as opposition reaches out to Biden||MINSK: Police in Belarus on Sunday detained more than 500 people during the latest in weeks of unprecedented demonstrations against strongman Alexander Lukashenko, as the opposition reached out to US President-elect Joe Biden. For three months running, tens of thousands have taken to the streets of Belarus on Sundays to protest against the disputed re-election of Lukashenko, who has been in power for more than two decades. His opponents are demanding he hand power to Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, a political novice who ran for president against Lukashenko on August 9. Several thousand protesters, many carrying the red-and-white opposition flag, joined a march in central Minsk on Sunday. Police vans and water cannons were deployed to the centre of the city with police sporadically detaining protesters in various locations. Journalists working with AFP saw a heavy security presence, with baton-carrying riot police in black balaclavas grabbing protesters and taking them to police vans. Local human rights group Viasna said that at least 516 people had been detained in the capital Minsk and other cities. Olympic decathlete Andrei Kravchenko and the 2008 Miss Belarus pageant winner Olga Khizhinkova were among those detained, according to the Tut.by news website. Pensioner Yelena Vasilyevich told AFP that she was taking part in the Sunday protest with her family and friends. "I want to finally live in a free and democratic country," said Vasilyevich, 65. From exile in Lithuania, Tikhanovskaya said protests would continue "until victory" and that the past 90 days had shown authorities they had "lost legitimacy and power". "The regime doesn't want to give us the right to decide what will happen next to our country," she wrote on her Telegram channel on Sunday. Tikhanovskaya, 38, says she was the true winner of the presidential poll and has gained the support of several Western leaders, who have refused to recognise the election results. On Saturday she congratulated Biden and said she hopes to meet with the newly elected president. "This was a real race of ideas, programmes and teams, unlike Belarus, where votes at elections were simply stolen, in the United States the vote of every voter was taken into account," she said. She said she believed Biden will "soon meet with the fairly elected president of the new, free Belarus". Democrat Biden has previously voiced support for the Belarusian opposition and promised he would expand sanctions against the regime. Lukashenko on Saturday called the US vote a "mockery of democracy" and said he didn't expect relations with Washington to change whatever the election outcome. Apart from the large-scale Sunday protests, smaller rallies have been organised by professional groups such as teachers, students and medics. On Saturday, around 50 medical workers held a protest outside a Minsk hospital, local news outlets reported. Dozens of them were detained. In October, several state universities expelled students who organised sit-in protests on campus. "We are citizens who have a conscience and who cannot be silent if lawlessness is happening in the country," law student Tamara Babina, 20, told AFP at Sunday's protest. The European Union has slapped sanctions on Lukashenko, 66, and several of his allies, imposing a travel ban and asset freezes over vote-rigging and police violence. Earlier protests in Minsk were met with a brutal crackdown with police using stun grenades and rubber bullets to disperse the gatherings. Many of those detained reported brutal treatment including beatings and torture at the hands of security forces. Authorities have also threatened to use live ammunition on protesters. With Moscow-backed Lukashenko refusing to step down and the opposition unable to force his resignation, the political situation appears to have reached an impasse. Last week, Belarus closed land borders with Lithuania, Latvia, Ukraine and Poland, and banned foreigners from entering the country via land border crossings. Two weeks ago, the opposition announced a nationwide strike but it did not gain momentum and its effects on the country's economy appear to have been limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/more-than-500-held-in-belarus-as-opposition-reaches-out-to-biden/articleshow/79118561.cms||---
November 9, 2020||World||More than 500 held in Belarus as opposition reaches out to Biden||MINSK: Police in Belarus on Sunday detained more than 500 people during the latest in weeks of unprecedented demonstrations against strongman Alexander Lukashenko, as the opposition reached out to US President-elect Joe Biden. For three months running, tens of thousands have taken to the streets of Belarus on Sundays to protest against the disputed re-election of Lukashenko, who has been in power for more than two decades. His opponents are demanding he hand power to Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, a political novice who ran for president against Lukashenko on August 9. Several thousand protesters, many carrying the red-and-white opposition flag, joined a march in central Minsk on Sunday. Police vans and water cannons were deployed to the centre of the city with police sporadically detaining protesters in various locations. Journalists working with AFP saw a heavy security presence, with baton-carrying riot police in black balaclavas grabbing protesters and taking them to police vans. Local human rights group Viasna said that at least 516 people had been detained in the capital Minsk and other cities. Olympic decathlete Andrei Kravchenko and the 2008 Miss Belarus pageant winner Olga Khizhinkova were among those detained, according to the Tut.by news website. Pensioner Yelena Vasilyevich told AFP that she was taking part in the Sunday protest with her family and friends. "I want to finally live in a free and democratic country," said Vasilyevich, 65. From exile in Lithuania, Tikhanovskaya said protests would continue "until victory" and that the past 90 days had shown authorities they had "lost legitimacy and power". "The regime doesn't want to give us the right to decide what will happen next to our country," she wrote on her Telegram channel on Sunday. Tikhanovskaya, 38, says she was the true winner of the presidential poll and has gained the support of several Western leaders, who have refused to recognise the election results. On Saturday she congratulated Biden and said she hopes to meet with the newly elected president. "This was a real race of ideas, programmes and teams, unlike Belarus, where votes at elections were simply stolen, in the United States the vote of every voter was taken into account," she said. She said she believed Biden will "soon meet with the fairly elected president of the new, free Belarus". Democrat Biden has previously voiced support for the Belarusian opposition and promised he would expand sanctions against the regime. Lukashenko on Saturday called the US vote a "mockery of democracy" and said he didn't expect relations with Washington to change whatever the election outcome. Apart from the large-scale Sunday protests, smaller rallies have been organised by professional groups such as teachers, students and medics. On Saturday, around 50 medical workers held a protest outside a Minsk hospital, local news outlets reported. Dozens of them were detained. In October, several state universities expelled students who organised sit-in protests on campus. "We are citizens who have a conscience and who cannot be silent if lawlessness is happening in the country," law student Tamara Babina, 20, told AFP at Sunday's protest. The European Union has slapped sanctions on Lukashenko, 66, and several of his allies, imposing a travel ban and asset freezes over vote-rigging and police violence. Earlier protests in Minsk were met with a brutal crackdown with police using stun grenades and rubber bullets to disperse the gatherings. Many of those detained reported brutal treatment including beatings and torture at the hands of security forces. Authorities have also threatened to use live ammunition on protesters. With Moscow-backed Lukashenko refusing to step down and the opposition unable to force his resignation, the political situation appears to have reached an impasse. Last week, Belarus closed land borders with Lithuania, Latvia, Ukraine and Poland, and banned foreigners from entering the country via land border crossings. Two weeks ago, the opposition announced a nationwide strike but it did not gain momentum and its effects on the country's economy appear to have been limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/more-than-500-held-in-belarus-as-opposition-reaches-out-to-biden/articleshow/79118555.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Delhi||#LocalWaliDiwali:Head to Matka Market in Sarojini Nagar for your Diwali shopping||In the lanes of Sarojini Nagar’s Matka Market, you can find a variety of home décor items ranging from earthen pots and diyas to decorative clay pieces, ceramic wind chimes and a lot more. The market is usually bustling with customers ahead of Diwali, but this year, it wears a deserted look because of the pandemic. As part of our #LocalWaliDiwali series, we bring you a glimpse of this market where you can shop for unique handmade items and at the same time make this Diwali happier for small businesses and local vendors in your city. <p>Savita Devi has been selling decorated diyas over four decades now at the market <br></p>Savita Devi | 70 As we walk towards the market, we meet Savita Devi, a 70-year-old diya seller. She has been selling decorated earthen diyas in Matka Market for over four decades now. Her parents, she says, also lived in the lanes of Matka Market and taught her the craft of decorating diyas. But as the pandemic hit and the nationwide lockdown was announced, Savita Devi lost many of her customers. “It is Diwali now, this is supposed to be our time to make profits, but here we are, trying to survive. Diwali se pehle yeh market bhari hoti thi, aaj log hi nahi hai. We are still working, hoping to get customers. Par aisi hi haalat rahegi toh kya umeed rahegi Diwali se? This market used to be bustling with customers and look at it now. Lockdown ke baad sale pehle se aadhi bhi nahi hai, bachche apna guzara kar lete hain aur uss se hi ghar chalta hai,” she says as she continues to paint earthen diyas. Dev is hopeful that people will eventually turn up to shop from the market Dev | 20 Almost everyone in the lanes of Matka Market seem to be waiting for the usual chaos of the festival. While Savita Devi has spent all her life decorating diyas, Dev, 20, has also been in the business of selling earthen diyas since his childhood. He shares, “For the first time, ahead of Diwali, the market wears a deserted look as there are no customers. This is the season when customers from far off places would come and buy these diyas, earthen pots and decorative items. This year, there are no customers. Umeed toh hai ki Diwali ke paas aane tak sab theek hoga par sab logon pe hai. Nahi aaye toh Diwali bhi jayegi baaki tyoharon ki tarah.” He also requests people to make a quick trip to the market. “Log aake dekhein toh sahi ki kitna kuch hai humare yahan,” he says. From mounds of basic earthen diyas in every colour imaginable and fancy tiered diya stands to hanging lamps and hundreds of varieties of pots – the options available in the market are mind-boggling.You can even buy decor items in bulk, make unique Diwali hampers for your friends and families and ace the gifting game You can even buy decor items in bulk, make unique Diwali hampers for your friends and families and ace the gifting game. Watch #LocalWaliDiwali: Head to Matka Market in Sarojini Nagar for your Diwali shopping||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/head-to-matka-market-in-sarojini-nagar-for-your-diwali-shopping/articleshow/79112998.cms||Riya Sharma
November 9, 2020||India||Chinese President Xi Jinping expedites railway-line project near Arunachal||BEIJING: Chinese President Xi Jinping on Sunday instructed officials to expedite the construction of the new USD 47.8 billion railway project connecting the country’s southwest Sichuan province to Linzhi in Tibet close to the Indian border in Arunachal, saying it would play a key role in safeguarding stability in the border areas. The Sichuan-Tibet Railway will be the second railway line into Tibet after the Qinghai-Tibet Railway project. It will go through the southeast of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, one of the world’s most geologically active areas, according to the Chinese official media. The Sichuan-Tibet Railway starts from Chengdu, capital of Sichuan province and travels through Ya’an and enters Tibet via Qamdo, shortening the journey from Chengdu to Lhasa from 48 hours to 13 hours. Read AlsoLAC row: 'India, China to disengage from some friction points'NEW DELHI: India and China are likely to disengage from some of the friction points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh in the next few days, sources said, indicating that the two nations may have reached a breakthrough in the nearly six-month long military stand-off. Sources said the possible détenteLinzhi, also known as Nyingchi, is located close to Arunachal Pradesh border. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control, the de-facto border between the two countries. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of south Tibet which is firmly rejected by India. Linzhi also has an airport which is one of the five airports built by China in the Himalayan region. The Ya’an-Linzhi section runs 1,011 km with 26 stations. Trains are expected to run at speeds between 120 and 200 kms per hour. The total cost of the entire Sichuan-Tibet Railway project is around 319.8 billion yuan (USD 47.8 billion), according to a recent report by the state-run Global Times. In a video conference, ahead of the commencement of the construction of the project, Xi identified it as a major measure in facilitating the ruling Communist Party’s general plan for governing Tibet in the new era. Agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chinese-president-xi-jinping-expedites-railway-line-project-near-arunachal/articleshow/79119390.cms||---
November 9, 2020||World||Chinese President Xi Jinping expedites railway-line project near Arunachal||BEIJING: Chinese President Xi Jinping on Sunday instructed officials to expedite the construction of the new USD 47.8 billion railway project connecting the country’s southwest Sichuan province to Linzhi in Tibet close to the Indian border in Arunachal, saying it would play a key role in safeguarding stability in the border areas. The Sichuan-Tibet Railway will be the second railway line into Tibet after the Qinghai-Tibet Railway project. It will go through the southeast of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, one of the world’s most geologically active areas, according to the Chinese official media. The Sichuan-Tibet Railway starts from Chengdu, capital of Sichuan province and travels through Ya’an and enters Tibet via Qamdo, shortening the journey from Chengdu to Lhasa from 48 hours to 13 hours. Read AlsoLAC row: 'India, China to disengage from some friction points'NEW DELHI: India and China are likely to disengage from some of the friction points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh in the next few days, sources said, indicating that the two nations may have reached a breakthrough in the nearly six-month long military stand-off. Sources said the possible détenteLinzhi, also known as Nyingchi, is located close to Arunachal Pradesh border. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control, the de-facto border between the two countries. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of south Tibet which is firmly rejected by India. Linzhi also has an airport which is one of the five airports built by China in the Himalayan region. The Ya’an-Linzhi section runs 1,011 km with 26 stations. Trains are expected to run at speeds between 120 and 200 kms per hour. The total cost of the entire Sichuan-Tibet Railway project is around 319.8 billion yuan (USD 47.8 billion), according to a recent report by the state-run Global Times. In a video conference, ahead of the commencement of the construction of the project, Xi identified it as a major measure in facilitating the ruling Communist Party’s general plan for governing Tibet in the new era. Agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/chinese-president-xi-jinping-expedites-railway-line-project-near-arunachal/articleshow/79119372.cms||---
November 9, 2020||World||India & China working on a set of proposals to defuse LAC tension||NEW DELHI: India and China are working on a set of proposals in a bid to defuse the ongoing military confrontation in eastern Ladakh, even as thousands of soldiers deployed at heights of over 15,000 feet are now facing the brunt of the brutal winter in the region. There were “some positive exchanges” during the eighth round of corps commander-level talks at Chushul on Friday, and another meeting could be scheduled “within the coming week” to take them forward, sources said on Sunday. But a concrete breakthrough in the military stalemate will depend on whether the two sides are able to finalise the actual modalities for “mutual troop disengagement” at the “friction points” in the Pangong Tso-Chushul area, where temperatures have already dipped to minus 20Celsius, making it a test of endurance for the rival armies. India will have to be extra cautious this time because the earlier troop disengagement plan had gone awry after the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) reneged on the agreement to dismantle an observation post on Indian territory in the Galwan Valley on June 15. It had led to violent clashes in which 20 Indian and an unspecified number of PLA soldiers were killed. Read AlsoChinese President Xi Jinping expedites railway-line project near ArunachalChinese President Xi Jinping on Sunday instructed officials to expedite the construction of the new USD 47.8 billion railway project connecting the country’s southwest Sichuan province to Linzhi in Tibet close to the Indian border in Arunachal, saying it would play a key role in safeguarding“Any disengagement plan will need to be implemented in a verifiable manner on the ground. Moreover, our troops should not be left in a tactically disadvantageous position,” a senior officer said. China has been aggressively pushing for Indian troops to vacate the multiple heights they preemptively occupied on the ridge line stretching from Thakung on the south bank of Pangong Tso to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La (Rechin mountain pass) on August 29-30. Similarly, China has also proposed reciprocal withdrawal of tanks, howitzers and other heavy weapon systems from the forward areas. “The PLA has better access to roads on its side and can re-induct tanks and howitzers much faster. We had even moved tanks up the ridgeline near Rechin La, catching the PLA by surprise… it may not be possible again,” the officer said. A joint statement issued by the two countries on Sunday said there was a “candid, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement” along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Both sides agreed to “earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries” as well as ensure their frontline troops “exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation”, it said. Continuing to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, the two sides will “take forward the discussions at this meeting and push for the settlement of other outstanding issues” to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/india-china-working-on-a-set-of-proposals-to-defuse-lac-tension/articleshow/79119614.cms||Rajat Pandit
November 9, 2020||India||India & China working on a set of proposals to defuse LAC tension||NEW DELHI: India and China are working on a set of proposals in a bid to defuse the ongoing military confrontation in eastern Ladakh, even as thousands of soldiers deployed at heights of over 15,000 feet are now facing the brunt of the brutal winter in the region. There were “some positive exchanges” during the eighth round of corps commander-level talks at Chushul on Friday, and another meeting could be scheduled “within the coming week” to take them forward, sources said on Sunday. But a concrete breakthrough in the military stalemate will depend on whether the two sides are able to finalise the actual modalities for “mutual troop disengagement” at the “friction points” in the Pangong Tso-Chushul area, where temperatures have already dipped to minus 20Celsius, making it a test of endurance for the rival armies. India will have to be extra cautious this time because the earlier troop disengagement plan had gone awry after the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) reneged on the agreement to dismantle an observation post on Indian territory in the Galwan Valley on June 15. It had led to violent clashes in which 20 Indian and an unspecified number of PLA soldiers were killed. Read AlsoChinese President Xi Jinping expedites railway-line project near ArunachalChinese President Xi Jinping on Sunday instructed officials to expedite the construction of the new USD 47.8 billion railway project connecting the country’s southwest Sichuan province to Linzhi in Tibet close to the Indian border in Arunachal, saying it would play a key role in safeguarding“Any disengagement plan will need to be implemented in a verifiable manner on the ground. Moreover, our troops should not be left in a tactically disadvantageous position,” a senior officer said. China has been aggressively pushing for Indian troops to vacate the multiple heights they preemptively occupied on the ridge line stretching from Thakung on the south bank of Pangong Tso to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La (Rechin mountain pass) on August 29-30. Similarly, China has also proposed reciprocal withdrawal of tanks, howitzers and other heavy weapon systems from the forward areas. “The PLA has better access to roads on its side and can re-induct tanks and howitzers much faster. We had even moved tanks up the ridgeline near Rechin La, catching the PLA by surprise… it may not be possible again,” the officer said. A joint statement issued by the two countries on Sunday said there was a “candid, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement” along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Both sides agreed to “earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries” as well as ensure their frontline troops “exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation”, it said. Continuing to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, the two sides will “take forward the discussions at this meeting and push for the settlement of other outstanding issues” to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-working-on-a-set-of-proposals-to-defuse-lac-tension/articleshow/79119490.cms||Rajat Pandit
November 9, 2020||India||Not just Kamala Harris, Joe Biden too has Indian link||CHENNAI: “I may have relatives in India,” US President-elect Joseph Biden had declared on his maiden visit to Mumbai in 2013, when VP-elect Kamala Harris’s Tamil Nadu connection wasn’t headline news yet. Biden, then serving as VP, was referring to a Mumbai resident who, he said, shared his surname and had written to him back in 1972, claiming they were both descendants of someone who worked for the erstwhile East India Company. Biden, who was 29 at the time and had just been elected to the US Senate, said he wanted to follow up on the claim but couldn’t. Read AlsoWhat a Biden administration will mean for IndiaNEW DELHI: Joe Biden is a familiar figure in India as he was Barack Obama's vice-president for two terms. There will be some areas where he will follow Trump regarding India, and others where he would diverge. Defence, strategic and security relations will likely follow a path that has remainedA few years later, during another speech, Biden said his “great, great, great, great, great grandfather George Biden” was a captain in the East India Company who settled in India and married an Indian. Read AlsoUS welcomes India’s rise: Joe BidenThe US and India share the same democratic values and have a tremendous capability to work together. The two must continue to aspire to the promise of prosperity and security, Joe Biden had told TOI’s Srijana Mitra Das in an interview in 2013 during his first visit to the country as vice president.Though there are no records of a George Biden, two siblings named Christopher Biden and William Henry Biden did serve as captains in the East India Company, according to Gateway House, a foreign policy think-tank based in Mumbai. Christopher was 12 and his brother even younger when they started as third and fourth mates on the route between London and India via the Cape of Good Hope. In 1821, Christopher captained the Princess Charlotte of Wales and made four return journeys between England and Calcutta. He also captained the new Royal George (1,426 tons) on one voyage. Each return journey lasted a year, wrote Tim Willasey-Wilsey, visiting professor in the department of war studies, King’s College London. Read AlsoAmerican political divide is this deepAnybody who follows US elections knows that the Democrats have an advantage in cities and Republicans in rural areas. But just how complete the cleavage between these two worlds in America is revealed by analyzing data for counties in the just concluded presidential polls, for which votes are stillWilliam died of a stroke at Rangoon (now Yangon) in 1843, when he was 51 years old. Christopher settled down in India and became a well-known figure in Madras (now Chennai). In 1830, Christopher wrote a book, “Naval Discipline: Subordination Contrasted with Insubordination: Or, a View of the Necessity for Passing a Law Establishing an Efficient Naval Discipline on Board Ships in the Merchant-Service”, that is still available online. From managing a diverse crew and passengers on tiny ships during long taxing trips to tales of drunkenness, theft, murder, mental health issues and sailing through storms, reefs and shipwrecks, the tome is a collection of fascinating stories. Christopher was married to Harriott Freeth and the couple had a son and two daughters, one of whom died on a voyage back to India and was buried at sea. During his 19 years in Madras, Christopher became known for his diligence, kindness, and commitment to the welfare of orphans and widows of mariners of all nationalities, including Indians. He also worked to improve maritime safety. His son, Horatio, became a colonel in the Madras Artillery. In 1858, Christopher died in Madras. His tomb and memorial tablet lie in the Madras Cathedral, with a portrait of him with his pet dog. The Chennai museum portal’s list of inscriptions on tombs or monuments in Madras volume I mentions that “Christopher Biden was committed to his charge and fell by the hands of a band of fanatics on the eleventh of September”. Read AlsoKamala Harris: The inspiring story of many firstsUS Vice President-elect Kamala Harris has added several firsts to her name after Joe Biden won the presidential race on Saturday defeating incumbent president Donald Trump. She is the first female, first Black, first Indian-American and first Asian vice president-elect of the US. She has also been aSeveral established historians, however, haven’t yet found any direct connection between Christopher and Joe Biden. A few have ruled out any connection between the two, especially because Christopher was not married to an Indian. “He’s talking about a George Biden, and there is no record of Christopher Biden having married an Indian. They don’t tally. There must be a separate George Biden, somewhere else,” said historian V Sriram. Historian and novelist William Dalrymple said, “I just read the article myself, but have no details”. Despite the sketchy information, if the President-elect does have an ancestor who worked for the East India Company and lived in India, Christopher seems to be a likely candidate for a belated shot at a different kind of fame. Watch How Biden may turn out to have an Indian connect||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-just-kamala-biden-too-has-indian-link/articleshow/79119638.cms||Aditi R
November 9, 2020||World||Not just Kamala Harris, Joe Biden too has Indian link||CHENNAI: “I may have relatives in India,” US President-elect Joseph Biden had declared on his maiden visit to Mumbai in 2013, when VP-elect Kamala Harris’s Tamil Nadu connection wasn’t headline news yet. Biden, then serving as VP, was referring to a Mumbai resident who, he said, shared his surname and had written to him back in 1972, claiming they were both descendants of someone who worked for the erstwhile East India Company. Biden, who was 29 at the time and had just been elected to the US Senate, said he wanted to follow up on the claim but couldn’t. Read AlsoWhat a Biden administration will mean for IndiaNEW DELHI: Joe Biden is a familiar figure in India as he was Barack Obama's vice-president for two terms. There will be some areas where he will follow Trump regarding India, and others where he would diverge. Defence, strategic and security relations will likely follow a path that has remainedA few years later, during another speech, Biden said his “great, great, great, great, great grandfather George Biden” was a captain in the East India Company who settled in India and married an Indian. Read AlsoUS welcomes India’s rise: Joe BidenThe US and India share the same democratic values and have a tremendous capability to work together. The two must continue to aspire to the promise of prosperity and security, Joe Biden had told TOI’s Srijana Mitra Das in an interview in 2013 during his first visit to the country as vice president.Though there are no records of a George Biden, two siblings named Christopher Biden and William Henry Biden did serve as captains in the East India Company, according to Gateway House, a foreign policy think-tank based in Mumbai. Christopher was 12 and his brother even younger when they started as third and fourth mates on the route between London and India via the Cape of Good Hope. In 1821, Christopher captained the Princess Charlotte of Wales and made four return journeys between England and Calcutta. He also captained the new Royal George (1,426 tons) on one voyage. Each return journey lasted a year, wrote Tim Willasey-Wilsey, visiting professor in the department of war studies, King’s College London. Read AlsoAmerican political divide is this deepAnybody who follows US elections knows that the Democrats have an advantage in cities and Republicans in rural areas. But just how complete the cleavage between these two worlds in America is revealed by analyzing data for counties in the just concluded presidential polls, for which votes are stillWilliam died of a stroke at Rangoon (now Yangon) in 1843, when he was 51 years old. Christopher settled down in India and became a well-known figure in Madras (now Chennai). In 1830, Christopher wrote a book, “Naval Discipline: Subordination Contrasted with Insubordination: Or, a View of the Necessity for Passing a Law Establishing an Efficient Naval Discipline on Board Ships in the Merchant-Service”, that is still available online. From managing a diverse crew and passengers on tiny ships during long taxing trips to tales of drunkenness, theft, murder, mental health issues and sailing through storms, reefs and shipwrecks, the tome is a collection of fascinating stories. Christopher was married to Harriott Freeth and the couple had a son and two daughters, one of whom died on a voyage back to India and was buried at sea. During his 19 years in Madras, Christopher became known for his diligence, kindness, and commitment to the welfare of orphans and widows of mariners of all nationalities, including Indians. He also worked to improve maritime safety. His son, Horatio, became a colonel in the Madras Artillery. In 1858, Christopher died in Madras. His tomb and memorial tablet lie in the Madras Cathedral, with a portrait of him with his pet dog. The Chennai museum portal’s list of inscriptions on tombs or monuments in Madras volume I mentions that “Christopher Biden was committed to his charge and fell by the hands of a band of fanatics on the eleventh of September”. Read AlsoKamala Harris: The inspiring story of many firstsUS Vice President-elect Kamala Harris has added several firsts to her name after Joe Biden won the presidential race on Saturday defeating incumbent president Donald Trump. She is the first female, first Black, first Indian-American and first Asian vice president-elect of the US. She has also been aSeveral established historians, however, haven’t yet found any direct connection between Christopher and Joe Biden. A few have ruled out any connection between the two, especially because Christopher was not married to an Indian. “He’s talking about a George Biden, and there is no record of Christopher Biden having married an Indian. They don’t tally. There must be a separate George Biden, somewhere else,” said historian V Sriram. Historian and novelist William Dalrymple said, “I just read the article myself, but have no details”. Despite the sketchy information, if the President-elect does have an ancestor who worked for the East India Company and lived in India, Christopher seems to be a likely candidate for a belated shot at a different kind of fame. Watch How Biden may turn out to have an Indian connect||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/not-just-kamala-biden-too-has-indian-link/articleshow/79119637.cms||Aditi R
November 9, 2020||World||Not just Kamala Harris, Joe Biden too has Indian link||CHENNAI: “I may have relatives in India,” US President-elect Joseph Biden had declared on his maiden visit to Mumbai in 2013, when VP-elect Kamala Harris’s Tamil Nadu connection wasn’t headline news yet. Biden, then serving as VP, was referring to a Mumbai resident who, he said, shared his surname and had written to him back in 1972, claiming they were both descendants of someone who worked for the erstwhile East India Company. Biden, who was 29 at the time and had just been elected to the US Senate, said he wanted to follow up on the claim but couldn’t. Read AlsoWhat a Biden administration will mean for IndiaNEW DELHI: Joe Biden is a familiar figure in India as he was Barack Obama's vice-president for two terms. There will be some areas where he will follow Trump regarding India, and others where he would diverge. Defence, strategic and security relations will likely follow a path that has remainedA few years later, during another speech, Biden said his “great, great, great, great, great grandfather George Biden” was a captain in the East India Company who settled in India and married an Indian. Read AlsoUS welcomes India’s rise: Joe BidenThe US and India share the same democratic values and have a tremendous capability to work together. The two must continue to aspire to the promise of prosperity and security, Joe Biden had told TOI’s Srijana Mitra Das in an interview in 2013 during his first visit to the country as vice president.Though there are no records of a George Biden, two siblings named Christopher Biden and William Henry Biden did serve as captains in the East India Company, according to Gateway House, a foreign policy think-tank based in Mumbai. Christopher was 12 and his brother even younger when they started as third and fourth mates on the route between London and India via the Cape of Good Hope. In 1821, Christopher captained the Princess Charlotte of Wales and made four return journeys between England and Calcutta. He also captained the new Royal George (1,426 tons) on one voyage. Each return journey lasted a year, wrote Tim Willasey-Wilsey, visiting professor in the department of war studies, King’s College London. Read AlsoAmerican political divide is this deepAnybody who follows US elections knows that the Democrats have an advantage in cities and Republicans in rural areas. But just how complete the cleavage between these two worlds in America is revealed by analyzing data for counties in the just concluded presidential polls, for which votes are stillWilliam died of a stroke at Rangoon (now Yangon) in 1843, when he was 51 years old. Christopher settled down in India and became a well-known figure in Madras (now Chennai). In 1830, Christopher wrote a book, “Naval Discipline: Subordination Contrasted with Insubordination: Or, a View of the Necessity for Passing a Law Establishing an Efficient Naval Discipline on Board Ships in the Merchant-Service”, that is still available online. From managing a diverse crew and passengers on tiny ships during long taxing trips to tales of drunkenness, theft, murder, mental health issues and sailing through storms, reefs and shipwrecks, the tome is a collection of fascinating stories. Christopher was married to Harriott Freeth and the couple had a son and two daughters, one of whom died on a voyage back to India and was buried at sea. During his 19 years in Madras, Christopher became known for his diligence, kindness, and commitment to the welfare of orphans and widows of mariners of all nationalities, including Indians. He also worked to improve maritime safety. His son, Horatio, became a colonel in the Madras Artillery. In 1858, Christopher died in Madras. His tomb and memorial tablet lie in the Madras Cathedral, with a portrait of him with his pet dog. The Chennai museum portal’s list of inscriptions on tombs or monuments in Madras volume I mentions that “Christopher Biden was committed to his charge and fell by the hands of a band of fanatics on the eleventh of September”. Read AlsoKamala Harris: The inspiring story of many firstsUS Vice President-elect Kamala Harris has added several firsts to her name after Joe Biden won the presidential race on Saturday defeating incumbent president Donald Trump. She is the first female, first Black, first Indian-American and first Asian vice president-elect of the US. She has also been aSeveral established historians, however, haven’t yet found any direct connection between Christopher and Joe Biden. A few have ruled out any connection between the two, especially because Christopher was not married to an Indian. “He’s talking about a George Biden, and there is no record of Christopher Biden having married an Indian. They don’t tally. There must be a separate George Biden, somewhere else,” said historian V Sriram. Historian and novelist William Dalrymple said, “I just read the article myself, but have no details”. Despite the sketchy information, if the President-elect does have an ancestor who worked for the East India Company and lived in India, Christopher seems to be a likely candidate for a belated shot at a different kind of fame. Watch How Biden may turn out to have an Indian connect||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/not-just-kamala-biden-too-has-indian-link/articleshow/79119628.cms||Aditi R
November 9, 2020||India||Agra cop crushed to death by tractor carrying sand from Rajasthan illegally||AGRA: A 24-year-old police constable was allegedly crushed to death by a tractor, laden with illegally mined sand, while he was trying to stop it from speeding away in Agra’s Kheragarh area early Sunday. Sonu Chaudhary, from Aligarh, had joined the police force in 2018. He is survived by his wife. The tractor driver and his accomplices also opened fire on the police and fled amid thick morning fog, said SP, City, Botre Rohan Pramod. “Sonu Chaudhary was a hard-working policeman. Teams have been formed to nab the accused,” said Botre. An FIR was registered against six people under various IPC sections and under the UP Minor Minerals (Concession) Rules, 1963. According to the FIR, lodged by sub-inspector Amit Singh, the police received a tip-off that on the movement of tractor-trolleys with sand from Rajasthan to Ahela village in Agra. Additional police force was deployed and barricades were put up at Ahela crossing. Around 3:50am, at least six tractor-trolleys were seen coming towards the crossing. On seeing the police barricades, some of them sped away towards the Ahela village while two rushed to another area. A police jeep chased them. When Chaudhary got off the jeep to stop one of the tractors, he was crushed to death. He was rushed to hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Chaudhary’s uncle Arun Kumar told TOI that he was the eldest in the family. “Chaudhary’s last rites were performed in his village in the evening. His younger brother, Navneet Kumar, is in the Army and is posted in J&K,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/agra-cop-crushed-to-death-by-tractor-carrying-sand-from-rajasthan-illegally/articleshow/79119642.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 9, 2020||India||After falling for 7 weeks, Covid-19 cases in India rise||NEW DELHI: After falling steadily since mid-September, the weekly count of Covid-19 cases and deaths registered a slight increase this week ahead of Diwali celebrations in the country. Around 3,25,000 fresh cases were reported during the week (November 1-8), up from 319,253 infections recorded in the previous week. This is the first weekly rise in cases in the past eight weeks and indicates that the falling Covid graph of the country may have bottomed out. Likewise, the death toll too rose this week after registering a fall for each of the previous six weeks. The country recorded 4,014 deaths this week, up from 3,586 during the previous week. The rise in cases has mainly come on account of a spike in numbers in Delhi and Haryana. But cases have also risen slightly as compared to the previous week in Telangana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, J&K and Mizoram. Coming ahead of the Diwali week, the spike is likely to worry health officials and experts, who have been warning about the likelihood of the pandemic surging again in the country during the festival season. On Sunday, India recorded 47,116 fresh cases on Sunday and 489 deaths. As has been the case for most of the week, fresh cases on Sunday were slightly higher than the number recorded last Sunday (46,253). Read AlsoActive Covid-19 cases decline nationally but up in 3 statesNEW DELHI: Even as the country’s active caseload of Covid-19 is consistently declining and now stands at 5.12 lakh, comprising only 6% of the total positive cases so far, active cases continue to rise in three states — Haryana, Delhi and Mizoram. On Saturday, active cases in Delhi stood at 40,258,Delhi led the national tally of cases for the second time in the past three days, reporting 7,745 fresh infections on Sunday, the highest single-day tally in the state. At 77, deaths from the virus too were ominously on the rise in the capital. In Maharashtra, a day after the state and the city of Mumbai reported a significant dip in daily cases, infections increased again on Sunday. The state added 5,092 cases and 110 fatalities taking the total caseload to 17,19,858 and fatalities to 45,240. For the first time in November, the city reported more than 1,000 Covid cases on Sunday. Tamil Nadu reported 20 Covid-19 deaths on Sunday, the lowest single-day toll since June 11. Telangana on Sunday recorded 1,440 new cases of Covid-19 and five deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-falling-for-7-weeks-covid-19-cases-in-india-rise-again/articleshow/79119707.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||PCB may impose penalty up to Rs 5L for flouting ban||Kolkata: In addition to slapping penal offences, the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) is likely to impose environmental compensation under the ‘Polluter-Pay’ principle on offenders — people who will light fireworks despite the blanket ban by Calcutta High Court. Empowered by the Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal, an environmental regulatory body, like the PCB, can impose a compensation up to Rs 5 lakh. Besides, WBPCB will also prosecute the offenders under Section 15 of Environment Protection Act. If proved guilty, the offender can land in jail for five years, apart from paying a penalty up to Rs 1 lakh. Only WBPCB officers are empowered to prosecute under EPA. They are likely to meet state advocate-general Kishore Dutta to finalize the legal steps to be taken against those who violate the HC order. In 2019, WBPCB had booked as many as 25 people and housing societies under EPA for the first time. Eventually, 15 were prosecuted on Diwali and New Year’s night for lighting banned fireworks. The case is now being tried and most of the accused are on anticipatory bail, said a WBPCB officer. “Apart from the Calcutta High Court order, the National Green Tribunal will pass an order in connection with fireworks on November 9. On November 10, the HC is supposed to deliver another judgment. After these, we will work out our road map,” said WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra. Police will book offenders under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and the fire brigade will book them under Section 24 of Fire Service Act, sources indicated. Cops said they were also booking offenders under sections of the explosives act and disaster management act. The Bidhannagar City Police commissioner held a coordination committee meeting with representatives of fire services department, CESC, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and other stakeholders in presence of senior police officers on Saturday, calling for steps to be taken at all levels to ensure the HC ban on firecrackers is maintained in the commissionerate area. A similar meeting will be held by Kolkata Police on Monday. “We have initiated special drives to stop the sale of firecrackers in our area and checks are being conducted at nakas to stop entry of crackers into the Bidhannagar jurisdiction. We also sought help from other stakeholders to undertake large-scale awareness drives. We have made some special awareness videos which we will upload on our social media channels soon,” said Mukesh Kumar, the Bidhannagar police commissioner. Kumar said they will also launch a fresh campaign with special focus on high-rises. “In the past, we have seen people in high-rises go to the terrace and burst crackers. We will take stock of that, too, and have already started sending advisories to residents’ welfare associations that strict action will be taken if anyone is found guilty of bursting crackers,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pcb-may-impose-penalty-up-to-rs-5l-for-flouting-ban/articleshow/79117732.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||City clocks 10% of UP corona tally in 24 hrs||Lucknow: At least 231 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the city, accounting for 10% of new infections in the state during last 24 hours. Gomtinagar continued to report maximum cases with 26 residents testing positive for novel coronavirus infection. According to the state Covid bulletin, Lucknow’s caseload since the outbreak stands at 65,317. Of these, 61,264 (94%) patients, including 271 on Sunday, have recovered so far. Of around 3,137 people still carrying the virus, 1,859 are in home isolation while 1,278 are undergoing treatment at hospitals. Other city areas which reported new cases are Aashiana (18), Indiranagar (16), Rae Bareli Road (15), Alambagh (14), and Chowk, Mahanagar, Aliganj and Thakurganj (10 each). The Covid bulletin (updated till 3pm) mentioned one death due to the disease that took the toll to 916 (1.4% of the caseload). Later, more deaths were reported from the city. Six patients died at KGMU alone. A 58-year-old man died of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome within 24 hours of admission. A 42-year-old male patient died of septic shock. and young patient (28) died of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. Three other patients succumbed to cardiopulmonary arrests. As many as 14 patients, including a child, were discharged from KGMU after recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-clocks-10-of-up-corona-tally-in-24-hrs/articleshow/79119469.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Trichy||Tropical butterfly conservatory in Trichy may reopen tomorrow||Trichy: Tropical butterfly conservatory Trichy (TBCT) may reopen for public from November 10 as the forest officials in Trichy are expecting a formal clearance from the government. Sources said that all preparatory works have been done to ensure safe entry of visitors into TBCT. The conservatory has remained closed since the lockdown for Covid-19 began in March. There has been a demand from locals to reopen the conservatory after lockdown norms were eased. As cinema halls, multiplexes and shopping malls have been allowed to reopen besides amusement parks, auditoriums, zoological parks and museums for the public from November 10, forest officials and public demanded that the conservatory should also be opened. Speaking to TOI, Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha said that the conservatory is like an amusement park or zoological park, so they are expecting a nod from the forest department to reopen TBCT from November 10.We have already submitted a report on the standard operating procedures to be followed to prevent Covid-19 spread in case of reopening. We will be allowing 100 people per hour to maintain social distancing. The amphitheatre will also remain closed and we are planning to prevent entry of people above the age of 60 and below the age of 10 concerning their safety, she said. TBCT is one among the butterfly hotspots in the state where over 114 butterfly species have been spotted so far. Amidst few avenues for recreational activity in Trichy, TBCT, located in the upper Anaicut reserve forest at about 3.5 km from Srirangam, has become an identity of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tropical-butterfly-conservatory-in-trichy-may-reopen-tomorrow/articleshow/79119462.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Erode||Elephant, 15, found dead in waterbody||Erode: The carcass of a 15-year-old female elephant was found near Kundukkalpallam village in the Bhavanisagar forest on Saturday evening. Veterinary doctors of the forest department, who carried out an autopsy on Sunday, found bite marks on the carcass. Crocodiles might have attacked the elephant, an official said. “As Bhavani river flows through Kundukkalpallam, crocodiles are often spotted there.” The veterinarians collected vital organs from the carcass for analysis. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/elephant-15-found-dead-in-waterbody/articleshow/79118969.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Patna||Patna air quality dips to ‘very poor’ category||PATNA: The air quality in Patna has deteriorated with the average pollution level inching closer to ‘very poor’ category on Sunday owing to the climatic reasons. With several areas in Patna recorded high pollution level, the overall air quality index (AQI) plunged from 244 on Saturday to 285 at 4pm on Sunday. However, in the morning hours, the AQI level was 296. Track the pollution level in your cityAs per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, the overall AQI of 285 in Patna was the average of the six air monitoring stations at BIT-Mesra, Patna (285), Eco Park (332), SK Memorial Hall (309), DRM office at Khagaul (75), Planetarium (388) and Patna City (322). The CPCB stipulates that ‘poor’ AQI can cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. Pradhan Parth Sarthi, professor at Department of Environmental Science, Central University of South Bihar (CUSB), and standing committee member of Bihar State Action Plan for Climate Change, attributed geographical location as the main reason behind rise in pollution level during winter. “PM2.5 (particulate matter less than 2.5 micron) has been found to be the biggest contributor in the AQI. We can control the pollution level to some extent with some restrictions on vehicular emission and biomass. However, there can be some respite through natural phenomenon only. Few days back, the state witnessed windy conditions due to which the pollution level decreased owing to dispersion of pollutants. Now, the wind speed has slowed down and the pollutants are not able to disperse,” Sarthi said. “After Diwali, the pollution level may increase further,” he warned. As per the Bihar State Pollution Control Board, biomass and fossil fuel burning, industries like brick kiln, power plants and construction activities contribute to the air pollution in the state. The Air Quality Early Warning System of the ministry of earth sciences has predicted improvement in the overall AQI of Patna due to change in wind direction. A weatherman at Patna Metrological Centre said the direction of south-easterly has slightly changed from the evening, which could be the reason that the pollution level may decrease within the next few hours. “The weather conditions may further remain dry in Patna and across the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-air-quality-dips-to-very-poor-category/articleshow/79117410.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cracker sellers in makeshift stalls play hide-and-seek with police||KOLKATA: Firecracker sellers who have set up temporary road-side stalls are proving to be a headache for cops who began surprise checks in central Kolkata’s markets since Saturday night. These few sellers are conducting business from their makeshift stalls and are packing up and slipping out before the cops arrive. Police have already cautioned firecracker sellers in the central Kolkata hubs — Chandni Chowk and Old China Bazar — of penal action if they are caught selling anything apart from candles, diyas and electric lights. In Chandni Chowk, TOI spotted a seller on Saturday and Sunday evenings. The trader, who refused to be identified, admitted that he had been cautioned by cops against setting up shop on Saturday night, but pleaded that desperation forced his hand. The few buyers who had gathered at the shop refused to identify themselves too. In Burrabazar’s Old China Bazar, a wholesale market, the scene was completely different as police teams conducted sporadic patrols since morning. Officers said that, overall, there has been more compliance among big and medium shop owners and wholesalers. Babunand Pandey, a wholesaler who owns Shree Ganesh Traders in Old China Bazar, said, “Police teams inspected things being sold in the few shops that opened. They asked me not to sell even the toy pistols because they emit sound. We are only selling candles, diyas and electric lights. Shops here have mostly downed their shutters — something I have never seen before in my life.” Burrabazar, Posta and New Market police indicated some seizures were made overnight and raids will be carried out. Police said they were also investigating information of sporadic incidents of firecrackers being burst in pockets of Behala, Parnasree and Garia. Officers indicated they will also refuse permission for the temporary stalls which come up on Kalakar Street a couple of days before Diwali. These stalls were allowed after the sellers paid a fee for the temporary stalls. “We will speak to KMC on this issue,” an officer said. According to cops, local patrols will be augmented by personnel from the detective department and the Reserve Force in the run-up to Kali Puja and Diwali. Police said some raids were conducted at a few warehouses based on tips that they were storing firecrackers. “We have deputed officers who joined local cops to work on leads on firecrackers. We have held meetings with local vendors and the cooperation extended to us has been encouraging,” said an officer. (Inputs from Amit Moulick & Biplab Bhattacharjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cracker-sellers-in-makeshift-stalls-play-hide-and-seek-with-police/articleshow/79117691.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ECR to run more festival special trains||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) will run at least 12 more festival special trains from different places under its jurisdiction between November 10 and December 2 to cope with huge rush of passengers during Diwali and Chhath festivals. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the Dhanbad-Patna festival special train (03329/03330) will run daily from November 10 to 30. Railways has restored passenger train services between Bihar and Jharkhand for the first time since imposition of Covid-induced lockdown in the country in March this year. This festival special train will have load combination of 24 coaches. The Barkakana-Patna festival special train (03347/03348) will run daily from November 10 to December 1 with a load combination of 12 coaches, the CPRO said. Similarly, the Singrauli-Patna festival special (03349 /03350) will run daily from November 10 to December 1 with a load combination of 10 coaches. The festival special train (05283 /05284) between Manihari in Katihar district and Jayanagar will also run daily from November 10 to December 1 with a load combination of 16 coaches. The Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Durg festival special train (03287/03288) will run daily from November 10 to December 2. Likewise, Patna-Ranchi festival special train (02363/02364) will run daily from November 10 to 30 with a load combination of 21 coaches. The special train between Jamshedpur and Chhapra (08181/08182) will run from November 5 to December 2 via Asansol, Jhajha, Kiul, Barauni and Hajipur, the CPRO said. Another festival special train (02821/02822) between Jaynagar and Ranchi will run from November 16 to 21 Meanwhile, in addition to five pairs of special passenger trains already announced by railways to be restored between Bihar and Jharkhand from November 10 , railways has decided to run at least five pairs of more special trains from different places falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway ( ECR). According to the CPRO, railways has started passenger special train services between Dhanbad and Gaya ( 03305/03306 ) from Sunday. Services of this intercity passenger train will continue everyday till further orders to facilitate passengers travel conveniently on this particular route during the festive season, he said . Railways will also run Islampur–Hatia Puja special passenger train ( 08625/08626 ) daily from November 10 to December. A special train Purnea Court –Hatia puja special train ( 08625/ 08626 ) will also daily from November 10 to December 1 to cope with passengers’ rush on the occasion of Diwali and Chhath . Similarly, another one pair of puja special train ( 08183.08184 ) will run between Danapur and Tata from November 10 to December 1 with a load combination of AC chair car one and second class chair car eight . Besides, railways has also restored Gaya – Kiul MEMU train services ( 03355/03356 ) from Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-to-run-more-festival-special-trains/articleshow/79117313.cms||Kumod Verma
November 9, 2020||Mysuru||Strays afflicted with scabies in Mysuru||MYSURU: Stray dogs in the city which suffered due to a lack of food for a few months due to the lockdown are now suffering from scabies, a skin disease. Unable to see the plight of these dogs, animal lovers demanded that the authorities take measures to provide medical treatment. Due to closure of food stalls and canteens during the lockdown, stray dogs in the majority of the areas in the city suffered without food for days. However, due to the efforts of dog lovers and some animal organisations, the stray dogs could survive during the lockdown. However, stray dogs in many areas are now afflicted with scabies. NR Mohalla Government Veterinary Hospital veterinarian Dr B N Shadakshara Murthy told TOI that the stray dogs are suffering from scabies, which is a communicable disease. “It may have been caused due to lack of hygiene and malnutrition. With timely medication, the disease can be cured. The humans who come in contact with stray dogs, and pat them or feed them, should immediately wash their hands to prevent any health problems. As dogs live in groups, spread of the skin disease will be fast,” he said. Murthy said that the MCC should immediately treat the dogs, and that scabies can be cured. Animal rights activist and environmentalist Bhagyalakshmi told TOI that she has noticed several such stray dogs in the city. “Recently near Akshay Bhandar, I noticed two stray dogs with scabies. We immediately shifted the dogs to People for Animals (PFA), where the dogs were treated. The unhygienic food which the dogs eat and the condition in which they live causes such diseases. The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) should capture such dogs and sterlize them, administer them anti-rabies vaccine and treat the scabies,” she said. MCC health standing committee chairperson J Gopi told TOI that he will direct the corporation veterinarian to take immediate action to treat the dogs. “We have identified 10 acres in Rayanakere where a stray dog rescue and rehabilitation centre will be constructed on 2 acres. The stray dogs will be treated at the centre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/strays-afflicted-with-scabies-in-mysuru/articleshow/79117160.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 9, 2020||Meerut||Agra most polluted city of country, rest western UP cities also breathe toxic air||MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: Agra was the most polluted city in the country with its Air Quality Index (AQI) touching 458, followed by Ghaziabad whose pollution index was just two notches below, according to a bulletin released by the pollution control board on Sunday evening. The air quality of Agra continues to remain in the “severe” category despite the interventions of the apex court and the NGT. Experts believe that the air quality might deteriorate due to the current weather conditions, stubble burning and the festive season. Track the pollution level in your cityMeerut registered 386 AQI and stayed in the “very poor” category. But it fared better than neighbouring districts like Moradabad, Baghpat and Bulandshahr which registered an AQI of 399, 421 and 435 respectively. An AQI ranging from 0 to 50 is considered “good”, and “satisfactory” if it falls between 51 and 100. Similarly, from 101 to 200 it will be “moderate”, 201 to 300 is considered “poor”, 301 to 400 is taken as “very poor”, and above 400 it’s “severe”. Delhi, on the contrary, recorded 416 AQI and was in the "severe" category. There was some relief from air pollution in Moradabad compared to previous days as the AQI on Sunday slightly declined and reached 399, however, the situation continues to be “severe”. Most NCR cities, including Noida and Greater Noida, also stayed in the “severe” zone. A thick blanket of smoke and dust enveloped the region, reducing visibility to a few meters. Meanwhile, authorities continued to crack the whip on those burning stubble. A paper mill in Muzaffarnagar was also sealed for burning plastic waste. But, despite the crackdown, stubble burning continued unabated in parts of west UP and adjoining Haryana districts. Dr Hemendra Agarwal, a physician in Agra, said the increasing PM 2.5 level is dangerous for health, especially for heart patients and those that were asthmatic. “Children aged between three and 10 are more prone to allergy and asthma. Prolonged exposure to PM 2.5 levels beyond safe limits can harm the respiratory system, as the ultra-fine particulates can find their way deep into the lungs and also enter the bloodstream,” Dr Agarwal said. The PM-10 (presence of particles in the air with a diameter of less than 10 micrometres) is considered less dangerous than PM 2.5. (With inputs from Anuja Jaiswal, Ishita Bhatia & Maira Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/agra-most-polluted-city-of-country-rest-western-up-cities-also-breathe-toxic-air/articleshow/79117051.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar election results: Congress sends two observers ahead of counting of votes||PATNA: Congress is keenly watching the political activities in the state in the wake of exit polls giving an edge to the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan over the NDA in the assembly polls, which concluded on Saturday. The election results will be declared on Tuesday. Congress general secretaries Randeep Singh Surjewala and Avinash Pandey have been sent to Bihar as observers ahead of the counting of votes. Congress state chief Madan Mohan Jha, however, described the development as a routine affair. “There is nothing unusual. Normally, observers go to the states where elections are held. So it’s a routine affair,” he said, adding that the two leaders earlier visited the state for election purposes. “They were here during elections. They not only monitored the election campaign but also addressed a few election rallies,” Jha added. He also ruled out the possibility of poaching of MLAs after results are declared. “We have never doubted any of our candidates. All have contested the election on the Congress ticket and loyal to the party,” he asserted. He also exuded confidence that the Mahagathbandhan would form the next government in the state. “We were confident about our victory even before the exit polls,” Jha said. Reacting over the exit polls, Surjewala said people of Bihar have voted for a change. Sources in the party said while Surjewala reached Patna from New Delhi on Sunday, Pandey will arrive on Monday. Besides RJD and Congress, the Mahagathbandhan comprises the three Left parties — CPI, CPI(M) and CPI-ML (Liberation).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-sends-two-observers-ahead-of-counting-of-votes/articleshow/79117175.cms||Ramashankar
November 9, 2020||Patna||JD(U) MLA Lesie Singh, 6 others booked in murder case||PATNA: An FIR has been lodged against JD(U) MLA Lesie Singh and six others with Sarsi police station in Purnia in connection with murder of RJD leader Bittu Singh’s brother, Pushpesh Singh alias Beni Singh (30), who was shot dead near a polling booth at Sihuli village under Dhamdhaha assembly constituency during the third phase of assembly elections on Saturday. Lesie is JD(U)’s sitting MLA from Dhamdaha seat. She contested the election from the same seat on a JD(U) symbol this time as well. Banmankhi SDPO Vibhash Kumar said Beni’s brother Sonu Singh has alleged Lesie’s involvement in the killing. He added Beni was also involved in some criminal cases in the area. Police sources said several empty and live cartridges were recovered from the spot. Police said Bittu, who was planning to contest from Dhamdaha seat this time, was arrested by Special Task Force of the state police on September 28. An AK-47 assault rifle, a carbine, two magazines of INSAS rifle and live cartridges were recovered from his possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-mla-6-others-booked-in-murder-case/articleshow/79117154.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Survey underlines urgent need for sensitization||KOLKATA: A perception survey among citizens and sellers of firecrackers revealed that only 35% citizens were in favour of a complete ban on fireworks, underlining the urgent need to sensitize a large populace about the disaster that fireworks can cause in the midst of the pandemic. Over 677 citizens and 23 fireworks sellers were interviewed to understand their perception on the crackers. The survey, carried out by Bengal Clean Air Network (BengalCAN), a network of youths, medical professionals, conscious citizens, NGOs, government bodies and other key stakeholders who take action and are involved in policy advocacy to combat air pollution in Kolkata and in the rest of Bengal, showed that 67% of the respondents knew about the existence of green crackers, but only 19% knew how to correctly identify them. TimesViewThere is an urgent need to sensitise citizens. Nothing can be achieved till a critical mass realises how bad firecrackers are, especially when we are in the middle of a pandemic that attacks our breathing apparatus.Green crackers, mandated by the Supreme Court in Delhi NCR in 2017 and developed by CSIR-NEERI, reduce emission by 30%. Interestingly, 70% of the citizens surveyed claimed that green crackers were not popular mainly due to lack of public awareness. When asked about willingness to pay a higher price, about 64% of the respondents said they were willing to buy green crackers even if they were expensive. Interviews of 23 firecracker sellers across three major fireworks markets in and around Kolkata indicated that almost 43% of the sellers sell green crackers, out of which 80% have less than 25% stock of green fireworks. The sudden ban is a major livelihood disruptor, the traders said. “A sudden ban on anything affects a large number of people who have invested lakhs in it. It will also encourage illegal hoarding of firecrackers by customers a couple of days before the ban gets strictly imposed. The need, however, is not to ban fireworks but teach local artisans like us how to make green firecrackers or switch to making other Diwali products,” a trader said. Speaking on the topic, Vinay Jaju, co-founder of SwitchON Foundation and Bengal Clean Air, said, “From the firecrackers survey conducted, we have seen most of citizens were not in favour of a complete ban. A large-scale awareness drive is the need of the hour to sensitize citizens so that the ban is successfully implemented.” BengalCAN is mobilizing doctors and experts from different NGOs and other enthusiasts to explain the harmful effects of firecrackers and teach the people a more sustainable approach to celebrating Diwali. Speaking about the blanket ban on the bursting of firecrackers, Ekta Jaju of Bengal CAN said, “We welcome this step as it will surely benefit the environment. It was necessary in the current pandemic situation. But we need to be prepared so that it is not a one-time action. A long-term strategy that manages both environment and livelihood concerns needs to be in place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/survey-underlines-urgent-need-for-sensitization/articleshow/79117700.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 9, 2020||Patna||Centre to reward transport department for helping migrants||PATNA: The state transport department has been selected by the Centre for ‘Innovation in urban transport during Covid-19’ award. The department will receive the award at the 13th ‘Urban Mobility India Conference 2020’, to be organised by the Union ministry of housing and urban Affairs on Monday. The theme of this year’s conference is ‘Emerging trends in urban mobility’. The major objective of the conference is to update officials of different cities with the best urban transport practices. State transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the annual conference is organised every year by the Centre in which different states participate. “This year, the Bihar transport department has been selected for the innovation award,” he said During the pandemic, district-wise buses were operated in Bihar to ferry migrant workers. To prevent the spread of Covid, each bus was sanitised. Agarwal said during the pandemic, 25.5 lakh people, including students coming from other states to Bihar, were taken to their homes by buses. “There were no means of transportation during the Covid-induced lockdown. However, the transport department helped the migrants workers and students in reaching their homes or quarantine centres,” Agarwal added. He said as many as 7,165 buses were operated to transport the workers from railway stations to their district and block headquarters. “Around 1,556 Shramik Special trains were also operated to bring people trapped in Delhi, Mumbai and Kota during the nationwide lockdown,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centre-to-reward-transport-dept-for-helping-migrants/articleshow/79117085.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Shopkeepers’ wishes come true on Sunday||LUDHIANA: The last Sunday before Diwali saw huge crowds at Old City markets, bringing happiness back on the faces of shopkeepers, who had not seen good times since the lockdown. Businessmen said there was a good footfall of customers and they were anticipating it to increase till Diwali, which would help them recover huge losses they suffered during the lockdown. However, the residents at these markets brazenly ignored the warning of the health experts about the second wave of coronavirus being deadlier. People were seen roaming in the markets without masks and not following social distancing. Businessmen were appealing to the customers to follow all safety measures. Kamal Gupta, president of Saban Bazaar Association, said, “After almost seven months, such a huge rush was witnessed in the Old City markets on Sunday. However, we have to understand that this is a temporary situation. We need such a footfall every day for months to compensate for the losses incurred during the lockdown. We have noticed that a lot of people coming to markets are becoming very careless about Covid-19 norms. On behalf of shopkeepers and associations, I request customers not to put their and others’ lives in danger, and wear masks and follow social distancing.” Speaking to the TOI, Nitin Kumar, owner of a suiting and shirting showroom near Gurmandi Market, said, “After a long gap, there was a good turnout of customers. People from nearby towns and cities outnumbered locals. For months, due to lockdown and spike in the number of coronavirus cases, customers stayed away, but festivals and wedding season have brought them to the markets. Moreover, Sunday being the last holiday before Diwali was also a factor for the rush. All shopkeepers are observing safety norms and we request shoppers to also follow them.” Vishal Bansal, a shopkeeper from Kesar Ganj Market, said, “We are happy that people have started purchasing and wish the trend continues. Chaura Bazaar, Akal Market, Gur Mandi, Kesar Ganj, Mochpura, Bijli Market and Saban Bazaar are hubs for specific products. This is the reason customers from not only Ludhiana but all over Punjab come here for shopping.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shopkeepers-wishes-come-true-on-sunday/articleshow/79117048.cms||Mohit Behl
November 9, 2020||Surat||‘Speak up, I-T sleuths won’t come knocking’||SURAT: “Now tell the truth, income tax officer won’t come knocking on your door,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi left the audience in splits while taking a light swipe at a Bhavnagar transporter expounded the saving on fuel due to the Ghogha-Hazira Ro-Pax service. Modi had a free-wheeling virtual interaction from New Delhi with traders, transporters and farmers from south Gujarat and Saurashtra ahead of the inauguration. Asif Solanki, the transporter, told Modi that the ferry will help grow his business by reducing fuel cost. “I have six trucks and eight drivers. The ferry service will help me save 20 litres of diesel per vehicle from Bhavnagar to Hazira,” Solanki said. Hearing this, Modi promptly inquired if the savings would encourage him to purchase more trucks. The unexpected volley left Solanki stunned and he took a pause. Modi, in his characteristic lighter tone, said: Now speak the truth Asifbhai... no income tax officer would come knocking your door!.” The comment triggered a roar of laughter in the audience at Ghogha and Hazira. Modi strongly suggested Solanki to increase his number of drivers so that they get ample rest and accidents due to fatigue can be avoided. When Solanki informed the PM that he owns six trucks and eight drivers, Modi said. "This is unfair. You should employ 12 drivers. You are extracting too much (work) from them. Drivers should be given rest for their safety. One of the reasons for road accidents is that drivers’ fatigue as a result of which accidents happen early mornings as they doze off. All the money you save will go waste.” Nandlal Nakrani, a native of Bhavnagar doing diamond broking in Surat, told Modi, “I own a farm in my native village. Due to the Ro-Pax ferry, I can visit my native in the morning and return by evening. The service would boost small industries in Saurashtra.” Replying to Nakrani, PM Modi said, “Surat ma hira ane Bhavnagar ma hal (diamonds in Surat and plough in Bhavnagar). You are doing a wonderful job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/speak-up-i-t-sleuths-wont-come-knocking/articleshow/79117469.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Check on trucks, bikes to stop sale from cracker hubs||KOLKATA: Less than a week before Kali Puja, the biggest challenge for city cops is ensuring that firecrackers from local manufacturing hubs, like Champahati and Nungi — as close as 20km and 10 km from the city respectively — do not enter the city for local consumption. Almost every household in the villages in these hubs is into the business of manufacturing firecrackers, now banned by the HC. “It is easier to stop firecrackers coming from outside the state. But these are products from the local manufacturing units. We have set up checkpoints at all entry points near Taratala and EM Bypass among other places. We are checking cars, trucks and even bikes. We are working in close coordination with the South 24 Parganas police to ensure the ban is maintained,” said a Kolkata Police officer. The South 24 Parganas gram panchayats of Begumpur, South Garia and Champahati and Nungi (Maheshtala), nearly every home manufactures fireworks — a majority of which are illegal — in the months preceding Kali Puja and Diwali. Sellers TOI spoke to said stocks worth a lakh to a few crores have been rotting at their homes after the HC ban. Many of the traders had taken loans at high interest and have no clue what to do now. “Had the court or the state banned the crackers a few weeks earlier, we would not have invested so much. What are we supposed to do with the products now?” said Sudhansu Das, a seller and a member of Champahati Fireworks Sellers’ Union. Sukhdeb Naskar, a firecracker seller from Nungi said he invested Rs 19 lakh in the raw materials this year and now has no means to repay the debt. To rein in several manufacturers and sellers who are now illegally trying to sell the crackers at lower rates, officers of South 24 Parganas police district said they have formed special teams to conduct sustained raids at multiple places. “In the last few days, we have seized crackers worth several lakhs and arrested a dozen-odd people for illegally selling and transporting banned crackers. We have also had meetings with the fire department and have asked them to book the unlicenced manufacturing units under specific sections,” said Kamanasish Sen, SP, Baruipur police district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/check-on-trucks-bikes-to-stop-sale-from-cracker-hubs/articleshow/79117807.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 9, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru determined to bag award for its UGD network||MYSURU: The underground drainage (UGD) network in Mysuru is, like many of the structures that dots the cityscape, a part of its heritage, with a history that is nearly a century old. The UGD network was developed during the reign of Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, and civic agencies in Mysuru are hoping that its enduring efficiency helps bring home the prize, and the accompanying purse of Rs 10 crore, for the ‘Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge’ that the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs will conduct between May and June next year. The national competition is based on the theme of ‘manhole to machine-hole transformation’. Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) officials said that, in all, as many as 231 cities from across the country would be in the race for the prize, of which 127 had already been declared open defecation-free. In Karnataka alone, 11 cities – three of which, including Mysuru have been declared open defecation-free – have already registered in the competition. The competing cities have been classified under three categories – those with a population of 10 lakh or more, those within the three to 10 lakh demographic and urban centres with a population of less than three lakh. However, for any urban centre to even be eligible for competing, it needs to meet a set of criteria, which includes having a responsible sanitation authority (RSA), sanitation response unit (RSU), in addition to having a valid open defecation-free certificate and a strict policy towards the use of single-use plastic. Cities will be evaluated on a scale of 2,000 marks, out of which citizen empowerment, presence and functionality of a 24x7 helpline, public awareness campaigns, use of mechanised cleaning tools and empowerment of civic workers have been classified as ‘core parameters’ accounting for 1,400 marks, while eco-system parameters such as adoption of innovative methods, standardisation of the septic tank will make up the rest. MCC health officer DG Nagaraj said that the survey of the cities would get under way in March and April. “Evaluators from the Union ministry will visit all the cities registered for the competition. Mysuru is a city wherein all the residents are connected to the UGD network. We have also set up sewage treatment plants, and we have a completely mechanised system. We are confident of emerging victor in the competition,” Nagaraj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-determined-to-bag-award-for-its-ugd-network/articleshow/79117561.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 9, 2020||Patna||Awareness programme on POCSO Act held in Begusarai||BEGUSARAI: The district and sessions court on Sunday organized a one-day sensitization-cum-awareness programme about the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Juvenile Justice Act. Speaking on the occasion, Begusarai district and sessions judge Mohd Shamim Akhtar said, “The Juvenile Justice Act includes two categories of child victims. The first being those who are in conflict with law while the other deals with children in need of care and protection. The objective is to ensure their social reintegration through child-friendly approach with due protection and care.” Deliberating on the POCSO Act, he said it has the provision for speedy trial through designated special courts to ensure timely justice. “Not only penetrative sexual act but sexual harassment and using child for pornographic purposes also come under the purview of this gender neutral Act,” he said. The implementation of various provisions of the two laws has several stakeholders, including police, child welfare committee, childcare institutions, health professionals, judicial officers as well as members of Bar and media professionals. It is in this light that the juvenile justice secretariat of the Patna high court has asked various district courts to ensure training modules on various aspects of child sexual abuse with special reference to the implementation of POCSO Act and rules 2020, Juvenile Justice Act 2015 and Bihar Juvenile Justice Rules 2017. Those who participated in the programme included Begusarai ADJ-1 Ravindra Singh, special judge of POCSO court, Habibullah, principal magistrate of juvenile justice board, Ravi Ranjan, child welfare committee chairperson Sangeeta Kumari, principal judge Raj Kishore Rai, Begusarai CJM Thakur Aman Kumar and senior officials besides members of the Bar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/awareness-prog-on-pocso-act-held-in-bsarai/articleshow/79117193.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly election results: Three-layer security to safeguard EVMs||PATNA: A three-layer security cover has been provided for the proper upkeep of the EVMs stored in the strongrooms after the state assembly election ended on Saturday. The counting of votes will take place at altogether 55 counting centres in the 38 districts on November 10. According to authoritative sources, the central industrial security force (CISF), Bihar Military Police (BMP) and the district armed police (DAP) personnel have been deployed to keep a surveillance on the strongrooms set up in the 414 halls across the state. Altogether 1,06,524 EVMs have been stored in the strongrooms. “CCTV cameras have been installed at the strongrooms. In addition, round-the-clock vigil is being maintained by the security forces,” said a senior official of the Election Commission. On Saturday, state CEO H R Srinivasa said the counting of votes will start at 8am. In all, 1200 personnel of the central armed police force (CAPF) have been deployed to guard the strongrooms, including those in the state capital. AN College in Patna has the biggest strongroom where EVMs of 14 assembly constituencies have been stored. The security personnel are equipped with cameras to record the visits of the officials and the polling agents of the candidates to the strongrooms. According to EC’s data, while Gaya, Siwan, East Champaran and Begusarai districts have three separate counting centres, nine other districts have two counting centres each. These districts include Nawada, Nalanda, Bhagalpur, Banka, Gopalganj, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Saharsa and Purnia. The remaining 25 districts have one counting centre each. The entry of mobile phones and other electronic gadgets has been banned at the counting centres. However, the EC officials will be allowed to carry laptops and other electronic devices. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said, “No vehicle, including that of the officials, ministers and political party functionaries, will be allowed inside the AN College campus where counting of votes will take place on Tuesday.” In all, there are 3,733 contestants, including 371 women and a transgender, are in the fray. Of them, 1,157 candidates have criminal antecedents. The term of the assembly will end on November 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-layer-security-to-safeguard-evms/articleshow/79117152.cms||Ramashankar
November 9, 2020||Varanasi||PM Narendra Modi to lay foundation of projects worth over Rs 600 crore in Kashi today||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate and lay foundation stones of projects worth more than Rs 600 crore in his parliamentary constituency on Monday. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will attend the function online from Lucknow. District officials as well as BJP leaders inspected arrangements at the selected venues of the event on Sunday. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said that the event would be screened for the public on six big LED screens installed at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Trade Facilitation Centre in Bada Lalpur area, Circuit House, Commissioner Auditorium, Dashaswamedh Ghat, Shooltankeshwar and Lal Bahadur Shastri international airport. The total cost of all projects is Rs 614 crore. The main projects to be inaugurated include the light and sound show at Sarnath, two passenger boarding bridges (PBB) at Lal Bahadur Shastri international airport, upgradation of Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital in Ramnagar, sewerage related works, infrastructure facilities for protection and conservation of cows and multipurpose seed storehouse, a 100-m warehouse of agricultural produce, IPDS phase 2, a housing complex for players in Sampurnanand Stadium, Varanasi city smart lighting work, 105 anganwadi centres and 102 gau ashray kendras. PM Modi will also lay the foundation stones for several projects including the redevelopment of Dashashwamedh Ghat and Khidkiya Ghat, upgradation of the multipurpose hall of Cultural Complex, tourism development, barracks for PAC police force and redevelopment of certain wards of Kashi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-to-lay-foundation-of-projects-worth-over-rs-600cr-in-kashi-today/articleshow/79117946.cms||Binay Singh
November 9, 2020||Patna||Saran administration gears up for counting of votes||CHHAPRA: Necessary steps have been taken by the Saran district administration for counting of votes on the premises of local Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan Institute of Technology (LJNIT) on Tuesday. The counting halls have been provided with CCTV cameras also. A control room has been set up and the district election officer-cum-district magistrate with the deputy election officer, Roshan Ali and three others members have been deputed for counting of votes. Saran district public relations officer said that the counting arrangement has been done in accordance with the Covid-19 protocol. Altogether about 700 employees have been deployed for counting work with paramilitary forces, which have been provided identity cards by the administration. Saran ADM Dr Gagan and DSP Rahmat Ali have been given the responsibility for maintenance of law and order. Similarly, the civil surgeon, district fire officer and other officers have been deployed to look after different essential services at the counting centre. In the meantime, few cases of poll-related violence have been reported in the district. One Deepak Kumar Manjhi, a resident of Paiga Kala village under the Bheldi PS area has lodged an FIR in the same police station that he was abused and assaulted for not giving vote in favour of a particular candidate. He has named five persons of Sheikhpura village under the Amnour PS in this connection. Saran range DIG BKVerma has directed the police officers to keep a watch on the victory celebrations after the declaration of the results on Tuesday. He has alerted the SHOs and other officials to remain alert against tension due to election results particularly in Maker, Taraiya, Mashrakh, Bheldi, Amnour, Ishuapur etc on the basis of past record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/saran-administration-gears-up-for-counting-of-votes/articleshow/79117132.cms||H K Verma
November 9, 2020||Goa||GFP will win Mayem seat in next polls: Kiran Kandolkar||BICHOLIM: GFP working president and former Tivim MLA Kiran Kandolkar said that the party will win the Mayem seat at the next assembly elections. “The members of GFP’s Mayem block have unitedly resolved to get the party candidate elected at the 2022 elections,” Kandolkar said, announcing that the ticket for the Mayem seat will be allotted to Santoshkumar Sawant, “who has been has been instrumental in resolving various issues in the constituency”.  He also said that the work of setting up the remaining 20 of the 44 booth committees will be completed by December, “so that the party can undertake work pertaining to its agenda from January 2021 onwards”. Sawant said that GFP’s president Vijai Sardesai will soon visit Mayem constituency in order to form committees of women and youth by taking into confidence all the past sarpanchs, panch members and party members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-will-win-mayem-seat-in-next-polls-kiran-kandolkar/articleshow/79119151.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||Citizens should promote global unity, peace: DyCM||Lucknow: Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Sunday said every citizen of the country should think about the welfare of all and promote global unity and peace. Addressing the third day of 21st International Conference of Chief Justices of the World organized online by the City Montessori School on Sunday, Sharma said Article 51 of the Constitution says that citizens should promote international peace and security. “The online conference organized at the time of Covid-19 pandemic will prove to be a milestone as it not only connects people from across the globe to share their views,” he said. As many as 120 participants from 63 countries are participating in the four-day conference which will culminate on Monday. UP law minister Brajesh Pathak said the conference organized by CMS was a noble initiative as it brought together chief justices and legal luminaries from across the world on a common platform to discuss ways for safeguarding the future of world’s 2.5 billion children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citizens-should-promote-global-unity-peace-dycm/articleshow/79119465.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Allahabad||History-sheeter’s illegal house razed in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Continuing with the ongoing offensive against properties owned by criminals and gangsters, Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) team demolished the house of history-sheeter Pradeep Mahra in Arail area of Naini in trans-Yamuna region of the district on Saturday morning. The team was accompanied by heavy force along with PAC personnel and representatives of the district administration. The area was barricaded, and all routes leading to Pradeep Mahra’s house was blocked before the drive was started. It is alleged that some portion of the house was constructed on state land. PDA Zonal Officer Sat Shukla said that the house was constructed on 1,500 square yards and no map was sanctioned for the construction. Some of the construction was done on illegal occupied state land. Pradeep Mahra has over one and a half dozen criminal cases lodged against him at different police stations of trans-Yamuna including that of murder, and he is a history-sheeter in the records of Naini police station. The action is being taken under the gangster act, the official added. It is worth mentioning that Pradeep Mahra came into light over his rivalry with another gangster of the area named Pappu Ganjia. Many members of both groups were killed owing to the rivalry between the gangs. Pradeep was earlier associated with the Samajwadi Party (SP). The action is a part of the drive of state government’s crackdown against the mafia, gangster, history-sheeters and other criminal elements across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/history-sheeters-illegal-house-razed-in-prayagraj/articleshow/79105448.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Vadodara||Burglars try in vain to rob ATM in Sama||Vadodara: A gang of burglars, armed with a gas cutter, tried to break open an ATM in Sama area in the wee hours on Sunday. However, they failed to rob any cash due to an alert security guard who happened to be posted nearby. The police are now scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed near the ATM to trace the accused. According to police, a gang of about three men entered an ATM booth of State Bank of India (SBI) in a complex in Sama area. The robbers first sprayed some colour on the CCTV to block its view and hence their faces are not clearly visible. About a month ago, cops had nabbed three persons who had withdrawn money from the ATM of a private bank by creating technical issues. The gang used to switch off the ATM when it was about to dispense cash. Though the accused got the cash, the entry wasn’t made in the software. Around four days ago too, some unidentified persons withdrew about Rs 15 lakh from ATM of Canara Bank on different occasions by switching off the machine when it in the process of dispensing cash. The cops have registered an offence against unidentified persons at Manjalpur police station. With Diwali around the corner, the police is on alert as the incidents of burglary and loot may go up, especially in the outskirts of the city. Patrolling too has been intensified in every area of the city in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglars-try-in-vain-to-rob-atm-in-sama/articleshow/79116876.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Patna||32-year-old trader commits suicide in Patna||PATNA: A tractor spare parts trader allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in his flat at Terrace Gardenia apartment on Ashiana-Digha Road under the Rajiv Nagar police station area in Patna on Sunday. SHO of Rajiv Nagar police station Nishant Kumar said the deceased was identified as Rishavdeep Rishu (32). “He hanged himself using his wife’s scarf. No suicide note was recovered from the spot. Since his wife, Anjali Srivastava, is still shell-shocked, police have not recorded her statement yet,” he said. The SHO added preliminary investigations revealed that several traders were to clear Rishu’s payment. ‘After the trader locked himself in his bedroom, his wife raised an alarm. The neighbours broke open the door only to find Rishu hanging,” the SHO said. Rishu’s father Gyandeep Prasad said his son was a computer engineer and earlier worked with IT firms .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/32-year-old-trader-commits-suicide-in-city/articleshow/79117431.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Expedite crop damage survey, minister Thorat to Ytl admn||Yavatmal: Expedite the ongoing survey to assess crop damage caused by rains and prepare an action plan to ensure timely assistance to farmers, said state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat here on Sunday. He was addressing officers of various departments during a meeting called to review Covid-19 situation in the district. Thorat said the district had received 90% rainfall this year and crop situation was satisfactory. However, the retreating monsoon wreaked havoc and farmers suffered heavy damage. The state government is keen to help affected farmers and hence has already announced a Rs10,000 crore package. Every affected farmer should benefit from the package, he said. Crop loan disbursal has been achieved up to 90%, the minister claimed. Maha Vikas Aghadi government is tackling Covid-19 pandemic for the last 8-9 months. “Though there is decline in the Covid cases, it can reappear during the winter season,” said the minister and appealed to the public not to behave carelessly. Minister for women and child welfare ministry Yashomati Thakur, MP Balu Dhanorkar, Kisan Cell president Devanand Pawar, collector, SP, ZP CEO and others were present at the meeting. Thakur cautioned of impending shortage of oxygen if the Covid-19 situation worsens again. She also enquired if the administration has received the amount for disbursing honorarium for Asha workers engaged on ‘Maze Kutumb, Mazi Jababdari’ survey. On the issue of rehabilitation of unwed mothers in the tribal belt of Maregaon, Thakur asked whether the administration has finalized land for the purpose. Pawar urged the minister to ensure all rain-hit farmers get relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/expedite-crop-damage-survey-minister-thorat-to-ytl-admn/articleshow/79130175.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Raids uncover stale meat mixed into fresh stock||VIJAYAWADA: Teams of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and food safety department carried out raids at meat shops in Gollapalem Gattu in One Town on Sunday and seized around 400 kilos of stale meat stored in refrigerators. The teams, led by VMC veterinay wing chief Dr Ravi Chand, said large quantitites of stale meat were being sold along with fresh meat, deceiving customers. Officials noted that meat sellers have been procuring leftover stocks at a cheap price from Guntur and selling the same to customers at a higher price. “Eating stale meat is very dangerous. It can harm the lining of the gut and cause food poisoning. Meat sellers are deceiving consumers by mixing stale meat into fresh stocks. There is no slaughterhouse seal on the meat. Some shops are supplying stale meat at cheaper prices to popular restaurants in the city and we have already kept an eye on them. We have destroyed the stocks and are going to book cases against them,” said Dr Ravi Chand. Meanwhile, though the sale of stale meat in the city had been continuing despite official action, the recent string of raids by the VMC and food safety authorities has already shown an impact on consumers. A majority of meat stalls in the city witnessed a poor number of consumers. “Adulteration of food is posing a threat to lives. We prefer home food to hotels considering quality and hygiene. Meat sellers are deceiving the consumers and selling stale stocks. The common consumer is not in a position to differentiate between fresh and stale stocks. VMC authorities should increase the raids on meat stores,” said M Raju, a consumer from Kothapeta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/raids-uncover-stale-meat-mixed-into-fresh-stock/articleshow/79117044.cms||Venu Lanka
November 9, 2020||Ludhiana||67 Covid positive, count at 20,798||LUDHIANA: Even as no Ludhiana resident died of Covid-19, six patients from outside the district succumbed to the disease at the hospitals here on Sunday. The day also saw 67 Ludhianvis and 16 outsiders testing positive for the virus here. As per the local media bulletin, the six casualties included two residents of Kapurthala, two of Rajasthan and one each of Jalandhar and Bathinda. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally stood at 847 and that of outsiders at 337. To date, 4,04,073 persons have been tested for novel coronavirus. Of the 67 new cases, 24 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 15 positive cases’ contacts, 13 from OPD, 10 through tracing process, one pre-operative case, a cop, an undertrial and two health-care workers. The district case count has increased to 20,798 and that of outsiders to 2,888. So far, 19,403 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.29% of the total cases. There are 545 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,114. On Sunday, 106 persons were quarantined 1,920 samples collected. The number of ventilators in private hospitals is 147, including four government ones at CMCH. Of eight patients on ventilators, four are Ludhianvis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/67-covid-positive-count-at-20798/articleshow/79117041.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Business||Bidencare boost for desi pharma companies||MUMBAI: The Indian pharma sector is expected to benefit from the Biden presidency on the back of an increased push for generic prescriptions and access to affordable health insurance. US President-elect Joe Biden plans to protect and strengthen the Affordable Care Act, which ensures a reduction in healthcare costs and access to health insurance for Americans. This implies more reliance on generic drugs and biosimilars, that would be good news for Indian drug companies. US imports almost $7 billion worth of formulations from India annually, with every third tablet coming from here. An increased scope of access to affordable health insurance would also drive demand for generic drugs. Over the last few years, the Affordable Care Act — signed in 2010 under the then president Barack Obama and VP Biden — has been under relentless attack. But this may change with Biden back at the helm now, with his plans to insure over 97% of Americans. Companies say they will wait for details to study the impact of the Biden presidency on the Indian pharma sector. Sudarshan Jain, secretary general of the Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance, an organisation that represents domestic generic companies, told TOI, “It is too early to say. The pharma sector will continue to play an important role in the US healthcare system.” Generic companies including Dr Reddy’s, Lupin, Cipla and Aurobindo could benefit from Biden’s victory, analysts say. “Joe Biden has a plan to strengthen the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and offers more power to states to discover drug pricing. Now with the big election victory, a Democratic Senate could clear the way for prescription drug price and healthcare coverage reforms that could impact specialty drugs (high-priced as compared to generic drugs) companies like Pfizer, Sanofi, Eli Lilly, etc. Biden emphasises the use of generic drugs in the country where Indian pharma manufacturers have created capabilities as lowest-priced manufacturers of generic drugs in the world. India almost exports $7 billion of pharma exports to the US, which is expected to grow by high single digits,” Axis Securities CIO Naveen Kulkarni said. Certain critical life-saving antibiotics, steroids like gabapentin, anti-diabetes drug metformin and painkillers like ibuprofen are imported by the US from India. Recently, once the Covid-19 pandemic struck, US sought huge quantities of paracetamol, anti-malarial hydroxychloroquine, and key antibiotics from India. In the short term, Covid-mitigation strategies are expected to take centre-stage. A section of experts feel that the impact is a mixed bag. “Increasing the transparency and reducing the role middlemen play in the trade would ensure suitable pricing for patients. Faster generic approvals have increased competition and impacted the profitability of Indian generic manufacturers supplying to the US market. The intention of capping the prices and/or creation of international pricing index for drugs under Medicare Part-B may keep margins under check,” Tushar Manudhane from Motilal Oswal Institutional Equities said. Some feel the new president will not have a significant impact on the sector, which anyway operates in a severely price-constrained environment. “Innovator pharma companies may have more relevance from a US elections perspective, a space from which domestic pharma companies are largely absent. Though we note even here there is no material apprehension in the run-up to US elections,” Yes Securities lead analyst (institutional equities) Bhavesh Gandhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bidencare-boost-for-desi-pharma-cos/articleshow/79118758.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Dipping temperature raises pollution fears||KOLKATA: The morning chill continued in Kolkata with the minimum temperature dropping to 18.3°C on Sunday, three notches below normal. It was the coldest day of the season so far. The air quality remained poor with AQI staying above 200. Coupled with the drop in temperature, the rise in pollution level could be hazardous, said health experts. According to the Met office, it will remain cool on Monday, too, and the mercury may start climbing up from Wednesday. This cool spell, however, does not signal the arrival of winter, said the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). “At present, the northwesterly winds are blowing in and since temperatures have plunged significantly in the northwestern part of India, the winds are cold. But the chill could disappear as easterly winds return, carrying moisture. The mercury may settle at 23°C-24°C by the latter half of the week,” said RMC director G K Das. Kolkata recorded a maximum temperature of 31.1°C on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dipping-temperature-raises-pollution-fears/articleshow/79117818.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid caseload rises to 2.22 lakh, toll now at 1,144||PATNA: Altogether 801 fresh cases in the last 24 hours took the state’s Covid tally to 2,22,612 on Sunday. With eight more people succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours, the state’s Covid toll has increased to 1,144. Among the eight fresh victims, three were from Patna – an 82-year-old woman from Gola Road, a 78-year-old man from Kankarbagh and a 75-year-old man from Jayprakash Nagar. With this, the district’s Covid tally has risen to 279. Bhagalpur, West Champaran, Saharsa, Saran and Siwan recorded one death each on Sunday. At 825, the number of recovered cases in the last 24 hours surpassed the fresh cases during the day. At least 6,732 people, on the other hand, are still battling the virus in the state. As per government data, as many as 2,14,736 people have recovered from the virus in the state so far, taking the state’s Covid recovery rate to 96.46%, 3.97% higher than the national average of 92.49%. As many as 1,22,530 new samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories in the state in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,19,89,797 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. Among the 801 fresh cases on Sunday, Patna alone accounted for 306. The district’s caseload has now touched 37,677. However, the number of active cases has dropped to 1,777 in the district with 340 patients recuperating from the virus in the last 24 hours. No new death was registered at All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) and Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on Sunday. At NMCH, no new positive patient was admitted. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 16 patients were discharged and 15 admitted to the hospital in the last 24 hours. Kankarbagh, Sheikhpura, Khagaul, West Boring Canal road, Buddha Colony and IAS Colony are some of the localities in Patna which registered fresh Covid cases on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-covid-caseload-rises-to-2-22l-toll-now-at-1144/articleshow/79117207.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 9, 2020||Business||Companies’ plan to raise funds overseas won’t be hit||MUMBAI: Despite expectations that US President-elect Joe Biden may come out with a much smaller stimulus than what his predecessor Donald Trump had talked about, Indian corporates are not likely to face any problem with raising capital abroad. The US is the biggest source of financial investments into India and easing of fiscal and monetary policies also end up benefiting Indian companies that seek to raise capital globally. One of the reasons for the positivity is the stability that Biden’s conciliatory approach to trade is expected to bring. “The Biden administration would seek to mend relationships with allies. We could expect moderation of the immigration stance, if not a full turn-back, plus a more favourable trade regime for India. It is an opportunity for us to evaluate whether we can strategically align with the US or continue an issue-based posture,” said Barclays Bank India CEO Ram Gopal. “In the short term, the dollar is expected to strengthen. Under Trump, the market was talking about a stimulus of $3-4 trillion. With Biden, it is expected to be $1.5 trillion. The stimulus was expected to cause the dollar to weaken. Although the US budget will be announced only after Biden takes over in January, the market moves on expectations and this could cause the dollar to gain,” said DBS country treasurer Ashish Vaidya. He said that although the dollar was now expected to strengthen, there may not be a corresponding weakening of the rupee as India is one of the very few countries that is building up foreign currency reserves. “In the long term, however, I see the dollar weakening as the continued printing of currency would put pressure on prices and US inflation is likely to rise.” According to Care Ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis, traders will view Biden positively because he has been speaking the right language for global markets. “The US trade war will be behind us. Biden will be positive to immigration, more cooperative in his approach and the markets should be reacting positively,” said Sabnavis. “Things might change from a global standpoint as well. Trump was prepared to dump trade agreements and be more closed. Biden is unlikely to dump trade agreements. He is more likely to increase taxes and, once they announce the budget, the overall impact may change,” Sabnavis added. As far as interest rates are concerned, there is not likely to be much change. “Interest rates are unlikely to change as the Federal Reserve is an independent body and will continue with their accommodative policy and decision to keep interest rate low,” said Sabnavis. Watch Indian corporates not likely to face problem with raising funds overseas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-plan-to-raise-funds-overseas-wont-be-hit/articleshow/79118823.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 9, 2020||Patna||Three arrested for post-poll violence in Madhubani dist||PATNA: Police have arrested three people from Bishanpur village under Babubarhi assembly constituency in Madhubani district for their alleged involvement in post-poll violence. The arrested people had allegedly resorted to violence after failing to rig polls at booth number 60 at the village on Saturday. The irate mob had also pelted stones at security personnel and torched an SUV of Border Security Force (BSF) which was parked outside the booth. Jainagar police sub-division ASP Shaurya Suman on Sunday said the three involved in violence were arrested by police on Saturday night. Suman said the prime accused in the case, Ramashish Yadav, who is associated with a political party, is still evading arrest. “It was Yadav who had instigated the villagers to attack the paramilitary forces and police personnel when they were leaving the booth after completion of polling. In the past elections also, Yadav had made such attempts,” he said, adding Yadav was trying to gather people outside the polling booth. “An FIR was lodged with Ladania police station against 10 named people, including Yadav, and 100 unknown people. We are trying to identify all those involved in the incident,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-arrested-for-post-poll-violence-in-madhubani-dist/articleshow/79117127.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 9, 2020||Patna||Flight operations start at Darbhanga airport||PATNA: Darbhanga airport, developed under Udan, the Centre’s Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS), became the latest addition to the country’s aviation map with budget-carrier SpiceJet launching commercial flights to Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai on Sunday. The launch of flight operations was attended by Patna airport director Bhupesh C H Negi, Darbhanga MP Gopal Jee Thakur, Airports Authority of India (AAI) project incharge G K Chandana and AAI officials. The first SpiceJet flight carrying passengers from the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru reached Darbhanga airport at 11.21am with 187 passengers, including four infants. It was the first flight to touch down at the newly constructed airport. The flight, SG-493, was greeted with water salute on its arrival at Darbhanga airport. Darbhanga-Delhi flight (SG-496) became the first outgoing flight that took off from the Darbhanga airport runway at 11.45am with 179 passengers, including two infants. The other flights – Darbhanga-Bengaluru (SG-494) left the airport at 4.25pm, Mumbai-Darbhanga-Mumbai (SG-705/706) landed at 12.10pm and departed at 12.40pm. All the flights registered 90-95% occupancy rate. “A momentous day for the people of Darbhanga. First commercial flight under RCS-UDAN lands at Darbhanga airport. Great team work by local leadership, professionals and officers,” Union minister of civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted. “A treasure trove of arts, handicrafts and Indian history and culture. Air connectivity to the region opens up new avenues of tourism and economic development. This is just the start of the journey there,” The ministry of civil aviation tweeted. “Historic civil aviation day with beginning of commercial flights to Delhi from Darbhanga. It will usher in economic prosperity in the region,” principal secretary of tourism department Sanjay Kumar tweeted. Darbhanga MP Gopal Jee Thakur said the commencement of flight operations from Darbhanga airport was a historic moment. Anup Acharya, who boarded the Darbhanga flight in Bengaluru, said, “It feels good when you become part of the history. Air connectivity to north Bihar was very important.” (With inputs from Binay K Jha in Darbhanga)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flight-operations-start-at-darbhanga-airport/articleshow/79116934.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 9, 2020||Business||Dalal St bids for record peak today||Mumbai: Dalal Street is preparing to scale a new all-time high on Monday, to coincide with the news during the weekend that Democratic nominee Joe Biden will take over as the next the US president. Indian investors feel the development will be positive for the domestic market, at least in the short run. At Friday’s close of 41,893 points, the sensex was just 381 points, or 0.9%, off its all-time peak of 42,274. The Nifty at 12,264 was 167 points, or 1.3%, away from its highest ever mark. Foreign funds could again take the lead in driving the market higher, fund managers feel. Emerging markets including India are likely to see reasonable foreign fund flows during the Biden presidency, said ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund ED & CIO S Naren. “The absence of any big stimulus in the US is a positive for emerging markets. Data on emerging market flows for the last few days shows strong inflows into these markets.” Data from CDSL and BSE showed that so far in November, FPIs have net pumped in over $1.6 billion into the Indian market by investing in equity, debt and other financial assets. In comparison, till October 31 this year, FPIs had recorded a net outflow of nearly $4.1 billion. “Positive flows are usually sector-agnostic. So we could expect across-the-board buying due to positive foreign flows,” Naren, who manages assets worth about Rs 4 lakh crore, said. “For the US rally to sustain for long term, growth impulses need to pick up there.” Apart from Biden’s policies, the US Fed’s dovish stance in terms of liquidity to revive the economy could also act as a tailwind for such flows, analysts said. Market players also feel IT stocks could be the standout gainers, mainly because of Biden’s proposed liberal immigration policies relating to skilled labour. On the other hand, pharma companies are awaiting to see how the new administration’s policies relating to this sector pans out over the next few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dalal-st-bids-for-record-peak-today/articleshow/79118704.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Festival set to kick off on November 18||HYDERABAD: The Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Festival, which is now in its 15th year, will kickstart in the city on November 18. This year’s fest is being held in honour of pandemic warriors of the twin cities including health workers, police, GHMC workers and mediapersons among others who are helping the city tide over the crisis. A courtyard in the centrally-located Moazzam Jahi market, which was restored recently by GHMC, will be the venue of the curtain-raiser of the internationally-acclaimed theatre spectacle ‘Quli: Dilon ka Shahzaada’. “In a year where life has been seemingly put on pause and when we have faced challenges beyond what we could imagine, it felt all the more imperative to continue with the Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Festival. With this, we salute the pandemic warriors who have protected us during this crisis,” said Mohammad Ali Baig. The fest will be inaugurated by home minister Mahmood Ali. Covid safety protocols at both outdoor venues (MJ Market courtyard and Hotel Radisson Blu Plaza, Banjara Hills) shall be maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/qadir-ali-baig-theatre-festival-set-to-kick-off-on-november-18/articleshow/79118981.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Faced with losses, Vijayawada cracker traders await green signal to begin sales||VIJAYAWADA: Diwali may be round the corner, but the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and other departments are yet to grant permission for setting up firecracker stalls. With crackers prohibited in New Delhi, West Bengal and some other states, traders who procured bulk stocks from Sivakasi now face uncertainty if sales will be permitted this year. Around 150 temporary stalls come up around Diwali to sell firecrackers. The estate wing of the VMC allocates stalls at Swaraj Maidan (PWD) Grounds and Gymkhana Grounds through auction while the fire department issues temporary fire licences after verifying safety measures at the stalls This year, only 48 traders participated in the acution for temporary licences. The VMC has kept stall allocation pending, waiting for the government’s nod for sales. “Some states prohibited fireworks for Diwali as pollution shows the harmful impact on Covid-19 patients. The government is yet to take a decision on this and permissions will be issued considering the decision of the government,” said a senior official in the estate wing. Firecracker traders, however, said they will end up bearing losses if the government takes a decision at the last minute. “We have invested a huge amount in procuring crackers for sale. Prohibiting them will have a serious impact on us,” said Srinivasa Rao Narra, a firecracker trader in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/faced-with-losses-cracker-traders-await-green-signal-to-begin-sales/articleshow/79117061.cms||Venu Lanka
November 9, 2020||Varanasi||16-yr-old girl set ablaze by youth||Varanasi: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly set afire by a local youth at Nagwa village in Dubahar police station area of Ballia district on Friday late night. The severely injured girl has been referred to Varanasi for treatment. The police arrested the accused. According to reports, the girl was sleeping on the terrace at night. At about three o'clock she shouted loudly. When the family members reached there, they saw her in flames. Immediately the family extinguished the fire and took her to the district hospital. Ballia SP Devendra Nath said that the girl’s father alleged that the youth living in the neighbourhood torched her after pouring kerosene on her. An FIR has been lodged and the accused arrested. Further investigation is under way.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/16-yr-old-girl-set-ablaze-by-youth/articleshow/79117985.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU doctors save Covid +ve boy suffering from rare disease||Lucknow: He had life-threatening hematemesis and would frequently throw up blood due to an infection in the upper gastrointestinal tract. The 11-year-old boy’s rare medical condition got worse when he also contracted Covid-19. However, doctors at the King George’s Medical University came to his rescue and saved his life by performing an emergency endoscopy. The patient was rushed to the paediatric ICU on November 2 and was later shifted to Covid PICU. As his condition worsened due to excessive blood loss, he was transfused two units of blood. When all efforts to control internal bleeding went in vain, vice-chancellor Lt General Dr Bipin Puri gave instructions for emergency endoscopy. Within a few hours, Prof Sumit Rungta, head of medical gastroenterology, performed the endoscopy. The child was diagnosed with a rare Budd–Chiari syndrome, in which the hepatic veins (that drain the liver) get blocked by a clot. “A drug was sprayed through a catheter on the source of bleeding (veins that are enlarged or swollen) in the oesophagus. After the procedure, the child's bleeding stopped and his health gradually improved. Now, he is out of danger. Treatment for syndrome has been started,” said Prof Rungta, who was assisted by Dr Kamlender Verma, Dr. Ghulam Akhtar, endoscopic technicians Jeetendra and Aniket. “Since the child was Covid-19 positive, keeping the entire team safe and having a clear vision after wearing protective masks and shields during endoscopy was challenging. The aerosols breathed out would blur the face shield, obstructing the vision,” said Prof Rungta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-doctors-save-covid-ve-boy-suffering-from-rare-disease/articleshow/79119475.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Trichy||Revitalisation of Ponnaniaru river earned Karur national water award||Trichy: Close to two years of conscious efforts to rejuvenate Ponnaniaru river that originates in Karur district have now been recognised by the Union ministry of Jal Shakti with the district securing the second position in the national water awards 2020 in revival of river category in the south zone. The river which originates on Kadavaur hills has now been revitalised in such a way that it cannot retain water for an extended period. The locals have already started realising the benefits as the ground water table hs started showing improvement in many parts especially Kadavaur block where the river flows. When the district rural development agency (DRDA) undertook a study, it found that silt accumulation has been affecting the course of the river. Rivulets were also blocked at several places thereby preventing water from flowing into the river. “The river could not retain water because of which the ground water table started depleting and agriculture activities were also affected,” said R Thiagarajan, assistant engineer, DRDA. In the first stage, DRDA officials sought cooperation from the locals after educating them on the process of river revival and its benefits to them. Study of the water stream along with geomorphological structure helped identify the works to be carried out. To ensure free flow of water, course correction was done in the upper course of the river. While plantations on either side helped in soil erosion, check dams were constructed at 200 locations in the river bed to retain water. “Apart from concrete check dams, gabion structures and boulder check dams were also constructed to recharge the ground water. In addition to this, recharge pits were dug to increase percolation,” said Thiagarajan. Members of Kirshi Vigyan Kendra, Karur found improvement in the ground water level as borewells could witness an increase in water level by about 100 feet in Kadavaur, said Kavitha, DRDA additional director. Checking grey water draining into the river from villages was another challenge. Soak pits were formed at several places to address this issue. The award has been a recognition of the work rendered by officials and the support of the stakeholders who contributed to the project by working under NREGA scheme for the project, said Kavitha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/revitalisation-of-ponnaniaru-river-earned-karur-national-water-award/articleshow/79119473.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: GHMC doctors help reunite patient with family in MP||VISAKHAPATNAM: Doctors at the Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC), Visakhapatnam, played a key role in reuniting a 22-year-old patient with his family in Madhya Pradesh. The patient went missing from his home nearly two years ago and was found loitering near GHMC a year ago. It was after medication and treatment that the patient recently remembered his address and informed doctors, who in turn contacted MP police on Saturday. Speaking to TOI, Dr Ramanand Satapathy, professor of psychiatry at GHMC said, “Nearly a year ago, I came across a young man loitering near our hospital, deeply disturbed. With the help of hospital staff, I brought him to the hospital and kept him for observation. Even though he remembered his name, he could not recall any further details.” “After treatment for months, a few days ago he told me the name of his village, district, sarpanch and father. Through Google search I tried to contact the district police but no number worked. I managed to speak to the director general of police instead, who contacted the district superintendent of police,” said Dr Satapathy. “MP police have facilitated transport for the father and brother of the patient who will reach Vizag early this week,” added the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ghmc-docs-help-reunite-patient-with-family-in-mp/articleshow/79117070.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 9, 2020||Varanasi||CM Yogi Adityanath launches power projects worth Rs 215-crore||GORAKHPUR: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath launched power projects worth Rs 215.77 crore to improve the electricity supply in Gorakhpur. In a virtual ceremony on Saturday, CM Yogi inaugurated six projects, laid the foundation stone of seven projects and proposed four others and said they will help improve power supply and the problem of low voltage will be resolved. People will get uninterrupted electricity supply, he added. “Electrification of 1.75 lakh villages in the state has successfully concluded and electricity has reached more than 1 crore 24 lakh houses of the poor. People across the state are getting uninterrupted power supply. The loose, hanging wires and wooden electric poles are being replaced,” Yogi said. “The work of ongoing power projects was not stopped even during lockdown and the power supply without interruption was ensured during the novel coronavirus outbreak. Positive change is visible in the state and the work in these projects will also be completed in the fixed time while ensuring quality standards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-yogi-launches-power-projects-worth-rs-215-crore/articleshow/79105500.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Coimbatore||More cases may burden dist consumer disputes redressal commission||Coimbatore: Now that the district consumer disputes redressal forum has become the redressal commission under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, consumers could approach it with disputes on goods and services involving a monetary value ofup to Rs 1 crore. While welcoming the move, activists and consumers have raised concerns over increased workload on the commission and delay in litigation settlement in the absence of sufficient infrastructure.A source with the district consumer disputes redressal commission said, “Earlier, the forum used to deal with disputes involving a monetary value of just up to Rs 20 lakh. Even then, we were struggling to dispose cases fast owing to manpower shortage and failure of advocates to appear before the court for their clients. Now that the monetary cap limit has increased, the number of cases is expected to double.”According to him, they used to get 40 cases a month on an average. ‘There are more than 1,000 pending cases, some of which were filed way back in 2010. To ensure speedy disposal of cases, the forum president had been hearing about 70 cases a day. However, a case could be heard only once in 40 days. On an average, it takes up to two years to deliver a verdict in a case.” The forum has a president, two members and 10 staff.Until recently, the forum could handle disputes regarding the products and services that were availed in its jurisdiction. Now, it could handle disputes on products and services that were availed elsewhere, provided the complainant is residing or working in its jurisdiction. K Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the move would only burden the officials and affect the public if the manpower was not increased. “With the existing staff, the commission is already struggling. If the cases increase, the judgement will be delayed further and it would affect the consumers.” Pointing out that there are provisions to establish more than one commission in a district, he said the government should take steps to set up another redressal commission in the district to ensure quick disposal of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/more-cases-may-burden-dist-consumer-disputes-redressal-commission/articleshow/79118998.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||Former MLA’s son involved in duping 2 businessmen of Rs 16 crore in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A day after being arrested by STF, Sunil Gurjar, son of former Congress MLA in Rajasthan, revealed he played a key role in two frauds worth Rs 16 crore in Lucknow. STF ASP Vishal Vikram Singh said Sunil was also named accused in the sensational Bhanwari Devi kidnapping and murder case which had rocked the nation. He was also booked in a forgery case in 2017 lodged by his relatives. Gurjar was arrested for duping an Indore trader of Rs 9.7 crore and a Gujarat businessman of Rs 6.6 crore by promising them tenders in animal husbandry and civil supplies departments respectively. “During interrogation, Sunil Gurjar, son of former Congress MLA from Nasirabad, Ajmer, Ramnarayan Gurjar, also claimed to be the adopted son of former Pondicherry Governor Govind Singh Gurjar. Govind and Ramnarayan were brothers,” said ASP STF. While conning businessmen in UP, Sunil himself claimed to be Congress MLA from Rajasthan, Singh added. ACP, Gomtinagar, Shweta Srivastava said Gurjar introduced Indore businessman Manjeet Singh Bhatiya to Ashish Rai and fleeced him of Rs 9.72 crore by promising tender in animal husbandry department. Similarly, Narendra Patel of Gujarat was duped of Rs 6.6 crore for a salt tender of the civil supplies department. “Gurjar used to meet businessmen in five-star hotels and boasted of links. He used to take his cut and arranged meetings with Ashish Rai and others who posed as government officials and gave fake contracts,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/former-mlas-son-involved-in-duping-2-bizmen-of-rs-16-cr/articleshow/79119492.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Allahabad||Yogi Adityanath assured Magh Mela will be held: ABAP’s Giri||PRAYAGRAJ: The president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the apex body of all 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders, Mahant Narendra Giri met chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow on Sunday and discussed the preparations for Magh Mela. Giri later said, “The CM has assured that tradition of Magh Mela would not be broken due to corona pandemic and it would be organised on the banks of Sangam amid strict implementation of Covid guidelines.” “Special corona testing camp would be set up at all entrances and in every sector of the mela campus and every person willing to attend the religious fair will have to get tested,” Giri told TOI. Devotees coming from different areas can also bring their Covid test report to enter mela campus, he added. Seers and saints have been advised not to invite their followers in large numbers as the rush has to be limited, Giri said and appealed seers and devotees to strictly follow Covid protocol while coming to Magh Mela. “Less number of religious organisations would be allowed at Magh Mela this year in view of corona pandemic,” the Mahant said and appealed that only seers, kalpwasi and devotees come to Mela. Every person would have to follow Covid protocol strictly, he added. “We will urge all devotees coming on Mauni Amavasya snan day to take dip at different ghats and not crowd at a particular ghat as per Covid-19 protocol. Kalpwasis would also be asked to come with less people,” Giri added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/yogi-assured-magh-mela-will-be-held-abaps-giri/articleshow/79118065.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Varanasi||PM to virtually inaugurate light & sound show at Sarnath today||Varanasi: The long-awaited light and sound show at Sarnath is one of the projects which will be virtually inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. This Rs 7.88-crore project of the tourism department will enthral tourists who are interested in the life of Buddha. Veteran actor Amitabh Bachchan has given voiceover for the show. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said the light and sound show would be held at the historic Buddhist site, Dhamekha Stupa. Earlier, the show was scheduled to be ready for screening by September 30. However, it took some time to get the voice of senior Bachchan recorded. According to tourism department officials, the efforts started in 2018 to rope in Bachchan for narration of the life of Lord Buddha, spanning from his childhood to his Parinirvana for the global audience. Joint director (tourism) Avinash Mishra said that it took long to finalize the content of the show as the initially prepared animated content was rejected. Thereafter, the content creator who developed the theme of light and sound show of Agra and Jhansi was engaged. As per records, the Union ministry of tourism in 2002-03 had sanctioned a fund of Rs 3.52 crore for this light and sound show project at the Buddha Theme Park of Sarnath where Buddha is set to have preached his first sermons. The Indian Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) was assigned the project. However, the project did not start, and in 2013, the ministry withdrew the funds from ITDC. Later, the UP tourism department decided to shift the venue of the show to Dhamekha Stupa, built in 249 BCE by the Mauryan dynasty, after taking the consent of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). On ASI’s instructions, experts from Indian Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University (IIT-BHU) conducted a study to find out the effects of the light and sound show project on the monuments including Dhamekha Stupa. On getting a positive report, the ASI gave its nod to the tourism department which roped in Rajkiya Nirman Nigam to execute the project in 2016-17. Although the target to finish the project was February 2018, the light and sound show finally got ready for screening in November this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-to-virtually-inaugurate-light-sound-show-at-sarnath-today/articleshow/79118004.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: UN woman police officer of the year applauds DGP||VIJAYAWADA: Director General of Police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang has received praise from an unexpected source. Doreen Malambo from Zambia who won the 2020 United Nations (UN) Woman Police Officer of the Year award has said that Sawang was her inspiration and source of help during her early days in the UN police. Sawang was the police commissioner in the UN mission in Liberia between 2009 and 2012, a time when the country was torn apart by civil war, and worked in building Liberia’s police department. Malambo, who is presently working in South Sudan in her second stint with UN police, recollected that she had just joined the UN police service was posted in Liberia at the time. In her first stint, Sawang guided her and gave her the courage to deal with different issues. In an interview after the announcement, Malambo thanked Sawang and said he nurtured her professionally and gave her the motivation to perform her duties. Speaking to TOI, Sawang said the praise came out of the blue. When Malambo joined the UN police service, she was enthusiastic to work on issues related to women, children and gender. She came from a very modest background and having surmounted many odds back home, was able to relate to the problems of women and children, he said. Sawang congratulated Malambo on her achievement and wished her further success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/un-woman-police-officer-of-the-year-applauds-dgp/articleshow/79117082.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Trichy||‘Build assets that appreciate over time’||Trichy: Insisting on post-tax savings for salaried people and professionals, Sharan Kumar Shetty, head, ideator and financial advisor of Capital Advisors, a start-up company, said that savings alone does not build wealth. He encouraged savings to build assets like equities and bonds which can appreciate over a period of time. He was speaking at a webinar on capital market awareness organised on Sunday by department of commerce and financial studies, Bharathidasan University, in association with Bombay Stock Exchange Limited. Shetty, who is also an associate professor of international finance and banking at MSN Institute of Management, Mangaluru, asked people to get financial freedom by getting out of the circle of earning and spending. “Money management starts with switching from ‘we work for money’ to ‘money should work for us’,” he said. On the precautions to be taken while investing in the stock market, he asked investors to deal with only registered brokers and sub-brokers. Receive contract notes from brokers and do not be misled by market rumours, he added. He asked investors to issue an account payee cheque/ demand draft in the name of their respective broker only, as it appears on the contract note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/build-assets-that-appreciate-over-time/articleshow/79119474.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||NBT Arogya Vatika to create healthy society||Lucknow: NBT’s Arogya Vatika reached Eldeco Gardens on Rae Bareli Road on Sunday to set up a green space of the magical medicinal plants and herbs, offering numerous health benefits. The ongoing NBT campaign in creating such green wonder corners in various parks across the city to make people aware of how powerful mother nature is that offers plants that not only boost our immunity but can treat numerous diseases without visiting a doctor. The setting up of the Arogya Vatika was presided over by mayor Sanyukta Bhatia and senior scientist from the Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Saudan Singh. Arogya Vatika has brought big smiles on the face of residents of localities who share that such an initiative can help face any pandemic and create a healthy society. “This is a wonderful initiative which has made me realize that the cure of mild cough and fever is available in our garden itself,” said Eldeco resident Anandita. NBT will be setting up Arogya Vatika in different parts of the city if you are interested in getting the Vatika set up in your locality then drop a mail to nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nbt-arogya-vatika-to-create-healthy-society/articleshow/79119494.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Ex-SCB VP Rama Krishna joins BJP||SECUNDERABAD: J Rama Krishna, former vice-president, Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), on Sunday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during a programme held at Mudfort hockey ground in Secunderabad. Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy, state BJP president Bandi Sanjay and other BJP leaders were present on the occasion. Along with Rama Krishna, several former SCB ward members joined the BJP. Meanwhile, TRS social media in-charge M Krishank organised a signature campaign at Ward No-V against the former vice president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-scb-vp-rama-krishna-joins-bjp/articleshow/79119002.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Vid’s active cases below 10k, Amt div reports just 16% of new infections||Nagpur: With decline in new Covid-19 cases and deaths, and increase in recoveries, Vidarbha’s active cases have dropped to 9,929. The region reported 11 deaths, 871 new cases, and 1,019 recoveries on Sunday, taking the respective count to 5,645, 2,06,036, and 1,89,677. Amravati division reported few Covid deaths as well as just 16% of new cases in Vidarbha on Sunday. Yavatmal and Washim districts in the division reported one death each while all the five districts saw below 50 cases during the day. Washim was at the bottom of the chart with six new cases. Gondia and Chandrapur districts in Nagpur division didn’t record any Covid death while Nagpur witnessed the highest six fatalities in Vidarbha. One Covid death each took place at Bhandara, Wardha and Gadchiroli. Among the fresh cases, highest 272 were reported from Nagpur, apart from Bhandara (105), Wardha (37), Gondia (81), Chandrapur (161), Gadchiroli (74), Akola (32), Amravati (22), Yavatmal (39), Buldhana (42) and Washim (6). Of the 1,019 recoveries, 331 came from Nagpur, Bhandara (78), Wardha (41), Gondia (95), Chandrapur (173), Gadchiroli (114), Akola (12), Amravati (39), Yavatmal (81), Buldhana (53) and Washim (2). Nagpur and Chandrapur have the highest number of active cases at 3,333 and 2,679, respectively. Amravati: For the second successive day, no death was reported in the district, while the number of new cases dropped to 22. The caseload reached 16,677, while 39 recoveries took the total to 15,802 for a rate of 94.8%. Now, there are 507 active cases. Chandrapur: There was no Covid death in Chandrapur which reported 161 new cases. The caseload stands at 16,947. With 173 new recoveries, the number of cured patients climbed to 14,016. There are now 2,679 patients under treatment, while the death toll stands still at 252. Yavatmal: A 48-year-old man from Wani died on Sunday, while 39 new cases were detected. There are 301 patients under treatment. In all, 10,524 persons have tested positive so far, of which 9,480 have been discharged, including 81 on Sunday. Wardha: An 82-year-old man from Wardha died on Sunday, taking the toll to 215, while new 37 cases were reported and 41 patients recovered. New cases were reported from Wardha (26), Deoli (8), Hinganghat, Selu and Arvi (1 each). The district’s Covid count increased to 6,710 and recoveries to 6,082. Now, there are 413 active cases. Gadchiroli: A 36-year-old woman from Chamorshi died on Sunday. New cases increased by 74 while 114 recoveries were reported. The caseload is 6,552 and 65 have died so far. Now, the district has 803 active cases with 5,684 declared recovered. Washim: The district reported six new cases, lowest in the region, while two patients got discharged. Lone death of an outsider took the toll to 143. The new cases took the tally to 5,773 while recoveries jumped to 5,467. Now, there are 162 active cases. Buldhana: No death was reported in the district which saw 42 new cases and 53 recoveries on Sunday. The district now has 9,907 cases, 9,321 recoveries, 130 deaths and 456 active cases. Bhandara: The district reported one death, 105 new cases and 78 recoveries on Sunday. The caseload is 9,109 cases, with 8,051 discharged and 229 deaths. There are 456 active cases. Gondia: The district reported 95 recoveries and 81 new cases, and no death. The caseload reached 10,328, toll 136, recoveries 9,574. Now, there are 618 active cases. Akola: The district reported 32 new cases, 12 recoveries and no Covid death on Sunday. The cases tally climbed to 8546. So far, 282 people have died. There are 201 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vids-active-cases-below-10k-amt-div-reports-just-16-of-new-infections/articleshow/79119027.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Pandemic dampens cracker sales in dist||Coimbatore: While Diwali is around the corner, there is a significant drop in the number of temporary firecracker stalls set up across the district. As on Sunday, permission has been given to set up 200 stalls in the city and 304 in rural areas. In the city limit, the office of the city police commissioner received only 200 applications. “We used to get around 400 applications in the previous years,” a police officer told TOI. “Last year, we received over 400 applications. Many applications are still in the verification stage, for which licence would be issued within a couple of days,” a revenue department official in-charge of the rural limit said. Most of the traders, who started sales on Sunday, anticipated dull business. “There is a significant drop in the number of stalls as traders are not confident of doing business this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. We fear sales would come down by 50%,” said K S Senthil Kumar of Jayasakthi Crackers. “As we are not confident of the sales, we have reduced procurement by 40%. If we fail to sell what we buy, we might have to lease out a warehouse designed to store firecrackers in Sivakasi and it would cost us over Rs 2.5 lakh,” he said. Many traders thought that they would not be allowed to do business this year due to the pandemic, said G Rangaraj of Standard Pattasu Ulagam. “They decided not to do business instead of suffering loss. We set up four stalls in the city and invested only 70% compared to the last year. Though we opened the stalls on Saturday, sales are yet to pick up. Sales would be high two to three days ahead of Diwali and touch Rs 3 to Rs 4 lakh a day. This year, we don’t know how it will be. People are struggling due to lack of jobs. Some people have decided not to use crackers that cause air pollution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pandemic-dampens-cracker-sales-in-dist/articleshow/79119013.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: After tahsildar, 1 more accused in Keesara graft case kills himself||HYDERABAD: Three weeks after graft case accused tahsildar EB Nagaraju committed suicide at Chanchalguda prison, a 78-year-old farmer from Rampally, a co-accused in the second case registered against the officer, ended his life at Kushaiguda on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as K Dharma Reddy (78) from Nagarjuna Nagar Colony in Kushaiguda. There was no suicide note. On September 25, based on vigilance and enforcement report, ACB had registered a second case against the then Keesara tahsildar Nagaraju and others for illegally issuing passbooks pertaining to 24 acres and 16 guntas of land worth Rs 48 crore in Rampally village in the name of Dharma Reddy and others in July 2020. By then, Nagaraju was in judicial custody in a bribery case and ACB sleuths had arrested Dharma Reddy who was sent to judicial remand on September 27. Subsequently on September 29, in the same case, ACB arrested five more persons, including Dharma Reddy’s son Srikanth Reddy, realtors Rao Venkateshwar Rao, Ch Venkata Jagadeeshwar Rao, Ch Bhaskar Rao and computer operator at Keesara tahsildar office, K Venkatesh. On October 27, Dharma Reddy was released on conditional bail. “My husband has been upset since he came home. He had to appear before the ACB officials twice a week. On the day of the raid, ACB officials had searched our home and did not let us go anywhere till late in the night. They kept asking me and my husband about our son, who was not at home. Finally, they arrested my husband. After coming out on bail, he was not keeping well and was mentally disturbed,” Dharma Reddy’s wife Venkatamma said. On Sunday morning, Dharma Reddy was found hanging from a neem tree on the premises of Kanyaka Parameswari temple at Nagarjuna Nagar. “For the past three years, Dharma Reddy was sleeping at the temple verandah every night. At 8pm on Saturday, temple priest and the watchman last saw him. On Sunday morning, they found him hanging from the tree,” Kushaiguda inspector A Man Mohan said. There was no suicide note and police said that family members mentioned that Dharma Reddy was depressed due to ACB case. “In the complaint, Dharma Reddy’s wife mentioned that he was upset about the case and his son not getting bail,” the inspector said. A case was registered under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-tahsildar-1-more-accused-in-keesara-graft-case-kills-himself/articleshow/79119662.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Varanasi||Man out on bail in sodomy case, raped & killed 7-year-old girl in UP||GORAKHPUR: A man out on bail in a case of sodomy of a minor boy had abducted, raped and killed a seven-years-old girl in Belhar area of Sant Kabir Nagar district. Police sent him to jail on Sunday after he confessed to the crime during interrogation following his arrest on Saturday. Police recovered the body of the girl after the accused revealed the location where he had buried it. On Sunday morning, IG Basti zone, Anil Kumar Rai and SP Brijesh Singh reached the village and pacified the agitated locals by assuring them of stern action against the accused. Heavy police force has been deployed in the village. A seven-years-old girl of Aurahiya-Manjharia village in Belhar area of Sant Kabir Nagar district had gone missing on Wednesday and her clothes were found near a forest close to the village three hours later. The girl, a class IV student, was the daughter of a farmer. On the written complaint of the girl’s father, Belhar police registered a case of kidnapping against unidentified persons. On Saturday, police arrested 27 years old Lal Bahadur, a resident of Akholna village, in Belhar police station area. During interrogation, he confessed to the crime and told police that he had kidnapped the girl from a field when she was alone and took her to Siyarahwa Ghat two kilometre away where he raped and killed her and then buried the body near a nullah closeby, said senior police officers. SP Sant Kabir Nagar Brijesh Singh said the accused has been booked under Sections 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 363 (Punishment for kidnapping), 302 (murder), 376 (rape) of the IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and was sent to jail on Sunday. The accused had earlier also been arrested on charges of unnatural rape and was lodged in Basti jail. He had been released on bail three months ago. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-out-on-bail-in-sodomy-case-raped-killed-7-year-old-girl/articleshow/79118036.cms||Arjumand Bano
November 9, 2020||Kanpur||20-yr-old girl jumps into Ganga, body fished out||Kanpur: A 20-year-old girl, a BA student preparing for competitive exams, allegedly committed suicide by jumping into the Ganga at Ganga Barrage in Nawabganj police station area of the city on Sunday. The deceased, Anjali Dubey, daughter of Purohit Raghvendra Dubey, a native of Nademau village in neighbouring Kannauj, came by an auto- rickshaw and jumped into the river. The girl had come to her maternal uncle’s home in Ramadevi area on November 5 and appeared in the NIELIT CCC exam on November 6. “On Sunday morning, her uncle made her board a Kannauj-bound bus. Anjali, however, deboarded the bus midway and reached Ganga Barrage in an auto-rickshaw. After standing for a while at the bridge, she kept her bag and a mobile phone near the railing and took a plunge into river,” said police. The reason for the extreme step is yet to be ascertained as no suicide note was recovered from her possession or in her belongings. Locals informed police control room and a team from Nawabganj police station rushed to the spot and retrieved her body with the help of local divers and informed her family. “Local divers fished out her body from the river. Further investigations are underway,” said Nawabganj inspector Ramakant Pachauri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/20-yr-old-girl-jumps-into-ganga-body-fished-out/articleshow/79119346.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Varanasi||Int’l bird festival to be organized in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: International bird festival will be organized in Gorakhpur in the month of February. It will attract international tourists at Ramgarhtal Lake for bird watching, forest minister of Uttar Pradesh, Dara Singh Chauhan said on Saturday. During a programme of Rotary Club in Gorakhpur, the minister said, “Gorakhpur is developing fast in the sphere of eco-tourism and in 2021 Gorakhpur will have a zoo. Bird festival will certainly give boost to ecotourism in the area.” While praising the efforts of CM Yogi in the area of environment conservation, the minister said, “Under the guidance of CM Yogi, this year 25 crore plants are planted in the state and we aim to plant 30 crore plants next year. Earlier the forest area in the state was less than 6% and now it has increased to 9%. Ramgarhtal Lake is a gift of nature to Gorakhpur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/intl-bird-festival-to-be-organized-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/79118039.cms||Arjumand Bano
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Volunteerism: A new imperative||HYDERABAD: The lockdown brought in untold miseries to everyone, most of all to a section we call the bottom of the pyramid, or the working class. People who survive on their daily wage were hit the hardest. All sources of their earnings were shut overnight, and they were left to fend for themselves. With no end in sight to their miseries, thousands started walking back to their native places. However, these dark clouds were not without silver linings. As soon as it became clear that thousands were in despair and distress, began an outpouring of humanitarian effort to provide succour to the needy. Thousands of people and organisations came out to contribute whatever they could — cash donations, food, shelter — that was needed. While the rich contributed huge sums to PM Cares and other relief funds, the commonest of persons supported voluntary initiatives, most of the times by adding own efforts to whatever was getting mobilised in his/her area. Common people prepared food packets, came out on the streets to give food, water, medicines, and even footwear to migrants walking back. Many pooled resources to organise transportation for the migrants. Many volunteered not because anyone called them to, but because they realised that thousands of their brethren were facing extreme miseries. On the contrary, there was no call of action of any kind from the government except for seeking donations to its relief fund. Instead, the government actually informed the Supreme Court that not a single person is walking on the roads anymore. Ironically, just a few days after the statement, 15 workers were crushed to death by a train. Thankfully, the worst is behind now. Lot of businesses have reopened, and migrant workers are slowly returning or are managing with available livelihood options. One only hopes that such misery never befalls anyone ever again. It is heartening to see that the national government is bringing in laws for greater social protection of migrants. Similarly, a few progressive states like Telangana — whose chief minister incidentally was the first CM to go on record mentioning that migrant labourers are integral part of the state’s growth and development — have also expressed desire to come out with a humane and practical policy for such workers. All these are heart-warming initiatives. At the same time, one should appreciate the surge in volunteerism and charity over the past few months. It is clear that there is innate goodness and empathy among people, which comes to the fore on such occasions. As a country and a community, we should bestow attention to how we can keep this momentum going. While such large-scale miseries behind us, people in vulnerable positions around us always require a helping hand. Apart from organised NGOs and charities, lot of individuals participated in volunteering activities during the lockdown, many of them for the first time. Later, an effort was made to interact with them to ascertain what prompted them to help others, and whether they would participate in such activities in future too. Their answers were quite instructive. Firstly, the cause appeared to be the most important. Like during the lockdown, when a large number of people needed help, other occasions of extreme hardship will again bring out volunteers in support. People get motivated to volunteer when they see many others support a cause. Also, while the government did not cover itself in glory in alleviating the migrants’ miseries, a large number of first-time volunteers felt that association with the government will lend credibility to the initiative, and help in resolving any last-mile challenges. These answers reveal it is possible to utilise this enormous goodwill and charity in people for helping the vulnerable. While our ambition to become a $5-trillion economy is laudable, we should have equally noble goals regarding inclusivity and ensuring no one is left behind. All stakeholders, led by the government, need to start a national movement, which builds upon the inherent good qualities in everyone for the service of the needy. This will be a fitting tribute to the Mahatma on his 150th anniversary and to the nation on its 75th anniversary of Independence. (This article is written by Jayesh Ranjan. He is an IAS officer. Views expressed are personal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/volunteerism-a-new-imperative/articleshow/79119102.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Surat||920 people donate blood in 24-hr camp||Surat: As many as 920 people donated blood at a special 24-hours blood donation camp held in the city that ended on Sunday. The camp was organised to pay tribute to former CM Keshubhai Patel as well as to replenish blood banks in the city running dry owing to the pandemic.The programme by ‘Keshubhai Patel Srandhanaji Ayojan Samiti at Saurashtra Patel Bhavan in Mini Bazaar in Varachha started at 6 pm on Saturday and in all 920units of blood were collected till Sunday evening,” said Haribhai Kathiriya of Lok Samarpan Raktdan Kendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/920-people-donate-blood-in-24-hr-camp/articleshow/79116270.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Stalin rakes up Kodanad case ahead of polls||DMK president M K Stalin questioned the mystery surrounding the Kodanad burglary case and the delay in nabbing one of the key accused in the case. Addressing party workers in Nilgiris through video conferencing on Sunday, Stalin said the people connected to the case were dying in one way or the other in accidents or committing suicides, which was mysterious. Alleging that the case was getting delayed, Stalin questioned the state government for not arresting one of the key accused identified as Krishna Prasad till date. Recalling the development works carried out by DMK in Nilgiris including revamping Ooty boathouse, fixing better price for tea, power supply to tribal areas and free television sets for their houses, third drinking water project for Ooty, Stalin said that once DMK comes to power, a government engineering college, arts college and a polytctechnic would be established in the Nilgiris. Various measures would be taken to improve tourism and steps to better the livelihood of tea estate workers would be taken, he said. On the other hand, AIADMK had pushed people’s welfare to back burner. “Jayalalithaa forgot people’s welfare in the first five years of AIADMK rule due to disproportionate assets case. Edappadi K Palaniswami had ignored people’s welfare in the next five years to save their posts,’’ he said. “The biggest achievement of AIADMK rule was that there was a murder, burglary and accidents in Jayalalithaa’s own property in Kodanad,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stalin-rakes-up-kodanad-case-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/79119029.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Kanpur||Woman, teen girl run over by train||KANPUR: An unidentified middle-aged woman and a teenage girl were allegedly run over by a train near Kachaura bridge on Delhi-Howrah route in Jaswant Nagar area of Etawah district on Sunday. Police said the bodies of the woman, who was around 45 years old, and a girl aged 17 were found on the Delhi-Howrah route near Kachaura bridge. “The two were run over by North East Express heading to Delhi. However, it is not clear if it’s a case of suicide or accident,” said police. The bodies were badly mutilated. The girl is believed to be the woman’s daughter. “The woman was wearing a sari and the girl a salwar suit. They have not been identified as yet. A case of accidental death has been registered. We are looking into missing complaints,” said inspector Ramesh Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-teen-girl-run-over-by-train/articleshow/79119350.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Illegal mining: HC unhappy with govt reply on queries||Madurai: Observing that the court is not satisfied with the response given by the state government with regard to the queries on the steps taken to prevent illegal mining, Madras high court has directed the state government to further submit a detailed report on a series of queries.Additional advocate general Narmadha Sampath submitted that savudu is a colloquial term of ordinary sand, which is a minor mineral and Rule 12 (2) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1959, permits quarrying of silt, savudu and gravel from river banks under the control of the PWD or rural development and panchayat raj department and also in private patta lands.With regard to the queries raised by the court on the adoption of the Mineral Conservation and Development Rules, 2017 or framing of own rules, the AAG submitted that the matter is under consideration. Similarly, with regard to the implementation of guidelines for sand mining issued by the Union ministry of environment and forest and climate change, the AAG also submitted that it requires a detailed examination by the government.Observing that the court is not satisfied with the response given by the state government, a division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and B Pugalendhi said that the ministry had given certain guidelines pursuant to the direction of the National Green Tribunal. Similar guidelines were issued in 2016, with a view to identifying sand mining sources, replenishment of the river bed material and for effective monitoring and enforcement mechanism for sand mining in the country.The judges observed that the need for replenishment study for river bed sand is to nullify the adverse impact due to the sand extraction and these guidelines also suggest standard practice for assessment of illegal mining and universal monitoring mechanism to control the illegal mining activities.The Supreme Court while hearing a special leave petition had directed to dispose of these petitions before HC Madurai bench within four weeks. Taking into account of this, the judges sought a detailed report on a few queries which include the details on number of licences/leases granted for quarrying savudu and ubari soil, the distance between the quarry sites and the river beds/waterbodies.The queries also include details on the number of vehicles/instruments/ tools seized and confiscated for the past seven years, the mechanism available for the verification for the compliance of conditions, accountability of various officers, details of the action taken against the VAO, in whose village, the illegal mining activities were found and the criminal cases registered.The case was adjourned to November 11 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/illegal-mining-hc-unhappy-with-govt-reply-on-queries/articleshow/79119046.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 9, 2020||Vadodara||Ex-minister Sukhadia, son test Covid-19 positive||Vadodara: Former state minister and Sayajigunj MLA Jitendra Sukhadia and his son Hiren who have tested Covid-19 positive have been admitted at the GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri on Sunday. According to hospital sources, the condition of the septuagenarian MLA is stable. Sukhadia also has comorbidites including diabetes and liver-related ailments. “He is under oxygen in the ICU but is stable,” said Dr Sheetal Mistry, administrative nodal officer at the hospital. Earlier, Sukhadia’s wife Kusum and grandson Raj were admitted at the Gotri hospital after the duo had tested positive on October 24. They were discharged on November 4. The MLA and his son had tested negative then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-minister-sukhadia-son-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/79116952.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||Preventive steps a must to check Covid spread: CM||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday pitched for escalating preventive measures in districts reporting 50 to 100 fresh Covid cases. Chairing a review meeting at his official residence here on Sunday, Yogi pointed out the case of Meerut while asking officials to activate the public address system to prevent the spread of the virus. Meerut reported 204 cases in the last 24 hours. Besides Meerut, districts which had high case burden included Lucknow (231), Kanpur (85), Prayagraj (73), Ghaziabad (223), Gautam Budh Nagar (139) and Varanasi (86). The state recorded 2,247 fresh Covid cases and 26 deaths on Sunday. The state government tested 1,66,106 samples, taking the total figure to over 1.6 crore. The total positive cases so far stand at 4,97,563. The CM underlined the need for carrying out a drive to make people aware of wearing mask and maintaining social distancing. At the same time, a drive to ensure cleanliness and sanitization would also be launched. District magistrates have been asked to ensure jobs to the labourers as suggested by the UP labour (service and employment) commission. Emphasising on special awareness during the festive season, CM asked the officials to see that no cracker manufacturing unit is located within the populated areas. On the issue of stubble burning which is severely impacting air quality, Yogi said farmers should be asked not to burn crop residue which also reduces the productivity of agricultural land. Stressing on hassle free purchase of paddy from farmers, Yogi said that benefits of minimum support price (MSP) be passed on to farmers. He said that farmers should be made aware that paddy crop be brought to the purchase centre after proper drying and sieving. The CM asked district magistrates to increase paddy purchase centre as per the need. Yogi emphasised on speedy purchase of cane in the current crushing season. Asking divisional commissioners to review execution of the state government's priority projects, Yogi said that revenue related disputes be solved at the tehsil level. “Benefits of the state government programmes should reach every person,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/preventive-steps-a-must-to-check-covid-spread-cm/articleshow/79119497.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Tangedco can modify edu qualification for promotion: HC||Madurai: Observing that Tangedco has powers to enhance or modify the educational qualification for promotion to higher posts, Madras high court dismissed an employee’s plea challenging an amendment that she claimed would restrict her promotion prospects.S Meenakshi, who was appointed as helper (training) in Tangedco in 2010, challenged the amendments to regulation 94 of Tamil Nadu Electricity Board Service Regulations in 2014 saying her prospects of promotion as junior assistant were restricted. She said that originally the qualification prescribed for promotion to the post was Class X, but the amendment made it “any degree”. Justice S M Subramaniam observed that there was no merit in her contentions since it was the settled principle of law that prescription or amendment of educational qualification or service conditions are the prerogative of administrative powers vested with the employer. Amendment of service condition or educational qualification remains a part of service condition imposed at the time of issuing the appointment order and employees cannot question them.The judge observed that central and state government organizations have to look forward in respect of advancements and developments of the country. “Prescription of higher qualification will also encourage the students to pursue higher studies. Enhancement of qualification will certainly improve the public administration and will also provide better opportunities to the unemployed youth of this country.” The judge said service protection has got a limited purpose and there cannot be lifetime protection so as to include all further promotion to the higher posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tangedco-can-modify-edu-qualification-for-promotion-hc/articleshow/79119053.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Woman, son get bail for his marriage||Madurai: Madras high court granted bail to a woman and her son, who were arrested in a case for possession of ganja in Madurai, as the son is getting married. The court was hearing the petition filed by Rajamani alias Rani and her son Vignesh, who were arrested by the Karimedu police in Madurai on October 6 for offences under narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances Act. The police officials had searched two two-wheelers driven by the petitioners and they found 22kg ganja in their possession. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that in August, Vignesh’s wedding was fixed for November 6. He submitted that though the petitioners were arrested, the bride is ready and willing to marry Vignesh. Hence, he sought interim bail to solemnize the marriage. The government advocate submitted that Vignesh has a previous case and if the petitioners are released on interim bail, there is a possibility that they might try to escape. Taking into consideration that the marriage had been fixed in August itself, Justice G K Ilanthiraiyan observed that this court is inclined to grant interim bail to the petitioners till November 9. The judge directed petitioners to surrender before the Madurai central prison by 5pm on November 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-son-get-bail-for-his-marriage/articleshow/79119058.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||Anganbadi units to get nutritious food products||Lucknow: The state government on Sunday announced to provide nutritious food to women associated with the anganbadi centres directly. Until now, such centres were provided nutritious food items from PDS shops. Now, the women of the SHGs constituted under the National Rural Livelihood Mission will provide packets of nutritious food items to the women associated with the anganbadi centres. A state government spokesperson said that the women of the SHGs would also test the quality of food items. The state has as many as 1,89,000 anganbadi centres where children up to age of six, adolescent girls and pregnant women are taken care of. The state government said that besides rice, wheat and pulse the centres would also receive milk, ghee and curd. Meanwhile, the UP government said that under Mission Shakti, women were being provided vocational training to help them become self-reliant while giving them strength to face the world. The spokesperson said that skills not only help women to grow, but also contribute to the development of the state. He said that the state government was making women more aware about their rights besides providing them training in computers, tailoring and embroidery. The women would also be trained to draft more attractive CVs. In one such training, girls of government post-graduate college in Shamli were given expert advice on how to make CVs besides having knowledge and other skills at the employment skills training centre under the national service scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/anganbadi-units-to-get-nutritious-food-products/articleshow/79119498.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Madurai||CM announces Rs 3L solatium for families of electrocution victims||Madurai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday announced a solatium of Rs 3 lakh each for the families of eight people who died in separate electricity related accidents across the state recently. A sum of Rs 24 lakh will be given away from the chief minister’s general relief fund. The victims are Balamurugan, a farmer of Thalayalnadanthankulam near Kayathar in Tuticorin. P Santhiyagu, a boy from Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district. In Virudhunagar district, Saravanan of Sundankulam.L Jayasekar, a construction worker of Midalam in Kanyakumari district. D Suren, a boy from Annamalaicheri in Thiruvallur district. R Karuppaiah of Thenmalaiyur in Pudukottai. R Suren a head loader from Tiruvottiyur in Chennai. S Babu of Pallikaranai in Chennai. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-announces-rs-3l-solatium-for-families-of-electrocution-victims/articleshow/79119094.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Unidentified man found dead with face smashed||Nagpur: An unidentified man, in mid-30s, was found dead with his head and face smashed with a broken piece of concrete boulder at Indiramata Nagar on Hingna Road. His body was found tucked inside a stormwater drain in the wee hours of Sunday. MIDC police were left groping in the dark regarding identity of the man as nothing was found on his person to identify him. A broken portion of the concrete boulder used to murder the man was found on the victim’s chest. MIDC police suspect the man was killed during drunken brawl or was lynched by slum dwellers after he was found loitering in the locality under suspicious circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unidentified-man-found-dead-with-face-smashed/articleshow/79119063.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 9, 2020||Coimbatore||TN netas congratulate Biden, Kamala Harris||Leaders of all political parties in the state have greeted US president-elect Joe Biden and vice–president elect Kamala Harris. “I am extremely glad that Kamala Harris is the first woman to be elected as vice-president of the US. She has made Tamil Nadu proud with this astounding victory,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy tweeted on Sunday. DMK president M K Stalin had congratulated the two on Saturday itself with a similar tweet. Congratulating the two, PMK leader S Ramadoss tweeted wishing the election of Kamala Harris to help strengthening of India–US ties. AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran congratulated Harris wishing that her functioning as vice-president make not only people of her native Thulasendrapuram proud but the entire Tamil community. MDMK leader Vaiko noted that Joe Biden was a seasoned politician who had held the post of vice-president for eight years and was a six time senator. “His election has given us hope that restrictions for Indian youth in getting employment in the US would be removed,” Vaiko said in a statement. On Kamala Harris, Vaiko said that her election has brought cheers to Tamils across the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-netas-congratulate-biden-kamala-harris/articleshow/79119054.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Minister moots underpass to facilitate airport runway expansion in Madurai||Madurai: Revenue minister R B Udayakumar on Sunday said that constructing an underpass for a state highways road is the best option available for the expansion of Madurai airport runway. He said it would be similar to Varanasi airport that has an underpass for national highway. Since a highway road is passing through the part where the runway is proposed to be expanded, either the road should be diverted or an underpass needs to be constructed, an official said.The minister held a meeting with a team of officials, including Madurai district collector T Anbalagan, airport director S Senthil Valavan and divisional engineer of state highways department, Prasanna Venkatesh at the airport. Udayakumar said 90% of the land acquisition required for the runway expansion has been completed.During an inspection, it was found that constructing an underpass for the highway road, which is passing close to one end of the runway, is the best option. The proposal will be taken to the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and action will be taken to expedite the project. A ceremony for the runway expansion project will soon be held by the chief minister, he said.Virudhunagar MP B Manickam Tagore termed the inspection and meeting a drama. He said that the state government has not done any constructive work for the project, which was proposed in 2011. A drama was enacted now to create an impression that progress is taking place because of the state government’s effort, he said. Expansion of the runway from 7,500 feet to 12,500 feet was proposed in 2011, it was delayed due to land acquisition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minister-moots-underpass-to-facilitate-airport-runway-expansion-in-madurai/articleshow/79119090.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Youth gunned down in Rajasthan's Sodala, third firing incident in 10 days||JAIPUR: A youth was killed after an unidentified man pumped three bullets into him including one in the head in Sodala’s Govind Puri locality here around 9pm on Sunday. The victim, identified as Sachin Meena (in his early 20s), died on the spot. DCP (Jaipur South) Manoj Kumar said, “As of now we do not know who killed him and the motive behind it. We are investigating the crime scene and will have more details later.” A forensics team is already at the spot to collect samples. After hearing gun shots, locals rushed to the spot and on seeing the victim lying on the ground informed police. The deceased hailed from Bharatpur but was staying in a rented accommodation in Govind Puri. Police will look at CCTV cameras in the area and talk to local residents to find out if there were any eye-witnesses. This was the third incident of firing in the state capital in less than 10 days. On Friday, shots were fired at Muhana in which one person sustained two bullet wounds. A few days earlier, a security guard was shot at in Pratap Nagar. As lockdown norms are gradually being eased, more cases of firings are being reported from across the state. Three firing incidents in Bikaner in a week had set alarm bells ringing in police and government circles. Now, the pattern appears to being followed in Jaipur as well. Last month, cops had launched a campaign titled Action Against Guns (AAG) through which started arresting persons with illegal arms. In most of the seizures, the weapons seized were country-made pistols. Though the month-long operation commenced in October, criminals are easily being able to access illegal weapons and fire at persons at will.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-gunned-down-in-sodala-third-firing-incident-in-10-days/articleshow/79119092.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Corpn breeding fish variety to battle dengue||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation is breeding 10,000 gambusia fish to be released into stagnating fresh waters in a measure to prevent dengue cases in the city. The fish feeds on larva of mosquitoes and thereby control their population. An official said that fish breeding is taking place in two places - ward office behind the Gandhi Memorial Museum and a fountain at the Eco Park. They will be released in stagnant water sources once the rain is over. It would be made available for the public also to use them in large water containers. Meanwhile, they have urged public not to store water in open containers for long. The official added that around 560 domestic breeding checkers (DBC) are involved in Covid-19 works and dengue prevention activities. There is a plan to rope in 700 more people on temporary basis. With the Diwali festival round the corner, they expect Covid-19 cases to increase. As many as 700 workers will come in handy as corporation will have to concentrate on both Covid-19 and dengue. He said, “There has not been much dengue cases reported in the city so far. Only two cases were recorded in the last week. The time between October and December is known for dengue spread. But, there has not been any outbreak so far. It could be due to the rain pattern. At present, the city is witnessing heavy rain. Drizzles and moderate rains will help breeding of mosquitos,” he said. He added that Covid-19 cases too have been on the decline. There was an average of 15 cases a day in the recent days. Another official said that fogging has been intensified to control mosquitoes. Every ward has a fogging machine. It has been planned in such a way that every place is covered at least once in three days, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-breeding-fish-variety-to-battle-dengue/articleshow/79119121.cms||V Devanathan
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Relatives dupe yoga teacher of Rs3.5L||Nagpur: Balkrishna Acharya, 47, a yoga teacher, was duped by his wife’s relatives and three others to the tune of Rs3.5 lakh between 2016 and this year. Acharya’s relative Devendra Kate had first taken Rs45,000 to help him get a pass certificate of Std XII, and then another Rs5.5 lakh for helping his wife get a job. As he was not able to arrange for the job, Kate returned Rs2.5 lakh but the rest of the amount is yet to be returned by him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/relatives-dupe-yoga-teacher-of-rs3-5l/articleshow/79119093.cms||---
November 9, 2020||---||No bad behaviour, celebratory firing on day of counting: RJD||PATNA: With majority of exit polls giving the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan an edge over NDA in Bihar polls, the party led by Lalu Prasad on Sunday asked its workers not to indulge in any celebratory firing or ‘improper behaviour’ towards rivals on the day of counting of votes on November 10. “Whatever be the election result, it has to be accepted with absolute restraint, simplicity and good behaviour towards people. Improper fireworks, celebratory firing and rude behaviour towards our rivals or their supporters will not be accepted at any cost,” the party told its workers through a tweet. राजद के सभी कार्यकर्ता स्मरण रखें-10 नवम्बर को चुनाव परिणाम कुछ भी हों उसे पूरे संयम, सादगी और शिष्टाचार से स्वी… https://t.co/M0zTVOel4r— Rashtriya Janata Dal (@RJDforIndia) 1604822037000In another tweet, RJD also asked its workers and supporters not to gather before the house of the Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav at 10, Circular Road on November 9 to respect his personal decision to celebrate his birthday with simplicity. सभी शुभचिंतकों व समर्थकों से विनम्र अनुरोध है कि नेता प्रतिपक्ष श्री @yadavtejashwi जी के अपने जन्मदिन को सादगी से… https://t.co/eGNgM5Lf8d— Rashtriya Janata Dal (@RJDforIndia) 1604832862000Tejashwi will turn 31 on November 9, a day before the election results. “It is a humble request to all well-wishers and supporters to respect Tejashwi’s personal decision to celebrate his birthday with simplicity and prefer not to reach his house to greet him personally on the occasion,” RJD tweeted in Hindi. “The RJD supporters had earlier expected that party chief Lalu Prasad would get bail in the fodder scam cases and come out of the judicial custody on or before November 9. As the hearing on Lalu Ji’s bail plea has been deferred till November 27 by the Jharkhand high court, there is no hope of him coming out in the next few days. As our top leader is under judicial custody, Tejashwi Ji has decided to celebrate his birthday only with the family members with simplicity. Hence, the appeal to the supporters and well-wishers not to assemble before his residence,” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan told TOI on Sunday. RJD sources said the party’s top leaders led by state president Jagdanand on Sunday held a meeting to discuss how to celebrate the victory on November 10, if the Mahagathbandhan crosses the magic figure of 122 seats to gain majority in the 243-member Bihar Assembly. Though Tejashwi was not at the meeting, his views were taken on the phone. “RJD took a conscious decision to issue certain instructions to the party workers to ‘behave properly’ on the counting day,” Gagan said. “As per the feedback from our booth level workers, the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan will win around 150 seats, while the RJD alone will cross the 100-mark. The party is confident of forming the next government under the leadership of Tejashwi Yadav,” Gagan told TOI after coming out of the party’s meeting on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/no-bad-behaviour-celebratory-firing-on-day-of-counting-rjd/articleshow/79120990.cms||Madan Kumar
November 9, 2020||Patna||No bad behaviour, celebratory firing on day of counting: RJD||PATNA: With majority of exit polls giving the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan an edge over NDA in Bihar polls, the party led by Lalu Prasad on Sunday asked its workers not to indulge in any celebratory firing or ‘improper behaviour’ towards rivals on the day of counting of votes on November 10. “Whatever be the election result, it has to be accepted with absolute restraint, simplicity and good behaviour towards people. Improper fireworks, celebratory firing and rude behaviour towards our rivals or their supporters will not be accepted at any cost,” the party told its workers through a tweet. राजद के सभी कार्यकर्ता स्मरण रखें-10 नवम्बर को चुनाव परिणाम कुछ भी हों उसे पूरे संयम, सादगी और शिष्टाचार से स्वी… https://t.co/M0zTVOel4r— Rashtriya Janata Dal (@RJDforIndia) 1604822037000In another tweet, RJD also asked its workers and supporters not to gather before the house of the Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav at 10, Circular Road on November 9 to respect his personal decision to celebrate his birthday with simplicity. सभी शुभचिंतकों व समर्थकों से विनम्र अनुरोध है कि नेता प्रतिपक्ष श्री @yadavtejashwi जी के अपने जन्मदिन को सादगी से… https://t.co/eGNgM5Lf8d— Rashtriya Janata Dal (@RJDforIndia) 1604832862000Tejashwi will turn 31 on November 9, a day before the election results. “It is a humble request to all well-wishers and supporters to respect Tejashwi’s personal decision to celebrate his birthday with simplicity and prefer not to reach his house to greet him personally on the occasion,” RJD tweeted in Hindi. “The RJD supporters had earlier expected that party chief Lalu Prasad would get bail in the fodder scam cases and come out of the judicial custody on or before November 9. As the hearing on Lalu Ji’s bail plea has been deferred till November 27 by the Jharkhand high court, there is no hope of him coming out in the next few days. As our top leader is under judicial custody, Tejashwi Ji has decided to celebrate his birthday only with the family members with simplicity. Hence, the appeal to the supporters and well-wishers not to assemble before his residence,” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan told TOI on Sunday. RJD sources said the party’s top leaders led by state president Jagdanand on Sunday held a meeting to discuss how to celebrate the victory on November 10, if the Mahagathbandhan crosses the magic figure of 122 seats to gain majority in the 243-member Bihar Assembly. Though Tejashwi was not at the meeting, his views were taken on the phone. “RJD took a conscious decision to issue certain instructions to the party workers to ‘behave properly’ on the counting day,” Gagan said. “As per the feedback from our booth level workers, the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan will win around 150 seats, while the RJD alone will cross the 100-mark. The party is confident of forming the next government under the leadership of Tejashwi Yadav,” Gagan told TOI after coming out of the party’s meeting on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-bad-behaviour-celebratory-firing-on-day-of-counting-rjd/articleshow/79118128.cms||Madan Kumar
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Two cubs of Tigress-107 sighted at Ranthambore, big cat count 69||JAIPUR: Camera traps at Ranthambore National Park (RNP) have captured the images of two cubs born to Tigress-107. The cubs appear to be four to five months old. Their arrival has raised the tiger population — including cubs and subadults — at the park to 25. Earlier this week, Tigress-102 was sighted with her four cubs. RNP DFO Mahendra Kumar Sharma said, “It is for the first time that the young tigress has given birth to litters and the staff is regularly monitoring their movement.” Photographs of the mother-cub trio were captured in the camera traps at the reserve’s Amreshwar forest. Previous photos of T-107 had revealed her pregnancy. “A camera trap exercise between January and April has revealed the presence of 19 males, 25 females and 19 subadult tigers in the reserve,” read the statement issued by the Ranthambore administration. The birth of cubs has increased the worries of the park operators as the number of big cats in Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR) has reached a point where it can no longer sustain them. In October last year, then chief wildlife warden Arindam Tomar had proposed to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the apex tiger conservation body in the country, to shift the big cats to Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR), Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) and Ramgarh Vishdhari Wildlife Sanctuary in Bundi. The Ranthambore reserve has a core area of 392 sq-km with a buffer zone of 1,342 sq-km. Of the total area of a little over 1,700 sq-km in RTR, only 600 sq-km can be used by tigers. A forest official said, “As per a rough estimate, a male tiger requires approximately 25 sq-km and a female about 15 sq-km. At Ranthambore, many young tigers are looking to mark their territories. Natural corridor should be developed for the free movement of these animals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-cubs-of-tigress-107-sighted-at-ranthambore-big-cat-count-63/articleshow/79119120.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chennai||Better policies can help youth see beyond academic stress||By R S RaveendhrenThe recent spate of student suicides in Tamil Nadu was attributed to mounting academic pressure from the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) and the general inability to cope with online coaching in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. News of the deaths led to political parties expressing their anguish and taking up cudgels against ruling dispensation. What is more distressing is that for the fourth consecutive year, the 2019 National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report placed Tamil Nadu in a dismal second place for its number of suicides and in third place for student suicides but did not garner enough attention in the media or create awareness among the public. In 1996, the United Nations had published a seminal document, ‘Prevention of Suicide: Guidelines for the Formulation and Implementation of National Strategies’. As a follow up to this, several countries began undertaking detailed studies on it. This prompted WHO to come out with a special action plan in 2008 called the Mental Health Gap Action Programme (mhGAP).The 66th World Health Assembly held subsequently consisted of ministers of health from 194 member states and there the Mental Health Action Plan 2013-2020 was adopted. According to WHO, nearly 8,00,000 people die every year due to suicides and recognises suicide as public health priority. In 2014, India launched its first-ever mental health policy. It aimed to encourage and support countries to develop or strengthen comprehensive suicide prevention strategies as a multi-sectoral public health approach. It is significant to note that as a member-state, India is committed towards achieving the global target of reducing the suicide rate in countries by at least 10% by 2020.The major reasons for suicides among students are primarily attributed to depression, academic pressure, family expectations, inability to cope with stress and social isolation. A recent study carried out by the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) and published in the journal Lancet Psychiatry has shocking revelations. In the year 2015 alone, 30 million Indians aged 18 years and above have either thought of ending their own lives or have done so. The study stressed in unequivocal terms, the imminent need to have a comprehensive national suicide prevention strategy in place.The laws of a nation play a crucial role in moulding society. They are a handy tool for bringing about desirable changes as much as a social engineering tool to secure social harmony and justice. The Indian Mental Health Act, 2017 came into being upon the repeal of the Mental Health Act of 1987. The act has been legislated with a view to align and harmonise the existing laws with the United Nations’ Convention on Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Optional Protocol of 2006, which India has signed and ratified in 2007.The sad fact is that in spite of an efficient legislation, the Union and state governments have not yet fulfilled the mandate under Section 29(2) of the Mental Health Act, 2017 that requires them to plan, design and implement public health programmes to reduce suicides.A Right to Information query by a disability rights activist revealed that even India’s premier medical institutions were found wanting in strategies for suicide prevention. Though the act provides a foundation for bringing together the government, public and private sector, NGOs and education ministries, it has not gained any momentum in the absence of a comprehensive national policy for suicide prevention.According to WHO, as of January 2018, only 38 countries among its 194 member states have a working national strategy for prevention of suicide. In India the low quality vital registration data on causes of death including suicides is a concern and impedes proper analysis.The Tamil Nadu government has a mental health policy in place and a state mental health authority, which was formed in 1994 under the aegis of the 1987 act and is yet to address the issue of student suicides. Tamil Nadu contains various educational districts, but there is a lack of trained teachers who can pick up early signs of distress and handle such students by helping them face successes and failures. Teachers need to be sensitised about the care required in handling students without being judgmental of their academic performances. School teachers’ associations in TN have been appealing to the state government to appoint two counsellors in every educational district. The time has come when the government must play an active role and set up the required mechanism to make the state mental health authority work towards prevention of student suicides. They can employ the interventionist approach by holding counselling programmes in every educational institution and engage psychologists to counsel students that are on the threshold of competitive examinations.Sociologist Emile Durkheim had said suicides are the result of psychological, emotional factors and social factors. The authorities must not just stop with a mere propagandist approach because that would itself reduce the very object of the law to a profligate obligation. There is a saying, "suicide does not end the chances of life getting worse; it in fact eliminates the possibility of it ever getting any better." The need of the hour is to employ a meaningful application of law and policy to help young minds see a future for themselves.(The writer is an advocate at Madras high court)group.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/better-policies-can-help-youth-see-beyond-academic-stress/articleshow/79118086.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Jewellery shop burgled||Coimbatore: Burglars decamped with 2kg of silver ornaments and 10 sovereigns of gold ornaments from a jewellery shop at Viswasapuram near Saravanampatti on Sunday. D Thirumalai Murugaraj of Viswasapuram, owner of ‘Maruthi’ at VPR Commercial Complex on the Sathyamangalam Road, had locked the shop on Saturday around 9pm. On early Sunday morning, burglars broke open the steel shutter to enter the shop. Forensic experts inspected the crime scene and lifted fingerprints. A sniffer dog was also pressed into service. The Saravanampatti (crime) police collected CCTV footage from nearby shops and formed a special team to nab the burglars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/jewellery-shop-burgled/articleshow/79119091.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Parents, schools face anxious moments in Covid-distress season||KOLKATA: With the November 30 deadline for paying 80% tuition fees just three weeks away, both schools and parents are spending tense moments. While there are hundreds of parents who have started writing to schools appealing to them not to take a harsh action against their wards because their present financial situation might not make it possible to pay arrears at one go, there are school groups like those run by the Church of North India, who have reported negative income. Many of the parents’ e-mails to schools speak about job loss and extreme financial distress, seeking instalments for arrears and acknowledgement of the fact that they will not be able to meet the deadline. In the meantime, a dossier prepared by the central accounts department of the Kolkata Diocese of the CNI shows a shortfall of 24% to 99% (negative income), while paying salaries of teachers and staff in eight schools of the city and 10% in three schools, because of non-payment of fees. This shortfall is highest (-99%) in St James School, followed by -78% in St John’s Diocesan Higher Secondary School. The three schools that are slightly better off are La Martiniere for Boys, La Martiniere for Girls and Union Chapel School, where the shortfall is minus four per cent. This is the first part of the document that does not yet consider the 20% waiver as directed by the high court. Another document will soon be drawn up showing the calculations considering the waiver. “That will show a grimmer picture,” said Ritesh Sarkar, finance secretary of the Diocese. The dossier shows that La Martinere for Boys annually needs Rs 24.7 crore to pay salaries to teachers and staff, followed by Rs 18.7 crore by La Martiniere for Girls. These two schools had implemented the Seventh Pay Commission in January itself. St Thomas Kidderpore Boys School needs Rs 10.3 crore, St James School similarly needs Rs 8.5 crore and Pratt Memorial needs Rs 7.3 crores. “Our schools have been forced to go back to the fees structure of 2017-18 and in some cases, 2016-17 with the 20% reduction. However, there has been an average rise of 40% in salaries since 2017-18. We cannot go back to the salary structure of 2017-18. It will take years for the schools to bridge the imbalance,” Sarkar said. One e-mail written by a parent to Mangalam Vidyaniketan by a father said, “I am financially broken. So, even after the rebate of 20%, I need help. Please do not disclose my children’s names.” Another father of a child in Frank Anthony Public School writes to say that he has lost his job and if a job can be arranged he would pay all the arrears. Father of a child at DPS Megacity said he had to fold up his export-import business and the family is in a hand-to-mouth situation. He has appealed to the school and other parents to pay the fees for the moment, till he arranges for funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parents-schools-face-anxious-moments-in-cov-distress-season/articleshow/79118096.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Southern districts record less than 40 new cases each; 1 dead in central region||Madurai/Trichy: A total of 219 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the 10 southern districts on Sunday while the central region registered 232 new cases even as both regions reported one death each. Active cases were 1,837 in southern region and 1,855 in central region . The lone death recorded in the southern region was of a 77-year-old man from Dindigul who died five days ago. The man with comorbid conditions tested positive on October 24, was hospitalised the same day and died in the early hours of November 3. All the districts recorded less than 40 fresh cases each. Madurai (37) recorded the highest followed by Tuticorin (33) and Kanyakumari (33). The other districts recorded less than 30 cases each. Two districts – Ramanathapuram (7) and Tenkasi (9) – recorded less than 10 each. Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Dindigul, Sivagangai, Tenkasi and Theni are among districts that had a marginal increase in active cases.Madurai’s active cases dropped below 400 for the first time in more than four months. Now, all the 10 districts have less than 400 active cases. Tuticorin (382) is the only other district in the region with more than 300 active cases. Theni (64), Ramanathapuram (69), Tenkasi (70) and Virudhunagar (88) have less than 100 active cases.The central region’s tally of Covid -19 positive cases reached 67,326 on Sunday. The only casualty recorded was in Pudukottai, taking the region’s total death toll to 879. Though the number of positive cases in Thanjavur district has drastically come down, fresh positive cases continued to be high, it reported 45 fresh cases on Sunday. Next to Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Trichy recorded 38 fresh cases each. In the case of Karur, fresh positive cases recorded on Sunday was 28, while it was 25 in Pudukottai district. Ariyalur recorded 12 cases while Perambalur reported just eight cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-districts-record-less-than-40-new-cases-each-1-dead-in-central-region/articleshow/79119119.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Measures to stem pandemic spread intensified in city||Coimbatore:. To enforce Covid-19 measures during the Diwali season, the city police have deployed 300 police personnel on Cross Cut Road, Big Bazaar Street, Oppanakkara Street, NH Road, RG Street and DB Road.Eight teams consisting of police, revenue and local body members will inspect crowded places and impose a fine of Rs 200 on people who do not wear face masks, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said. “The teams will function in two shifts from 10am to 10pm,” he said.Oppanakkara Street, Big Bazaar Street and Cross Cut Road witnessed crowds of festival shoppers on Sunday evening. “The city police have installed watchtowers on Oppanakkara Street and Cross Cut Road to monitor crowds. Our personnel are using public address systems to remind people about social distancing. So far, we have collected Rs 15 lakh as fine for not wearing face mask,” police commissioner Sumit Sharan said.“Personnel of anti-chain snatching teams, anti-bag lifting teams and anti-pick-pocketing teams are also deployed in public places in plain clothes. All public places are covered under a security blanket with CCTV,” the officer said. “Police vehicles fitted with public address systems will be on busy stretches to create awareness about Covid-19. We will deploy cops with megaphones on busy stretches from Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/measures-to-stem-pandemic-spread-intensified-in-city/articleshow/79119108.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Civic staff in Delhi threaten to go on indefinite stir||NEW DELHI: Confederation of MCD Employees Unions has threatened to go on an indefinite strike from Monday to highlight the problem of non-payment of dues to all sections and pensioners. Only a section of sanitation workers who work in the field will not be part of this strike, said A P Khan, the convener of the umbrella body of workers’ unions in the three municipal corporations. The rest of the civic workers — most of the engineers, teachers, horticulture staff, labourers, beldars and clerical as well as administrative staff — will be present in their office complexes but will not work from 9am. No dharna will be organised due to the recent spike in Covid cases, Khan added. A three-hour meeting was held with all three mayors and key municipal functionaries on Saturday. Though the mayors assured about partial payments by Diwali, the meeting didn’t yield any concrete result. “The court had said the employees should be paid on ‘at par’ basis and the corporations cannot discriminate. But while the doctors have been paid Rs 12 lakh after their strike, a field worker with a Rs12,000 salary is still waiting,” Khan said. Salaries are due for three-five months while pensions have not been paid for six months, he added. Out of the 1.5 lakh municipal employees, the sanitation workers form the biggest block. Before the doctors’ strike, the salaries used to be paid first to Group D employees and last to Group A. The confederation has written to the mayors that its decision can be modified if the administration sticks to its assurance. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said the civic body would release a month’s salary before Diwali and another instalment before the end of this month. “Out of the 55,000 north corporation employees, around 30,000 have received salaries till September. Some have received till July and August. We have urged the unions to cooperate so that the process of revenue collection does not stop,” Jai Prakash said. Sanitation services are not likely to be affected as another instalment of salary will be released in coming days, the mayor pointed out. The doctors were less in number and paid first to stop inconvenience to patients, he added. East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said the situation was relatively better in the east and the south. “We have cleared salaries till September while sanitation workers’ payment will be up to date on Monday,” Jain said. South corporation mayor Anamika Singh said a section of its employees wanted to go on strike only to show their solidarity. “Our sanitation workers’ salaries are up to date and we are also planning to give bonus to Group D employees,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civic-staff-threaten-to-go-on-indefinite-stir-to-protest-salary-dues-non-payment-to-pensioners/articleshow/79118106.cms||Paras Singh
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||2,600 entrepreneurs in UP got Rs 82 crore aid in 3 years||LUCKNOW: To boost economic activities in the state and promote indigenous products, the Uttar Pradesh government gave a financial aid of Rs 82 crore to as many as 2,600 entrepreneurs under the ambitious One District One Product (ODOP) scheme. A government spokesperson said the scheme has already made its footprints in the international markets as the specialized products of all 75 districts of the state have found takers in the country as well as globally. According to government records, more than 11,000 ODOP products are available on e-commerce platforms like Amazon and over 50,000 products worth Rs 24 crore have already been sold. In 2018-19, the MSME department gave an assistance of Rs 31.34 crore to 916 enterprisers under ODOP scheme, which generated 10,733 employment opportunities. In 2018-19, the export of ODOP products surged by 28 percent to Rs 1.10 lakh crore. Similarly, during 2019-20, as many as 1,442 entrepreneurs were given an aid of over Rs 43.53 crore and 15,253 people got employment. In the current financial year till August, 236 entrepreneurs got a monetary help of Rs 8 crore and 2,114 people were employed. Additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said the problems of ODOP entrepreneurs are being addressed on priority. “They are also being provided with upgraded machines, training and financial assistance to make them technically efficient,” he said. The state government said the situation in the industrial sector in UP has undergone a significant change after 2017. Former secretary of western UP chamber and commerce, RK Jain, said the dedication of the state government towards the traditional industries is laudable. “The government is also addressing the problems of the entrepreneurs and this has increased the production of the traditional industries district-wise,” he said. The government said it was providing training to the old wood carving industry of Saharanpur. This will not only improve the products, but will also cut down the production time. Experts said the state had a distinct identity in the industries in the 60s and 70s and the maximum growth rate of industries was in Kanpur, Muzaffarnagar and other districts. However, with the changing times, industries started shutting down due to the neglect of the previous governments and the situation worsened for the traditional industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2600-entrepreneurs-got-rs-82cr-aid-in-3-yrs/articleshow/79119499.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Drones, minions set to fire up Diwali this time||Madurai: “What are the new varieties this year?” is an oft-heard query from customers during Diwali as it is a tradition of manufacturers in Sivakasi to come out with new and innovative fireworks with catchy names for the Festival of Lights. There is a niche segment which caters to them in large quantities while people across consumer groups have a shot at novel fireworks in lesser quantities. Drones, minions and Vivo torches are among the few new fireworks that have hit the market this year. Drones take off from the ground and on reaching a certain height fly for a few seconds before the sparking lights go off. This does not burst like rockets. In packs of five pieces, they are priced at Rs 150 to Rs 180 a pack in retail shops and Rs 100 in the wholesale market. It is the talk of the town among retailers this season. Minions are smaller versions of fancy comets that emit colourful lights in the sky after they reach about 80 feet high. While the regular comets are priced at Rs 100 apiece in the retail market, the minions that reach nearly half the height are priced at up to Rs 50 by retailers and Rs 35 by wholesalers. Vivo torches emit colourful sparking light in the regular torches and are priced at Rs 100 for a pack of three pieces. Annually around 10 to 15 new varieties of fireworks hit the market. Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, drop in production and man days and poor business, not many innovative fireworks have hit the market. This is because it takes time to come out with new ones and test them before introducing them in the market. On the other hand, manufacturers were sceptical of the market reception for new fireworks due to the economic slowdown. Last year too, there were not many new varieties of fireworks landing in the market as the industry was facing a crisis due to the green crackers controversy. Since Supreme Court stated in 2018 that only green should be manufactured, bigger manufacturers were working on the green fireworks formulae given by NEERI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/drones-minions-set-to-fire-up-diwali-this-time/articleshow/79119144.cms||M K Ananth
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Re-exam today of doc who had to skip it after testing Covid-19 +ve||Nagpur: Rohit Garg, a resident doctor from PG (Ortho), GMCH, Nagpur, who had to skip his practical examination after testing positive for Covid-19 last month, will appear for re-examination on Monday. Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has decided to conduct his re-examination at GMCH, Nagpur. MUHS examination controller Dr Ajit Pathak told TOI that the university made special provision for the student who was a front-line Covid warrior. “This special provision is a one-time measure for summer 2020 examinations only for those students who have appeared for theory, and tested Covid positive before their practical examinations,” said Pathak adding that earlier there was neither such provision in the MUHS act nor they had any such ordinance. “We formulated SOPs and submitted to chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. We got approval from our Board of Examinations too. Thereafter, we are conducting practical examinations,” he said. Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) president for GMCH Nagpur Dr Arpit Dhakate told TOI that the health university has made provisions considering the work of resident doctors in exceptional situation. “Three such residents had filed petition in the High court and asked for the re-examination. Finally, we got justice,” said Dhakate. On October 3, Residents had threatened to go on strike if these students are not allowed to appear in re-examination. Dr Rohit Garg had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 6, just a day before his examination. He was not allowed to appear in spite of being on the campus. Both MUHS and DMER authorities telephonically assured that exam will be conducted once the candidate turns negative. When Dr Garg tested negative, GMCH dean wrote to MUHS asking them to conduct the exam on September 15. But, as there was no provision in the Act, authorities had to create this special one-time provision by passing an independent resolution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/re-exam-today-of-doc-who-had-to-skip-it-after-testing-covid-19-ve/articleshow/79119123.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Rs 1,079cr toll collected on Kanyakumari NH since inception||Madurai: The four toll plazas on the Madurai-Kanyakumari stretch of the national highway have collected Rs 1,079 crore as toll since their inception from eight-to-nine-years ago to August this year, said National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) public information officer and project director for Madurai V Saravanan in a reply given to the queries raised by RTI activist R Pandiaraja. But, the queries pertaining to the poor maintenance of the highway are among those that remain unanswered. The replies states that Rs 256.71 crore has been collected at Kappalur toll plaza in Madurai since September 10, 2012. At the Etturvattam toll plaza near Sattur in Virudhunagar district Rs 271.05 crore has been collected from August 15, 2011. Rs 274.58 crore has been collected in the Salaipudur toll plaza, Tuticorin district, and Rs 276.75 crore in the Nanguneri toll plaza, Tirunelveli district, from May 23, 2011. “The end date (for toll collection) has not been decided as it depends on capital cost, expenditure incurred during operation and maintenance and others,” added a reply from the NHAI. M/s CDR and Co has taken up maintenance work on the stretch. On the terms and conditions of maintaining the four-lane road, the NHAI has replied that it will be “as per the respective contract agreement”. Also questions on how frequently the highway is to be re-laid and plans to re-lay the road and work in progress they replied that overlay shall be done as per the TOT agreement condition. Since the replies lack clarity and have not served the purpose, the petitioner said that he will go for an appeal seeking proper answers. Pandiaraja blamed poor maintenance as a major reason for many accidents on the highway. “The purpose of my queries is to find out the periodicity and terms of maintenance to make the busy highway safer for commuters. They have replied that only 50 km between Madurai and Virudhunagar has been overlaid in July 2018. The other stretches are yet to be overlaid. They added that the other stretches have been included under the scope of TOT concessionaire,” the petitioner told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-1079cr-toll-collected-on-kanyakumari-nh-since-inception/articleshow/79119149.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||STF arrests kingpin of Maha ATM hacker gang||Lucknow: UP special task force (STF) arrested the mastermind of a gang involved in hacking of 50 ATMs in Maharashtra in Kanpur late on Saturday night. The accused, Mukesh Yadav, was given three-day transit remand by magisterial court and handed over to the crime branch of Pune police. STF was handed over the case last week on the request of Pune crime branch which suspected Yadav’s whereabouts in Kanpur. ASP, STF, Vishal Vikram Singh, who worked out the case, said: “Mukesh operated a gang which hacked ATMs between October 23 and 27 in Pune and other cities of Maharashtra. We have also recovered some ATM cards and mobile phones from his possession.” Singh said the gang members used to reach ATMs in cars posing as technicians and stole money. They targeted those ATMs where police presence was thin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stf-arrests-kingpin-of-maha-atm-hacker-gang/articleshow/79119529.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Madurai beautification takes toll on ancient padithurais of Vaigai||Madurai: The Vaigai River front beautification as part of the Vaigai River Front Development programme, a Smart City initiative, has paved way for the loss of the city’s more than 14 ancient ghats, also known as ‘padithurais’, Madurai’s unique link to ancient civilization. Now, the corporation is planning to reconstruct a few of them, but many people say that the older ones are heritage sites, which should be preserved.Ghats, the steps leading to the river, are numerous along the banks of the Vaigai, the bed of one of the ancient civilizations, Keeladi. The 12-km stretch of the river in the city has fourteen ghats. These include, Vilangudi padithurai, Thathaneri padithurai, Arapalayam padithurai, Petchiamman padithurai, Sellur padithurai, Thirumalairayar padithurai, Obula Padithurai, Kallukadai sandhu padithurai, Alwarpuram padithurai, Hanumankoil padithurai among others.Authors of ‘Vaigai Thadam Thedi’ B Thirumalai and R Sivakumar say that the ghats have remained since time immemorial, and they have been mentioned even in the Sangam literature. Silapathigaram refers to Madurai, as Vizhamali Moothur, which means a city of festivals, which were performed on the ghats of the Vaigai. The sangam era literature, Madurai Kanchi, speaks of ‘Onam’ being celebrated on the banks of this river, they said.“Padithurai were place where people gathered for washing and bathing, and they were constructed with granite stones. Many of them existed till the late 1980s, and gradually gave way to development in the form of the roads. Thiruvedagam in Madurai is one place where one can see one of the ancient ghats even today. Convenor of Vaigai Nathi Makkal Iyakkam M Rajan says that the loss of the ghats is a big loss to the culture and heritage of Madurai. “These ghats had a lot of significance with the everyday life of people, who performed rituals and ceremonies on the ghats. But when these activities were curtailed with the loss of the ghats, peoples’ connection with the river is also lost forever,” he said.“Twenty-seven steps were what we use to run down to reach the river bed filled with golden sand to play in Sellur,” said R Abu Bucker, 57, adding that, “Today the steps are gone and so is the history.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-beautification-takes-toll-on-ancient-padithurais-of-vaigai/articleshow/79119160.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Coimbatore||10kg ganja seized from car||Coimbatore: The Thadagam police arrested a man on Sunday for attempting to smuggle 10kg ganja in a car. A police team led by Thadagam sub-inspector Dhamodaran and special sub-inspector Vijayakumara Guru that conducted vehicle check on No 24 Veerapandi – Mangarai Road had stopped the car around 5am. “The driver stopped the car 100 metres away from the police checkpoint and a passenger managed to escape. We caught the driver and searched the vehicle to find ganja bundles. Car driver V Subramanian, 28, a native of Kottathara in Palakkad district, identified the passenger as notorious ganja peddler Sathishkumar,” a police officer said. “Subramanian had bought the contraband from a seller in Tirupur.” Seven ganja cases are booked against Sathishkumar in Kerala and two in the Thudiyalur police station in Coimbatore, the officer said. “The duo used to smuggle ganja to Kerala through Coimbatore. We seized the car, which was operated as a taxi. The duo had stuck a private cab operator’s logo on the vehicle to divert police attention.” Subramanian was remanded in judicial custody. A special team has been formed to nab Sathishkumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10kg-ganja-seized-from-car/articleshow/79119122.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Mini election held to jamath in Madurai||Madurai: Election fever gripped a street in Madurai, which witnessed a mini election, with an election booth, voters and ballot boxes on Sunday. Members of Mohideen Andavar dargah in Chinnakadai street elected the managing trustee (naatamai), secretary and treasurer of their jamath’s Rs 50 lakh worth properties. Election officer and outgoing Naatamai or managing trustee, Ali Akbar said that for many generations their ancestors had purchased property in the name of the jamath in various parts of Madurai, for which the people of Keela Theru, who were also members of the jamaath, had to elect a trustee once in three years to oversee the income of their jamad from these properties, worth about Rs 50 lakh. “This is used for distributing welfare measures to the poor during Ramzan, for marriage and educational assistance among others,’’ he said. Till last year, the process included naming a person who wished to be nominated for the post and voters elected him by raising their hands and showing their majority. But, as the numbers increased to 1,352 voters on the roll and contestants were also more, they decided to go for a proper election this year. As lockdown restrictions have been eased, the election which was announced in September was held on Sunday and 987 voters exercised their franchise, many of them voting through WhatsApp or mobile message from other places. Most of the voters who voted in person wore masks as a precaution. Nine people contested the elections this year, three each for the post of Naatamai, secretary and treasurer of the jamath. There was a blue, yellow and pink box for each post. The counting will be conducted late on Sunday and results are expected to be announced on Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mini-election-held-to-jamath-in-madurai/articleshow/79119172.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Police officer died in road accident||Madurai: A special sub-inspector attached with the Usilampatti Taluk police station in Madurai district was killed in a road accident that took place on Madurai-Theni Road on Saturday. The deceased was identified as C Veeranan, 55, who was staying in Kavanampatti. Police said that he was posted on duty at Andipatti Kanavaai check post. He was on his way back to his house after duty on Saturday night when a private bus hit him from behind at Kunjampatti. He died on the spot. The body was shifted to Usilampatti government hospital for an autopsy. A case was registered. The body was buried with police honours.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-officer-died-in-road-accident/articleshow/79119174.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya Deepotsav: 3D voyage into Ram Durbar||LUCKNOW: Ayodhya’s first virtual Deepotsav won’t be bereft of grandeur despite the shadow of pandemic and will be a rare three-dimensional experience for pilgrims, who can zoom into the digital platform and be transported to Saryu banks or Ramjanmabhoomi from confines of their home. A special website is being launched that will allow devotees to mark their attendance at the Ram Durbar and light a diya virtually, said a state government spokesperson on Sunday. After the lamp is lit, a thank you letter symbolic of a blessing will pop up on the screen. Notably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi too will virtually participate in the Deepotsav. Digital rituals will restrict physical presence of pilgrims at Ayodhya and ensure strict adherence to Covid protocols, said the government official. “However, nobody will be deprived of the joy of lighting a lamp at the darbar of Ram Lalla,” he said. The portal, officials said, is being created on directives of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is scheduled to reach Ayodhya on November 13 and view multiple tableaux depicting Ramayana episodes after offering prayers at Ramjanmabhoomi. The portal will have an embedded visual of Ram Lalla before which virtual lamps would be lit through a simple swipe. And it will have the facility to pick a lamp of choice — steel, brass or any other material — along with an option of using ghee or oil. The portal, which will be up before the main event on November 13, would have a dropdown to pick the devotee’s gender and the hand lighting the diya would either be of a man or woman. After the ritual, a ‘Thank You’ digital letter carrying the picture of Ram Lalla will be issued. “The district administration is taking steps to ensure no breach of Covid protocols during the three-day Deeopotsav,” the government spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-deepotsav-3d-voyage-into-ram-durbar/articleshow/79119538.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Release Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict soon: PMK||COIMBATORE: PMK leader S Ramadoss has urged the state government to release Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Perarivalan immediately as his health was deteriorating. In a statement on Sunday, he said he was saddened to hear that Perarivalan and his father were suffering from poor health. “It is disheartening that his release is getting delayed in this situation. The state government is duty bound to fulfil Jayalalithaa’s promise,” he said. Ramadoss said Jaya had promised Perarivalan’s mother Arputhammal that she would get him released from the prison. Considering the fact that Perarivalan has spent 30 years in prison, his ailing health and family circumstances, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami should obtain governor’s approval and get him released, Ramadoss said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/release-rajiv-case-convict-soon-pmk/articleshow/79119148.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sombre mood in business hub ahead of festival of lights||KOLKATA: Rishi Dhanuka has sold some of his family jewellery to replenish the stock in his sari showroom on Girish Park for Diwali. The irony that he had to dip into the reserves when people normally purchase gold and other valuables for prosperity is not lost on him. Anurag Pachisia has sold off a part of his investments in shares and mutual funds to restock his gift shop on Canning Street for this Diwali. Anil Singh is searching for a buyer to sell off his 2-BHK apartment in Bangur he had bought three years ago because paying the EMI is eating into his capital. The resident of Tara Chand Dutt Street off Central Avenue intends to invest the proceeds in his ready-made garment’s business. Total lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus and subsequent economic distress have dimmed the sparkle this Diwali. Businessmen in the wholesale and resale markets in Kolkata, who celebrate the festival with enthusiasm by organizing pujas in their shops and distributing sweets, have curtailed their plans. The puja in the evening will be a simple affair for many traders. The list of people who will receive the Diwali sweets and gifts has also been shortened. For Dhanteras, a lot of families will be opting for silver or other metals this time instead of gold. Many people are avoiding venturing into the markets in Burrabazar and its vicinity and this is impacting festive sales. The mood and festive fervour — usually palpable in these markets before Diwali— are missing. Customers who are coming to buy have also reduced their budget. “Festivals lose the sheen if the economic situation is not good,” said Dhanuka. “Diwali is the last opportunity to set things in order in terms of profits this year. Numerous businessmen who have been worst-hit financially have either sold off a part of their family jewellery or taken loans to replenish their stocks for Diwali.” The pandemic has also cast its shadow on the way the families will be celebrating the festival of lights when they come together with friends or relatives. But this year big parties are off the menu. The economic distress has also affected the purchase of Diwali gifts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sombre-mood-in-biz-hub-ahead-of-festival-of-lights/articleshow/79118148.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Bar owner tries to immolate self near Anil Deshmukh’s bungalow in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Mayur Jaiswal, 26, a bar owner, tried to immolate himself near state home minister Anil Deshmukh’s residence at GPO Chowk on Saturday, in protest against the action of Ranapratap Nagar police station. He was nabbed by constables on guard duty at Deshmukh’s bungalow and handed over to Sitabuldi police. Police said Jaiswal was distressed as the long lockdown left him financially drained with his bar in Tajbagh not getting permission to function. An orphan, Jaiswal was brought up by his kin who too had distanced himself from him. His relations with his wife, too, had soured. Jaiswal’s woes piled up after a dispute with his landlady at Juni Wasti in Khamla, who wanted more than double the rent that was decided between them. His room was locked by the landlady as he defaulted. Police also allegedly tried to favour the woman and did not pay heed to his plight, which prompted Jaiswal to take the drastic step. After booking Jaiswal, Sitabuldi police allowed him to go with a friend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bar-owner-tries-to-immolate-self-near-deshmukhs-bungalow/articleshow/79119173.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Madurai||Rain, Diwali shoppers choke Madurai streets||MADURAI: The city witnessed intermittent rain on Sunday but it did not dampen the Diwali spirit of shoppers as a large number of people in and around Madurai thronged the commercial areas in the city with family. As huge crowd gathered on the last Sunday before the festival, people found it difficult to find parking space. Motorists parked their vehicles at will as wherever they get space. The haphazard parking further worsened the situation as it resulted in affecting traffic movement. People found it difficult to even walk around for shopping. The rain also made things worse as it turned the roads muddy. Police personnel were deployed to manage the crowd movement. They imposed fines on parking rule violators. G Kannan, a resident of Thiruparankundram, said that he chose Sunday for shopping since it is the only off day he gets. “I know it would be difficult to find parking space for car and that is the reason, why we came on a two-wheeler. With great difficulty I found a space to park it. Every year, there will be temporary parking place at a few places, but it is yet to be set up this time. Had it been in place, it would have been a great relief,” he said. R Senthamizh, a resident of Kulamangalam, said that instead of allowing all the vehicles, public could have encouraged to take public transport system. More buses connecting commercial hubs can bring down the crowd as there will be fewer vehicles in the busy streets, he said. A traffic police officer from the city police said that the process of getting permission from the owners of the temporary parking lots is underway. They will be in place starting from Wednesday onwards. Meanwhile, an elevated concrete structure at TM Court area has been converted into a parking space. Around 1,000 two-wheelers and around 100 cars can be parked there. “Public transport is available from various parts of the city and rural areas, but people are unwilling to make use of it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rain-diwali-shoppers-choke-madurai-streets/articleshow/79119196.cms||V Devanathan
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Home delivery & fitment of hi-tech plates kicked off in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Doorstep delivery and fitting of high security registration plates (HSRP) and colour-coded fuel stickers for vehicles began in the capital on Sunday, a week after online booking for the same had resumed. A senior official of Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited — one of the three HSRP manufacturers in the city — said by 5pm on Sunday, doorstep delivery of HSRP and fuel stickers were carried out for 275 vehicles and a total of 349 scheduled fitments were expected to be completed by 8pm. Of the 349 orders for doorstep delivery, 336 were for HSRP and 13 for fuel stickers. For doorstep delivery of HSRP, vehicle owners have to pay an extra amount of Rs 125 for two-wheelers and Rs 250 for four wheelers. “Since November 1, over 17,000 bookings have been received, of which, 2,500 are for home delivery,” the official claimed. To ensure there are no technical snags, a cap of 500 fitments a day have been put in place. “We will gradually increase the number of orders to 2,000 per day in the second phase and up to 5,000 a day by the third phase,” he added. “The trial is now complete and apart from some initial hiccups, each one of our personnel managed to affix HSRPs in at least six vehicles a day,” he said, adding that at the moment 50 fitters have been deployed to carry out doorstep delivery. The number is expected to be increased in the future. The official claimed that HSRPs are being delivered within seven days despite initial challenges. Last month, state transport minister Kailash Gahlot had directed for halting the online bookings after complaints were received from vehicle owners about delays in getting HSRP and fuel stickers affixed. The facility restarted from November 1, along with the facility of doorstep delivery in some parts of the city. Slots for fitment of HSRP and fuel stickers can be booked through www.siam.in, which will redirect the vehicle owner to the respective HSRP manufacturer’s website. After the booking, vehicle owners will get a real-time update of each stage of the processing through SMS and will be notified at least two days prior to the date of delivery. There are approximately 30 lakhs existing vehicles, including 16 lakh two-wheelers, 12 lakh four-wheelers and two lakh commercial vehicles that are required to be affixed with HSRP. Watch Delhi: Doorstep delivery and fitting of high security registration plates kicked off||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/home-delivery-fitment-of-hi-tech-plates-kicked-off/articleshow/79118177.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||This 100-year-old Lucknow University invite invoked ‘new era’||LUCKNOW: The year was 1921 and the occasion a momentous one. The famed Munshi Naval Kishore Press was busy printing a special invite in royal style. A scroll in A3 size, the invite was for the foundation laying ceremony of Lucknow University sent out by Lieutenant-Governor of the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh, Sir Spencer Harcourt Butler. With a long message was a line written in bold ‘Exegi monumentum aere perennius’ in Latin. It meant ‘a monument that I have raised more enduring than bronze’. The quote can be easily located at the historic Bennett Hall (now Malaviya Hall) of the varsity. This invite was sent to loyal taluqdars, zamindars and people from the royal families to invite them for the ceremony. One such family is of author Atif Hanif, nearly 30km from Lucknow University in Saidanpur, Barabanki, which has still kept the invite safely. A century later, as Lucknow University designs its centenary celebration invite, TOI takes you back 100 years to that special invite. “My grandfather Sheikh Muhammad Hanif, who was a sub-registrar in the stamp and registration department, had a hobby of preserving special invites. One such was the invite of the foundation laying ceremony of LU that he preserved as a young boy. We have kept the historical invite as we know how prestigious it is,” said Hanif, who himself is penning a book on 100 years of Aligarh Muslim University. The message on the invite, he says, is something that will make anyone proud. Running in over 1,000 words, it says, “LU is the beginning of the new era of education...In the new order of things, not only will examinations not play so important a part but this new university will approximate more closely to the type of universities that flourished in the heyday of the Hindu and Muslim cultures.” Such a beautiful message should be preserved forever, said Hanif. The invite further says, “These universities strove to form real centres of learning and schools of thought in which the physical, intellectual, moral and emotional nature of man found the most congenial environment for growth and expansion. We hope that the University of Lucknow will not be a machine for grinding graduates out of the millstones of examination but a living and beneficent institution ministering to the highest and most vital wants of the nation.” Lav Bhargava, the great-great-grandson of Munshi Naval Kishore, the owner of the press, said, “The layout of the historical invite was the quintessential style of Naval Kishore Press. It had beautiful borders on all pages. The bond of LU and Asia’s oldest publishing house established in 1858 is precious.” Now, for the centenary event invite, a committee has been formed to finalise the design and layout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/this-100-year-old-lu-invite-invoked-new-era/articleshow/79119542.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 9, 2020||Patna||JD(U) leader shot dead in rural Patna||PATNA: In less than 12 hours of the state assembly polls coming to an end, four bike-borne criminals killed a JD(U) leader in rural Patna on Sunday morning. The deceased, identified as Sanjay Verma (47), was the JD(U)’s Dulhin Bazaar block president, party spokesperson Dr Suheli Mehta said. Sanjay was the mukhiya of Ainkhaon Bhimnichak panchayat for three consecutive terms from 2001 to 2016 and had been preparing to contest the panchayat election scheduled next year again, police said. The incident took place at Ainkhaon Tandi on the outskirts of village Bhimnichak under Dulhin Bazaar police station area in Paliganj subdivision of western Patna when the unidentified criminals shot at Sanjay at around 4.50am when he was on a morning walk with his friend Vijendra Chandravanshi, Paliganj SDPO Tanveer Ahmed said. Sanjay was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. He said the exact reason behind the incident was yet not clear as whether it was related to the assembly election or some old enmity. “The family members told the police that Verma didn’t have enmity with anyone. We are investigating the case from several angles,” the SDPO said. Dulhin Bazaar police station SHO Ashok Kumar said though Verma received two bullet injuries, he called him over the phone to inform about the incident. “He died during treatment,” SHO said. Kumar said four criminals on two bikes had reached the spot, which was around one kilometre away from his residence. “It was his daily routine for morning walk and the criminals knew about it,” he said. The SHO said Verma was first shot in his back and then again at very close range. “Soon after hearing the sound of firing, Vijendra ran towards the fields to save himself. He heard the sound of three rounds of firing, but no empty cartridges were recovered from the spot,” he said. The SHO said his family members lodged an FIR against unknown persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-leader-shot-dead-in-rural-patna/articleshow/79118161.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 9, 2020||Bareilly||UP: 13-year-old girl gangraped by two minors, sent to juvenile home||BAREILLY: A 13-year-old girl was allegedly gangraped by two minor boys in a village in Isanagar area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Saturday afternoon, while she was collecting fodder for cattle. After returning home, she narrated her ordeal to her parents, who lodged a complaint at Isanagar police station. Police have arrested the accused, who belong to the same village. They will be sent to a juvenile home. The medico-legal examination of the survivor was done at district hospital on Sunday, and the child rights team has instructed that she be counseled to assist her in recovering from the trauma of the incident. Isanagar SHO Hari Om Srivastava said, “One of the accused was well known to the girl. He had asked the girl to meet him. Unaware of his intentions, she went to meet him, when he and his friend raped her. Both accused were caught while trying to escape from the village. An FIR under sections of rape and POCSO Act has been registered against them. The girl will be produced in court to record her statement on Monday.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/13-year-old-girl-gangraped-by-two-minors-sent-to-juvenile-home/articleshow/79116315.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Lake Gardens, New Alipore, Bijoygarh report over 500 cases in 2 wks||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation Borough X that includes Jodhpur Park, Lake Gardens, Bijoygarh, Golf Garden, Netaji Nagar, Pallisree, Jadavpur and Baghajatin has reported a sudden spike in Covid cases increasing worries among civic officials and cops. The civic body’s six testing centres in this borough have reported over 500 Covid-positive cases in the last fortnight alone. “Of these cases, over 60% were recorded from Lake Gardens, Golf Garden, New Alipore, Bijoygarh, Pallisree, Netajinagar and Baghajatin areas. Mind it the figure does not include positive cases that are being recorded by the private labs. So, there is a reason to worry about and we have intensified our house-to-house vigil to put a check on the transmission of the virus,” said a KMC health department official. Sources in the KMC and cops said that in the Ward 96 that covers Bijoygarh and parts of Regent Estate, 51 patients turned positive against the 148, who had undergone Covid tests. Similarly, in Ward 93 that includes Jodhpur Park and Lake gardens, 49 out of 183 people, who had undergone the test, tested positive. In Ward 98 that covers Netaji Nagar and Sree Colony-Pallisree belt, 92 cases were confirmed while 344 people were tested. In Ward 81 in New Alipore, 38 turned out to be Covid-positive, while 211 were tested,” said a police source. According to a civic health department official, the recent Covid spike has spared various slums in these areas. Both KMC officials and cops are trying to ramp up testing. “At present, we have six testing centres functioning under Borough X. We are planning to expand the Covid-19 testing facility to all 12 wards that the borough has. Currently, the centres operate bi-weekly. We plan to augment the facility so that it can begin to operate like the Patuli facility that allows almost full week testing and has played a key role in maintaining a status quo in the area so far as the spread of the virus is concerned,” said a source. Mihir Ganguli, a resident of Netaji Nagar and a teacher, said he was worried about his octogenarian father after several fresh positive cases were reported in the area. “We had only four positive patients in a 200-250-metre area even three weeks ago. Now the number has reached 10. Since a grocer and a doctor in the neighbourhood have tested positive, we are keeping our fingers crossed,” Ganguli added. Debabrata Majumdar, a member in the KMC board of administrators (BoA) and a Ward coordinator for a Bijoygarh neighbourhood, conceded that some residents were suppressing their symptoms and thus making others in the locality vulnerable. “I have requested the residents of my ward to get tested for Covid-19 for free at a KMC-run camp in Bijoygarh if they have temperature or carry any other Covid symptom,” Majumdar said. What adds more to the worries of people under the borough is that the areas like Jodhpur Park, Lake Gardens, Bijoygarh, Golf Garden, Netajinagar, Pallisree, Jadavpur and Baghajatin have also been registering a spurt in dengue case. A KMC source said at least five wards have been identified as vulnerable and the civic body’s Covid-task force intensified vigil to put a check on the spread of the virus to newer areas under borough X.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lake-gardens-new-alipore-bijoygarh-report-over-500-cases-in-2-wks/articleshow/79118150.cms||Saikat Ray
November 9, 2020||Goa||Ajgaonkar wants to make info centres into eateries, shops: Lobo||Calangute: The Tourist Information Centres (TIC) at Candolim, Calangute and Baga beaches, which were constructed more than three years ago, are yet to be opened for tourists. Speaking to reporters, minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo said the TICs, though ready, have not yet opened up “because tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar wants to convert them into restaurants or shops and hand it over to private parties”. “International tourist destinations like Bali and Sri Lanka have such information centres at prominent beaches where tourists can get information about the places to visit. We wanted such facilities here in Candolim and Calangute and all other beaches in Goa,” Lobo said. The TIC was one of the components of the Candolim beach promenade, the foundation stone for which was laid by then chief minister Manohar Parrikar in 2014. The project was to be completed within 18 months. The other components of the promenade - parking area, public toilets-changing rooms - were inaugurated around three years ago. A TIC was also planned as part of redevelopment of the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) property at Baga, which saw a new parking area and public toilets-changing rooms and were inaugurated around two years ago. However, the TIC there is lying unused. Lobo said that besides disseminating information on tourism spots, the buildings would also have an emergency medical facility and a police outpost which tourists can approach r any assistance. The TICs have been built through the ‘Swadesh Darshan’ scheme of the central government. GTDC, in a statement, stated that the ‘letter of intent’ has been given to the successful bidder for the TICs and the agreement will be signed shortly after obtaining government approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ajgaonkar-wants-to-make-info-centres-into-eateries-shops-lobo/articleshow/79119239.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath for fast disposal of people’s woes at thanas and tehsils||LUCKNOW: CM Yogi Adityanath has directed chief secretary RK Tiwari and DGP HC Awasthy to ensure swift and effective disposal of problems of public at police stations and tehsils. Yogi has also called for drastic improvement in the functioning of police stations and tehsils to meet the people’s expectations. The CM said that timely attendance of officers and employees at block, police station and tehsil level must be ensured as most of the problems of the general public are related to these three levels. Therefore, a change should be seen in these three levels where officers and employees are available on time to address public probelems. He added that in all these offices, arrangements ought to be made for online applications and also the grievances redressed must be monitored. The CM directed to fix the accountability of the officers and employees relating to the redressal of people’s problems. Yogi said the government is committed to speedy and effective resolution of people’s problems and will not tolerate any negligence in it. He warned of strict action against officials found negligent or lackadaisical in discharge of their duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-for-fast-disposal-of-peoples-woes-at-thanas-and-tehsils/articleshow/79119543.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Behala residents team up to clean garbage, fight dengue||KOLKATA: Residents of a Behala neighbourhood have taken an initiative to ward off dengue outbreak during the Covid pandemic without waiting for the civic authorities to act. It was under the leadership of Bibhas Maity, a former Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) director-general that the residents of Madhusudan Park in Behala Daspara have formed a group identifying the spots, where garbage is dumped, and organised clean-ups to check the spread of dengue that became rampant in the area in previous years. The group includes Gurudas Chatterjee, a retired state transport department official, Pradip Nayak, former government employee and Sachin Dandapat, a retired teacher. They have joined hands with younger residents like Biswajit Bhattacharya, an employee of an insurance company and Tapan De, a businessman to form a citizens’ WhatsApp group to make people aware of taking steps to check the dengue outbreak in the neighbourhood. The group was formed in the wake of the dengue outbreak in some areas of Behala in early October. According to Maity, since Madhusudan Park was known as a dengue-prone area, they felt they should be extra cautious. Though the group members had initiated a cleanliness drive in October, the real challenge that they faced was cleaning up a mess in three abandoned plots in the middle of a congested locality, which had become breeding grounds for dengue mosquitoes. The group members decided to remove the garbage from a plot that had turned into a dumpyard, thereby posing a threat to the life and health of locals. “We decided to clean up the mess from the abandoned plot without waiting for a civic help, otherwise it would have been too late to prevent the outbreak,” said Chatterjee. As the work was nearing completion, the first dengue case was reported from a building adjacent to the plot. Eshita Bhattacharya, a Class-XII student had tested positive for dengue before Durga Puja. Her father Biswajit, a member of the citizens’ group, said he was really worried about his daughter’s health amid the pandemic. “We are in constant touch with the ward coordinator Ratna Sur who has also lent her support to our initiative,” Maity said. KMC sources said over 300 abandoned buildings or plots are posing a dengue threat in Behala, Tollygunge, Garia, Jadavpur and the areas off EM Bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/behala-residents-team-up-to-clean-garbage-fight-dengue/articleshow/79118178.cms||Saikat Ray
November 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Schools to reopen, but parents reluctant to send students||PUNE: The state government has begun preparations for reopening schools, but parents of students are reluctant to send them over infection fears. Some have been running an online campaign called 'no vaccine, no school', since the beginning of the academic year which is currently underway. The school education department is in process of finalising the standard operating procedures (SOP) regarding the reopening of schools planned after Diwali vacations for standard IX to XII. Parents said they were not yet ready to take the risk of sending their children to risk as there is fear of a second wave that could hit the state soon which may affect the students. A parent of a standard X student of the state board school, Nupura Bhargava, said, “For my son, this is a crucial year, and he is preparing on his own for the board exam. I cannot take the risk of sending him to school now as the spread of infection is at a critical stage. Students come from different areas and backgrounds and there are high chance that the infection will spread widely among children.” Another parent, Suman Vadodara, said, “We had started an online campaign on social media at least four months ago regarding restarting schools only when the vaccine is introduced. Otherwise it is big risk and several students have elders at home and also younger ones who are at risk.” Bhushan Pradhan, a parent, has led a campaign about resumption of schools after the introduction of vaccines. “There have been cases in Karnataka where the school started and shut down within a week due to Covid cases. The exercise here too is going to be futile because the infection is still there and we do not have a vaccine as a precaution. We cannot put our children at risk,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-to-reopen-but-parents-reluctant-to-send-students/articleshow/79118173.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 9, 2020||Goa||Re-evaluation saw changes in 26-30% of papers: Goa board||PANAJI: More than one in four students who applied for re-evaluation of their answer sheets after the 2019 Class X board exams found their marks changed after the review. It was even higher for Class XII students, 30% of whom found their marks changed, according to the annual report for 2018-19 released by the Goa board of secondary and higher secondary education. The board, in 2018, had introduced a penalty for teachers for errors committed during re-evaluation. But those in the know said that besides the penalty, teachers also need to be subjected to continuous training to bring about standardisation in paper corrections. In 2019, 1,936 Class X answer books were re-evaluated, of which marks changed in 513. Similarly, 1,694 Class XII answerbooks underwent review after it was sought by the students, and the marks changed in 514 of them. “The percentage of cases where marks change after re-evaluation vary from year to year based on the quality of students in that year’s batch and other factors,” said a board official. Former Board chairman Jose Remedios Rebello, however, said that a change in 26-30% of the cases is higher than usual. He said that usually, the figure stands at 15-20%. “One factor involved is the knowledge of the teacher correcting the paper,” Rebello said. “Earlier, we had found that in case of the mathematics paper, teachers marked answers wrong because they were not aware of another method of solving a problem. The board of studies then worked on it to familiarise teachers with the different methods involved, and after a few workshops, the issues were ironed out.” He said that another factor that leads to major differentiation in how an answer book is evaluated is the quality of students the evaluator is normally exposed to. “If a teacher is used to better quality students, they tend to be stricter in their evaluation. We may have to bring about standardisation in the process by making teachers aware of these factors through training,” said Rebello. Board members said that even if there is an increase by a single mark after re-evaluation, it is granted to the student, and this may be responsible for the high percentage of cases where marks changed after the students sought review. “If students apply for re-evaluation in subjective papers like English, marks are bound to change,” said a board member. “Normally, the change after re-evaluation is seen in such subjective papers. But during the 2019 examination, scrutinisers were present to check after papers are corrected, and therefore change after re-evaluation in such a high number of cases should not have happened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/re-evaluation-saw-changes-in-26-30-of-papers-goa-board/articleshow/79119218.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 9, 2020||Goa||Critical marine habitats in Goa to be studied, mapped in WB-funded project||Panaji: The impact of climate change on sensitive ecosystems, like marine ecology, is emerging as a cause for concern globally. In Goa, too, there are fears that climate change combined with unregulated human activities in such ecosystems could lead to some organisms disappearing. Now, Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB) has received approval from the World Bank (WB) for a project to evaluate the impact of climatic and human factors on critical coastal habitats in the state. WB has approved Rs 45 lakh to help document and make an inventory of the flora and fauna in habitats such as corals, mangroves, estuaries and intertidal flats in Goa. GSBB officials said that while there are ample studies conducted on some of the vital marine habitats in Goa like mangroves, there is little or no documentation of others such as coral patches. Board member secretary Pradip Sarmokadam said that the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) will be a key organisation involved in the WB-funded project as it has already studied biodiversity of sensitive ecosystems like mangroves, seaweeds, sea grasses etc. “The project will evaluate the present status of the critical habitats and potential threats due to climate change and human activities. A map of high priority marine biodiversity sites in Goa will be created and monographs will be prepared of the biodiversity recorded during the study. And finally, the project will suggest conservation measures,” said Sarmokadam. The potential threats identified to different organisms in the sampling locations will serve as data for creation of a map. This map will chart the distribution of organisms within areas of high priority. Monographs will describe ecological characteristics of each organism recorded in the study. The data will then be available to help stakeholders and authorities improve conservation measures in such sensitive ecosystems. Sarmokadam said that it was important to create baseline data on the overall biodiversity of sensitive coastal ecosystems to help future conservation plans. “NIO will conduct a comprehensive field survey and collect samples for identification and documentation of the flora and fauna. Also, the abundance of different groups of organisms and their distribution pattern will be established,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/critical-marine-habitats-in-goa-to-be-studied-mapped-in-wb-funded-project/articleshow/79119221.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Bengali diaspora rejoices at victory in ‘personal battle’||Kolkata: Hours after Democrat Joe Biden won White House, epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins University Parnali Dhar Chowdhury was ecstatic and shared her selfie with him that was taken during his electoral campaign in Virginia last November. Equally emotional was Pennsylvania-based educator Tanu Sarkar who got teary-eyed hearing Kamala Harris’s first speech after becoming the first female vice president of America. Biden’s victory came only after he crossed 270 Electoral College votes with a win in Pennsylvania. Dhar Chowdhury and Sarkar belong to the Bengali diaspora who were relieved that the US elections had finally gone in favour of the democrats. Dhar Chowdhury has worked as a volunteer in Biden’s campaign that gave emphasis to science, climate change, transparency and decency. “I think visa-related issues for students, research scholars and others wanting to come to the US will now get streamlined. I have seen people stuck in India who couldn’t come to the US. On Monday, a task force will be set up to combat and contain the spread of the coronavirus. As a scientist working in Johns Hopkins university, I see better opportunity for all the skilled Indians trying to get their visa, come here and finally opt for a green card,” she said from Washington DC. Sarkar, who has lived for 12 years in Pennsylvania’s Philadelphia, said, “This election wasn’t just about picking the right candidate and voting. It became our personal battle to help bring back empathy, fairness, equality and decency to the America we loved.” In these last four years, Sarkar has seen hopelessness in her children’s eyes as the “very core of this country’s philosophy became blinded by racism, misogyny, bigotry and xenophobia”. “This election was about getting a second lease at life. Listening to Kamala’s speech was a fan girl moment for me. She gave me the strength to believe that everything is achievable and that race, ethnicity, skin color or gender can’t get in the way,” she said. In Arizona, another decisive swing state where Jadavpur University alumni Swagata Ghosh has been living for seven years, the mood has been “electrifying”. “We saw 50-50 supporters. Tension was high. We were glued to the TV for the last four days. I voted for Biden. However, not everything about Trump is bad. That’s why he got the votes of 70 million Americans,” Ghosh said. “My vote could have gone to Trump had he handled the pandemic and the economic slump better. I am now waiting to see if Biden delivers his promise,” he said. According to Partha Banerjee, a New York-based writer and labor educator, this election is a “fantastic exhibition” of American democracy. “The people both from moderate left and moderate right fought back against fascism, white supremacy and politics of propaganda and hate. India must learn from this huge lesson. America would try to regain its lost global prestige that Trump destroyed. USA will re-enter Paris Climate Treaty and Affordable Health Care would survive in America. Women’s right to their bodies would be restored. Some police reform will happen. But if Biden does any more serious progressive economic changes, I would be very surprised.” Homemaker Kanan Banerjee, who works as a consultant in the swing state of Michigan, called this a “historic” election. “What Biden does will influence the next four years. But what Harris does as the first Madam Veeps will influence generations, especially girls and people of colour. Everyone should watch their steps. There is glass everywhere since the ceiling broke,” Banerjee said. Los Angeles-based attorney Amy Ghosh, who had voted for Hillary Clinton last time, is thrilled to see Harris’s rise from California’s attorney general to America’s first woman vice president. “During Barack Obama’s administration, I was involved in the yearly events for the Asian community. I want to do that again. Gender rights, reproductive rights and immigration issues are important to me. America is heading towards saner times not filled with constant hate talk and fabrications.” For Biden’s Bengali supporters based in Texas and Florida — the two states in favour of Trump — the results give rise to optimism. Siddhartha Gupta, a tech startup founder in Texas, is hoping that America can “can get past all the divisive rhetoric and start healing now as one nation”. “This election shows the power of a single vote and that we can only raise our voice when we vote. Biden and Harris have an uphill battle to overcome the rising pandemic, divisiveness, racism and a lagging education system among many more issues. But we are hopeful that this new administration will make the right plan to lead the US in the right direction. Also, as an Indian-American, and a first-time voter, seeing an Indian American representation in the White House is very exciting and inspiring time for me,” Gupta said. Florida-based finance and accounting professional Soumitra De is “incredibly relieved”. “Trump’s policies tended to be anti-immigration. That concerned the Indian diaspora in the US. Many in the IT sector had to return to India. Civility and inclusiveness will now return to the US politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengali-diaspora-rejoices-at-victory-in-personal-battle/articleshow/79118225.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 9, 2020||Pune||Angry flyers from Pune target travel agents for changes in airlines’ plans||PUNE: A fortnight since Pune airport restricted flight operations between 8am and 8pm, travel agents have been dealing with angry and disgruntled flyers due to last minute changes in trip schedules and have even faced threats of having police complaints lodged against them. “It is interpreted wrongly when an airline tells a passenger that the refund amount has been generated by them and the money will be refunded by agents, in case tickets have been booked by us for flyers. The fact remains that airlines’ don’t refund the amount in our bank accounts. They transfer it to shell accounts that can be redeemed by the flyers at a later date. Queries have poured in from flyers who booked tickets via us for future travels. Flyers have complained of a completely changed itinerary — direct flights changing to long haul connecting flights, a flight getting cancelled with information reaching flyers at the last moment or the airline changing the flight dates even. We are facing a backlash and plan to approach the civil aviation ministry,” Nilesh Bhansali, the director of Travel Agents Association of Pune (TAAP), told TOI. The Pune airport authorities started the ‘Plan your Travel’ initiative on their official Twitter handle around five days ago where the authorities are uploading flight schedules (both departures and arrivals). “The core issue remains unsolved. The schedule gets published only on the evening prior to the flight. The main issue is that airlines and travel portals are still accepting bookings for late evening and night flights but flyers are being intimated about changes only at the last moment.” Akhil Kumar, a regular flyer, who is presently taking his flights from Mumbai, told TOI. Wagholi resident Pratik Chaudhary said, “I had booked a flight to Ahmadabad on GoAir on October 20 for a trip on November 9. On Saturday, I came to know that the flight, of an hour and half, had been changed to a connecting flight via Delhi with a total journey time of around 9 hours. I cancelled the flight. However, I have been told that I will get a refund for it only after a month. I dropped the whole plan to fly and will be taking a 13-hour journey via bus to Ahmadabad.” The airline (GoAir) was sent an e-mail enquiring about the different issues but a response was awaited till going to print.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/travel-agents-bear-the-brunt-of-flyers-fury-get-police-plaint-threats/articleshow/79118188.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 9, 2020||Pune||Schools bring in technology for online admissions in Pune||PUNE: Private schools in the city have started to strengthen their online admission processes by adapting to new software and technology in the form submission and allotment of seats. Most schools are now ensuring that the admission process is totally online so that parents do not have to rush to school and violate social distancing norms. So far, the schools would only accept applications online, but submission of supporting documents was expected to be done in person. The admission season starts from November-end. EuroSchool has decided to implement the comprehensive online model in the wake of the pandemic which includes the virtualization of their admission, administration and education functions. The school has been at the forefront of installing new technologies and new ways of teaching & learning. Chief executive officer Rahul Deshpande said initially, moving from physical to online classes was a strategic response to the lockdown. “Over time, it became imperative for us to not just ensure ‘curriculum delivery’ but to leverage sophisticated technologies and platforms to deliver seamless learning, student and parent support and to ensure smooth & secure functioning of all processes related to the school administration. The provision of online admissions will not just strengthen the current admission process but make it convenient and transparent for all enquiring parents,” Deshpande said. The admission process which includes enquiries, appointments, counselling, meeting with the school management and admission application at EuroSchool have gone digital. Principal of the Orbis School Nalini Samuel said their entire admission process has become online right from first enquiry itself. The parents can fill up the forms online and familiarisation session with the new students seeking admission is carried out via Google Hangout. “We are also working towards a process wherein parents can submit the relevant documents online. This will reduce usage of paper and is also environment friendly,” she said. Principal of RiverDale International Residential School Payam Shoghi said their school was residential and catered to a special group of parents. “Admission seekers generally wish to come to the school to learn more about its facilities and programmes, and make admission-related enquiries. Detailed information and related counselling is available online. Such parents have only now started dropping by at the school for enquiry related visits. The number of such visits and enquiries has been very low thus far which is understandable in view of the coronavirus pandemic.” The City Pride School in Nigdi has also decided to conduct its admissions online this year. Director Ashwini Kulkarni said they will have a complete online admission process where there would be online forms filled by parents through their portal. “A dedicated e-mail has been created for responding to the queries of parents. We are also planning for a virtual tour of school. An online lottery will be conducted to select the students and finally the payment of fees will also be online,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-bring-in-technology-for-online-admissions/articleshow/79118176.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Vendors dot footpaths, Jaipur civic body yet to take action||JAIPUR: Jaipur will soon become a city with no footpaths as encroachments are taking place at a rapid pace due to callousness of civic officials. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) had revealed last year that over 72% of the roads in the city don’t have footpaths while 77% existing one were pedestrian-unfriendly. Despite the survey, in the absence of any action, encroachments continue to increase majorly on 80 to 100-feet-wide roads. As civic bodies have turned a blind eye towards the issue, pedestrians are forced to walk along the roads amid fast-moving traffic. Complaints of residents are often dumped and no action has been taken by authorities. Vartika Jain, a resident of Tilak Nagar, said, “On the 80-feet university road, footpaths have been encroached by outsiders after Covid. I have lodged complaints thrice at the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), but no action has been taken.” The busy road is now dotted with vendors and gradually turning into a fruit market, making it accident-prone as unmindful commuters park their vehicles wherever they like to shop. Sometimes people park their cars or two-wheelers haphazardly even on the middle of the road to make a purchase. One can spot these vendors in good numbe rs especially on the road connecting Jawahar Nagar and JLN Road near Hassanpura infront of Army area, Ajmer Road after crossing Purani Chungi. As no action is taken against them, their numbers continue to swell and they have now spilled all over the city. “The vendors are encroaching the service lanes as well as the main road, while buyers stop their cars on the middle of the road leading to the traffic flow getting hampered. This is also inviting accidents and putting commuters at risk,” said Gajendra Singh, a resident of Jagatpura, where the JDA recently widened a road up to 200 feet. All this has been happening despite the state government declaring a ‘No Vendor Zone’ on all major roads that are up to 80-feet wid so that the traffic could flow smoothly. JLN Marg, along with Tonk Road, Sahkar Marg, Government Hostel Road, Ajmer Road, Transport Nagar Road and many other roads of the main city fall in the ‘No Vendor Zone’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vendors-dot-footpaths-jmc-yet-to-take-action/articleshow/79118249.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Shettar for furniture cluster in Udupi||Udupi: The coastal district could well have a furniture cluster if a direction given by minister for heavy and medium industry Jagadish Shettar to officials is an indicator. During a review meeting that he chaired here on Friday, Shettar directed the officials to identify a suitable place in the district to set up the cluster. The department of industries is already working on the concept of clusters across the state, Shettar added. “The department has identified Koppal as cluster for toys, Yadgir-Raichur as a cluster for pharmaceuticals, and work is already under way in this regard. Udupi has the potential to emerge as a furniture cluster given its access to seaways using which high-quality timber for manufacturing furniture can be accessed,” he said, adding: “The same seaway connectivity can be used to export furniture.” The proposed furniture cluster will also generate employment for the locals, he said. Asserting that the government will give all help for setting up the cluster, Shettar asked the district administration to identify a suitable piece of land and hand it over to the industries department at the earliest. The department will also carry out a survey of optimal utilisation of land allotted to industries including Nandikoor and other industrial pockets in the district. Experts’ team from Bengaluru will carry out the survey and submit a report to the government, the minister said. Industries must ensure that they give preference to locals in employment and also ensure that the recommendations made in the Sarojini Mahishi Report in this regard are implemented. “The government is focusing on tier-1and 2 cities outside Bengaluru urban and rural districts for future expansion of industries to give fillip to their development as well. The move to develop Bilikeri port in a big way is on. We have decided to prepare a detailed project report. The state industries policy has been tweaked in a manner that every region in the state attracts potential investors based on local strengths,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/shettar-for-furniture-cluster-in-udupi/articleshow/79103477.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Duo purchase flat & gold with cash stolen from ATMs||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch’s investigation into the last month’s arrest of two engineers on the charge of tampering and stealing cash from ATMs revealed that they invested a part of the stolen amount in the purchase of a MHADA flat and buying gold items. At the time of their arrest, the police had recovered cash Rs66 lakh from the duo — Manoj Suryavanshi (30), an electronics engineer who earlier worked with an ATM manufacturing company, and Kiran Bhanudas Kolte, a mechanical engineer notorious for cracking teller machines. Police subsequently arrested their six accomplices, including an engineer, and recovered another Rs6 lakh from them. Crime branch inspector Shankar Babar and his team made these arrests and also recovered three motorcycles from the suspects. Both Suryavanshi and Kolte are from Jalgaon district in north Maharashtra and have stolen cash from eight ATMs since December 2017 with their accomplices. Their last strike was on September 24 at an ATM in Dighi before they landed in police net on October 9. The other six arrested suspects have been identified as Mahesh Devnikar (30) of Katraj, an engineer working with a cash refilling firm, Sagar Taware (31), Tushar Chandgude (25), both of Baramati, Shankar Gaikwad (31) Purandar taluka, Ashish Bhalerao (22) of Chinchwad and Narsinh Dhumal (22) of Latur district. Babar said that the gang had stolen about Rs94 lakh in the past three years from the different ATMs. “Suryavanshi, who is the mastermind, had purchased gold ornaments worth Rs10 lakh from the stolen cash. He mortgaged the ornaments with a finance firm’s Nidgi branch. We have recovered the deposit receipts from the firm and also Rs50,000 more from Suryavanshi.” He stated that Kolte purchased a flat worth Rs12 lakh in Pimpri Chinchwad area from the stolen amount. “We have recovered the receipts of the purchase of the flat too,” Babar said, adding, “We have recovered Rs5.5 lakh from Dhumal.” Babar said that the remaining five suspects have spent about Rs7 lakh on medical bills, marriage and for agricultur-related work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-buy-flat-gold-with-cash-stolen-from-atms/articleshow/79118221.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 9, 2020||Rajkot||Quack nabbed from Keshod village||RAJKOT: A quack was nabbed on Saturday night for allegedly practising without a medical degree in Gelana village of Keshod taluka in Junagadh district. Police said the accused, Suresh Bhatt (57), had been running his clinic for the past several years. “Bhatt, who has studied up to Class XII, had opened his clinic after working as a compounder in a private hospital. We have seized medicines and injections worth Rs 11,700 from his clinic,” said H I Bhati, inspector with Junagadh special operation group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/quack-nabbed-from-keshod-village/articleshow/79117211.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||UDH receives award for promoting green bldgs||Jaipur: The urban development and housing (UDH) department has bagged an award from the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) for taking innovative initiatives to promote green buildings in the state. The department has recently amended township policy and bylaws to promote green buildings and township in the state. A senior officer at UDH said, “We have received an online award for encouraging green building movement in India through multi-pronged approach category. Our initiative is recognised across the country,” he said. In Rajasthan, an incentive of additional floor area ratio and built area ratio up to 0.15 without payment of betterment levy has been provided to green buildings. Moreover, the department is also considering the exemption of urban development tax. In recent amendments green cover provision has been made instead of green space to promote dense plantation against the increasing building footprints in the cities. A senior town planner said, “Now, there will be a mandatory provision of two trees per 50 square metre plot area instead of one earlier. In group housing projects, institutional buildings minimum 15% green cover on natural ground is mandatory. All high-rise buildings proposed to be constructed in the existing scheme areas to mandatory have “green building” parameters with 20% green cover on natural ground,” he further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-receives-award-for-promoting-green-bldgs/articleshow/79118255.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Soumitra tracheostomy likely this week||Kolkata: Actor Soumitra Chatterjee may undergo a tracheostomy on Wednesday, which can improve his breathing. On Sunday, the medical board, formed for his treatment at Belle Vue Clinic, reviewed his condition and recommended the procedure that involves insertion of a pipe through the neck. Chatterjee, 85, may also undergo a plasmapheresis, said doctors. “We have spoken to his family members and informed them about the necessity for the procedures. They have agreed to it. Now, we are in the process of monitoring his overall condition to ensure that his vital parameters are stable enough to withstand the procedures,” said Belle Vue critical care head, Arindam Kar. Chatterjee’s neurological condition remains unchanged and there has been no improvement in his consciousness level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitra-tracheostomy-likely-this-week/articleshow/79118253.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||Solar panel vendors in UP yet to get subsidy dues||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh aspires to become a hub of solar energy but is facing a major challenge as vendors claim that rooftop solar energy integration business in the state is facing existential crisis due to non-payment of subsidy. They allege that they have not received subsidy from the UP Power Corporation Limited or any of its distribution companies for three financial years and dues have mounted to around Rs 43 crore. There are 71 registered vendors in the state who install subsidised rooftop solar panels. In the first phase, vendors received subsidy amounts directly from UPNEDA (Uttar Pradesh New and Renewable Energy Development Agency) but due to alleged discrepancies, the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) asked UPPCL to disburse subsidies via discoms. Earlier in the week, members of UP Solar Energy Development Association (UPSEDA) wrote to energy minister Shrikant Sharma informing about their poor financial condition due to non-payment of subsidy. They said that due to shortage of funds, they were on the verge of shutting their business and laying off their employees. Talking to TOI, general secretary of UPSEDA, Sanchit Garg, said: “For past three financial years, we are paying from our pockets to install rooftop solar panels but haven’t received a single penny of subsidy which the government needs to transfer directly into our accounts. The government owes us around Rs 43 crore. We will wait till Diwali but after that we will have to lay off our staff as we have no other option but to shut down our business.” According to vendors, about 40,000 people are associated with the business, directly or indirectly. “On August 20 last year, MNRE issued notification for the second phase of solar panel installation and, on December 23, as many as 71 vendors were empanelled for the project. Even during lockdown, vendors continued to install solar panels without receiving any amount from the government. In the current financial year, we have installed panels worth 16 MW solar energy across the state. As per conservative estimate, the Centre owes us Rs 24.3 crore while the remaining amount is to be released by the state government,” said Garg. When asked about the vendors' issue, UPPCL chairperson Arvind Kumar said: “We will investigate the matter and contact MNRE in this connection.” “States like Gujarat and Rajasthan are ahead of us in solar energy. But here the level of seriousness could be gauged from the fact that one of the discoms, Purvanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), opened a bank account a couple of days ago to receive the subsidy amount to be disbursed among vendors,” said Rohit Agarwal, a Lucknowbased vendor. “Not only vendors, consumers are also facing difficulties as smart meter installation has been stopped by UPPCL since August 18. Consumers who invested Rs 3-5 lakh for solar panels have been left in the lurch as the system cannot be used without net meters which are of directional nature, reading both energy consumption and generation,” he said. “Consumers are also waiting for direct transfer of subsidy into their account from state government,” Sanchit Garg said, adding that in the absence of smart meters which cost Rs 4,485, vendors had to ask consumers to buy meters worth Rs 11,000 from market, which has to be inspected by a government-approved laboratory after a payment of Rs 4,800. “If a meter develops snag after installation, UPPCL does not allow the consumer to get it replaced by the manufacturer. It is disposed of in a government laboratory,” he added. MVVNL managing director Surya Pal Gangwar told TOI: “We are aware of the problems being faced by vendors but it can only be resolved once the Centre releases the subsidy to UPPCL which will then be transferred to our account for disbursal. Our accounts are active.We understand that consumers are facing difficulties due to suspension of smart meter installation but it’s a temporary problem. We are trying to resolve the issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/solar-panel-vendors-feel-the-heat-as-pending-subsidy-dues-pile-up-to-rs-43cr/articleshow/79119577.cms||Arvind Chauhan
November 9, 2020||Hubballi||Varsity syndicate member files dowry case against in-laws||KALABURAGI: Pallavi Patil, a member of Gulbarga University syndicate, has filed a dowry case against her in-laws at the women’s police station in Kalaburagi. In her complaint Pallavi stated that she married Vivek Kranje nine months ago. During wedding her parents gave 400 grams of gold and five kg silver as dowry. But now, her mother-in-law Pushpalatha, father-in-law Vaijanath and sisters-in-law Nivedita, Divyadeepa and Snehalatha have been harassing her to bring more dowry — 500 grams gold and Rs lakh — from her father. She stated that her husband is innocent but other members of the family have been torturing her. Pallavi stated that she was given food laced with some medicines which used to make her sleepy and drowsy all through the day. Now she has been separated from her husband and driven out of the house, she added. Women police have registered a case. Undertrial dies in hospital  A 24-year-old undertrial at Kalaburagi Central Prison died on Sunday morning at Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital. The deceased is Siddappa Varagi. He was admitted to the hospital five days ago as he was suffering from weakness and anaemia. He was facing trial in a murder case. His body was handed over to family members after post-mortem. Farhatabad police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/varsity-syndicate-member-files-dowry-case-against-in-laws/articleshow/79116768.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Surat||Man selling sugary poppy bars arrested||SURAT: Special operation group arrested a 53-year-old man for allegedly selling poppy and seized 4.8kg poppy worth Rs 4.79 lakh from his possession on Saturday from Bhathena area. Accused Swardoopsinh Rajput, a resident of Bhathena, used to sell sugar and chocolate coated poppy bars to maximise profit and made it look like chocolate candy. Police arrested the accused from his home. Along with the contraband, police seized Rs 11.80 lakh in cash and mobile phones all together totalling to Rs 16.64 lakh. Police seized the poppy in liquid, semi solid and hard forms. “He purchased poppy in liquid form and later as per the requirement he processed it. He mixed sugar and chocolate in it to make it look like edible chocolate. Due to the ingredients it smelled like chocolate and a common person cannot easily recognize that it is poppy from a glance or smell,” said a police officer of SOG. The accused sourced the poppy from Rajasthan and most of his customers are also native of Rajasthan who lived and employed in the textile market area. Police investigation revealed that after mixing sugar syrup and chocolate the liquid was put in sunlight or under the fan to dry. Later Rajput made pieces of the product and packed it in a zip pouch. Equal amount of chocolate, sugar and poppy were mixed to make the chocolate. The accused sold poppy at Rs 2,000 per gram. The bars mixed with chocolate were sold at a lesser price but the profit margin of Rajput was higher compared to selling poppy in its original form. The modified form of poppy helped him stay out of police’s eye as only regular customers knew about this product. Police are working to identify the source from where Rajput got the poppy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-selling-sugary-poppy-bars-arrested/articleshow/79117405.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 9, 2020||Rajkot||Collision between tractor and motorcycle, two killed||RAJKOT: Two persons were killed when the motorcycle on which they were going was rammed by a tractor on Veraval-Somnath bypass in Gir Somnath district on Saturday night. Police said that the bike was being driven by Kamlesh Jimadia (52) on which his cousin brother Ramesh Jimadia (55) was riding. “The tractor which had no number plate rammed into the rear of the bike. Both the victims were rushed to Veraval Civil Hospital where they died shortly after admission. The victims were from Arnej village of Veraval taluka. Both were the owners of grocery stores and had gone to attend a mourning meet of their deceased relative in Dari village of Veraval taluka,” said an official from Veraval police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/collision-between-tractor-and-motorcycle-two-killed/articleshow/79117242.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Vadodara||Kin of man who died in train to get Rs 6.3 lakh compensation||VADODARA: Pulling up the Western Railways for its ‘careless behaviour’, the additional Vadodara district consumer disputes redressal forum has ordered it to pay Rs 6.3 lakh compensation to the family of a 60-year-old man who died of heart attack after boarding the train in 2013. Mahanarayan Pandey, a manager with a private firm in Ankleshwar, had suffered a massive cardiac arrest soon after boarding the Firozpur Janta Express in August 2013 at Vadodara railway station. When his demanded compensation on the grounds that the station master did halt the train nor helped the victim get immediate medical attention, the Western Railways instead defended itself stating that “it is not the duty of the railways to provide medical aid”. WR authorities argued the court said that the victim “did not pull the chain to stop the train nor did he make any attempts to get out of the train when the train was halted at Vadodara railway station”! “The authorities could have signalled the train not to depart or halt it at Vishwamitri railway station. Instead they asked the deputy station superintendent of Miyagam Karjan railway station to attend to the victim,” said P V Moorjani, who argued for Pandey’s kin. As the train reached Miyagam Karjan railway station 35 minutes later, Pandey already succumbed to the attack. The railways said they were gracious enough to keep a ‘courtesy’ first aid facility with the guard in every train and at every station that passengers can avail. These arguments irked the redressal forum which rapped the WR for its callous statements and attitude. “It is unfortunate for us to hear such types of arguments on behalf of the railways,” it said, adding that the arguments reflect the “careless behaviour of the (railway) authority”. The court asked the railways to pay a compensation of Rs 6.3 lakh along with 7% interest and additional Rs 10,000 as litigation expenses. “The station master said that his responsibility got over when he informed the Miyagam Karjan railway station. But the court came down heavily on him and said that there is negligence on the railways’ part,” Moorjani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/kin-of-man-who-died-in-train-to-get-rs-6-3l-compensation/articleshow/79117224.cms||Jay Pachchigar
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||1% +ve patients in CCCs, NMC plan for congested areas fails to take off||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) plan to isolate asymptomatic and mild symptomatic Covid positive patients from slums and congested areas in Covid Care Centres (CCCs) mandatorily has failed to take off. On Saturday, the civic body-run CCCs had only 1% of the total active cases. According to the data of the district civil surgeon, active cases in the city were 2,557 of which 26 are in CCCs — 20 in Pachpaoli and 6 at VNIT. On Tuesday, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B had directed assistant commissioners and zonal medical officers of all the ten zones to guide and isolate asymptomatic and mild symptomatic positive patients from slums and congested areas in CCCs. The motive behind the decision was to prevent the spread of the disease. People residing in slums, congested and other localities do not have home isolation facilities. On Tuesday, 30 out of the total 2,667 active cases were in CCCs followed by 24 from 2,720 on Wednesday, 24 from 2,682 on Thursday and 24 from 2,634 on Friday. The two CCCs have a capacity of around 1,000 beds. There are five more CCCs that are presently vacant. As per the daily positive list of the NMC of the last two days, many new cases were from slums and congested areas like Gorewada, Rambagh, Chandramani Nagar, Rameshwari, Rama Nagar, Kalamna, Darvekar Dangal near Tandapeth, Kumbhartoli, Dighori, Ramabai Ambedkar Nagar, Pachpaoli, Gautam Nagar, Bhim Nagar and Ganjipeth. The NMC had also decided to seal part of the area with high-risk contacts of positive patients to avoid testing despite the suggestion by the rapid response team. In the last five days, no such action has been taken across the city. “Chances of the second wave will increase if the NMC does not isolate asymptomatic patients from slums and congested areas who do not have home isolation facilities. I met the civic chief on Monday and suggested this measure. The administration seems to be careless and is acting like the pandemic has ended in the city,” alleged chairman of NMC’s health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja. The former standing panel chief, who had a word with officials of the other civic bodies, said, “I talked to officials of other municipal corporations. It seems the system of contact tracing and follow-up of positive patients is better in other urban areas. Here, there is no improvement in contact tracing and no measures are in place to reach and track the status of positive patients.” While admitting that two plans failed to kick-off, NMC’s additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “People are reluctant to come to CCCs. Family members of positive patients feel that recovery is better at home. We will take the help of community leaders and corporators.” Joshi is of the view that contact tracing and testing has improved to some extent. “The need of the hour is to cross check whether all contacts have been tested or not. Checking the daily list of positive and negative persons on a random basis will serve the purpose. Action will be taken if contacts do not get tested,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-ve-patients-in-cccs-nmc-plan-for-congested-areas-fails-to-take-off/articleshow/79117233.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||Ex-Mumbai Ranji player held for IPL betting||MUMBAI: Former first-class cricketer Robin Morris, who has represented Mumbai and Odisha in Ranji Trophy, has been arrested by Versova police for cricket betting. Morris and two others were found taking bets on IPL matches. Canada-born Indian Morris, 44, played 42 first class games and 51 List A Games (domestic one-dayers) for Mumbai and Odisha between 1995 and 2007. Police said they had received specific information about betting activity at Morris’s house at Yari Road in Versova. A raid was carried out and three people, including Morris, were detained. “Morris was involved in taking bets on an IPL match,” said an officer, adding laptops and cellphones were seized from the flat. The trio was booked under provisions of the IPC and Gambling Act. A magistrate court sent them to police custody till Monday. Last year, he was named by Al Jazeera TV following an alleged sting operation on match-fixing in cricket. Former Pakistan batsman Hasan Raza was filmed on camera by the channel sitting next to Morris as the former Mumbai and Odisha all-rounder spoke to an undercover reporter about facilitating spot-fixing in T20 tournaments. The cricketer denied any involvement and stressed that it was Al Jazeera who had invited him "to audition for, and act in, a film. He also played for Mumbai champs in the rebel Indian Cricket League but took amnesty when BCCI offered it to all participants in the league. He played his last first class game in 2004 for Mumbai against a Rest of India team in the Irani Cup. Morris had landed in trouble last year as well. On December 1, 2019, he and four others were arrested for kidnapping a loan agent from Kurla and taking him to Versova to recover Rs 2 lakh. Police said Morris had applied for a personal loan with a private agency and paid a heavy processing fee. The loan application was made through the agent, Shyam Talreja. When the loan was denied, Morris allegedly started pursuing Talreja for the processing fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-mum-ranji-player-held-for-ipl-betting/articleshow/79119579.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Less than 50% traffic offenders receiving e-challans since January have paid up fine||PUNE: Since January this year, the city traffic branch has served e-challans to nearly 15.7 lakh vehicle users spotted by the 1,000-odd CCTVs installed at major junctions as part of the Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) for various violations. However, as against a total Rs54.89 crore fine payable by the 15.7 lakh violators, barely 45% or 7 lakh of them have so far approached the police on their own for paying the fine totalling over Rs16.35 crore. The process for the recovery of fines had come to a standstill during the three-month lockdown between March and June following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Once the lockdown rules were relaxed in a phased manner, the traffic police have witnessed a surge in the number of vehicles on the road as well as the cases of violations. Since November 1, the police have launched a fresh effort to recover the massive pending dues on account of e-challans served between January 1 and October 15. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame told TOI, “We have ordered a special traffic nakabandi operation to recover unpaid fines. The policemen are checking the vehicles against the software between 3pm and 5pm.” “We studied the figures of unpaid fines and realized that they were quite high. Then we decided to launch a recovery drive. The drive picked up gradually and now policemen are collecting fines ranging between Rs11 lakh and Rs12 lakh, per day. Between November 1 and 6, the police have collected a sum of Rs60.40 lakh,” Shrirame said. “The fines were not collected during the months when the lockdown was in place. Motorists are required to follow traffic rules and, if they breach a rule, they need to pay the fine. We have issued SMSs to the violators and they can check if there is a fine against their vehicle number by visiting the website,” he said. “In some cases, we have also sent notices to the motorists and they have paid the fine. However, if people do not respond to the notices, we will report the cases to the Motor Vehicle (MV) Court for further proceedings,” the senior officer added. In an effort to motivate the staff, police constables recovering the most pending fines will be rewarded, Shrirame said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/less-than-50-traffic-offenders-receiving-e-challans-since-january-have-paid-up-fine/articleshow/79118252.cms||Gitesh Shelke
November 9, 2020||Pune||Alert citizens report offence via mobile app||Pune: In the last 10 months, alert residents of Pimpri Chinchwad have uploaded 465 images of traffic violators they spotted while commuting on the roads. The traffic branch of Pimpri Chinchwad police has challaned 346 violators as yet. “Residents have been using the Mahatraffic app and uploading images of traffic violators,” said Shrikant Disale, assistant commissioner of police (traffic). He added that the police could send challans to 346 offenders as photographs of 112 offenders were not clear. “We are in the process of sending challans to seven more offenders. Till date, 18 people have paid the fine. We will recover fines from the remaining offenders too,” Disale said. The state government launched the Mahatraffic app last year so that people could upload live images of traffic violators. “People can also check challans issued against them and pay the fines through the app,” Disale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alert-citizens-report-offence-via-mobile-app/articleshow/79118256.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Pali youth who was killed by speeding Audi cremated||Jaipur: The family of the victim, who was killed after being hit by a speeding Audi car on Sodala elevated road, finally took his body back to his native village in Pali on Sunday. The deceased was identified as 22-year-old Mada Ram who hailed from Pali and was to appear in the constable recruitment examination in Jaipur on Friday. He was cremated in his native village Rabariyo Ka Vas in Pali district. The village sarpanch and the deceased’s cousin Harish Dewasi said, “We had to get the body back as it had been two days and cremation had to be done otherwise the body would have decomposed further and we did not want to disrespect my cousin after his death in such a manner.” The aspirant was walking on the road when Audi car being driven by a woman hit him from behind. Mada Ram bounced off the road and landed on the roof of a house. Elaborating on their demands, none of which were met, Dewasi said, “We wanted monetary compensation of at least Rs 50 lakh as well as a government job for a family member and arrest of the accused, but none of the demands were met. Officials have assured us that they will try to get us some compensation and now everything is dependent on the state government. We still have to get the copy of the FIR and post-mortem report.” State BJP president Satish Poonia gave the family Rs 1 lakh, while his party gave additional Rs 3 lakh. The coaching centre in Jodhpur where the deceased youth was preparing for the examination also gave his family Rs 5 lakh. A case under section 304 A (causing death by negligence) as well as 279 (rash driving) of IPC was registered against Neha Soni. No one has been arrested yet and the accused was allowed to go home on Friday. IPC Section 304 A is a bailable offence and the offender can get bail at police station itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pali-youth-who-was-killed-by-speeding-audi-cremated/articleshow/79118267.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Cow dung lamps set to light up Diwali this year||JAISALMER: National Kamdhenu Commission has come up with lamps made of cow dung to be used during Diwali. Efforts have also been started to link 11 crore families across the country with this campaign. In Jaisalmer, a large number of such lamps are being made at many gaushalas and will be sold soon. In this regard, Tulsi Gaushala’s Manav Vyas said such a move will keep the atmosphere clean during the festival of lights. He said a machine ordered for the purpose reached here from Ahmedabad three days ago. He said the first target is to make 5,500 lamps and sell those. In Jaisalmer, these lamps will be sold at select places and a packet of 11 lamps will cost Rs 25. The amount received from the sales will be spent on the welfare of cows at gaushalas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cow-dung-lamps-set-to-light-up-diwali-this-yr/articleshow/79118261.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Congress trying to suppress government employees, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan hit out at Congress on Sunday for holding protests in Morena district and said that the party is attempting to suppress officials and employees but will not succeed. He also said that BJP will emerge victorious in the bypolls. “The Congress leaders are desperate, frustrated, shocked and their resentment is reflected in their statements. When Congress workers held demonstrations on the streets of Morena, it reflected their frustration. The commissioner, officials and employees of the administration are being threatened”, Chouhan said. “Former chief minister Kamal Nath himself said that he would deal with them. The commissioner is being told that riots will break out. This reveals the mentality of Congress,” added Chouhan. Chouhan said that the BJP government will not allow any such attempt to suppress the employees. “In a democracy, defeat and victory are obvious. We too humbly accepted defeat in the 2018 assembly polls. But threats such as ‘we will see’ and ‘we will deal’ are unacceptable. Congress is trying to intimidate government officers and employees, trying to suppress and crush them. Such attempts will not succeed,” he said.  Chouhan claimed that the poll results would be much better. “We will win all the 28 seats and the government will emerge stronger. We will turn Madhya Pradesh into a golden state under my leadership. The results would be much better than predicted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-trying-to-suppress-govt-employees-says-cm-chouhan/articleshow/79118260.cms||Rajendra Sharma
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Saibaba wants to be shifted to Hyderabad jail||Nagpur: Alleged Maoist sympathizer GN Saibaba, undergoing a jail term in a case registered under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, is keen to shift from Nagpur Central Jail to Hyderabad. The former Delhi University professor’s wife Vasantha told TOI her husband was on a 10-day hunger strike between October 28 and November 6 for various demands, including his request to be shifted to Hyderabad prison. Vasantha, sharing a press release of the panel set up for the defence and release of Saibaba, said the jail authorities had concealed the fact that the former professor was on a hunger strike. Though Saibaba’s demand for shifting was not met, he decided to call off the hunger strike after several other demands, including providing him Telugu and English books, letters and medicines from family, facilities for physiotherapy and occupational therapies were promised. The jail authorities have also agreed to share the medical records of Saibaba. Though jail authorities did not confirm Saibaba’s hunger strike, SP Anup Kumar Kumre said only an officer of director general of police rank can decide whether such transfer from one state prison to another was possible. “DGP Maharashtra and DGP Andhra Pradesh can only take a joint decision on such inter-state prison transfers. We have requested Saibaba to send us his application of transfer, which will be forwarded to the DGP office for consideration,” said Kumre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/saibaba-wants-to-be-shifted-to-hyderabad-jail/articleshow/79117280.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Bullion traders’ family duped of Rs 9.4 crore||NAGPUR: Three employees of a branded jewellery outlet were booked for cheating, forgery, and criminal breach of trust and conspiracy for their alleged role in duping the bullion traders’ family of more than Rs 9.4 crore. Learnt to be from the same family, Ramkuwar Jangid, Sunil Jangid and Mohanlal Jangid allegedly transferred substantial cash, shares and properties in their names with fake signatures and documents, taking advantage of an ailing Anantrao Parekh, who owns a jewellery shop at Darodkar Chowk. Ramkuwar is learnt to have diverted Rs6.9 crore in his account from that of the bullion trader. Sunil transferred shares worth Rs92.9 lakh by fraud. Mohanlal usurped three kilos of gold worth Rs1.5 crore, 30kg silver costing Rs12 lakh and also diverted considerable cash from his employer’s account to his own. Preparing fake documents and death certificate, the Jangids also claimed to have received a property transferred to their name by Anantrao. The offence was registered after Anantrao’s family came to know about the fraud. Anantrao’s grandson Hardik Parekh approached police against the Jangids, leading to the registration of the offence at Lakadganj police station. The case would be probed by the economic offence wing of the crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bullion-traders-family-duped-of-rs9-4-crore/articleshow/79119238.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||Govt colleges, universities get high-speed internet connectivity||Dehradun: On the eve of the 20th anniversary of the state’s formation on Sunday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inaugurated high-speed internet connectivity facility for 106 colleges and five universities in Uttarakhand. The CM said that the initiative has made Uttarakhand the first state in the country to virtually link all its colleges and universities through a high-speed net connection. “Today’s youths want to be connected globally and the high-speed internet will help them achieve this. They should use the technology for the benefit of the country,” he added. The service is being facilitated by Reliance Jio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-colleges-universities-get-high-speed-internet-connectivity/articleshow/79116424.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 9, 2020||Surat||Surat: Woman officer forgets phone in auto, gets extortion call for Rs 60,000||SURAT: Forgetting her phone in a hired auto rickshaw came to haunt a 58-year-old female government officer from the revenue department in the city who received an extortion threat of Rs 60,000. The accused demanded the amount to delete her objectionable photos, said the woman who lodged a complaint against unidentified person in Cyber Crime police station on Saturday. Police booked an extortion and threatening offence against unidentified person who said he will make her objectionable photos viral on social media. The accused suspected to have picked the phone the woman forgot in January 2020 when she went to a shopping mall on Dumas Road in the auto that she had booked online from a cab service provider. She told the police that the phone had her photos and videos. Police have zeroed in on the role of an auto rickshaw driver based on the FIR. Police booked the suspect for extortion and criminal intimidation under Indian Penal Code and sections of IT Act. “We have identified a few suspects and after questioning the person responsible for the crime will be arrested,” said a cyber crime police official. On October 30 an unidentified person called her up and spoke in Hindi. After answering one call she did not pick up other calls and asked her son to talk to the man. The son requested the caller to stop the harassment. Later the caller started sending the woman her photos on the Whatsapp threatening to make these viral on social media. The woman then deleted Whatsapp from her phone and her husband started the app on his phone with her number. The accused then demanded Rs 60,000 to delete the photos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/female-govt-officer-gets-extortion-threat/articleshow/79117334.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chennai||BJP’s Murugan attacks Tamil Nadu govt for blocking ‘vel yatra’||CHENNAI: President of BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit L Murugan on Sunday criticised the Edappadi K Palaniswami government for detaining him and fellow party leaders and workers for taking out the ‘vel yatra’ from Tiruvottiyur Vadivudai Amman temple and said the state was making a “wrong decision”. Murugan along with senior party leaders C P Radhakrishnan and L Ganesan set out from the former’s residence in SAF village in Koyambedu to Thiruvotriyur to kick-start the second leg of the month-long yatra, which commenced on November 6 at Tiruttani. Nearly 200 party cadres along with leaders were arrested and detained till around 5pm in a nearby marriage hall. It was the repeat of Friday’s high drama. “The state government is taking the wrong decision by not permitting the Vel Yatra. The yatra will resume tomorrow (from Chengalpet),” he said. There were temples everywhere in the state, he retorted when questioned whether they would alter the route of the yatra covering the six abodes of Lord Murugan. Drawing a parallel between CM Palaniswami and BJP leader Murugan, L Ganesan wondered “why is Pazhani Saami (another name for Lord Murugan) is denying permission for Murugan?” The BJP would emerge as a major force in the state in the 2021 assembly elections, Murugan claimed, adding, “It will be the deciding factor in government formation.” Meanwhile, Madras high court’s hearing on the BJP’s special petition for the yatra. was postponed to Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjps-murugan-attacks-govt-for-blocking-vel-yatra/articleshow/79118277.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||Don’t hush up porn video case, warn Canacona locals||POINGUINIM: Jagrut Canconkars, a group of citizens, warned of severe repercussions from the people of Canacona in case the police try to hush up the case of the porn video shot at the Chapoli dam, involving actress Poonam Pandey and her husband Sam Bombay. Alleging that the suspended Canacona police inspector, Tukaram Chawan was in touch with Pandey before the video shoot, Sandesh Telekar of Jagrut Canconkars called for verifying the calls between Chawan’s official and personal cellphones and those of the actress and her husband. Cuncolim PI Therron D’Costa who is investigating the case said that they are piecing together all the evidence gathered so far. D’Costa also told TOI that the police has seized the CCTV footage of the hotel in Palolem in which the couple was staying before the video shoot. Meanwhile, sources said that the Canacona police have found out that the rickshaw driver who had taken the actress to the dam site, wasn’t the same rickshaw driver who was produced before the ‘South Goa superintendent of police. The rickshaw driver had also claimed to have seen a policeman in plain clothes at the site of the film shoot. It was following this submission that PI Chawan was placed under suspension amidst accusations that he had been aware of the film shoot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-hush-up-porn-video-case-warn-canacona-locals/articleshow/79119284.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Bhopal||After a lull, sudden surge in Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh in two days||BHOPAL: After a month-long lull, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state have started increasing since the past two days. The overall number of Covid-19 cases reported per day have also started increasing steadily since November 2. On Sunday, 891 fresh cases were reported in the state taking the count of total Covid cases reported so far in the state to 1,77,359. On November 2, only 635 cases were reported in the state and since then the numbers have been steadily increasing daily. On November 3, there were 667 new cases and on November 4, there were 707 cases. On November 5, the number further increased to 734 cases, on November 6, there were 778 cases while on November 7, there were 865 new cases which further increased to 891 on November 8. Active cases continued to decline consecutively for 38 days till November 6, but since November 7 it has again started increasing. On November 6, there were a total of 7,766 active cases in the state, it has now increased to 7,928. On Sunday, 11 deaths were reported as per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 3,028.Sunday was second consecutive day after a gap of 38 days that more people tested positive for Covid-19 than the number of recoveries. While 891 people tested positive, only 688 recovered. As on November 8, there were a total of 7,928 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-a-lull-sudden-surge-in-covid-cases-in-mp-in-two-days/articleshow/79118290.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Delhi||PM Narendra Modi to unveil Swami Vivekananda's statue at JNU on Thursday||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be unveiling a statue of Swami Vivekananda at Jawaharlal Nehru University at 6.30pm on Thursday through videoconferencing. The event will be live-streamed on the Facebook page of the university. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank will also be a part of the event. JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said the event would be followed by a programme on the life of Vivekananda. “Swami Vivekananda is one of the most beloved intellectual and spiritual leaders India has been fortunate to produce. He enthused the youth with his message of freedom, development, harmony and peace. He inspired people to take pride in the Indian civilisation and culture. He always spoke about education and well-being, especially of the less privileged and strongly celebrated the idea of India and national pride,” said Kumar. The statue has been installed near the administrative block with the support of the JNU alumni. The event was conceptualised by alumnus Manoj Kumar. It was approved in the executive council meeting in June 2017. While JNUSU did not comment about the event, in the past they had raised questions about the funding and cost of the statue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pm-to-unveil-vivekananda-statue-at-jnu-on-thursday/articleshow/79118343.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Film producer’s wife held with 10gm ganja by NCB||MUMBAI: The central drug enforcement agency continued its crackdown on Bollywood with the arrest of a prominent film producer’s wife on Sunday for alleged possession of 10 grams of ganja or marijuana. Producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife Shabina Saeed was taken to the NCB’s office for questioning after an early morning search of her Versova residence allegedly led to the discovery of 10 grams of the contraband, said officials. Firoz Nadiadwala, who has produced blockbusters like ‘Phir Hera Pheri’, ‘Awaara Paagal Deewana’ and ‘Welcome’, was not present at home during the action. He has been summoned to appear before the agency on Monday. Saeed’s name was allegedly mentioned by a drug peddler named Wahid Kadir Shaikh alias Sultan who was nabbed on Friday. He was reportedly a supplier to several high-profile customers. “During interrogations, Sultan said he's been regularly supplying Shabina drugs for the past seven to eight months,” an official said. Shabina allegedly told officials that she procured the drugs for her personal consumption.The team recovered 702 grams of marijuana or ganja, 74.1 grams of charas (hashish) and 3.1 grams of mephedrone along with Rs 1.68 lakh in cash from the peddler, Wahid Kadir Shaikh alias Sultan. “During interrogations Sultan revealed many names which included Nadiadwala’s wife Shabina. On the basis of information we carried out a search of Nadiadwala’s house and found 10 grams of ganja. She was served notice under Section 67 of the NDPS act and after recording her statement, placed under arrest,” said an official. Shabina allegedly told officials that she procured the drugs for her personal consumption. In all, NCB has made six arrests. In other operations, the Bureau arrested four others from Andheri, Jogeshwari and Navi Mumbai. Officials said they recovered 6 kgs of a green leafy substance, purportedly ganja, from a man named SH Khan. They also arrested Ismail Shaikh and Shamshuddin Shaikh, from whom they recovered 25 grams of charas and cash of Rs 1.89 lakh, and a person identified as Hafiz Choudhary near the Mumbai international airport who was involved in previous cases of drug peddling. The peddler who supplied marijuana to Saeed was also supplying it to other high-profile customers. He had numerous vehicles including two-wheelers at his disposal and employed many youths in the area who worked and delivered for him in the Andheri area. The NCB has already questioned actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh in connection with drug abuse in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. A Dharma Productions manager Kshitij Prasad and a South African national Agisialos Demetriades who is the brother of a well known actor's partner have also been arrested with drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/film-producers-wife-held-with-10gm-ganja-by-ncb/articleshow/79119583.cms||Ahmed Ali
November 9, 2020||Chennai||AIADMK rules out possibility of coalition govt in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: AIADMK has once again ruled out a coalition government in the event of the alliance winning the upcoming assembly elections. State fisheries minister D Jayakumar said that the AIADMK would win a decisive mandate and form government of its own with absolute majority. “If you look at the history of Tamil Nadu AIADMK had always captured power with majority. That will be the case after 2021 assembly elections too,” he told reporters in Chennai on Sunday. Jayakumar’s comments came hours after BJP leader L Murugan said the saffron party would determine the next government in state. “People of Tamil Nadu would never leave scope for a coalition rule in the state,” he said. At the same time he said that the AIADMK would witness a decisive victory, unprecedented in the history of Tamil Nadu, in the upcoming assembly elections. The AIADMK as well as our allies will win all the seats, he said. “The AIADMK will win with absolute majority and form government. So there is no question of a coalition government,’’ he said. In the past too, whenever BJP leaders issued statements suggesting coalition government, the AIADMK was swift to rule out the possibility. A few days ago when former union minister Pon Radhakrishnan asserted that BJP will be part of the next government, AIADMK leader Vaigaichelvan told TOI that TN never had a coalition government in the past and will not have one in future too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-rules-out-possibility-of-coalition-govt-in-tn/articleshow/79118314.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||90% sex workers struggle to furnish docus for Covid dole||Nagpur: Around 90% of female sex workers (FSWs) at Ganga Jamuna are yet to deposit their documents like identity proof for receiving the monetary assistance of Rs5,000, Rs2,500 for their children who are studying, apart from dry rations announced by the state government in wake of the hardships faced during the pandemic. Out of the around 1,500 FSWs, barely 150 have completed the formalities like furnishing their consent, identity proof, bank account details and PAN card for availing the scheme. Sources in the red light area said around 1,000 FSWs have Aadhaar card, 450 have bank accounts and approximately 1,200-1,300 have PAN cards. But many of them have either two or one of the documents and not all three, they said. Hemlata Lohave of Indian Red Cross Society said Aadhaar cards of the some of the FSWs are in their native place while bank accounts of many have become dormant due to no usage. “Many of the FSWs do not have Aadhaar card at all. Few do not even have a single document. We are trying to help them prepare testimonials for receiving the government benefits,” she said. Many FSWs are suspicious about the whole process and feel that this is a ploy to get them implicated, said Lohave. “Some of the FSWs are not ready to share their documents despite repeated counselling and efforts to convince them,” she said. Lohave, along with her friends, has created a joint platform of Indian Red Cross Society and Ganika Mahila Shakti Sangathan to help the FSWs to create the documents. “We have managed to open few bank accounts with zero balance and also revived many dormant accounts,” said Lohave. District collector Ravindra Thakare said the NGOs and local elected representatives can help the FSWs for creating documents. “We will discuss solutions to these problems in our subsequent meetings,” said Thakare. According to a resident of Ganga Jamuna, there is a need to organize camps for preparing Aadhaar cards, ration cards, bank accounts and PAN cards in the locality which is mostly occupied by economically weak population who are also low on awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/90-sex-workers-struggle-to-furnish-docus-for-covid-dole/articleshow/79117326.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Corona test facility launched in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: After a long wait, Jaisalmer district finally got a corona testing facility. Earlier, samples were sent to Barmer and the results were received after three long days. Due to the lack of a testing facility, people affected with corona used to roam free, thus, affecting other people due to which cases were increasing, said an official. Collector Ashish Modi and municipal council chairman Harivallabh Kalla inaugurated the testing laboratory at Ambedkar Bhawan in Gafoor Bhatta area of the city on Saturday. Modi said recently AIIMS Jodhpur gave its approval for setting up a testing lab in the district. On Sunday, collector Modi and SP Ajay Singh flagged off a cycle rally for corona awareness in the city. The rally started from Ramgarh-Jodhpur bypass and passed through Transport Circle, Gandhi Colony, Gadisar Circle, Railway Station, Indira Colony, Hotel Complex Ring Road, Union Circle, Ambedkar Tricircle, Nagar Parishad, Gopa Chowk, and culminated at Hanuman Circle. On the other hand, there has been a rise in cases in the last three days in Barmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/corona-test-facility-launched-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/79118310.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||In Pics: Country’s longest motorable single-lane bridge inaugurated in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: On eve of the 20th anniversary of the formation of Uttarakhand, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inaugurated the country’s longest single-lane bridge, Dobra-Chanti. Fourteen years after it was sanctioned and 12 years after its first scheduled date of completion, the 725-metre-long bridge is finally open for public use. It will cut travel time between Tehri and Pratapnagar from 5 to 1.5 hours. Built over Tehri Lake at a cost of Rs 2.96 crore, the suspension bridge is expected to benefit a population of around 2.50 lakh people from Pratapnagar and Thauldhar in Tehri district. “The Dobra-Chanti suspension bridge will be a gateway to development in the region. In the future, this place will be a major tourist attraction and will be a driving force for employment of local people,” the CM said. With the construction of the Tehri dam, the bridge that connected Pratapnagar to the district headquarters was submerged in the Tehri Lake and locals in the area were forced to take a 100-km detour. Construction of the Dobra-Chanti bridge started in 2006 at an initial estimated cost of Rs 89 crore during the tenure of then CM ND Tiwari. It was scheduled to be completed by 2008 but several factors delayed the project. In late July this year, CM Rawat had said that the construction had been completed and only final touches were pending on the bridge, which would be done by September. The CM had also requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to digitally inaugurate the bridge, once complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-inaugurates-countrys-longest-motorable-single-lane-bridge-dobra-chanti/articleshow/79116429.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 9, 2020||Kochi||Malayali Diaspora: As ‘Meen’ As They Come||Dublin: One of the few European cities that recognise the cult of curry as a gastronomic religion, Dublin is home to a number of Indian restaurants serving every combination of tikka masala and butter naan imaginable. For the same reason, the oddity of an Irish-English couple opening a Kerala restaurant in the city quickly caught the attention of Dublin’s curry lovers. The true surprise, however, came when they discovered that the homebred hoteliers’ coconut-laced curries were perhaps among its best. As the popularity of the restaurant grew, so did the legend of its origin. The story insisted that a trip to India’s coastal state hypnotized the couple into a quest to open Kerala Kitchen. Even when they expanded their growing curry empire halfway across Co. Dublin to open a new outlet in Stoneybatter last June, the refrain echoed loud as ever. But it was only partly true. The real story, as narrated by co-owner Grainne Flynn, tells us that Kerala Kitchen wasn’t founded on a whim. It involved a great deal of genuine research and learning. "We both lived in Kovalam for over two years to master authentic Kerala-style cooking," says the Donegal-based woman. When Flynn first visited India in 2005, along with then-boyfriend Lewis Cummings, they harboured no strong affinity for Malayali cuisine, but they had heard of Vagbhata’s ‘Ashtanga Hridayam’ and Kerala’s Ayurvedic heritage, which were probably enough to lure them to the state. Certainly, living with the salt-of-the-earth locals who bent over backwards to teach them all about the traditional Kerala fare was a revelatory point for London-based Cummings and Flynn. Soon, the piquancy of curry leaves and the nuttiness of creamy coconut milk got them hooked. For the duo, that is where the veil was lifted: being gastronomes all their lives suddenly made sense. “It was the first time we were trying South Indian food. Although we had tried Indian food several times before, we were only familiar with the North Indian cuisine – something we understood only after living there for some time,” she remembers. However, the couple deliberated well enough before making their grand entry to Ireland’s culinary map in 2009 on a hand-painted food truck. In no time, the all-grey Kerala Kitchen truck with their bright pink elephant logo became a regular trope at food festivals across the nation, with people lining up in long queues to savour the light coastal flavours on the menu. By 2016, the now-married couple opened their first restaurant at Baggot Street, Dublin. A cosy, intimate space in an elephant-grey shade, the Georgian building at Baggot Street gives a cheerful vibe with its peppy Indian hues. Big hits with regulars include Kerala pepper fry, lamb chettinad, prawns molee and meen manga. While most Europeans can’t handle the heat of Indian food, Flynn has no qualms about the spice overload in the tropical state’s labour-intensive cuisine, which according to her is redolent of “freshness and vibrancy”. Sourcing most of their ingredients directly from Kerala and other local grocery shops, the Indian chefs of Kerala Kitchen keep tinkering with age-old recipes from the country to come up with signature dishes that reflect the personal point of view of the Cummings, all the while remaining faithful to the flavours the couple had fallen in love with. Cummings' dedication is definitely paying off: Kerala Kitchen has now made it to the final six of the UK-Ireland Deliveroo awards in the Indian food category. Interestingly, Kerala Kitchen is the only Irish restaurant to even find a spot in the competition. Merin Rebecca is a Kochi-based journalist living in the Republic of Ireland for the past four years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-diaspora-as-meen-as-they-come/articleshow/79117362.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh says no to UP’s demand for bigger share of Ken water||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has refused any compromise on ‘extra’ sharing of Ken River water with Uttar Pradesh, saying the needs of MP farmers need to be met. Chouhan made his view clear on the dispute at a review meeting on the Ken-Betwa river link project this week. “The CM has said that MP will not share even a drop of water more than what was earlier decided, keeping in view what’s best for farmers of Madhya Pradesh. They cannot be deprived of their share,” said an official who was at the meeting. As per the initial agreement, MP was to get 2,650 million cubic meters (MCM) of water and UP 1,700 MCM. UP has been pressing for 935 MCM water in the pre-monsoon months for rabi crops, saying it’s willing to take less in the monsoon months. But this is about 150MCM more than what was agreed upon, say sources in MP. MP has refused, pointing out that its own farmers will also be needing water at the same time. Former additional chief secretary Radheshyam Julania had to cancel his London trip to attend a meeting in Delhi on this, and put forth MP’s case strongly during discussions with UP officials, say sources. Sources say that UP officials eventually settled for 700 MCM of water, as per the previous agreement, but are back to their demand for ‘extra’. “Our priority is to meet demands of farmers of MP,” said an officer. Officials acknowledge that the Ken-Betwa project will take many years to soothe parched Bundelkhand. The biggest hurdle is the final wildlife clearance that is pending with the Supreme-Court appointed central empowered committee (CEC). The standing committee for approval has submitted its report to CEC, which has sent inquiries to National Water Development Authority (NWDA) on the matter. “Water share and wildlife clearance are the two major hurdles,” said an officer. There was apparently disagreement between the two states over finance and execution of the project, as well. It has been decided that the Centre will bear 90% of the project cost, while MP and UP will share the rest, said sources. PMO had also intervened asking both states to end the stalemate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-says-no-to-ups-demand-for-bigger-share-of-ken-water/articleshow/79118348.cms||P Naveen
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun residents take out biodiversity march ‘Parade for Environment’ on the eve of State Foundation Day||DEHRADUN: Several citizens groups of Dehradun participated in the first-of-its-kind biodiversity march — Parade for Environment — by singing, dancing, and chanting slogans against what they termed as ‘anti-environment policies’ of the state government. They condemned ‘rampant deforestation for developmental works’ and said that the malpractice is fast affecting the environment and the landscape of Uttarakhand. Many senior citizens, youths, and noted green activists of the city joined hands to raise awareness among locals about the need to be vocal against the alleged atrocities against the environment. The parade — which started from Behl Chowk and culminated at the Survey of India Gate — witnessed a number of activists urging authorities to stand for the protection of wildlife and forests in Uttarakhand. The march was originally intended to culminate at the CM office but the volunteers were stopped by the cops near the Survey of India Gate. Thereafter, they handed over placards carrying messages of environmental conservation to police personnel and members of the district administration. The activists primarily voiced their concern for the biodiversity-rich Thano Zone which is proposed to be used for the expansion of the Dehradun airport. The activists asked the state government to retract from its plan of felling 10,000 trees in the Shivalik Elephant Reserve for airport expansion. Recently, the Centre had also asked the state government to look for alternate options. “The adamant attitude of the government with regards to airport expansion has prompted Dehradun residents to dress like animals and march towards the chief minister’s residence. This is our attempt to make the voices of the voiceless fauna heard,” read a statement issued by NGO MAD, which also participated in the march. “The event today (November 8) underscores that even after 20 years of the formation of our state, we are still losing forest cover and wildlife. The rich biodiversity is the USP of this state but from Corbett to Rajaji, wildlife habitats are bearing the brunt of defragmentation. We want to tell the government that we will not let things continue like this,” said Himanshu Arora, secretary of NGO ‘Citizens for Green Doon’. Notably, the NGO is also fighting a legal battle against the state government and the Centre over the construction of All-Weather Char Dham Road. Members of other green organisations like Tara Foundation, SFI, Krishivan Doon, among others also participated in the march. It is worth mentioning that the green activists of Dehradun have been conducting an awareness programme every Sunday since October 1 when the news of proposed tree felling for airport expansion was first highlighted by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-residents-take-out-biodiversity-march-parade-for-environment-on-the-eve-of-state-foundation-day/articleshow/79116442.cms||Shivani Azad
November 9, 2020||Surat||‘Buy Made in Indiaproducts this Diwali’||Hazira (Surat): Ahead of Diwali, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made a strong ‘vocal for local’ pitch by exhorting citizens to adopt this mantra and purchase only Indian-made goods during their festival shopping. “Merely buying diyas (lamps) doesn’t make us atmanirbhar (self-reliant). If you look inside your house, there are a large number of articles of daily use which are imported. The very same products are made by the poor and skilled artisans including women in our villages and sold by small-time traders. Why can’t we give them an opportunity?” Modi said after virtually inaugurating the Ghogha-Hazira Ro-Pax service on Sunday. In the backdrop of ‘ban Chinese products’ rhetoric, Modi urged citizens not to compromise on ‘vocal for local’ mantra. “At a time when India is set to celebrate 75 years of Independence, this should become a household mantra. This Diwali should become a turning point in this endeavour.” It must be noted that the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) had stated that there would be a drastic reduction this year in the goods worth Rs 40,000 crore that are imported from China for Diwali China-made gadgets, lanterns, decorative articles, electrical goods, watches, stationery, consumer durables etc are sold in huge quantities for Diwali. In the same breath, the PM also appealed to people not to let down their guard against coronavirus and asked people to celebrate the festivals with utmost caution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/buy-made-in-indiaproducts-this-diwali/articleshow/79117347.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Two brothers booked for fraud of Rs35 cr||Nagpur: An offence of cheating and criminal breach of trust was registered at Sitabuldi police station on Saturday against Sushil Kolhe and his brother Pankaj for duping several investors to the tune of Rs30-35 crore. It’s learnt the Kolhe brothers had set up a digital advertising firm at Sitabuldi in which they had invited investors, luring them with promise of high returns in the form of benefit fund sharing. Sources in the police department said there are more complaints against the Kolhe brothers. The brothers had promised high returns through royalties and also bonus. In order to convince the investors, the brothers had also entered into formal agreements with them. Apart from the city, several investors from other cities too had invested in their scheme. The Kolhes had started defaulting on payments and returns, leading to the complaints. Nagendrasingh Thakur, a native of Madhya Pradesh, had approached home minister Anil Deshmukh at his complaint redressal camp in city. His case was referred to an officer of DCP rank for further investigation. After a detailed investigation, the case was referred to Sitabuldi police station where an offence was registered under relevant sections. Senior inspector Atul Sabnis of Sitabuldi police station said the case would be referred to economic offences wing of the crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-brothers-booked-for-fraud-of-rs35-cr/articleshow/79117338.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Surat||Celebrate birthdays on vessel!||SURAT: Union minister of state for shipping, Mansukh Mandaviya, said the Ro-Pax ferry will go a long way in building a strong trade relationship between Surat and Saurashtra. “Transporters from Kutch, Porbandar, Jamnagar and Junagadh will benefit,” he told reportes. The minister said the Ro-Pax is not only for transportation but people can hire the ferry for celebrating marriages, birthdays and other social functions as well. The ferry left Hazira port at about 12 pm with about 150 passengers and 30 passenger vehicles. Starting Monday, the Ro-Pax will have three daily trips in a day, which will be increased as per demand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/celebrate-birthdays-on-vessel/articleshow/79117517.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘60% with severe infection need sustained care’||AHMEDABAD: Kiran Ojha, 47, a resident of CTM, was admitted on October 2 to a private hospital with low-grade fever, body ache, and a throat infection. He tested Covid positive and his condition deteriorated on the fourth day of admission. “I, however, recovered and was discharged 14 days later,” said Ojha, who is associated with the milk distribution business. “The trouble began soon after. I could not walk more than 20-30 steps and required oxygen support occasionally due to fatigue,” Ojha said. “The condition still prevails even as I try to resume my routine with regular dose of medicines.” Ohja is not alone in his ordeal. Gujarat has now over 1.64 lakh people who have recovered from the Covid infection, and the number of patients requiring post-Covid care is steadily increasing. Several city-based hospitals with Covid-19 facilities have started special clinics to identify and treat the symptoms. Dr Jay Kothari, the head of the post-Covid care clinic at a city-based private hospital, said that the clinic is drawing on average 15-20 patients daily from across Gujarat and even neighbouring states. “Our experience shows that those with a mild infection and quicker discharge don’t require much post-discharge care,” he said. “About 40-50% of the patients with moderate infection need it if they have comorbidities. The ratio shoots to over 60% in patients with severe infection and longer hospital stay.” Dr Kothari added that in some cases, uncontrolled diabetes and psychological disorders are also reported. At Civil Hospital, the Covid care centre was established recently and treats on average 10 to 15 patients, most of whom have been discharged from Civil Hospital. Dr Yagna Shukla, senior lecturer at the physiotherapy college and coordinator for the initiative, said that they have designed a protocol addressing issues such as breathlessness, increasing lung capacity, and improving muscle strength. “The patients require at least a month of follow-up. We have made several videos that we send to the patients so that they can carry out exercise routines on their own,” she said. “Several city-based physiotherapists have also been trained under the initiative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/60-with-severe-infection-need-sustained-care/articleshow/79119290.cms||Parth Shastri
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||Forest dept develops state’s first conservation and research facility for insectivorous plants||Nainital: The research wing of the Uttarakhand forest department has developed a conservation and research facility of the insectivorous plants in Chamoli district. The facility, officials claim, is the first-of-its-kind in Uttarakhand and will conserve around 17 species – both in-situ and ex-situ – from three genera. Speaking to TOI, Sanjeev Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests (research), said that the project will study the distribution as well as numbers of these plants in the state. “The facility is being developed at Mana village in Chamoli district. We have identified and conserved 17 species of these plants and it is the first-of-its-kind project in the state. Until now, there was no study about their distribution or numbers in the state and the aim of the project is to increase our understanding about them,” he said. The research advisory committee of the forest department had approved the project last year. The officials say that many of these plants have medicinal values and are locally used to cure mouth ulcers and other diseases. “Only three plant genera are found in Uttarakhand (Drosera, Pinguicula and Utricularia). The ethnomedicinal values of insectivorous plants indicate that plant parts possess antibacterial and antifungal potentials. The Drosera peltata (shield sundew) extracts inhibited the growth of oral bacteria like streptococcus. Utricularia (bladderworts) has antioxidant properties as well,” Chaturvedi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-dept-develops-states-first-conservation-and-research-facility-for-insectivorous-plants/articleshow/79116454.cms||Prashant Jha
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Kota independent councillor missing, father files report||Kota: The father of an independent councillor from Ward 44 of Kota South Lekhraj Yogi filed a missing report of his son at Gumanpura police station on Saturday. The police, accompanied by the candidate’s father reached Sehore city in Bhopal on the basis of his mobile location on Saturday evening, but returned Kota empty-handed early on Sunday morning. It is alleged that Yogi has been ‘poached’ by the BJP whose councillors are in MP. According to circle inspector of Gumanpura police station Manoj Singh Sikharwar, Lekhraj’s father Prithviraj Yogi filed a missing report of his son after he didn’t return home since Thursday. Prithviraj stated that his son spoke to him on phone on Saturday and was in a state of fear and uneasiness. He told that he was in Sehore city in Madhya Pradesh and following that his phone disconnected, he said. Sikharwar said, “A police team led by sub-inspector Daulatram, who also accompanied Prithviraj, reached Sehore by a private vehicle. Lekhraj’s mobile was still found to be switched off when they reached Sehore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-independent-councillor-missing-father-files-report/articleshow/79118347.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Hubballi||Ivory smuggling racket busted in Belagavi||BELAGAVI: The Belagavi forest department busted an ivory smuggling racket at midnight on Saturday, with the arrest of two poachers, and seized 7 tusks. Based on a tip-off from the Belagavi forest department’s mobile squad, a raid was conducted at Hosavantamuri village of Belagavi taluk, where the two poachers were arrested. The accused are Lagamanna Nayik,26, of Hukkeri taluk and Mallappa Doolappagol,38, of Belagavi city. The accused were produced before the Belagavi 4th JMFC court. According to a forest department source, 7 brown tusks of the lengths of 3 to 5 inches, weighing 410 grams were recovered. As per the primary investigation, a smuggling case has been registered against five persons, including two arrested persons. The police is on the lookout for the absconding accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ivory-smuggling-racket-busted-in-belagavi/articleshow/79116866.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Gujjar-dominated districts on alert, no headway in talks||JAIPUR: High alert was sounded in the districts dominated by the Gujjar community on Sunday as their leader Kirori Singh Bainsla on Saturday had threatened to intensify the agitation from Monday if their demands are not met. The government is trying to hold talks with Gujjars at Pilukapura, however, there is no headway. Senior police officers in Bharatpur and Kota range have been asked to be vigilant to avoid blockages, violence or any law and order problems. Vijay Bainsla said, “We had asked the state government to come and talk on the tracks on what they have done especially to clear backlog of vacancies, but nobody approached us so far. We will not move an inch until our demands are been met.” “On Sunday, we got a call from Karauli collector that minister Ashok Chandana would meet us at a place other than tracks. We accepted it and suggested that he may come and have a word at Suroth village which is merely 6km away from the tracks. But nobody turned up and we got no intimation from their side,” he added. “They have been insisting on orders clearing backlog of appointments under more backward classes (MBCs),” said a senior officer of Bharatpur. Meanwhile, the blockade on the Delhi-Mumbai rail tracks continued by the Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti at Pilukapura under Bayana block and the Hindaun-Bayana road for the eighth consecutive day on Sunday. On the other hand, Himmat Singh, a young Gujjar leader who is opposing Bainsla and their move and had accepted the 14-point demands which the state government has promised to fulfil, said, “Bainsla only wished to project his son as leader. People are not convinced. This time if Panch Patels of 80 villages and a delegation have undergone a pact with the state government, they should accept it. Earlier, when Bainsla was into parleys and pacts with former governments we had gracefully accepted it. Also, we will not let anyone to touch Jaipur-Delhi rail route and Jaipur-Agra bus route via Dausa.” Around 200 members of Gujjar community on Sunday blocked the NH-52 at 5pm on Sunday near Chatarganj village near Hindoli in Bundi district of the state. Thereafter the traffic on the national highway was diverted from Delio and Basoli turn causing inconvenience to thousands of passengers and transporters on the Jaipur-Kota national highway only to resume late on Sunday evening after 5.15pm. A report on the demonstration and blockage of the national highway was sent to the state government. The community people led by former sarpanch Manmohan Dhabai and others held a meeting at the temple and blocked the NH for over 3 hours in support of reservation demand of the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gujjar-dominated-dists-on-alert-no-headway-in-talks/articleshow/79118352.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Kota police recover 64kg silver from burglars, 3 arrested||KOTA: Kota police cracked a burglary case on Saturday night and recovered 64kg of silver worth around Rs 38 lakh from three persons. The metal was stolen from a transporter’s shop under Gumapura police station area here on November 1. A businessman from Saharanpur in Ahmedabad had lodged a complaint in Gumanpura police station stating that a 65 kg parcel with 64 kg of silver kept at a transporter’s shop in Seven Wonders area was stolen on November 1, Kota city SP Gourav Yadav said. A police team under the supervision of ASP Praveen Jain and led by circle offocer of Gumanpura police station Manoj Singh Sikarwar launched the investigation and cracked the case on Saturday evening by arresting three persons identified as Mukesh Dhobi (40), a native to Ashok Nagar district in MP, Javed (22) of Guna district (MP) and Juned (21) of Baran district, he added. The police traced the accused with the assistance of cyber experts, he added. All the three accused currently live in Kota city for livelihood and are fruit vendors in Gumanpura area, he added. In initial interrogation, it was revealed that Dhobi had a debt of Rs 3 lakh while other two accused were also owed money, the SP said. Mukesh, along with two of his fruit vendor companions, conspired to carry out the burglary and on November 1 broke into the transporter’s shop and decamped with a 65kg parcel containing 64kg of silver, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-recover-64kg-silver-from-burglars-3-arrested/articleshow/79118356.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Nebulization safe, use with caution for Covid patients: Expert||Nagpur: Nebulized medications are frequently used for the management of acute asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbations, home maintenance treatment for respiratory diseases like cystic fibrosis, bronchiectasis, etc. Covid-19 pandemic has raised concerns about use of nebulization not only among common people but also practicing physicians. In view of this, Indian Chest Society (ICS), the apex body of pulmonologists in India, has released guidance for nebulization during the Covid‑19 pandemic. The document not only guides physicians but also helps common people taking nebulization treatment at home. Dr Rajesh Swarnakar, national secretary of ICS, shared these guidelines with physicians across the country in a live webinar organized on Sunday. “As far as Covid-19 is concerned, there are various risk factors among which nebulization is included. But, it is categorized as low to medium risk. Filters placed to the nebulizer device have been found to be 93% effective in sieving exhaled droplets,” said Dr Swarnakar. According to him, use of high‑efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters with nebulizers might be a good option during nebulization for patients with Covid‑19. ICS guidelines state that the use of traditional face mask during nebulization should be avoided during the pandemic, especially while treating Covid‑19 patients. Instead, jet nebulizers are recommended to be used with a mouthpiece. “Standard guidelines like maintaining safe distance and washing hands must be followed. A fresh mask, mouthpiece and tubing should be preferred for each nebulization treatment,” said Dr Swarnakar. Asthmatic patients with no symptoms or confirmed diagnosis of Covid‑19 should continue with essential nebulized medications as recommended by their physician Nebulization at home should be performed with all safety precautions such as using a clean nebulizer in a well ventilated room, disinfecting the nebulizer after every use and not sharing it with other family members. In hospitals, nebulization should be performed by a trained health care provider with complete precautions like use of face mask, eye protection, gloves, gown and maintaining a safe distance. In ICUs, nebulization should be performed with additional safety measures such as using negative‑pressure rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nebulization-safe-use-with-caution-for-covid-patients-expert/articleshow/79117357.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 9, 2020||Vadodara||Court orders interim compensation to minor rape victims||VADODARA: In a rare occurrence, a sessions court here passed a suo motu order on Saturday awarding interim compensation to two minor rape survivors. The court of additional district judge, A J Kanani took suo motu cognizance as no action was taken by different authorities to provide interim relief to the two girls aged 14 years and 10 years both from Savli in Vadodara district. The 14-year-old girl was awarded an interim compensation of Rs 2 lakh and the other girl will be awarded Rs 75,000. According to official sources, this is the first such suo motu action taken by a court in Vadodara and second in the state. While hearing hearing two different applications connected with the cases of the two rape-survivors, the court learnt that no interim compensation was awarded to any of them. The court stated that the child welfare committee (CWC), district child protection unit (DCPU), investigative units for crime against women (IUCAW) and special juvenile police units (SJPU) ‘miserably failed’ in providing interim compensation and interim relief to the minor rape survivors. The 14-year-old girl was raped and impregnated due to the heinous crime. The court noted that as she is pregnant, she may need extra care, nutritious food and diet and medication, but nothing has been provided to her. On inquiring with the girls and their parents, the court also found that they are depressed and traumatized. The order stated that the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, POCSO Rules, criminal procedure code (CrPC), Gujarat Victim Compensation Scheme, National Legal Services Authority’s Compensation Scheme among others have been formed for the rehabilitation of the rape survivors and awarding them compensation. The district legal services authority has been asked to sensitize the CWC, DCPU, IUCAW and SJPU regarding protecting child rights. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/court-orders-interim-compensation-to-minor-rape-victims/articleshow/79117247.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Party ends in tragedy as 2 youths die in car crash in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In a suspected drunken driving case, two youngsters died and two of their friends suffered grievous injuries after their car crashed into an electric pole first and later into a hoarding and then flipped at Delhiwala Chaat near Hanuman Temple late on Saturday night. The incident took place around 12.30am on Sunday on the stretch between Secunderabad Club and Trimulgherry Crossroads. Kharkhana inspector Madhukar Swamy said IT professional Sai Kiran Reddy, 25, a resident of Neredmet, and interior decorator G Sahil, 24, a resident of Keesara, died on the spot while their two friends Pritham Roy and Sai Charan suffered grievous injures and were in a serious condition. Police said the four friends had a party at a pub in Jubilee Hills and were heading towards Neredmet. “It appears that they were travelling at extremely high speed between Secunderabad Club and Kharkhana stretch. Sai Kiran, who was behind the wheel, lost control over the vehicle and the car veered to the left. It first hit an electric police, next a pole of a hoarding and then flipped, police added. The car got completely mangled due to the impact. “Despite both air bags opening due to the impact, Kiran and Sahil died as their bodies got crushed. However, due to the air bags their face was intact. Pritham and Sai Kiran, who were in the rear seat, suffered major injuries and they were shifted to a private hospital. We suspect that it could be a case of drunken driving,’’ the inspector added. Officials said the four friends were heading to Neredmet to have dinner at Pritham’s restaurant at Neredmet. A case was registered under Section 304-A (negligence causing death) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/party-ends-in-tragedy-as-2-youths-die-in-car-crash/articleshow/79118361.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Fire at ICU of JLN hosp in Ajmer district, patient dies||Ajmer: A patient died after a fire broke out in the ICU of JLN Hospital here around 4am on Sunday. The fire was triggered by a short circuit, hospital sources said. Sources said the patient who was on ventilator in the ICU died while being shifted to another ward. The ICU, which had around 20 patients, remained shut for around an hour. Denying that the patient died because of burns, hospital sources said he was suffering from various ailments and died while being shifted to another ward. Hospital superintendent Anil Jain and in-charge doctor Sanjeev Maheshwari reached the facility and made alternative arrangements for patients. Authorities said the power wirings which were old and torn caught fire and damaged a number of equipment in the ICU. Two days ago, the newly appointed divisional commissioner had inspected the hospital and was satisfied with the infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fire-at-icu-of-jln-hosp-in-ajmer-district-patient-dies/articleshow/79118359.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Gadkari tells NMC to convert all its vehicles to CNG||Nagpur: Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has told Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to convert all its vehicles to run on compressed natural gas (CNG) within six months. He was addressing the inaugural function of BJP’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Kendra for the city in Shivaji Nagar on Sunday. “This is one of the ways of becoming self-sufficient in fuel. Right from mayor’s car to garbage collection vehicles, each one of them should switch over to CNG. Not only this, if city autorickshaws switch over to CNG, the owners will earn Rs500 more per month than they do today,” he said. “We must also encourage preparation of organic fertilizer from waste in every house, especially in rural areas. The pilot project should begun with 25,000 houses. Such cottage industries can boost the rural economy. This will be one more step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat,” said Gadkari. Stressing further on the importance of electric cars, the minister said, “We have to spend Rs40,000 crore every year to import crude oil. This is a tremendous burden on our finances. With number of vehicles continuously increasing, this figure will go on increasing unless we shift from petrol and diesel driven vehicles.” “Our industrialists must think of manufacturing electric and biofuel driven vehicles here. India has no shortage of skilled manpower. The new industries will create employment opportunities for youth and save precious foreign exchange,” said Gadkari. The focus should be on introducing two-wheelers that run on biofuels, he added. City buses should also switch to biofuels and e-tickets to reduce pilferage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadkari-tells-nmc-to-convert-all-its-vehicles-to-cng/articleshow/79117366.cms||Ashish Roy
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad accounts for 17% of Gujarat’s cases||AHMEDABAD: From October 25 to November 8 – a fortnight – Gujarat recorded 14,445 cases of Covid-19 infection. Out of the total, 2,408 were recorded from Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) limits, which accounted for about 17% share. In the same period, the state recorded the deaths of 81 positive patients out of which Ahmedabad accounted for 31 or 38% of deaths. Since November 4, Ahmedabad city has recorded the highest daily cases, overtaking Surat city as the biggest contributor at an average 161 daily cases. With 185 cases in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Sunday, Ahmedabad district crossed 44,000 cumulative cases. At 1.28%, Ahmedabad city’s mortality rate (deaths per 100 positive cases) in the past fortnight was higher compared to Surat’s 0.87. The two cities recorded six out of every 10 deaths of Covid-19 positive patients in the fortnight. The analysis of the daily Covid-19 tally revealed that the eight municipal corporation areas accounted for an average 53% of daily cases since October 25. On the other hand, the cities recorded 72% of the deaths. The website of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (AHNA) mentioned that on Sunday morning two thirds (66%) of the beds of 70 hospitals, which are members of the AHNA, had been occupied. AHNA president Dr Bharat Gadhvi said that the occupancy had gone up by about 10 to 15% in the past one week. “On the other hand, the occupancy of ventilators is around 49% (78 out of 160 ventilators occupied). It means that there is a surge in cases, but serious cases are slightly down. We urge the citizens to be very careful during the festive season to prevent the second wave. Winter season also poses threat. The use of face shields, especially while meeting nears and dears, can be very effective,” said Dr Gadhvi. The state health department officials said that the past two weeks had recorded a surge in positive cases in Mehsana and Gandhinagar districts. Banaskantha, Aravalli and Patan districts recorded over 50% rise in week-on-week basis, revealed the analysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-accounts-for-17-of-states-cases/articleshow/79119289.cms||Parth Shastri
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||Hot air balloon festival held in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: The Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB), in association with The Times of India, organised free hot air balloon rides in George Everest Estate at Hathipaon on Sunday as part of the State Foundation Day celebrations. More than 450 people enjoyed the hot air balloon rides. On the occasion, tourism officials said that the Uttarakhand government is mulling hot air balloon safaris at prominent tourist spots to encourage adventure tourism in the state. VS Chauhan, joint director (tourism), told TOI that the tourism department is planning a series of adventure tourism events to draw tourists to Uttarakhand. “We are planning kayaking, paragliding, and mountaineering competitions in Nayar valley in Pauri this month. In December, a skiing championship will be organised in Auli. We are also mulling to start hot air balloon safaris at some places,” added Chauhan. Meanwhile, Prashant Arya, director (tourism), Uttarakhand, said, “I feel that every location in Uttarakhand has the potential for some kind of tourism activity. The tourism department is trying to explore all possibilities so that more tourists come here and our culture expands, the economy grows, and local people get more employment opportunities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-foundation-day-celebrations-hot-air-balloon-festival-held-in-mussoorie/articleshow/79116479.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||One killed in gas cylinder blast, probe ordered||Roorkee: A 30-year-old man, who sustained critical injuries in the gas cylinder blast that took place in Manglaur on Saturday, succumbed to injuries on Sunday. He was undergoing treatment in Dehradun-based Coronation Hospital after being referred from the civil hospital of Roorkee. “The deceased has been identified as Manglaur-resident Ashraf (30). He had been referred to Dehradun due to his critical state,” SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh told TOI. Meanwhile, nine others who had sustained serious injuries in the explosion are undergoing treatment in different facilities of the state, including Coronation Hospital and AIIMS Rishikesh. Taking cognisance of the accident, Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar, on Sunday, ordered a magisterial probe into the matter whereas the local police have registered a case of homicide and negligence under appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code against Ashish Garg (alias Bobby), the owner of the sweets shop where the cylinder blast took place. “A magisterial inquiry will be conducted into the accident,” confirmed Namami Bansal, joint magistrate (Roorkee).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-killed-in-gas-cylinder-blast-probe-ordered/articleshow/79116469.cms||Tapan Susheel
November 9, 2020||Delhi||JNU stalwart CP Bhambhri passes away||NEW DELHI: Noted political scientist CP Bhambhri, known for his razor-sharp inquiries into the structure of Indian state, exhaustive exploration of bureaucracy and signature booming laugh, passed away at his south Delhi residence on Sunday. He was 87. “With him, the last of the original trio of Rasheeduddin Khan, K Seshadri and CPB leaves us,” wrote erstwhile colleague Balveer Arora at JNU’s Centre for Political Studies on Facebook. Like him, many others poured tributes on social media remembering the Multan-born social scientist as an “inspirational teacher” who wore “a dark brown corduroy coat” in winters. Former student Kanniappan Elangovan posted, “He was such a great teacher and his argumentative skills, coupled with a sense of humour, were captivating.” Rakesh Batabyal, associate professor at JNU’s Centre for Media Studies said that Bhambhri’s earliest work on the legislative deliberations of public sector enterprises showed how such political debates helped in the making and shaping of a development paradigm in India. “He was also among the first scholars to offer a class-based analysis of the Indian bureaucracy,” he said. Almost 50 years since it was first published, Bureaucracy and Politics in India remains a must-read for students of political science and public administration. Chandra Prakash Bhambhri earned his PhD in 1959 from Agra University working on parliamentary control over state enterprises. He taught in the small-towns of Moradabad, Meerut and Jaipur before joining JNU in 1972. Over the next four and half decades, he remained engaged with the institution. From the Eighties onwards, he wrote incisively and extensively on Indian politics and frequently contributed to newspapers and journals even at an advanced age. “He was a lucid interpreter of political processes,” Arora said. Batabyal further pointed out that he was among the first Marxist political scientists in India to examine how the developed world uses its financial and economic clout to subvert the political and cultural life of its former colonies. “Bhambhri also critiqued the Communist parties who at one point of time equated BJP and Congress. He firmly believed that BJP and its ideological core RSS, due to its vast material and social base, could lead the country to a totalitarian road where civil libertarian aspects of political life could be extinguished,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-stalwart-cp-bhambhri-passes-away/articleshow/79118365.cms||Avijit Ghosh
November 9, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Child found dead in borewell after 90-hour rescue operation||BHOPAL: The massive operation to rescue a toddler who had fallen into a borewell in MP’s Niwadi district ended in tragedy in the wee hours of Sunday. Little Prahlad was long dead by the time rescuers reached him. “We couldn’t save Prahlad despite tireless efforts. I am extremely pained by this and am with the family in their grief. I ask those who dig borewells to keep them covered so that such tragedies don’t recur,” CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted. The government has given an assistance of Rs 5 lakh to the family. The 90-hour operation had started in Saitpura village on the morning of November 4. Prahlad was stuck 55ft down the 200-ft-deep borewell, and had stopped responding around 10.30am that day, but rescuers didn’t give up. District administration sources said that he had died on the very first day, within hours of slipping into the borewell. Rescuers dug a parallel tunnel to link up with the borewell and pull Prahlad to safety. It was 3am on Sunday when they finally broke through. The smiles of success lasted only a few seconds as the rescuers realised the toddler was dead. It was just a formality to take the boy to a hospital in Niwadi for a doctor’s certificate. Villagers hadn’t left the site during the rescue, praying for a miracle. Even at 3am on Sunday, there were 2,000 of them on the spot when Prahlad was carried out. District collector Ashish Bhargawa was heard shouting, “Bhago bhago, aspatal le jao jaldi (run, take him to hospital quickly).” “We did not want to waste a single second,” he later told TOI. Over 100 personnel from NDRF and SDRF worked night and day for nearly four days, first digging a 60-ft parallel shaft and then tunneling horizontally to link up with the borewell. On Saturday night, some of them nearly collapsed from fatigue and fell ill, but others carried on. The Herculean effort ended in tragedy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/child-found-dead-in-borewell-after-90-hr-rescue-operation/articleshow/79118401.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Virus boosted mediclaim awareness’||AHMEDABAD: Health insurances, earlier considered ‘push products’ or accounting for discretionary expenses, have become ‘pull products’ or a necessity for a large section of the society, as Covid-19 has increased people’s awareness about them. This was stated by the top officials of insurance companies in a webinar hosted by the Gujarat chapter of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Sunday. Hitesh Birani, executive vice-president at HDFC Ergo General Insurance, said that the customers should opt for super top-up covers offered by insurance companies. CII Gujarat vice-chairman Vinod Agrawal said that healthcare spending in India was just 4.2% of the GDP, the lowest among BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, and China) nations. “Around 90-92 crore population of India is covered by PMJAY, ESIC and other government schemes, and by insurance companies, while 40 crore people are under-covered or not covered at all,” said Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/virus-boosted-mediclaim-awareness/articleshow/79119299.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Lady Shri Ram student suicide: Parents blame college, govt||HYDERABAD: Days after a 19-year-old student of Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College, Delhi, committed suicide, her parents in Rangareddy district blamed it on financial crisis and lack of support from the state and central governments. According to police, Arunima (name changed) was found hanging at her residence in Shadnagar on November 2. In her suicide note, the student stated that she did not want to burden her family as they were already in financial crisis. Further, she asked her family to ensure that they claim the ‘Inspire’ scholarship amount of Rs 1.2 lakh due in March, 2021. The student had fought all odds to secure an admission in LSR College in Bachelor of Science and Mathematics. Her parents, who mortgaged their house for Rs two lakh and sought loans worth Rs 1 lakh from mahila mandal groups for their daughter’s education, said that the college’s order to vacate the hostel during the pandemic drove her to take the drastic step. “She knew we put everything at stake to send her to Delhi for higher studies. She couldn’t seek more money from us as she was aware that we were already struggling to pay the loans we had sought for her education,” G Srinivas Reddy, father of the 19-year-old, told TOI, adding that the family had discontinued academics of their younger daughter in order to support higher studies of the elder one. Her parents also alleged that despite knowing their daughter had no access to a laptop with the Internet facility or a decent smartphone to attend online classes, she was asked to vacate the hostel. “My daughter clearly admitted in the college internal survey that she was unable to complete her practical paper as her mobile and laptop are not working properly. They could have considered that and offered some help. I want the government to ensure that other students don’t face such problems,” said G Sumati Reddy, her mother. Following a complaint filed by the girl’s father at Shadnagar police station, police have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC and investigation is under progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lsr-student-suicide-parents-blame-college-govt/articleshow/79118367.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 9, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: United by polls, they work jointly for people’s welfare||ALAPPUZHA: S Rajesh and M Rejani, who are the Congress party’s elected members to the Panavalli grama panchayat, had won two local body elections together, first in 2010 and later in 2015. In their second term, they decided to get married and became one of the rare people’s-representative couples in the state. As yet another local body polls is around the corner, Rajesh and Rejani said theirs was an accidental marriage. “During our first term from 2010 to 2015, we were good friends and we could execute many projects for the welfare of the villagers without any corruption,” said Rejani. In the 2010 election, UDF clinched power in the panchayat and Rejani was chosen as the president and Rajesh was the welfare standing committee chairman. Rajesh said they got married during their second stint, when they were part of the opposition as the LDF wrested power in the 2015 polls. “After the last local body polls, Rejani and me were the only unwed members among the people’s representatives. Then, our colleagues started asking us why we couldn’t think of becoming a couple. At first we refused the suggestion but gradually a special bond developed between us and we shared it with our family members. They supported us and we got married on September 11, 2016,” said Rajesh, thanking their voters and colleagues. Being a couple they work hand in hand for both the wards. “I represent ward XI and my wife ward XIV. We work together for the people of both the wards. Planning of projects and their execution are done together,” said Rajesh. Rajesh, 39, entered politics during his graduation and has functioned in various capacities like the KSU unit secretary of in Cherthala NSS College, KSU Alappuzha district secretary and vice-president and office-bearer of the KSU unit in Ernakulam Law College. He was the president of Youth Congress in Aroor niyojaka mandalam for 10 years and has bagged the award for the best Youth Congress niyojaka mandalam president in the state. Though Rajesh enrolled as an advocate in 2009, he likes to stick to politics. Rejani, an MCom graduate, did not have any political background and was working as a private college teacher when she was chosen to contest the polls in 2010. The couple said the candidates for the upcoming election are yet to be fixed and they would contest if the party fields them once again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/united-by-polls-they-work-jointly-for-peoples-welfare/articleshow/79117399.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Scribe says sorry, sedition quashed||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has quashed sedition charges against journalist Dhaval Patel after he tendered an unconditional apology. But he has been cautioned that he must not publish news against any constitutional functionary without verification of facts. Patel, an editor of the portal Face of Nation, was booked on May 8 by the city crime branch for sedition for an article that he had published a day before. Patel said in the article that the BJP high command might replace Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani with Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya because of Rupani’s handling of the Covid-19 situation. Crime branch sleuths summoned Patel and arrested him on May 11 under Section 124A of the IPC and provisions of the Disaster Management Act. Patel had to spend more than two weeks behind bars before a sessions court released him on bail on May 28. Patel had approached the Gujarat high court on May 20 for quashing of the FIR contending that the charges of sedition were vendetta on part of the state government and that they are not sustainable. However, later, Patel chose to tender an unconditional apology to get rid of the criminal proceedings. “I tender my unconditional apology for the allegedly offending article published by me in my web portal Face of Nation based on which the impugned FIR has been registered against me,” Patel’s apology reads as quoted by the high court in its order passed on Friday. “My unconditional apology is without prejudice and without admission of any guilt,” Patel goes on to say. Justice R P Dholaria accepted the apology, quashed the FIR, but warned Patel against repeating the publication of unverified news about constitutional functionaries. “The impugned FIR/proceedings are quashed and set aside with a caution to the petitioner that as and when he may publish any article in future, no such comments be used against any constitutional functionaries without verification and he shall be cautious of not repeating the same,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/scribe-says-sorry-sedition-quashed/articleshow/79119297.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Delhi||SDMC composting plant for just Rs 50,000?||NEW DELHI: In a bid to make a financially viable model, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has created a composting plant with 60 tonnes per month capacity, in Rajouri Garden near Najafgarh road. Being touted as “the cheapest composting plant”, the input cost of the project is Rs 50,000. Civic officials said that concessionaires are currently being paid on the basis of weight of the transported garbage and one month’s savings on transportation costs alone make up for the initial costs. Rajeev Jain, Swachh Bharat Mission nodal officer for the civic body, said SDMC pays almost Re 1 per kilogram to transporters who carry garbage from houses to Okhla landfill site or the waste-to-energy plant. “Not only are we saving Rs 60,000 per month — even if we consider a nominal cost of Rs 25 per kilogram for high quality compost that is produced — one 2TPD (tonne per day) plant saves us almost Rs3 lakh. In the private sector such high quality compost is sold at even higher price — Rs40-50 per kg. Also, decentralised plants are environmentally friendly,” he added. Taking an input of 60 tonnes of raw kitchen wet waste like vegetables and leftovers, the plant is able to produce 10-12 tonnes of organic compost, which is sent to horticulture department to be used in municipal parks. It is also provided free of cost to societies that segregate the waste to encourage behavioural change. Commissioner, SDMC, Gyanesh Bharti, who is also looking after the charge of north corporation, has directed that over next three to four months 100 such segregating and compositing plants should be established. South corporation’s 104 wards are divided into four zones and collectively produce more than 3,600 tonnes of garbage every day. Almost half of this is sent to the Okhla waste-to-energy plant, while the rest is dumped at the landfill site, which is already oversaturated. The civic body is also carrying out trommeling and bio-mining of legacy waste at the landfill site and more than 1.7 lakh tons of waste has been reduced so far. Experts have criticised the slow pace and continued fresh waste dumping in this project. A senior corporation official said that if more and more such plants can be established at decentralised levels and fresh waste dumping is reduced, the net progress in biomining will be faster. Jain said that the model is easily replicable as no mechanised components are involved and economical wire mesh composters are being started at 30 locations. “Besides savings, environmental earnings are even more important as decentralised plants save thousands of litres of diesel and improve greenery by providing ready organic manure,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-composting-plant-for-just-rs-50k/articleshow/79118445.cms||Paras Singh
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Shiromani Akali Dal holds meetings in segments contested by BJP||JALANDHAR: Having severed ties with BJP, Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) has started holding meetings in assembly constituencies contested by its former ally to mobilise supporters. Already, four meetings have been held in three urban constituencies of Jalandhar and another was held here on Sunday. While meetings in Jalandhar are being held to mobilise cadres for a protest outside the residence of Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal on Monday over the issue of postmatric scholarship scam, the party is also looking at these meetings to mobilise cadres for the 2022 assembly elections on its own. In Jalandhar Central constituency, SAD held its third meeting on Sunday. Meetings were held in Jalandhar West and Jalandhar North constituencies in the last few days. SAD leaders who are keen to contest in case Akali Dal contests alone in 2022, were involved in organising these meetings and also made it an occasion to show their strength. In the meeting on Sunday evening in Jalandhar Central constituency, which was held at Gurdwara Dewan Asthaan Central Town, former SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, Nakodar MLA Gurpartap Singh Wadala and SGPC member Kulwant Singh Mannan were among the participants. Sources in Akali Dal said this was the first phase of mobilising cadres in these BJP-dominated constituencies and they were also taking feedback. SAD leader Sukhminder Singh Rajpal, who organised the meeting on Sunday, said eight temple committees also participated in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akali-dal-holds-meetings-in-segments-contested-by-bjp/articleshow/79118384.cms||IP Singh
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Ahead of Diwali, craftsmen struggle as flood-damaged kilns affect livelihood||HYDERABAD: The traditional earthen lamp markets in Kumharwadi area of Old City that usually see a flurry of activities around Diwali celebrations are likely to suffer heavy losses this year as the pottery kilns in which they put the final product have been destroyed in the floods that recently hit the city. The craftsmen who start procuring the raw material at least a month before the festival say that their business has come to a standstill as they are unable to deliver the finished product in time to the retailers who have started approaching them with orders. Ashok Kumar, who belongs to the ‘Kumhar’ (potter) community said, “Any product that is made with clay will retain its shape only if it is exposed to high temperatures. The pottery kilns produce smoke and fumes in huge quantity as well as high flames caused by baking of earthen pots and lamps. But this year, the pottery kilns and the diyas that we made have been completely destroyed. We are now starting everything from scratch, but we will not be able to earn any profits.” Potters also say that the demand for conventional diyas has dropped in the last few years. They attributed slump in demand to people opting for fancy lamps and electric lights. “There was a time when one could see hundreds of pot makers having their hands full during Diwali season, but now, the numbers have dwindled, with people opting for fancy lights. The floods have made it even more difficult for us to deliver the product on time. Earlier, people used to buy dozens of diyas, but now they are picking up one or two traditional diyas and decorating their houses mostly with electric lights,” said another traditional diya seller K Bikshapathi, who has managed to sell less than 100 diyas so far. “As a result of floods, it is tough for us to dry the prepared pots or lamps and send them to the market. We will be very grateful if the government provides financial relief to members of our community in these tough times,” said Bikshapathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ahead-of-diwali-craftsmen-struggle-as-flood-damaged-kilns-affect-livelihood/articleshow/79118416.cms||Moulika.KV
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Techie arrested for misbehaviour by Panjagutta police||HYDERABAD: Panjagutta police have arrested a 28-year-old software engineer for misbehaving with a woman at Ameerpet bus stop. The accused, who was in an inebriated condition, had a scuffle with a police constable who arrived at the spot and caused a minor injury on his hand. The accused was identified as K Mahesh, a software engineer from Kummari Basthi in Somajiguda. At 10pm on Saturday, police received a complaint about a man misbehaving with a woman at KLM bus stop at Ameerpet. When a patrolling team cop Sailu reached the spot and apprehended the accused, he started arguing with the constable. “The accused who was in a drunken condition, grabbed the constable’s collar and by pushing him caused a minor injury on the hand,” Panjagutta sub-inspector (SI) D Nagaraju said. After the arrest, the woman, who was harassed, lodged a complaint with police stating that while she was waiting for a bus, the accused came to her and pulled her hand. When the victim resisted his attempts, Mahesh, started shouting at her and held her neck. Based on the complaint of the victim, a case was registered under Sections 354-A, 332, 504 and 506 of the IPC. The accused was produced before a magistrate and sent in judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-arrested-for-misbehaviour/articleshow/79118392.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||5,000 diploma engineering seats empty in govt colleges||AHMEDABAD: After holding two rounds of admissions for diploma studies, a fresh round was conducted for students who cleared Class X in the supplementary exams. “So far, more than 5,000 seats in government-run colleges are still lying empty after the latest admission round,” said sources in the admission committee. The self-financed colleges were entrusted with the task of filling 24,000 vacant seats after two rounds of admissions in diploma engineering courses. In all, about 2,515 students participated in the latest round of admission, out of which 1,925 students were enrolled in the colleges. Thus, at the end of the three rounds, admission to 1,4930 of total 20,603 seats of government and grant-in-aid colleges were alloted. The self-financed colleges have been directed to fill their vacant seats by the end of this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5k-diploma-engg-seats-empty-in-govt-colleges/articleshow/79119298.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||Two killed and four others hurt in accident||UTTARKASHI: At least two persons died and four others sustained critical injuries after the vehicle they were travelling fell into a deep gorge at Mori region of Uttarkashi district late on Saturday night. According to TOI sources, six villagers of Mori region were going to Jakhol village from Sankri on Saturday midnight. However, the pick-up vehicle they were travelling in fell into a 250-metre-deep gorge near Gunya Ghati area. Two persons — identified as 28-year-old Manoj Rawat and 25-year-old Arjun Rawat — died on the spot whereas 32-year-old Ram Lal, 24-year-old Rameshi Devi, 28-year-old Ramesh Lal, and 25-year-old Jayveeri Devi sustained critical injuries. Soon after the accident, the police team pulled out all the victims from the gorge and sent injured persons to the community health centre at Mori. Sub-inspector Naveen Kumar said, “After giving primary treatment, doctors have referred all the injured persons to higher medical facilities in Dehradun. Bodies of both the deceased villagers have been sent for postmortem examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-killed-and-four-others-hurt-in-accident/articleshow/79116497.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Cracks in pipeline hit water supply in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Water supply in certain major areas - like Abids, Nampally, M J Market and half a dozen tail-end areas - was on Sunday affected after a water pipeline, which supplies Krishna water, developed cracks. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) officials noticed the leakage at Abids on Friday and thereafter a portion of the road sunk. The officials have sought permission from traffic police for cutting the road and plugging the leakages. “The traffic police permitted earth excavation at the leakage site on Sunday as traffic on this stretch is less on a weekend. We have noticed that leakage occurred from a 300 mm diameter water line due to technical glitch and are rectifying it on a war footing,” HMWS&SB general manager (O&M Division-VI) K S Vinod Kumar told TOI. “The water line, being laid between Boggulakunta reservoir and Red Hills reservoir, will meet the needs of nearly 20,000 consumers,” he said. An HMWS&SB official said, “Tankers are being sent to affected areas to avoid inconvenience to consumers. Work may be completed either on late Sunday night or Monday morning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cracks-in-pipeline-hit-water-supply/articleshow/79118444.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Tarun Chugh: CBI must probe post-matric scholarship scam||CHANDIGARH: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary Tarun Chugh has sought a CBI probe into the alleged postmatric scholarship scam in Punjab, saying that poor scheduled caste students were cheated and crores of rupees that came as a central fund for the scheme was misappropriated. Chugh also demanded dismissal of Punjab social justice and welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and disqualification of Phagwara Congress MLA B S Dhaliwal, who was director of the social welfare department when the scam took place. The BJP leader said it is surprising that Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh gave Dharamsot and Dhaliwal a clean chit instead of taking disciplinary action against them as if the alleged Rs 63 crore scam took place with his connivance. Chugh said lakhs of poor scheduled caste students were left high and dry despite having completed their education because they have not received their degrees. He said they were unable to get jobs and were facing a dark future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chugh-cbi-must-probe-post-matric-scholarship-scam/articleshow/79118448.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre treating farmers as enemies of state: Sukhbir||Amritsar: Condemning the Centre for not restarting freight train services in Punjab, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said the Union government was treating farmers agitating against its agriculture-marketing laws as “enemies of the state”. He was talking to media after welcoming BJP spokesperson and former Tarn Taran district president R P S Maini into the party fold here. Stating that Centre should not make the issue of restarting train services in Punjab as one of prestige and should not put conditions on farmers, he said farmers had begun the ‘rail roko’ agitation for the annulment of the three laws. He said they had vacated rail tracks for more than one week. “But the central government is not restarting trains on one flimsy excuse or the other. Such conduct is not advisable in a democracy. The centre should not try to use heavy-handed tactics against farmers,” he said Mocking the state Congress’s recent protest at Delhi, he said the Congress government had not only failed to ensure the voice of farmers was heard in Delhi, but was also colluding with the Centre to ensure they did not get any relief. Describing Maini as a young and capable leader, Sukhbir announced the former’s appointment as party spokesperson. He also announced that Maini would be given due honour and recognition in the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-treating-farmers-as-enemies-of-state-sukhbir/articleshow/79118422.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Technological University plans roadmap to streamline education||AHMEDABAD: The biggest varsity in the state, Gujarat Technological University (GTU) will soon chalk out an action plan aimed at further improving educational standards in around 500 colleges affiliated with the university, GTU announced on Sunday. The university has decided to introduce an academic audit and improve the standards according to the findings of the audit report. The colleges must make concerted efforts to secure NBA and NAAC accreditations. The necessary changes in teaching methods, and if need be in the curriculum, will be in accordance with the new education policy being implemented by the government of India across the country, it said. These decisions have been taken in online and offline meetings of the academic council, the apex decision-making body of GTU. The council has plans to introduce new courses in artificial intelligence and data science information technology, artificial intelligence and machine learning, graphics, financial management and multimedia, it said. The pharmacy colleges of the university would also launch new courses in pharmacovigilance (also known as drug safety) and medical writings and certificate course in sophisticated analytical instrument handling and also postgraduate course data science in coming days, it further said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-plans-roadmap-to-streamline-edu/articleshow/79119310.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hubballi||CBI quizzes Yogeeshgouda’s wife||HUBBALLI: Sleuths of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probing the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar on Sunday summoned and quizzed his wife Mallamma Goudar. Former minister and senior Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni is among those who have been accused in the case. Mallamma was on Sunday subjected to interrogation at the City Armed Reserve (CAR) grounds in Hubballi. Mallamma had levelled allegations of Kulkarni’s involvement in her husband’s murder, but later joined the Congress, against the wishes of her husband’s family. Sources said that CBI was keen to unearth the reasons that prompted Mallamma to join the Congress. The sleuths also quizzed Nagaraj Gouri, who reportedly helped Mallamma join the Congress, on Sunday, a source said. CBI officials also quizzed Kulkarni’s relative Chandrashekar Indi and Pundalik Morab, driver to the former minister’s personal assistant Nemagouda on Sunday. The CBI officials allowed Kulkarni’s family members to meet him at the CAR grounds. Meanwhile, Congress leader Nagaraj Gouri, who was also quizzed by the CBI on Sunday,, dismissed rumours of his having given Mallamma money to join the Congress. Nagaraj claimed that Mallamma had sought his help in joining the Congress. However, Kulkarni opposed the move, following which Mallamma reportedly met former chief minister Siddaramaiah and Dharwad zilla panchayat vice-president Shivanand Karigar. “Since I was the party in-charge for the Hebballi ZP seat, I arranged a meeting between Mallamma and Kulkarni at my house, and I have intimated this to the CBI as well,” said Nagaraj. “I do not know what Mallamma has told the investigating officers, but I did not give her any money to join the party.,” said Nagaraj. He said that, while, he was able to get a glimpse of Kulkarni during the course of his interrogation on Sunday, he was unable to meet him. Alleging that Vinay Kulkarni’s arrest was part of a conspiracy, Nagaraj charged Dharwad MP and Union minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi’s involvement in the same. Nagaraj alleged that the plan was to keep an influential leader of the Lingayat community out of the political scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cbi-quizzes-yogeeshgoudas-wife/articleshow/79117104.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana techies seek increase in salary||CHANDIGARH: Around 4,000 IT professionals deployed in various departments of Haryana government are running from pillar to post for salary revision. According to information, the IT professionals have been deployed after they passed written qualifying exams and other tests conducted by HARTRON, a nodal agency for IT-related activities in the state. Enquiries revealed that for the past over six years, these professionals have been working for a meagre salary of Rs 13,500 per month. Desperate to get a salary revision like other colleagues, professionals who claim to have completed five to 15 years of service allege that they are being ignored. “Even peons and sweepers are getting a salary of over Rs 15,000 per month. Now, they have started mocking us. We have approached all quarters. Since our working hours and job commitments are such we cannot go out and agitate, we are forced to work on these wages,” IT operator Pawan Kumar said. These professionals have joined as data entry operators and their IT policy provides for a salary revision after every three years. Since 2018, their salary revisions have been due. “Even those deployed in districts are not getting wages as prescribed under DC rates, so we are making efforts to request higher authorities,” said a woman operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-techies-seek-increase-in-salary/articleshow/79118451.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kozhikode||IUML to back Kamarudeen, says police action ‘unprecedented’||Kozhikode: IUML has decided to throw its weight behind MLA M C Kamarudeen, who was arrested in multi-crore Fashion Gold International cheating case. Speaking to reporters after the high-power committee meeting on Sunday, IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty said that the MLA’s arrest was ‘police highhandedness’ with the intention of creating news. “Government thought it could cover up the allegations against it by creating news over Kamarudeen’s arrest. The action of the police is unprecedented,” he said. Asserting political motive behind the arrest, Kunhalikutty said, “Kamarudeen was summoned by the police and was arrested in the evening.” The IUML leader said that LDF government has been crying foul over news leaks by central investigation agencies. “But the police here announced that they would arrest Kamarudeen,” he said. Kunhalikutty maintained that Kamarudeen’s case was that of business failure and not of deliberate cheating. There are similar allegations against LDF leaders, but no action has been taken, he added. Kunhalikutty said the party had asked the MLA to return investors’s money in a time-bound manner. “We asked Kamarudeen to marshal funds to repay the money,” he said. He said the party was unaware of the issue while deciding on the candidate for Manjeshwaram by-election. Kamarudeen is a dedicated worker who suffered much for the party, he said. Deputy leader of opposition M K Muneer said a complaint is pending before the privilege and ethics committee of the assembly. The police did not consider this while effecting the arrest, he said. On how the UDF will campaign against ‘corrupt LDF’ without taking action against Kamarudeen, Kunhalikutty said there is a huge difference between Kamarudeen’s case and those LDF is dealing with. “One is related to drug sale and the other is collapse of business,” he said. Meanwhile, crime branch’s remand report in Kanhangad court said that Kamarudeen is the second accused in the case. T K Pookoya Thangal, the managing director of the company, is the first accused. The report said that there is evidence to show that the accused bought land in Bengaluru using money collected from investors. Kamarudeen reportedly told interrogators that the chairman post was only decorative and Thangal actually ran the company. Kamarudeen said that he was unaware of the company’s financial situation until it worsened. Meanwhile, crime branch issued a lookout notice against absconding Thangal, who had not turned up for interrogation on Saturday. Lookout notices also have been issued against Thangal’s son Hisham and Fashion Gold general manager Sainul Abideen. Kamarudeen’s bail plea will come up before Kanhangad court on Monday. Crime branch will seek Kamarudeen’s custody for two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/iuml-to-back-kamarudeen-says-police-action-unprecedented/articleshow/79117425.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Varanasi||Retired official finds jewellery missing from bank locker||GORAKHPUR: A retired senior government official has lodged a complaint alleging that jewellery worth Rs 35 lakh is missing from his locker in the branch of a nationalized bank at Gorakhpur. The bank has ordered a probe while an FIR was lodged at Cantt police station on Friday evening on the complaint of former deputy director. Police have initiated a probe in this regard. In his complaint, Naval Kant Tiwari, former deputy director, information, said, “When I was posted in Gorakhpur, I took a joint locker with my wife Snehlata at Punjab National Bank main branch in the city. My wife’s jewellery worth around Rs 35 lakh was kept in it.” “I used to operate the locker and had last opened it on June 2, 2011. Then I was transferred from Gorakhpur. There is a wedding in the family, so my wife wanted some jewelry. The bank asked us to complete the KYC formalities and deposit Rs 25,000 cash besides a fixed deposit of Rs 25,000 for payment of the locker rent,” Tiwari added. “When we opened the locker on Thursday afternoon, the locker was empty and jewellery was missing,” he said. The bank manager Kumar Amitabh said, “They came after 2011 and had even forgotten their locker number. Our record shows the locker was surrendered in 2014. No bank employee keeps any information about the things kept in a locker, however, a letter has been written to the head office and a probe has been initiated regarding surrender of the locker.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/retd-official-finds-jewellerymissing-from-bank-locker/articleshow/79105464.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Surat||Efforts on to re-start Ghogha-Dahej ferry||SURAT: Acknowledging the stiff natural challenges that halted Ghogha-Dahej ferry service, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that efforts are being made using latest technology to overcome these hurdles and expressed hope that the project will be revived again. Modi also informed that Gujarat’s ports now account for 40% of India’s maritime trade. “The Ro-Pax service between Gogha and Dahej has been facing challenges of nature. We are using modern technology to address these issues. I am hopeful that ferry service on this route will re-start,” the PM said. Calling the ferry service a big Diwali gift to Gujarat, Modi said the project will be gamechanger in in reducing the logistic cost, easing pressure on highways, reducing pollution and fuel saving. Modi said the country always had resources and expertise in waterways, but the past governments lacked the vision to use them, despite the fact that transportation through waterways is much cheaper compared to road and rail, and minimizes the adverse affect on the environment. "Despite this, it was only after 2014 that work was done with a holistic approach in this direction. These rivers and seas existed even before Modi became the prime minister. What was lacking was the vision that the country has experienced after 2014," he said. The Gujarat Maritime Cluster coming up in the GIFT (Gujarat International Finance Tec-City) City at Gandhinagar will be a dedicated system to address logistics of ports and seaways, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/efforts-on-to-re-start-ghogha-dahej-ferry/articleshow/79117454.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kozhikode||Traditional rice varieties are nutritional powerhouses: Study||Kozhikode: Highlighting the need for conservation of the state’s indigenous rice varieties, a biochemical profiling study of traditional rice varieties of the state has found many of them to be nutritionally superior to the two popular high-yielding rice varieties, including in crude protein, insoluble dietary fibre, lipid content, etc. The study conducted by researchers Chitra Pillai and BS Harikumaran Thampi of Calicut University and K V Faseela of RARS, Mele Pattambi, under Kerala Agricultural University compared the biochemical and mineral composition of 13 traditional rice varieties with the two popular high-yielding varieties Jyothi and Kanchana.The study showed that traditional varieties Thavalakannan and Rakthasali had significantly higher crude protein, crude lipids and insoluble dietary fibre content, making them nutritionally superior among tested varieties. The study made profiling of 13 traditional rice varieties, namely Chenkazhama, Cheruvellari, Chettadi, Chitteni, Gandhakasala, Jeerakasala, Kattamodan, Kuttadan, Rakthasali, Thavalakannan, Thekkan, Vellari and Velutha Navara and two high-yielding varieties, namely Jyothi and Kanchana. Appreciably high amounts of protein content (> 11%) were found in traditional varieties Thavalakannan (11.8%), Rakthasali (11.8%) and Velutha Navara (11.3%) and Gandhakasala (10.7%) and Kuttadan (9.%) also had higher protein content in the range of 9-11%. The high-yielding varieties Jyothi and Kanchana had a protein content of 10.2% and 7.9% respectively. In crude lipid content, six traditional rice varieties outperformed the high-yielding rice variety Jyothi which had crude lipid content of 3.3% while all 13 traditional rice varieties surpassed the crude lipid content of the high-yielding Kanchana (2.2%). Traditional rice varieties Thavalakannan (4.8%), Gandhakasala (4.1 %), Rakthasali (3.9 %), Jeerakasala (3.9%), Thekkan (3.7%) and Vellari (3.7%) had significantly higher lipid than Jyothi. The total dietary fibre (TDF) content varied between 4.7% to 6.8%. Significantly higher TDF content was observed in traditional varieties Jeerakasala (6.8%), Thavalakannan (6.7 %), Rakthasali (6.6%), Chettadi (6.2%) and Velutha Navara (5.9%) than the two high-yielding varieties which had a TDF of 5.1% for Jyothi and 5.2% for Kanchana. Nine of the 13 traditional rice varieties had higher TDF than the two high-yielding varieties. The mineral analysis found that traditional varieties Thekkan, Kattamodan, Gandhakasala and Chettadi had the highest content of potassium, calcium, manganese and copper respectively, whereas iron content was the highest in Kanchana. Zinc content was found to be the highest in the traditional variety Kuttadan. Kerala is one of the most important biodiversity repositories of rice in the country but with the advent of green revolution in 1970s, high-yielding rice varieties were introduced which in turn led to the loss of many traditional varieties under cultivation. “The study shows that traditional varieties are a good source of nutrients and should be promoted for their health benefits. Rice research in the country has mainly focussed on improving yield and production of rice. Not much emphasis has been provided to the nutritional composition of rice varieties. Therefore, more studies are needed on the biochemical profiling of traditional rice varieties which could help identify those varieties with high bioactive components with known physiological health benefits,” said B S Harikumaran Thampi, associate professor, department of Life Sciences at Calicut University. “Traditional rice varieties having high protein content of over 10% can be incorporated for targeted nutritional interventions among students by providing unpolished rice through midday meal schemes and also among pregnant women to address protein deficiency,” he added. High protein Thavalakannan - 11.8% Rakthasali - 11.8% Velutha Navara - 11.3% Gandhakasala - 10.7% Kuttadan - 9% Jyothi - 10.2% Kanchana - 7.9% Total dietary fibre Jeerakasala - 6.8% Thavalakannan - 6.7% Rakthasali - 6.6% Chettadi - 6.2% Velutha Navara - 5.9% Jyothi - 5.1% Kanchana - 5.2%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/traditional-rice-varieties-are-nutritional-powerhouses-study/articleshow/79117460.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kochi||Malayali diaspora: Lockdown once again||LONDON: The United Kingdom went into a second lockdown on Thursday after a second wave of Covid cases hit the country, causing widespread panic among citizens. Having seen the daily Covid numbers stay below 1,000 since July, the nation was hit by a second wave of virus attack in October. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s new lockdown rules have come amid fears that the daily death rates could touch 4,000 by the middle of November. Although the public is generally miffed about further lockdown rules, the Malayali community in the UK is hoping the restrictions would help bring the number of cases down. This is because a huge number of Malayalis work for the UK’s National Health Service (NHS). The health professionals have been experiencing an exponential rise in the number of Covid cases in their institutions since the start of October. “Lockdown is difficult for me as a person, but it will definitely help our profession’s overall workload,” said Noble Anu Iype, who hails from Kochi. A nurse at Basildon and Thurrock University Hospital in Essex, she had contracted coronavirus during the first wave here. Noble’s 3-year-old daughter Kezia had also got the virus from her, making it difficult for their family of four. But, as the nation enters a second lockdown, Noble is hoping that everyone would cope with the situation more efficiently. “If no action is taken, our hospitals will be overwhelmed. The restrictions would give NHS more time to prepare. Otherwise, it would be impossible to meet the bed demands at our hospitals,” she added. Noble currently works in a safe ward (non-Covid patients). But she said many patients who arrive at her ward are testing positive later, causing concerns for the staff. Covid has so far taken the lives of over 47,000 people in the UK. The new lockdown rules, which lasts for four weeks till December 2, will see all non-essential travels banned and businesses like pubs and restaurants closed. Schools and universities will run normally. But people are banned from mixing households to help reduce the number of cases before the busy Christmas season. Hospitals have cancelled all routine operations and have advised people to visit only in case of emergencies. However, Jobin George, a charge nurse at a West London hospital, believes the second lockdown would be more difficult to handle than the first. “All educational institutions were closed during the first lockdown. But now, schools and colleges are open, which increases the chances of spread,” Jobin, who hails from Piravom, said. “But if they had not introduced this lockdown now, it would have got much worse in December when the streets get crowded for Christmas celebrations and shopping,” he added. His wife Bincy Jobin, who hails from Thrissur, is also a nurse at another London hospital. She said they cancelled the plans to Kerala as the cases are rising again. “We usually travel home once a year during school holidays. However, we postponed it this year because of Covid. Now that a second wave is ongoing, we don’t know when will we see our families back home,” she added. Kiran Tom Sajan, who hails from Kochi, is a journalist based in London.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-diaspora-lockdown-once-again/articleshow/79117447.cms||Kiran Tom Sajan
November 9, 2020||India||Demonetisation helped reduce black money, increased tax compliance and transparency: Modi||NEW DELHI: On the fourth anniversary of demonetisation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi came out with a strong justification of the move, arguing that it triggered higher compliance and detection of black money, while helping improve tax collections and slowing the growth of currency in circulation. “Demonetisation has helped reduce black money, increase tax compliance and formalisation and given a boost to transparency. These outcomes have been greatly beneficial towards national progress,” he tweeted. His remarks on social media came a couple of hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the government for “destroying” India’s economy and accused Modi of helping a select group of businessmen. Using a series of graphs, the PM said the government followed demonetisation with ‘Operation Clean Money’, resulting in payment of Rs 13,000 crore tax by those who were not filing returns. The scrapping of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes, which forced people to deposit notes in banks, also threw up identities of over three lakh depositors who had parked over Rs 10 lakh each in their accounts but had not filed their returns. Nearly 2.1 lakh paid self-assessment tax of Rs 6,531 crore after they were found out. Modi also cited chief economic adviser K V Subramanian’s analysis to argue that the tax-GDP ratio had “drastically improved” post-demonetisation. He claimed that it reduced incremental growth in currency in circulation by over Rs 4.2 lakh crore as people took to digital payments. Further, the introduction of new features in currency notes and lower detection of counterfeit notes post-demonetisation helped put brakes on “anti-national activities” such as terror financing and left-wing extremism, one of the graphs said. Gandhi, however, said demonetisation hit the economy hard and created a situation where the Bangladeshi economy “surpassed” India’s. “The reason is not Covid-19, the reason is notebandi and GST. Four years ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi began an assault on the Indian economy,” he said in a video posted on social media. Hitting back, BJP said demonetisation was good for the country and resulted in cleaning up of the economy, formalisation of the informal sector and revenue aggregation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/demonetisation-helped-reduce-black-money-increased-tax-compliance-and-transparency-modi/articleshow/79119904.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Business||Demonetisation helped reduce black money, increased tax compliance and transparency: Modi||NEW DELHI: On the fourth anniversary of demonetisation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi came out with a strong justification of the move, arguing that it triggered higher compliance and detection of black money, while helping improve tax collections and slowing the growth of currency in circulation. “Demonetisation has helped reduce black money, increase tax compliance and formalisation and given a boost to transparency. These outcomes have been greatly beneficial towards national progress,” he tweeted. His remarks on social media came a couple of hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the government for “destroying” India’s economy and accused Modi of helping a select group of businessmen. Using a series of graphs, the PM said the government followed demonetisation with ‘Operation Clean Money’, resulting in payment of Rs 13,000 crore tax by those who were not filing returns. The scrapping of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes, which forced people to deposit notes in banks, also threw up identities of over three lakh depositors who had parked over Rs 10 lakh each in their accounts but had not filed their returns. Nearly 2.1 lakh paid self-assessment tax of Rs 6,531 crore after they were found out. Modi also cited chief economic adviser K V Subramanian’s analysis to argue that the tax-GDP ratio had “drastically improved” post-demonetisation. He claimed that it reduced incremental growth in currency in circulation by over Rs 4.2 lakh crore as people took to digital payments. Further, the introduction of new features in currency notes and lower detection of counterfeit notes post-demonetisation helped put brakes on “anti-national activities” such as terror financing and left-wing extremism, one of the graphs said. Gandhi, however, said demonetisation hit the economy hard and created a situation where the Bangladeshi economy “surpassed” India’s. “The reason is not Covid-19, the reason is notebandi and GST. Four years ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi began an assault on the Indian economy,” he said in a video posted on social media. Hitting back, BJP said demonetisation was good for the country and resulted in cleaning up of the economy, formalisation of the informal sector and revenue aggregation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/demonetisation-helped-reduce-black-money-increased-tax-compliance-and-transparency-modi/articleshow/79119898.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kozhikode||Woman, three children found hanging in Malappuram||KOZHIKODE: A woman and her three children were found hanging in their house at Nettikulam near Pothukal in Malappuram on Sunday morning. Police identified the deceased as Rehna (35), wife of Bineesh Sreedharan of Thudimutti, and her sons Adithyan (13), Arjun (11) and Abhinav alias Ananthu (8). The four were found hanging in the rented house by neighbours after Rehna’s husband Bineesh - who is working as a rubber tapper at Perambra in Kozhikode - called up a neighbour and asked her to check at his house after his telephone calls to Rehna failed to elicit any response. The neighbours found the door locked from inside and when they broke the back door open, they found the four hanging in a room. Neighbours had seen Rehna outside the house on Sunday morning. It is suspected that Rehna hanged the children after poisoning them before committing suicide. Police said the couple had some family issues. “We think the woman has committed suicide. The exact cause of the death of the children and the role of the woman in that can be ascertained only after the postmortem,” Malappuram district police chief U Abdul Karim said. Police officers from Pothukal police station who reached the spot took the four to a private clinic at Pothukal and to Nilambur district hospital but they could not be saved. Bineesh, who had last come home on October 29, had returned to his work place at Perambra on November 3. The bodies which are kept at Nilambur district hospital will be shifted to the Manjeri medical college after results of the Covid-19 tests are available.  The post-mortem will be conducted at the medical college on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/woman-three-children-found-hanging-at-home/articleshow/79117485.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot demands white paper on impact of DeMon from PM||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot demanded a white paper on the impact of demonetization from PM Narendra Modi on Sunday.In a virtual press conference, Gehlot said, “In a democracy, people have the right to know the fallout of government decisions. It’s been four years to the demonetization, now PM Modi must come up with a white paper to tell us whether the ban on currency notes has had a positive or a negative effect on the common people. Similarly, the collective impact of demonetization, GST and Covid-19 on the economy should be rightfully communicated to the people.”The presser was part of Congress’ nation-wide campaign ‘SpeakUpAgainstDemoDiasater’ to mark the fourth anniversary of demonetization, initiated by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. He reiterated that the people believed PM when he set out the goals of demonetization like eliminating black money, fake currency from the market, terrorism, Naxalism and giving a boost to the digital economy. “Has the black money from the foreign banks returned to India? Several media have reported that black money on the contrary has increased by 50%. They are not ready to say what happened to the other claims like fake currency, Naxalism and terrorism. The digital transition didn’t take off and people have been using cash for transitions,” said Gehlot.He further added that the Centre has never released anything on unemployment, economic slowdown and the number of people killed due to the currency ban. Quoting former PM Manmohan Singh on the impact of demonetization on the Indian economy, he said, “Manmohan Singhji had said that this decision would make the economy shrink by 2% but reports said that in the last quarter it has fallen by 23%”.Charging Modi government of destabilizing the economy, Gehlot asked the PM to tell the nation the roadmap ahead for the country to emerge out of the impact of pandemic and demonetization.Hitting out at the Union government for not helping states in dealing with Covid-19, Gehlot said that the Modi government has excused itself from helping the states by terming the pandemic an act of God.“In situations like floods, drought or pandemic, the states always look upon the Centre for funds. However, the Union government has failed to honour the principle of cooperative federalism. He knew how states were going out of their way to provide aid and relief to the people in the Covid-19 era,” said Gehlot.He added that I have never seen in my life when Centre may have withheld the share of the states as promised under GST.Charging the Modi government of destroying independent institutions, Gehlot said that the National Statistical Organization (NSO) was restricted from releasing their report on unemployment, which is at an all-time high, only for political gains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-demands-white-paper-on-impact-of-demon-from-pm/articleshow/79118510.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Govt cuts stamp duty on works contracts||Jaipur: The finance department on Friday reduced stamp duty on works contract by bringing in two slabs. It has fixed the duty to Rs 1,000 for contracts whose value is below Rs 50 lakh. But contracts whose value is over Rs 50 lakh, they would now pay 0.15% of the total value of the contract. However, there is a cap of Rs 25 lakh. In cases where the value of 0.15% is more than Rs 25 lakh, the bidders of the contract have to pay only Rs 25 lakh, which is the upper limit. Earlier, the government charged 0.25% of the value of the contract as stamp duty and there was no upper limit.Mahaveer Prasad, Inspector General of Registration and Stamps Department said, “The government has given relief to industry by bringing down the rates of stamp duty keeping in mind the difficulties they are facing due to Covid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-cuts-stamp-duty-on-works-contracts/articleshow/79118509.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Chandigarh colleges gearing up for re-opening on November 16||LUDHIANA: The University Grants Commission (UGC) and state government have allowed the opening of colleges from November 16. The decision to resume classes in colleges and universities after eight months was taken by the state home department in consultation with the higher education department. The guidelines have been vetted by the ministry of health and family welfare and approved by the ministry of home affairs and the ministry of education. City colleges are gearing up for the opening and started sanitising the classes. Sources said vice-chancellor of Panjab University has formed a coordination committee, which is looking into the guidelines of the opening of colleges and would also release calendar of the exams. Most of the principals said just like schools, attendance will not be compulsory for students, especially those hailing from containment zone. Ajay Sharma, principal of Shri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, said, “We have not received any orders from the university as of now. Meanwhile, we will adopt the UGC guidelines. We have plans to continue online studies for the first and second year and will call final year students with on odd-even basis.” Deputy director of Guru Nanak Institute Of Management And Technology (GNIMT), Sandhya Mehta said, “We have not yet decided about opening and college authorities will make a decision on Monday about it. The college is affiliated with PTU, the university has not yet issued any directions for affiliated colleges thus we will wait. We have 650 students enrolled with us.” At the Government College for Girls, a meeting was held by principal of the college Gurpreet Kaur where all the plans and procedures were discussed. Kaur told TOI, “We would be buying foot-operated hand sanitisers and to check the temperature of students and professors, infra-red thermometers will also be bought.The students will be called on a rotation basis and the online classes will continue. The problem-solving classes will be conducted through small groups.” She added that the Covid-19 tests for the students staying in the hostels, canteen staff and hostel staff will be taken. “We will also be taking an undertaking from the students staying in hostels. The students will eat the food in their own rooms,” said the principal. Principal of SCD Government College for Boys, Dharam Singh Sandhu, said, “We will be following all the instructions given by health department and state government. However, there are no university instructions on opening. The classes will be sanitised and only 50% of the students will be called. A different time table will be scheduled for the 3,500 students studying in the hostel.” On asking whether students are opposing the decision, he said, “ The students are very, much excited to visit the college. We have are 3,800 students in morning session and 800 students studying in the evening session.” A meeting is scheduled for the professors, at SCD on Monday to decide on hostels, canteen and library. Savita Uppal, principal of Arya College, said, “There are no instructions from university, but we are making arrangements by sanitising the classes. We have about 2,500 students and they will be called on odd-even basis.” She also said masks and sanitisers will be provided to the students. “A general meeting was held with the staff on Saturday where more plans were discussed about the opening of canteens. We will open canteen depending upon the strength of students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-colleges-gearing-up-for-re-opening-on-nov-16/articleshow/79118508.cms||Mehak Jain
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Two arrested in Jaipur for cheating in constable recruitment exam||JAIPUR: Two candidates appearing for constable recruitment exam were arrested in Jaipur’s Govindgarh area for cheating on Sunday. The candidates had taken the help of invigilators to cheat. Cops are questioning them to get details about the network. The candidates were arrested from separate centres though both hail from Sikar. The accused were identified as Vijay Meena and Rajesh Verma. Owner of one of the colleges which was an exam centre, was also detained. Sandeep Saraswat, circle officer, Govindgarh police station area, said, “two persons were caught with slips on which the question number and the answers were written. It appears that the invigilators themselves went outside and wrote the answers which they then passed on to the candidates”. While three persons are in police custody, cops are yet to arrest the invigilators who helped the candidates. “We have certain people on our radar and are trying to catch all those involved in the cheating network. They will be arrested soon,” an official said. Three persons were also detained in Amber area for cheating during the recruitment exam. Approximately 17 lakh candidates applied for constable recruitment exam across 518 centres in 55 cities of 32 districts of the state. The exam which commenced on November 6 ended on Sunday. It was held in six shifts. Over 12 lakh candidates appeared in the exam across the three days. Prior to Sunday’s arrests, Jaipur police had arrested 11 persons who were proxy candidates. The accused had been caught before they could reach the exam centre. As the police personnel were busy with the civic polls followed by the recruitment exam, the cops had been asked to not take leaves. Leaves were being sanctioned only for urgent matters for past two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-candidates-held-for-cheating-in-constable-recruitment-exam/articleshow/79118517.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Amaravati||Centre keen to turn CTRI into multi-crop research institute||AMARAVATI: In what could be a major blow to tobacco research and cultivation in the country, the Centre has set the stage to likely weaken the Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI). The Centre is readying plans to make the institute a multi-crop research arm by bringing research issues of other crops including chilli, turmeric into its ambit. A committee set up by Indian Council for Agriculture Research (ICAR) has suggested the Centre to rename CTRI as Indian Institute of Research on Commercial Agriculture (IIRCA). Tobacco growers and traders are worried that the weakening of CTRI will put them in disadvantageous situation in global markets. CTRI is the only government research organization that has been extending support in research and extension activities pertaining to tobacco by meeting industry specific needs with respect to endorsements and certifications. Sources said the ICAR committee studied the present situation in tobacco market at global and national level, uncertainties in tobacco sector before compiling its report. It recommended that CTRI be converted into an institute to take up research on diverse aspects of commercial agriculture for enhancing farm income and employment. The institutes’s research area will be broadened to cover chilli, turmeric, castor, aswagandha and tobacco. Already there are institutes looking after research issues of commercial crops. For instance, Centre for Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CMAP) is taking care of aswagandha research. Indian Institute of Oil Seeds Research, Hyderabad, is mandated to research on castor. Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Spices Board and Angrau are involved in chilli research. Indian Institute of Plantation Crops is studying growth of turmeric growth. “Bringing other crops under the CTRI’s purview is nothing but duplication of job handled by different organisations and distract scientists,” said a senior agriculture official. The parliamentary standing committee on commerce has expressed concern on inadequate allocation of funds for tobacco research, a major obstacle in gaining a competitive edge in global markets. “The lower allocation of funds has resulted in low recruitment of scientists which has slowed down research activity. This is a matter of grave concern,” said Magunta Srinivasula Reddy, member of the standing committee and Ongole MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/centre-keen-to-turn-ctri-into-multi-crop-research-institute/articleshow/79117099.cms||Samdani MN
November 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Post inter-state deal with Telangana, Andhra's RTC may lose nearly Rs 260 crore||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is expected to lose Rs 260 crore per annum following the new inter-state agreement with Telangana. However, the lost revenue will not be going to the neighbouring state either despite it being a two-party agreement. This, as the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is not ready to increase the number of buses in proportion to the reduced number of buses by the APSRTC. As per the new agreement, APSRTC has reduced operations by nearly 1.1 lakh kilometres in Telangana. In return however, Telangana has only increased operations by 10,000 kilometres, leaving a one lakh kilometre gap in bus services between the two states. This is expected to open up the opportunity for private bus operators to benefit from the agreement, according to APSRTC worker unions. Given the TSRTC was reluctant to allow bus services APSRTC as per usual before the Covid-19 agreement, the AP corporation was left with no option but to agree to most conditions by TSRTC. While APSRTC agreed to scale down operations in Telangana from 2.65 kilometres to around 1.6 kilometres, the TSRTC agreed to increase operations in AP from 1.5 lakh to 1.6 lakh kilometres. As for the number of buses, APSRTC has limited operations from 1,009 to 638 buses but Telangana has increased the number of buses from 746 to only 822. The number of buses have to be calculated on a relative basis rather than an arithmetic one. As the distance covered by buses originating from AP is not same as that covered by a bus starting from Telangana, TSRTC has to increase the number of buses in a 1:2.6 ratio to every bus reduced by APSRTC. However, with TSRTC not ready to increase operations in that proportion, APSRTC has to reduce its operations thus leaving a gap which would eventually be filled by private players. Speaking to TOI, APSRTC executive director KS Brahmananda Reddy said that the inter-state agreement was made only after TSRTC had agreed to increase buses on certain routes. He said they have also put a condition that once the Covid-19 situation gets resolved, the present agreement has to be reviewed to increase APSRTC operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/post-inter-state-deal-with-t-rtc-may-lose-nearly-rs-260-cr/articleshow/79116954.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra CM to launch second phase of Somasila canal project today||NELLORE: In a move to realise the decades-long dreams of upland farmers, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will be giving green signal to launch the second phase works on Somasila High-level canal. The CM will unveil the foundation plaque in virtual mode from the camp office on Monday. The state government will be spending Rs 459 crore for the second phase of the project. The government has set a three-year deadline to complete the second phase which is expected to provide irrigation water to about 50,000 acres and drinking water for 2.5 lakh people in Atmakur and Udayagiri constituencies. With works on the first phase of the Somasila project fast nearing completion, the chief minister has agreed to take up the second phase without delay. Industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy called upon the chief minister to initiate second phase works on priority basis as the drought-hit region of Atmakur and Udayagiri have been waiting for water for several decades. “We launched the first phase works when YSR was CM. The works got delayed following his sudden demise. We are fortunate to have YS Jagan as the CM who has put the administration on its toes to complete the first phase and start second phase,” said Gautham Reddy. While the first phase is ready to provide irrigation water for 45,000 acres and drinking water for 2.5 lakh people, the second phase would turn the entire upland into a canal-fed irrigation ayucut. The first phase of Somasila project would cater to the needs of Marripadu, Atmakur mandals in Atmakur constituency. Reddy assured farmers of Padamati Naidupalem village, who were resisting the land acquisition attempts for the completion of final stretch of first-phase project, that their interests will be taken care of. He said they would not trouble farmers who were sacrificing their lands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-to-launch-second-phase-of-somasila-canal-project-today/articleshow/79117137.cms||Samdani MN
November 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Sasikanth Senthil vs K Annamalai: A battle of ideologies, goals||BENGALURU: A little over a year ago, two bright young officers — one IAS, another IPS — from the Karnataka cadre expressed reservations over the manner in which the bureaucracy was forced to function. While one believed the ruling party at the Centre was divisive, the other felt it was a unifying force that needed to expand its reach further down south. Today, Sasikanth Senthil and K Annamalai have both taken the political plunge with parties that have always fought over ideology. While their beliefs and goals may be different, their quest to realise their political ambitions bears some similarities. Born seven years apart in Tamil Nadu, Senthil and Annamalai joined the civil services around the same time (Annamalai being the junior of the two) and served in different parts of Karnataka for 10 years before foraying into TN politics. Even their political bosses are from Karnataka — AICC in-charge secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao and BJP national general secretary CT Ravi, who were both ministers at different points of time. However, there are many differences in their outlook. While the former bureaucrats have nothing but respect for each other, Senthil and Annamalai admit they are from the opposite ends of the spectrum, fighting for their vision of Tamil Nadu’s welfare. In fact, even the parties they represent have different roles in mind for them. While Ravi believes Annamalai is emerging as a mass leader with an ability to attract the youth and may even become a contender for the TN CM’s post, Rao feels Senthil has been seeking a more national role and may not be restricted to TN politics. It’s said while Annamalai is almost certain to contest the 2021 TN assembly polls, Senthil may wait till the 2023 general elections to enter Parliament from TN. TALKING HEADS Annamalai chose a particular ideology and joined it. This is a fight of ideology and we are diametrically opposite. I am against the same ideology but not against Annamalai as a person Sasikanth Senthil, former IAS officer Both of us quit for different reasons. And both of us believed that politics is the way in which we can serve people better. I wish Senthil the best for joining the party which matches his ideology and serving the people of Tamil Nadu K Annamalai, TN BJP vice-president Annamalai is proving to be a mass leader and is able to attract a lot of youngsters to the party fold. While I don’t want to comment on Senthil, we believe Annamalai will be the future of the party in TN CT Ravi, BJP national general secretary and TN in-charge While Annamalai has been projected as something of a leader in BJP, Senthil is joining Congress to serve the people and is not vying for any particular role in Tamil Nadu. We are considering him for beyond TN and South India Dinesh Gundu Rao, AICC general secretary and TN in-charge||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/senthil-vs-annamalai-a-battle-of-ideologies-goals/articleshow/79117866.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||CM arm-twisting: Punjab BJP chief||CHANDIGARH: Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma slammed chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for resorting to “arm-twisting” with the Centre by instigating farmers to not let trains run in the state. He said this put most Punjabi residents in difficulty during the festival season. In a letter addressed to Amarinder, the BJP president said railway board chairman R K Yadav said the railways is ready to resume train services at any time after the state government cleared the tracks but the CM continued playing politics. “On the one hand, the Punjab government failed to dissuade protesters from blocking train services and on the other hand, it claims that Punjab is facing a crisis due to non-supply of articles like coal,” said Sharma. The Punjab BJP president said at more than 15 places in the state, protesters are still camping on the railway station premises. “Does the Punjab government want only goods trains to run and not passenger trains?” he asked. He added that the Punjab chief minister is dictating railway agenda to the Centre for his petty politics. Sharma asked if the Punjab government claims to have made conditions conducive for running of goods trains, why can’t it ensure similar security for passenger trains? Punjab BJP president also accused Amarinder of acting against the spirit of Supreme Court judgements which clearly said that roads and rails could not be blocked in the name of protest. He also expressed concern over the position of the business community engaged in manufacturing and trading and farmers who need fertilisers and other inputs which come through trains. Discontinuation of trains has also affected the movement of labourers working in fields and industrial units, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cm-arm-twisting-punjab-bjp-chief/articleshow/79118525.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: This IT professional’s passion helps restore Jain idols||BELAGAVI: An IT professional working in Bengaluru is on a mission to restore neglected Jain statues across Karnataka. Sangamchand Sangannavar, who recently restored statues at a remote village in Belagavi district, has so far revived eight such statues. Sangannavar, who hails from Jain community, developed the passion for restoring jain relics about four years ago after reading the history of Jainism in books and online. On Facebook, he was constantly following posts related to Jain artefacts discovered in neighbouring states like Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. He even visited those places to draw inspiration. Sangannavar, who is from Belagavi, works in an IT company in Bengaluru. He has revived statues of Tirthankaras in Kolar, Kalaburagi and now in Belagavi. In 2018, through locals from Bolewad village he learnt about three abandoned statues in a dilapidated condition. A leg of one of the statues was broken. “With the help of locals there, I built a platform to install the idols after bringing them back to shape. This gave me immense satisfaction to continue my hobby along with my regular profession,” he said. After that, he found about statues that were pushed to oblivion at a village in Kolar district in 2019. There too, with the help of locals, he did restoration works. Sangannavar told TOI that most of his projects are self funded, but sometimes community members also provide financial assistance. A few weeks ago, people of Nainglaj village near Chokkodi in Belagavi district made a Facebook post about a Jina Bimba (image) which was in a shoddy condition. Sangannavar then rushed to the village as he was working from home in Belagavi and started restoration work. Apart from giving life to the statue, he also built a platform for the installation of idols. Sangannavar said, if more people inform him about neglected statues, he is ready to help them revive them across the state. Caption: Sangamchand Sangannavar with the idols he restored at a Belagavi village||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/this-it-professionals-passion-helps-restore-jain-idols/articleshow/79116723.cms||Shreyas HS
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana government hikes MBBS fee to Rs 40 lakh||CHANDIGARH: In a move which may trigger unrest among students seeking admission in government-run medical colleges in Haryana, the Haryana medical education and research department has revised the fee for medical courses and introduced bonds for students, for which a system of loans has been put in place. The move is meant to ensure that MBSS pass-outs are retained in government service for seven years. Repayment of EMIs will be done by government in case MBBS pass-outs join and stay with Haryana government for seven years. Now, a student seeking admission in an MBBS course will have to pay Rs 40 lakh for the four-year course. The amount would be to around Rs 10 lakh per annum, including the course fee, which will start from Rs 80,000 per annum. The fee will increase by 10% with each passing year. At present, the government-run medical colleges have a fee structure of Rs 56,000 per annum, while private colleges charge Rs 12 lakh per annum. With the new policy unveiled by the government, students seeking admission in MBBS courses will have to adhere to the revised structures. According to the policy, students will have to furnish a bond with the medical education department. The government shall facilitate an educational loan of Rs 10 lakh per year for four years. After a five and a half year moratorium period, students will have two options of repayment. Those passing out shall be given a job in Haryana and the government shall repay the loan in seven years. In case the pass-out wants to opt out of Haryana, he/she shall have to repay the loan at his/her own level. The policy has a quota system in education but it does not spell out exact financial relaxation for students coming from various categories including SC/ST, backward class or economic weaker sections. The notification has also increased fee for PG courses, which will start at Rs 1.25 lakh with increase of Rs 25,000 every year. According to the state government, this is to provide job assurance to MBBS doctors. “This way, students will be assured of a job. As far as bond money is concerned, Rs 10 lakh per annum is inclusive of course feel. “After paying the course fee, the remaining amount shall go to a trust, which shall repay the student’s loan and other things. This is the best scheme the state has come out with,” a senior officer of the department of medical education and research, Haryana said. However, opposition parties are not convinced. Haryana’s main opposition party, the Congress has termed this as the worst move initiated by the Manohar Lal Khattar-Dushyant Chautala led BJP-JJP government on those seeking admission to medical colleges in Haryana. “This diktat shall keep children from poor backgrounds, especially those from SC/ST and backward class categories, away from medical education. Secondly, this entire exercise appears to be a scam to help private medical colleges hike fee. Once they come to know that the government course will cost a student Rs 40 lakh, they can charge up to Rs 30 lakh in addition to underhand capitation fee,’’ said AICC chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala. He said, “This will add another dark chapter in the lives of the youth of Haryana. We ask the government to withdraw this with immediate effect or else we shall take legal recourse. We shall not allow this anarchy,’’ he asserted. Abhay Chautala of INLD termed it as a move of the BJP-JJP government to keep children of the poor, farmers and Dalits away from medical colleges. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, who was interacting with mediapersons in Fatehabad, maintained that the fee hike had been pending for many years. “The course fee is less than that being charged in Punjab,’’ he said. He did not comment on the bond money, as prescribed in the policy. The chief minister described the fee hike as marginal and said there had been no fee hike for several years. According to him, medical fees in Himachal is nominal as compared to other states. On the question pertaining to submitting bonds worth Rs 10 lakh, the chief minister said it has been included so that after pursuing MBBS, students can work in the state and provide their services to people. He said the bonds are being submitted to encourage students to work in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-govt-hikes-mbbs-fee-to-rs-40l/articleshow/79118518.cms||Manvir Saini
November 9, 2020||Goa||Congress: Demonetisation is proof that PM Modi failed the nation||PANAJI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP should come clean and explain what benefits were accrued to the country because of demonetisation, said Congress on Sunday as it marked the fourth anniversary of the radical decision taken in 2016. Congress said that instead of improving the country’s financial health, demonetisation damaged the economy, pushed more people into poverty and increased unemployment. “The Prime Minister said that terrorism will stop, black money will come out but that day was the most unfortunate day. Till today, nobody in the government has been able to give a clear picture of what benefits were accrued because of demonetisation,” opposition leader Digambar Kamat said. Congress termed November 8 as the day of betrayal. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that Modi’s demonetisation move proves that the NDA government at the Centre failed to sustain the country’s economy and GDP. “The Prime Minister put four issues before the country — black money, terror funding, tax evasion and digital transactions — which would be tackled by demonetisation,” Chodankar said, adding, “Those who opposed demonetisation were called anti-national because these four issues were in national interest. Prime Minister, your actions in the last four years have proved that you are wrong and that you failed the country and the economy.” Chodankar said that despite the overnight withdrawal of the Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes from circulation, very little black money was found and terror activities continued unabated. Instead, the real estate industry was totally paralysed, unemployment increased, and many people lost their savings, the state Congress president said. Stating that demonetisation benefited BJP the most, Chodankar said, “The co-operative banks which are run or managed by BJP benefited. BJP started purchasing land and offices in every state. And the last benefit was for the state elections, because that was the target. This was a betrayal by the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-demon-is-proof-that-modi-failed-the-nation/articleshow/79119340.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||CTU-Vizianagaram exams from November 16, FY classes from November 25||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Central Tribal University, Vizianagaram, has decided to conduct the second semester exams for senior students from November 16. Even though the exams were scheduled to be conducted in April, the Covid-19 outbreak disrupted the academics as well as the examination procedure. However, CTU completed the unfinished portion of the syllabi through online classes. Meanwhile, CTU would conclude fresh admissions and launch online classes from November 25 for them. CTU special officer and former vice-chancellor, Dr BR Ambedkar University, Prof H Lajipathi Rai, said that Andhra University, the mentor institute of the tribal varsity, would take care of the admission process. “The second semester exams could not be conducted due to Covid-19 in April. Now, the exams have been scheduled from November 16 and 22. The students will come to Vizianagaram for the exams and the CTU made all arrangements in view of the Covid-19. The students will go back to their homes for online classes after the exams. There are plans to bring the students for face-to-face academic classes in February, 2021. But it would depend on the Covid-19 situation,” said Lajipathi Rai. Andhra University (AU) conducted the admission test on behalf of the CTU this year. The tribal varsity, which made its beginning in 2019, launched two post-graduation courses, two integrated PG programmes and a few PG diploma and diploma programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ctu-exams-from-nov-16-fy-classes-from-nov-25/articleshow/79117153.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirumala: Kidnapped man rescued by cops within minutes||TIRUPATI: A 35-year-old man kidnapped in Tirumala was rescued within minutes by local police who were alerted prompltly by the victim’s wife. According to Tirumala II town CI Chandrasekhar, B Hanumantha Rao, a resident of Nellore’s Buchireddypalem was abducted by a four-member gang on Sunday evening. Minutes following his kidnapping, Rao’s wife alerted the police through Dial-100 and shared the vehicle details in which her husband was taken. Police acted swiftly to the complaint, analysed CCTV footage and spotted the vehicle crossing GNC tollgate and heading towards Tirupati. Police set up barricades and blocked the vehicle at Alipiri, arrested a four member gang and rescued Hanumantha Rao. Cops confirmed that Rao was kidnapped by his erstwhile associate to recover an owed sum of Rs 20 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kidnapped-man-rescued-by-cops-within-minutes/articleshow/79117106.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Arjitha seva revival: TTD awaits Centre’s guidelines||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams executive officer K S Jawahar Reddy on Sunday said the revival of arjitha sevas depends on guidelines to be issued by the Union home ministry as part of Unlock-6 measures. Speaking to pilgrim callers as part of the dial your EO programme held at Annamaiah Bhavan at Tirumala Reddy said: “No decision has been taken on the revival of arjitha sevas and providing darshan to senior citizens”. Reddy answered queries from 29 people from across the country and received their feedback and suggestions. Most of the callers appealed to the EO to revive darshan for the elderly, pregnant women and children below 12 years. The Lord Venkateswara temple was closed for worship from March 20 to June 11 due to Covid-19 outbreak. Though pilgrim services resumed on June 11, curbs continue on pilgrim footfall owing to Covid-19 guidelines in place. Additional EO AV Dharma Reddy, JEO P Basant Kumar and Sada Bhargavi attended the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/arjitha-seva-revival-ttd-awaits-centres-guidelines/articleshow/79117075.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||10-month-old Chichpalli tiger to be sent to SGNP||Nagpur: With all tiger cages full in Gorewada Rescue Centre run by the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), the forest department is finding ways to accommodate increasing numbers of abandoned and captured big cats. A 10-month-old tiger that was captured from Chichpalli forest range in Chandrapur division in April this year and now stranded in transit treatment centre there, will be dispatched to Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), Borivali, Mumbai, soon. The tiger is too young to be used as a mate but will be housed for safari purposes. Earlier, on August 4, NT-1, a tiger captured from Talodhi range in Bramhapuri in July 19, 2020, was handed over to Maharajbagh zoo for mating purposes. NT-1 had mauled three humans. There are 10 tiger cages in Gorewada and all have been occupied by problem tigers. “We issued an order last week to shift the 10-month-old tiger to SGNP. There are three cells vacant in Borivali where this tiger will be accommodated. We need to take a decision as Gorewada centre is full,” said acting PCCF (wildlife) MK Rao. On shifting recently captured male tiger from Rajura (RT1) to Borivali, Rao said, “RT1 cannot be released in the wild now but no decision has been taken to shift it to SGNP.” The Chichpalli tiger was three months old when it was captured from Sushi Dabgaon village on April 24, 2020. With the help of DNA matching, the department tried to reunite the cub with its mother. But the first-of-its-kind experiment in the country failed. Now, the cub is 10 months old and cannot be released in the wild. Chandrapur chief conservator (CCF) NR Praveen said, “We have received orders to send the cub to SGNP. A mutual decision on logistics to shift the tiger to Borivali will be taken soon.” This will be the second tiger to be shifted to Borivali in a year’s time. On December 16 last year, a two-year-old tiger Sultan (C1) was sent to SGNP for breeding purposes. Sultan was captured from Chandrapur district in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-month-old-chichpalli-tiger-to-be-sent-to-sgnp/articleshow/79118491.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Indian safari may open at Gorewada next month||Nagpur: The Gorewada Rescue Centre run by Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) plans to release captive animals in the Indian Safari enclosures and inaugurate the long delayed zoo project in December, during the winter session of the assembly. FDCM sources said plans are afoot to release seven leopards (two females and five males), six sloth bears, and two tigers (one male and female each), currently kept in captivity in separate enclosures. Tigress Lee, brought from Maharajbagh, and tiger Rajkumar, captured from Tumsar in 2017, will be released in safari cages. The CZA has already granted permission. The first master layout plan of Gorewada International Zoo was approved in 2015 and revised plan in March 2018. Last week, Maharashtra Zoo Authority (MZA) had conducted an inspection and given the go-ahead to shift these animals in safari enclosures. “The animals will be released from November 12 in the presence of ecologists from the rescue centre on the other side of Katol Road. The animals will be kept in night shelter for 15-20 days to get accustomed to the environment before allowing viewing by visitors,” they said. The Indian Safari will include leopard, tiger, and sloth bear safaris in 25 hectares each, and a composite herbivore safari in 40 hectares, and a buffer area totalling 115 hectares. FDCM has spent over Rs40 crore on developing these safaris. The project was set to be opened in September 2019 by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Later, the opening was planned for World Forestry Day on March 21, 2020. However, it was put off on technical grounds followed by Covid-19 spread. “With all cages getting packed with problem animals, it is high time the safari project is opened. With the shifting of two tigers and seven leopards, we would be able to accommodate big carnivores arriving in an emergency,” said FDCM officials. There are already four captured tigers crying for space in captivity. Of these, a two-year-old tigress captured from Pandharkawda is kept at the Transit Treatment Centre (TTC), Seminary Hills, while two recently rescued cubs and a 10-month-old tiger are housed in TTC, Chandrapur. “An early decision needs to be taken regarding these three tiger cubs as TTC Chandrapur is like a primary health centre, where we cannot keep tigers for long. While the 10-month-old tiger will be shifted to Borivali, the decision on the two cubs needs to be taken soon,” said forest officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/indian-safari-may-open-at-gorewada-next-month/articleshow/79119028.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||NGT orders shutting down of plants bottling groundwater without permits||Nagpur: The state has ordered closure of drinking water bottling units which are illegally drawing groundwater.The move came following the latest order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which was hearing a petition based on a series of TOI reports. On September 6, 2016, TOI, after visiting various units of unpackaged drinking water across the city, had exposed the unhygienic conditions in which the units were operating.Extensively quoting TOI reports, petitioners Vijaysinh Dubbal, Dattatraya Bharne and Santosh Sinha stated that the water sold in unpackaged and unsealed chilled jars and cans was not potable and hazardous to human health. They further highlighted that the groundwater was withdrawn without the mandatory permission of Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA). The petition was filed through counsels Asim Sarode and Smita Sarode Singalkar.Taking serious note of this, the NGT has issued an order, directing immediate closure of such units. “No unit should be permitted to extract groundwater without CGWA permission. Necessary action should be taken against such units in addition to environmental compensation,” the court stated.Highlighting that hundreds of water bottling units are operating in the state without permits from competent authorities, NGT questioned Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) on its inaction. “After issuing show cause notices, the board did not take any further action,” the court stated.Based on the court’s directives, MPCB member secretary Ashok Shingare has issued order to all regional offices in the state, asking them to immediately start sealing units operating without the mandatory permits from CGWA and also Food and Drugs Administration (FDA).Following this, MPCB regional officer (Nagpur) AM Kare wrote a letter to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), asking the municipal commissioner to take action against units under the civic body’s jurisdiction.Experts said local bodies in Jalgaon, Parbhani, Bhandara, Chimur and other areas have started initiating action against the units. “NMC needs to take this seriously and start immediate closure of the illegal units. They are not just a threat to environment but also the public health at large,” said hydrogeologist Vishal Doifode, who is also technical adviser to the Maharashtra Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers Welfare Association.Though the business of supplying unpackaged drinking water has found a good place in the market, consumption of untreated water can cause various diseases like typhoid, diarrhoea, hepatitis, cholera, jaundice and other viral infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngt-orders-shutting-down-of-plants-bottling-groundwater-without-permits/articleshow/79119007.cms||Manka Behl
November 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka NEP proposal moots KPS-centric school complexes||BENGALURU: Karnataka’s proposal to implement National Education Policy 2020, that was submitted to the government on Saturday, has suggested revamping the old concept of school complexes in the state, with its much successful Karnataka Public Schools at the centre. NEP 2020 had recommended the concept of school complexes. Each one comprises a secondary school with all other smaller public institutions and anganwadis in its neighbourhood under its umbrella. With this, schools will be able to share learning resources like laboratories, libraries, sports equipment and sports fields and also subject teachers, sports, music and art teachers, counsellors and social workers. It will make the transition of children from lower to higher classes easier, without compromising on access and administrative work. According to the Karnataka plan, the KPSs — LKG-class 12 schools — are well-positioned to be at the centre of these complexes as they are large in terms of enrolment and resources. Of the 276 KPSs, better performing ones can be used for the pilot projects. The system of school complexes was discussed way back in 1980s, but was implemented without much success in some parts of the country, including Karnataka. “One of the important aspects in implementing the system would be empowering leaders of the complex, who would also need a great degree of autonomy to manage the entire complex,” said Rishikesh BS, faculty member at Azim Premji University, who was also member of the sub-committee on school education. “We have thousands of small schools in rural areas. While it’s almost impossible to fully resource each one of them, the complex design will help every child in the school get the comprehensive holistic education that RTE promises,” he added. The guidelines also suggest extra resources and CSR funding to be routed to these clusters. They call for a school complex management committee which can take important decisions. Nayana Tara, former faculty member at Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore (IIM-B), said school complexes are a good idea in current times. However, some educationists point out that the system has been tried out before and has failed to take off. AS Seetharamu, former professor at Institute of Social and Economic Change, said a comprehensive class 1-10 school in each gram panchayat will be more effective than a school complex. The sustainable development goals for 2030, being prepared by the planning committee, suggest the number of schools be brought down to 6,000 instead of the current 60,000. Sharing of resourcesInstead of spreading ourselves thin, it will be wiser that we consolidate resources. I have noticed that even within a 1-km radius, each school performs differently in various parameters. With this system, schools can take help from each other. However, there should be not more than eight schools in one complex. Else, monitoring will become tougher and the programme will fail like several others Nayana Tara, former faculty member at IIM-B Logistical challenges The logistics of school complexes are more complex than the idea itself. Concepts of sharing of resources are hard to work out due to various reasons, including security issues or even simple matters like breaking of a resource AS Seetharamu, former prof, Institute of Social and Economic Change||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-nep-proposal-moots-kps-centric-school-complexes/articleshow/79117603.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Tech glitches in online property registration hamper recovery||BENGALURU: The state government’s move for a complete shift to online property registration has caused concern for the state exchequer at a time when the real estate sector is showing signs of recovery. The department of stamps and registration last month decided to migrate property registration entirely online and the portal Kaveri Online Services was strengthened. Inaugurated in 2018, the service is currently limited to sub-registrar offices and its officials across 250 locations for uploading documents for buyers. The plan was to extend it to the entire state after implementing the pilot project in areas coming under three sub-registrar offices of Tumakuru, Jala (Bengaluru Rural) and Chincholi (Belagavi). The portal developed glitches ever since it went live on November 2 and there have been user complaints like denial of card payment, session expiry and error messages after completing all steps. As Pune-based Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) tried to fix the bugs, the government was forced to keep the project in abeyance. C-DAC told the government it will try to sort out the problems over the next 45 days. Undervaluing of properties was a major concern in the offline process. While a buyer has to pay 5% of stamp charges and registration duty on the selling price, which is mostly above the guidance value fixed by the government, sellers and buyers connive to show the selling price low and pay lesser duty. Festive fervour Technical glitches haven’t deterred buyers during the festive season. After the slowdown during post-pandemic lockdownc, property registration started picking up in August — during the Ganesha festival — and improved in September-October thanks to Dasara. Stakeholders say it will continue in November due to Deepavali festivities. In these three months, 7.2 lakh documents were registered fetching Rs 2,735 crore compared to 6.5 documents registered and Rs 2,720 crore in the same period last year. MS Shankar, general secretary, Forum for Peoples’ Collective Efforts, believes revenue collection is disproportionate to registration and is perhaps linked to quicker economic recovery in rural areas where large-scale property purchases may have happened. “Since guidance value is less compared to urban pockets in Bengaluru, the cumulative revenue is lesser,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tech-glitches-in-online-property-registration-hamper-recovery/articleshow/79117705.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
November 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||After decade, Vizag Agency areas hoping for a bumper coffee yield||VISAKHAPATNAM: The horticulture department expects a coffee yield of 11,500 metric tonnes this year, the highest in the past decade. In 2010, 60 to 80 kilos of clean coffee or green beans were harvested on one acre, but this year, the harvest is expected to double to 120 to 150 kg clean coffee per acre, said V Radhakrishna, assistant director (coffee), horticulture department, Visakhapatnam district. The present market value of clean coffee is around Rs 200 per kg. Radhakrishna attributed the bumper crop to favourable weather conditions, particularly good rainfall and suitable temperature, this year. Visakhapatnam Agency received continuous rainfall coupled with favourable temperatures since the beginning of the coffee season in April till date. “Each coffee farmer is expected to earn around Rs 24,000 to Rs 40,000 per acre this year,” Radhakrishna told TOI. “Coffee has seven varieties of seeds. We grow Arabica, which is popular worldwide. That’s why nearly 85% is exported,” Radhakrishna added. In terms of state support, the Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC) helps cultivators through the supply of marketing facilities. Some private firms also directly procure beans for export. As many as 1,54,313 farmers cultivate coffee in the Agency and are earning between Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 per acre. The average size of each holding is between one to three acres and cropping lasts nine months. Each coffee plant can survive for 35 to 40 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/after-decade-agency-areas-hoping-for-a-bumper-coffee-yield/articleshow/79117023.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 9, 2020||Vijayawada||GAD secretary to inspect Andhra govt scheme works in five districts||VIJAYAWADA: To take stock of various schemes implemented by the government, principal secretary of general administration department (GAD), Praveen Prakash, will tour the five north-coastal districts starting Monday. He has been directed by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to personally oversee the work in progress under the schemes. The GAD principal secretary, during his tour, will be getting a first-hand understanding of works being taken up under Mana Badi, Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK), YSR Cillage Clinics and village secretariats. Prakash will be starting his tour by inspecting villages in Srikakulam from where he will go on to Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts on November 9. The next day, he will be touring areas in East and West Godavari districts. He will be inspecting works being taken up under Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu programme, functioning of RBKs, village secretariats as well construction of more RBKs and secretariats in villages across the five districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gad-secy-to-inspect-govt-scheme-works-in-five-dists/articleshow/79117063.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Demand to roll back exclusion of Nagpur as Haj embarkation point||Nagpur: Muslim community leaders and clerics have demanded the Central government to reconsider its decisions of cancelling Nagpur International Airport as embarkation point and Rs70,000 hike in deposit fee for Haj 2021.Former state minority affairs minister Anees Ahmed has written to Union minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi as well as to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on restoring Nagpur’s status as an embarkation point for Haj 2021.Ahmed said it is a shocking that on the pretext of Covid-19 pandemic, Nagpur citizens would be deprived of the facilities. “This will inconvenience pilgrims not just from Nagpur district and rest of Vidarbha but also areas such as Seoni, Chhindwara and Balaghat, in Madhya Pradesh and Durg, Bhilai, Raipur in Chhattisgarh.”Ahmed said distancing norms would go for a toss if pilgrims have to travel all the way to Mumbai in trains, buses and private vehicles.Javed Akhtar, secretary, Jamiat Ulema Hind Nagpur, said this is injustice to Nagpur citizens. “Why only Nagpur, why didn’t they cancel three other embarkation points? Nagpur has always attracted lots of pilgrims from all over Central India.” Akhtar said due to hike in expenses, deposit amount has gone up. “But I lament that those above 65 years won’t be allowed to go. Also, income tax return certificate shouldn’t be made must for women. They don’t hold accounts. They are not working too. I-T certificate for women must be abolished,” he said.Haji Mohammad Kalam, secretary of Central Tanzeem Committee which assists pilgrims Haj process, said, “We agree there are challenges before the Saudi and Indian governments. Yet, we have demanded that Nagpur haj flights must not be stopped,” he said.Hamid Qureshi, secretary of Jamiat Islahul Muslemeen, said reduction in embarkation points is going to increase tremendous problems for Haj pilgrims. “For Central India, Nagpur may please be restored as embarkation point,” he appealed.Ahmed, in his letter to Naqvi and CM Thackeray, said it was during his tenure as minority affairs minister that the first Haj flight took off from Nagpur in 2003. “After a long struggle, I managed to get one-acre land sanctioned to build the Haj House on 20,000 square feet. Nearly Rs16 crore was spent on construction. All these efforts and amount spent would simply be wasted apart from causing harassment to pilgrims from several districts,” said Ahmed.The first Haj flight from Nagpur to holy city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia had taken off in 2003 with nearly 470 pilgrims. “This not only elevated the status of the city but also brought its airport the title of being ‘international’, Ahmed said.Every year, about six flights of either Air India or Saudi Airlines take off from Nagpur.Anees also demanded rollback of decision to hike deposit fee and cut allowances. “From Rs81,000, deposit has been increased to Rs1.5 lakh. Pilgrims must get some 2,100 Riyals at Haj airport for the general expenditure. It has been reduced to 1,500 Riyals as people are facing economic crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/demand-to-roll-back-exclusion-of-nagpur-as-haj-embarkation-point/articleshow/79118550.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Son of former MLA arrested in fraud case||Jaipur: Uttar Pradesh’s Special Task Force (STF) arrested the son of former Congress MLA Ramnarayan Gurjar from Jaipur airport on Saturday night for a fraud and corruption case which was lodged against him in Lucknow.The accused, Sunil Gurjar aka Monty had a reward of Rs 50,000 on him. He is the adopted son of late Govind Gurjar, who was Ramnarayan’s elder brother and had a long as well as successful political career.“Sunil was part of the gang which was accused of defrauding government departments in scam for salt tender in UP’s livestock and food supply department. We had already arrested 10 people in the case, but Sunil could not be caught. We also put a reward on him and through sources found that he was in Jaipur,” said an official. Lookout notices had also been placed for him.A team was constituted to nab the accused who was involved in a scam of Rs 9.7 crore and found that the accused was planning to run away to Dubai and the official said, “We got in touch with the airport authority and when the accused came to catch his flight, we nabbed him.”Sunil, along with the main accused in the case Ashish Rai who is currently in prison, had promised to get the salt tender in Uttar Pradesh to two businessmen in Gujarat. Sunil is no stranger to frauds and in 2012, a case of fraud was lodged against the NGO run by him. In 2017, another case of similar nature was lodged against him by one of his relatives and he was also questioned in the infamous Bhanwari Devi murder case. He is being questioned by officials to get more details about the network and other similar instances in which Sunil was involved. Sources claimed that he had even attempted to get a ticket from the Congress, but was unsuccessful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/son-of-former-mla-arrested-in-fraud-case/articleshow/79118514.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Parleys on, but Punjab farmer outfits firm on not allowing passenger trains||PATIALA: Taking a stand to not allow movement of passenger trains in Punjab as part of their agitation against the central government-enacted farm laws, farmer unions in Punjab on Sunday claimed that they had allowed the movement of goods trains in the state, but will not allow passenger trains to run. Farmer leaders said the cat was out of the bag after the Centre refused to start the goods trains in Punjab despite farmers clearing the branch lines of private plants. The farmers alleged that the central government was not only anti-farmer, but also anti-Punjab as it wanted to hit the economy of the state by not allowing goods trains to operate. BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) Punjab general secretary Jagmohan Singh Patiala, also a working committee member of AIKSC, said, “This is our agitation against the central government and Centre cannot keep any conditions.” A spokesperson of BKU (Ekta Ugraha) said they had staged a protest on 43 separate sites in Punjab, including the gherao of 12 BJP leaders in Punjab. He said the farmers would not bow before the government’s conditions on agitation. Meanwhile, Punjab assembly former deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh on Sunday said agitating farm organisations should seriously deliberate upon allowing movement of passenger trains in Punjab. He said non-operation of passenger trains was causing great difficulties to general public and such a move was of benefit to transporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/parleys-on-but-punjab-farmer-outfits-firm-on-not-allowing-passenger-trains/articleshow/79118516.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Rail passengers advised to board with confirmed tickets||VISAKHAPATNAM: Waltair division of East Coast Railway has advised passengers to travel in trains with confirmed tickets. The Railways emphasised only confirmed tickets reserved online will be permitted after many passengers continue to be unaware of the decision, taken to control the number of Covid-19 infections. Given the demand for seats and passenger rush at stations, the Railways has already started to operate festival special trains besides existing Covid-19 special trains. With the increase in number of services, safety measures have been enhanced at all stations in the division, according to railway divisional railway manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava. With a view to providing a safe journey, Waltair Division has taken several measures to combat the pandemic, such as controlled entry and exit to stations, thermal screening, strict observation of use of masks and social distancing, advising all passengers to report to the station in advance and allowing only confirmed ticket holders into the station to board trains, Shrivastava added. “It is advised to all passengers boarding at Visakhapatnam railway station that passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed from platform number 8 (Gnanapuram side) and exit will be from platform number 1 side for easy crowd management and observation of Covid-19 protocol,” said AK Tripathi, senior divisional commercial manager. Violation of Covid-19 protocol will be liable for action under the Railway Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rail-passengers-advised-to-board-with-confirmed-tkts/articleshow/79117052.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Home guard on duty dies in hit-&-run in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 41-year-old home guard died after being hit by a car while on duty near a metro station in east Delhi early on Sunday. Police said the accused driver hit homeguard Naresh and the police picket at high speed and fled from the spot. He was arrested later. Head constable Niranjan, who was present at the spot, filed an FIR in the case. The accident happened near the metro station in Laxmi Nagar. In his complaint, Niranjan said that he was on picket duty from 12am to 5am at Vikas Marg, in front of Hira sweets shop, along with Naresh. At 2.30am, a speeding car was seen coming from ITO side. The vehicle hit the barricades hard and one of the barricades then hit Naresh, who was standing next to it. The car then zoomed away towards Nirman Vihar. The other cops took the injured homeguard to Hedgewar Hospital, but he was declared dead on arrival. “On Niranjan’s statement a case was registered at Shakarpur police station,” a senior officer said. A postmortem was conducted at Sabzi Mandi mortury and later Naresh’s body was handed over to his relatives. During investigation, cops scanned CCTV footage and identified the Innova. The vehicle (DL 6CU 8000) was found parked near Manak Vihar and seized. Accused Ajay Goyal, who is a cloth merchant in Chandni Chowk, was then identified and arrested by police. Goyal is a resident of Surya Nagar in Ghaziabad and was booked for causing death due to negligent and rash driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/home-guard-on-duty-dies-in-hit-run/articleshow/79118554.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Home minister forms SIT to probe hooch tragedy||CHANDIGARH: In the firing line from the opposition, Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Sunday formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the the Sonipat hooch tragedy which has claimed 45 lives so far. Deaths have also taken place in Panipat district. Though police claim to have made arrests, the government has been under criticism for the incident for past few days. The SIT will be headed by ADGP (narcotics) Shrikant Jadhav and will comprise Ambala range IG Y Puran Kumar, Kurukshetra SP Rajesh Duggal, Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia, and Mewat SP Narender Bijania. The team will also enquire into reasons and sources of spurious liquor. It will be empowered to co-opt any such officer, IPS, HPS and seek assistance from them. The SIT will also look into all complaints received and measures taken to check the illegal sale of liquor in the state The SIT will submit a report in 15 days During proceedings of recently concluded assembly session, Congress MLAs Shamsher Singh Gogi, Surendera Pawar and Kuldeep Vats had launched a scathing attack on Vij, while referring to deaths due to hooch in Panipat and Sonipat districts. MLAs had said Vij had lost his power under pressure from colleagues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/home-minister-forms-sit-to-probe-hooch-tragedy/articleshow/79118545.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Bareilly||2 minor girls among 3 die in Pilibhit road accident, 4 hurt||Pilibhit: Two minor girls and a woman were killed and four others injured when a speeding car collided with a roadside tree on Bhind-Lipulekh highway in UP's Pilibhit, late on Saturday. Seven members of two families were on their way back home in a Maruti Swift from an event hosted by a local cardiologist. The accident occurred at 2am near the new telecom office. The car was being driven by a 45-year-old businessman, identified as Vaibhav Agarwal. His wife Priya Agarwal, 35, daughter Ishani Agarwal, 11, son Itant Agarwal, 7, and three members of his friend’s family - Mona Kohli, 41, Kanisha Kohli, 8, and Amratansh Kohli, 5, were all in the car. Priya, Ishani and Kanisha passed away. Their bodies have been sent for autopsy. The injured were shifted to a district hospital. Dr Sudhir Kumar, the medical officer on duty, said that Mona sustained a back fracture. She has been shifted to Delhi. While Itant - with multiple injuries - was referred to a higher medical facility in Bareilly. Amratansh is undergoing medical treatment, Dr Kumar added. SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali, Shrikant Dwivedi, said that all the three deceased were sitting at the back of the speeding car. Police and administrative officials, including ASP Pavitra Mohan Tripathi, CO Virendra Vikram and city magistrate Arun Kumar Singh, inspected the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-minor-girls-among-3-die-in-pilibhit-road-accident-4-hurt/articleshow/79115930.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Constable commits suicide in police lines||Jaipur: A constable stationed at Chandpole police lines was found hanging on Sunday. The reason behind the death is yet to be ascertained as no suicide note was found. Ajit Singh, who was in his 20s and hailed from Bharatpur, had joined the police force in 2015. “The constable hung himself from the railing placed in the building of the police lines. He was found by a colleague on Sunday morning. He had used a piece of cloth to hang and we found no suicide note,” said an official of Sindhi Camp police station. The deceased’s family arrived from Bharatpur and his body was handed over to them after postmortem.“The family is unable to give any reason why the constable took the extreme step. We have not found any clues to indicate if he was under any financial or personal duress. The colleagues also claimed not noticing any changes in his behaviour. The postmortem report will be able to tell us if he died on Saturday night or Sunday morning,” added the official. Since May this year, over half-a-dozen police personnel have committed suicide in Rajasthan. Senior cops are concerned about the sudden surge in such cases. With no confirmed reasons for any of the suicides so far, the police administration claimed that they are looking at ways to deal with the matter. Officials have asked SPs as well to ensure that the mental well-being of the cops is considered a priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/constable-commits-suicide-in-police-lines/articleshow/79118547.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Body of missing girl found in Jaipur’s Shahpura, cops claim murder||JAIPUR: The body of an eight-year-old girl, who was missing for the past two days, was found close to the victim’s house in Jaipur’s Shahpura on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Neetu Gurjar. Cops claimed that she was murdered by one of the family members though no one has been arrested yet. Officials said that the motive behind the murder appears to be the fact that the child knew something about a family member who did not want it to be revealed. Shahpura police station SHO Rakesh Kumar said, “The victim’s family had filed a missing report on Friday evening and claimed that the child was not found since afternoon. They claimed to have searched everywhere and we also started a search operation and found the body.” According to officials, the body was found just 10 metre from the boundary of the house. Kumar said, “We checked all the CCTV cameras and realised that the girl had not gone away from the house. So we intensified the search within the victim’s residence and nearby areas. The girl had been strangled and her body dumped at the site where it was found. There were no injury marks on the body.” While cops have not found any evidence to indicate that the victim’s parents were involved in the crime, they are very assertive about the fact that Neetu was murdered by a family member. Elaborating on the investigation, the officer said, “During the investigation, we found that Neetu had information about an illicit relationship within the family due to which she was killed. The accused felt threatened and to prevent the child from sharing this detail with anyone, she was murdered mercilessly.” Cops have detained few suspects who are being questioned intensively and the accused are expected to be arrested on Monday. The child’s body was handed over to family after post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/body-of-missing-girl-found-cops-claim-murder/articleshow/79118529.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Preventing post-Covid deaths: Drugs & follow up crucial||JAIPUR: Doctors are taking all possible measures to prevent post-Covid complications among patients. From giving low molecular weight heparin, a blood thinner, to conducting a series of tests, doctors are doing whatever is possible to prevent acute respiratory distress syndrome, pneumonia, myocarditis, thromboembolism and septicemia, which are major causes of deaths among patients who recovered from Covid. Health experts say that patients need proper follow up and monitoring even after their recovery. “Covid daily infections are decreasing, but post-Covid complications have become a major cause of worry for doctors and patients as well,” said Dr Narendra Khippal, senior professor (department of pulmonary medicine) and incharge covid containment unit at ESI Model Hospital. He said, “Recovered from Covid and even those who had mild disease could be experiencing a range of multisystemic manifestations such as dry cough, shortness of breath, non specific chest pain, loss of appetite, change of taste, chronic fatigue, sleep disorders, short-term memory loss or brain fog.” Covid causes mostly mild residual symptoms such as fatigue, decreased exercise capacity, joint pains, chest pain, cough and difficulty in breathing. “More severe delayed sequelae are rare (<1% of all cases). They are mainly: post Covid lung fibrosis, heart attack, myocarditis, stroke and deep vein thrombosis. Post Covid lung fibrosis presents with difficulty in breathing more pronounced on walking or exercise,” said Sheetu Singh, associate professor (medicine), SMS Medical College.Doctors are focusing now on management of post-acute Covid. “The symptoms remain present even after three weeks of recovery. We advise the recovered patients to consult doctors immediately, if oxygen saturation goes below 96%, pain in chest and fatigue,” said Dr Sunil Mahawar, associate professor (medicine), SMS Medical College. Besides, its not only the responsibility of patients, but doctors should remind patients of follow ups. “To prevent post-Covid deaths, patients and doctors should remain vigilant for follow ups. At times, the patient stops treatment abruptly. In Covid, it has been found that treatment and monitoring after recovery is equally important to treatment and monitoring during infection,” said Dr KK Sharma, senior consultant (pulmonology), at a private hospital. “Many patients who are not critically ill and get discharged after recovery return to out patient department for persistent respiratory distress, cough, malaise and recurrent episode of fever,” said Dr Ashish Jain, director critical care and in-charge of Covid-19 care of a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/preventing-post-covid-deaths-drugs-follow-up-crucial/articleshow/79118560.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur's National Institute of Ayurveda to set up OPD for post-Covid complications||JAIPUR: The National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Centre’s apex ayurveda institute in Jaipur, has decided to treat patients suffering from post-Covid ailments. The health department has already acknowledged post-Covid complications as a serious problem and to address it, the department had recently issued orders of setting up separate OPDs for such patients. Separate wards for recovered patients have also been established in addition to 181 helpline providing guidance and counselling to patients along with helping them to get treatment in hospitals. The NIA will inaugurate the post-Covid rehabilitation OPD on Monday. “It has come to our notice that a large number of patients need treatment after recovery. For such patients, we will provide treatment through ayurveda medicines and also we will do panchkarma,” said Dr CR Yadav, head of the department (sharir kriya), NIA. He said patients after recovering from Covid, complain of difficulty in breathing, bodyache, cough, depression, heart ailment, sleep disorder and in some cases lung fibrosis. “We will provide treatment to the patients for all such post-Covid complications,” said Dr Yadav. Moreover, a regional raw drug repository will be inaugurated. The health department on October 7 had issued Centre’s coronavirus preventive and prophylactic advocacy in ayurveda, which says that in ayurveda perspectives, Covid comes under the category of agantuj jwar with vata predominani symptoms initially, which may further lead to severe complications (upadravas). The ayurveda medicine can be used for prophylactic measures/ immunodulatory drugs. The advocacy further says measures shall be taken to strengthen the immune system through diet and lifestyle practices. It also talked about the use of agastya harityaki samashamani vati, trikatu (pippali marich and shunthi) powder and pratimarsa nasya (instill two drops of anu taila/sesame oil in each nostril daily in the morning for prophylactic measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/national-institute-of-ayurveda-to-set-up-opd-for-post-covid-complications/articleshow/79118556.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Former Facebook staffer agrees to depose before peace panel||NEW DELHI: Delhi Legislative Assembly’s ‘Peace and Harmony’ Committee, which is hearing complaints against Facebook’s alleged inaction in containing hateful content on its platform, on Sunday said that a former employee of the social media giant has agreed to depose before it. In a statement, the committee said that for the first time, an international Facebook employee, who left the company in November 2018, has come forward to depose and will be an extremely crucial and important witness. A formal notice for appearance before the committee on November 10, has been sent to the former Facebook employee, it added. In the statement, the committee said that after vetting complaints its chairman Raghav Chadha had received, the committee in its earlier meetings have examined certain independent and expert witnesses having regards to the issue of grave public importance set out in the complaints against Facebook. The statement said that in view of the complaints, to subserve its fundamental objective and rationale to maintain peace and harmony across Delhi, the committee decided to delve into the matter of concern raised in the complaints and consequently the proceedings were initiated and expedited in conformity with the terms of reference of the committee. The committee said that so far it has received inputs from the experts who have been observing the functioning of Facebook from outside but through its new witness, the committee shall be “acquainted with the subtleties of the huge incorporation, especially from someone who has worked closely within the framework”. The committee through its chairman and Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha has examined witnesses eminent journalist and author Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, digital rights activist Nikhil Pahwa, senior journalists Awesh Tiwari and Kunal Purohit, editor of NewsClick Prabir Purkaystha and co-founder of Alt News Pratik Sinha, among others. The committee’s meeting on November 10 at the Delhi Vidhan Sabha will begin from 10am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/former-fb-staffer-agrees-to-depose-before-peace-panel/articleshow/79118595.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t get misled, will ensure Rs 10,000 relief for all flood-hit families: K T Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao on Sunday appealed to flood-affected people not to get misled by opposition parties and stage dharnas. “The TRS government will continue to distribute Rs 10,000 financial assistance till the last flood-affected family in Greater Hyderabad and its surroundings gets the compensation,” he said. “The officials will come to your doorstep to deliver the financial assistance. Don’t come out on to the roads after getting carried away by opposition lies. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has already released Rs 554 crore towards flood relief. If needed, all the MLAs from Greater Hyderabad along with me will go to the chief minister and request him to release another Rs 100 crore to ensure that every flood-hit family is paid with the compensation,” he said at TRS Bhavan. Brushing aside the allegations of misappropriation of flood relief money, KTR said these were mud-slinging politics being played by BJP and Congress. The leaders of these parties were busy campaigning in the Dubbak assembly constituency when TRS leaders and the state government officials were reaching out to flood-affected families with the financial assistance in Greater Hyderabad. BJP and Congress members came only after the flood water receded, he added. Countering Congress’ allegations, KTR said the government has provided flood relief compensation of Rs 10,000 to 4.30 lakh families. “We have documented Aadhaar, house number, phone number, location, latitude and longitude details of flood-affected families, and have records of the beneficiary families,” he said. The minister justified the distribution of cash to the flood affected families rather than cheques or online transfers. “The bank passbooks of a majority of the families got washed away in the floods or were soaked. How could we ask people to get their bank account numbers in such a situation? As a result, giving financial assistance in the form of cash was more important,” he said. Stating that the city received its highest rainfall in over a century, he termed the floods as a man-made disaster. “Congress is talking as if all the encroachments emerged in the last six years. These encroachments had come up when Congress was in power. Who constituted the Kirloskar committee, which gave a report that there are 28,000 illegal constructions on nalas? If Congress had taken action against these illegal encroachments we would not have been in this situation,” KTR added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-dont-get-misled-will-ensure-rs-10k-relief-for-all-flood-hit-families/articleshow/79118593.cms||Roushan Ali
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: ‘No trains before ministry order’||CHANDIGARH: The Northern Railway is awaiting the green signal from the ministry of railways to resume services of passenger and goods trains in Punjab as all divisions are ready to ply trains on various sections. However, till further orders, 15 trains in Punjab will remain cancelled and 10 will continue to be short-terminated. Services remain suspended even as Punjab government announced a day ago that farm unions had vacated all railway platforms and tracks to allow the movement of freight trains. Ambala divisional railway manager (DRM) G M Singh said they were ready to resume services, but waiting for orders from the railway ministry. “We are aware of the announcement made by the Punjab government about clearing of tracks, but services will resume once we get a go-ahead from the ministry,” he said. The Punjab government, on the other hand, was hoping for resumption of rail services. It was still trying to persuade farmers to allow movement of passenger trains too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-trains-before-ministry-order/articleshow/79118559.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||UDF hopes to end LDF monopoly||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: When it comes to the local body polls, the LDF has an edge. However, this time the Congress-led UDF is gearing up to give a shock to the CPM-led front. They believe that the ongoing controversies and the corruption charges will have a bearing on the local body polls. But the UDF has a task cut out if they have to overpower the LDF in majority of the local bodies. Except the district panchayats, the LDF has supremacy in all other local bodies at present. Of the six corporations, the LDF is ruling five and the UDF had even lost the opposition status for the first time in Thiruvananthapuram corporation to the BJP. Of the 86 municipalities, the LDF is in power in 45 and UDF in 40. In the 152 block panchayats, LDF is the ruling front in 92 and the UDF in 60. Of the 941 grama panchayats, 577 are under LDF rule and 347 are ruled by the UDF. The BJP, which is an emerging force in many local bodies, had won one municipality and 12 grama panchayats. Among the 14 district panchayats, the LDF and UDF are ruling seven each. “We cannot say that the LDF always has an edge. In 2010, we had won almost 60% of the local bodies. Now, we are sure that we can perform better compared to 2015. The main reason is the fact that in Malabar region the issues between the Muslim League and the Congress have been settled and there are no other alliances outside the UDF. The Congress and the P J Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress have resolved all the issues and the seat sharing has been a smooth affair. So, the UDF is facing the election with added vigour,” said senior party leader and MLA V D Satheesan. All senior leaders are now attending the district meetings of the UDF. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala are attending these meetings in each district to evolve campaign strategies. “This time we had an unprecedented preparation for the local body polls. A massive exercise was carried out to enrol the maximum voters from our side in the voters list, which is something the party had never done before. We have put the onus of the candidate selection on grassroots-level committees and there won’t be any interference from the top leadership. We have already completed two rounds of district meetings as part of the poll preparations. The party is well ahead this time in terms of preparations,” said KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran. The Congress is of the view that the political situation is conducive to a UDF win. “The ongoing controversies and corruption will be the topics of debate and they will have an impact. The people want a change and it will reflect in the local body polls,” said Ramachandran. For UDF, retaining Kottayam district panchayat, which it had always won with the support of Kerala Congress (Mani), is a prestigious issue. They cannot even think of losing power there as the credit of an LDF victory would be attributed to Jose K Mani, who had recently switched to the LDF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/udf-hopes-to-end-ldf-monopoly/articleshow/79117573.cms||Rajiv G
November 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Nights in Kolhapur district set to get chillier||KOLHAPUR: Districts in south Maharashtra are going to witness a drop in the night and early morning temperatures from Monday onwards, said the India Meteorological Department. The weather department has issued a cold weather alert for the region. At present, the minimum daily temperatures in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts are between 18 and 20 degrees celsius. However, the night temperatures are set to drop. Shantanu Patil, a Mumbai-based weather expert, said: “We are witnessing a unique phenomenon. The jet streams are active and there will be the influence of a strong La Nina phenomenon. It will lead to a sharp decline in night temperature to single digits. Kolhapur and surrounding regions will witness night temperatures around 9 degrees celsius and this will continue for a week. This time, the winters will be more piercing.” Patil added that the day-time temperature will also see a dip. The phenomenon of a sharp decline in the temperatures will be most evident in other interior districts of the state. Mahabaleshwar, the famous hill station in Satara district, is witnessing maximum temperature of around 25.6 degrees celsius, which is 5 degrees less than average weekly maximum temperature. The minimum temperature recorded at the hill station was 15.8 degrees celsius on Sunday. Beware of fog in ghatsExperts claim that since the temperatures are dropping, the ghats and valley sections are likely to have fog for a long time. Therefore, the commuters must ensure that the vehicles are being driven carefully and slowly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/nights-in-kolhapur-dist-set-to-get-chillier/articleshow/79118558.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Bhupinder Singh Hooda seeks relief for hooch victims, speedy probe||CHANDIGARH: Former chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has demanded financial assistance and a government job to the kin of those who died after consuming spurious liquor in Dhansoli village of Panipat district. Expressing his condolences for the dead, Hooda said some families have no sources of income and it is the moral duty of the government to help them. He demanded harshest punishment for the culprits after conducting a high-level and speedy investigation into the case. Hooda said the rule of law and the government has been replaced by the rule of the mafia, and that is the reason why scams keep coming out every day. Even during the lockdown, when people across the country were forced to stay indoors, the liquor scam occurred in Haryana and the investigation into it has still not been completed, he said. “First, the government investigated the liquor scam through SET in place of SIT, and now it is again being investigated by the vigilance. Even after several months, the vigilance has not reached any concrete result and no action has been taken against any powerful person involved in the case,” he said. Expressing concern over the rising crime against women, the former chief minister said despite BJP’s ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ slogan, daughters in Haryana are not safe, which is reflected in the incidents of Ballabhgarh and Panipat. He demanded that the Nitika murder case be heard by a fast-track court. Meanwhile, interacting with the media at Fatehabad, CM Manohar Lal Khattar said the compensation has already been announced and steps have been taken for faster investigations into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hooda-seeks-relief-for-hooch-victims-speedy-probe/articleshow/79118557.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan's Covid positivity rate goes down||JAIPUR: While the health department is bracing for the second Covid wave, the state’s positivity rate has been continuously dipping over the last four weeks. In the last seven days (Nov 2 to Nov 8), the positive rate remained at 9.5%, down from 9.6% a week earlier (October 26 to November 1). In the preceeding weeks, the rate was 9.8% (October 19 to October 25) and 10.8% (October 12 to October 18). “The positivity rate is going down. But we are alert and taking measures to contain the spread of the virus and prevent mortalities,” said a senior health department official. The health department is collecting around 1.3 lakh samples every week for Covid tests. In the last seven days, more than 1.32 lakh samples were collected of which 12,563 persons tested positive. In the last 24 hours, 10 persons died while 1,872 others tested positive. Sunday figures took the state’s overall tally to 2,11,310 and casualty count to 1,989. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (351), Jodhpur (253), Bikaner (204), Alwar (117), Ajmer (115), Sriganganagar (91), Sikar (87), Kota (81), Udaipur (75), Barmer (65), Nagaur (57), Jalore (56), Pali (49), Bhilwara (43), Jhunjhunu (34), Chittorgarh (32), Jhalwar (23), Rajsamand (18), Dungarpur (18), Tonk (17), Barmer (15), Dausa (14), Sirohi (12), Jaisalmer (9), Churu (9), Baran (7), Bundi (6), Karauli (5), Dholpur (4), Pratapgarh (3) and Banswara (2). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 384, Jodhpur’s casualty count touched 194 with two deaths, Ajmer recorded its 148th death Bikaner (145), Bharatpur (96), Alwar and Nagaur 61st and Churu reported its 29th Covid-19 casualty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-positivity-rate-goes-down/articleshow/79121177.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra urges doctors, nurses to become ‘vaccinators’ for first round of shots||PUNE: State health officials have now started identifying ‘vaccinators’ across government and private sectors to limit disruption of routine immunization programmes during the Covid vaccine drive among frontline healthcare workers. Doctors and paramedical staff working in the private sector have also been asked to volunteer as vaccinators to swiftly carry out the inoculation programmes. A massive exercise is currently under way to collect the total number of healthcare workers in government and private hospitals and nursing homes. A Covid-19 ‘vaccine beneficiary management system’ has also been developed, with government and private healthcare units asked to submit details of staff who will be among the first to receive a vaccine against the new coronavirus. State immunisation officer Dileep Patil said, “We have appealed to private doctors and paramedics, including skilled nurses, to volunteer as vaccinators to administer the Covid-19 vaccine. The move is part of our preparedness plan for smooth vaccination of government and private healthcare workers who are first on the priority list for Covid vaccination.” When asked about the estimated number of healthcare workers who will be vaccinated in the state, Patil said, “It is difficult to point at an exact number of healthcare workers in the state who have shown willingness for vaccination. It is a voluntary activity. The data is being compiled and it will be ready by the end of December.” Members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said they have already decided to volunteer as vaccinators. “There are a total of 46,000 IMA members in Maharashtra. All of them have unanimously decided to volunteer as vaccinators,” said eye surgeon Sanjay Patil, the vice president of the association’s state chapter. Patil, who is also the chairman of the IMA’s Hospital Board of India (Pune branch) — an association of small and medium-sized hospitals in the city — said medical staff with most private hospitals have said they are willing to work as vaccinators during the mass inoculation drive among healthcare workers. “There are a total of 200 small and medium-sized hospitals in Pune that have communicated their qualified workers’ willingness to work as vaccinators to the Pune Municipal Corporation’s health department,” Patil said. Successful vaccination drives among frontline workers will be vital. Studies have shown that even in advanced healthcare settings, medical workers are nearly 12 times more likely to test positive for the virus than the general population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-urges-doctors-nurses-to-become-vaccinators-for-first-round-of-shots/articleshow/79118579.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Panel to collect data on export-worthy Kolhapuri goods||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district export promotion committee, in its maiden meeting, has decided to develop a data bank of all the produce and goods from the district that have export potential. The committee — comprising district authorities, public representatives and experts from various fields — has been entrusted with the responsibility to zero-in on quality products, goods prepared by traditional artisans and unique agriculture produce that can be exported to help the country earn foreign exchange. Sanjay Mandlik, Kolhapur MP, said, “Kolhapur has a strong base of manufacturing industries, agro-based industries and agricultural co-operative networks. To harness export potential of the district, the committee has been formed. A data bank of all such products, produces will be formed and in subsequent meetings we will develop strategy to improve the export oriented quality and exporting. We are looking for new overseas markets for the products manufactured by our core industries. The district industries department will co-ordinate with the industries directly to develop the data bank and device the export strategy.” Products such as jaggery, Kolhapuri chappals, Kolhapuri spices, garments are some unique products which have large demand from the Indian’s settled in other countries. Recently, commerce minister Piyush Goyal had suggested to increase the quantum of export of Kolhapuri chappals and make the designs attractive for the overseas customers. District collector Daulat Desai said, “Digital forms will be distributed to various manufacturers to fill in details of the goods they make and have potential to be sold in the international market. Special drives will be carried out to increase export.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panel-to-collect-data-on-export-worthy-kolhapuri-goods/articleshow/79118600.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan's Covid positivity rate goes down||JAIPUR: While the health department is bracing for the second Covid wave, the state’s positivity rate has been continuously dipping over the last four weeks. In the last seven days (Nov 2 to Nov 8), the positive rate remained at 9.5%, down from 9.6% a week earlier (October 26 to November 1). In the preceeding weeks, the rate was 9.8% (October 19 to October 25) and 10.8% (October 12 to October 18). “The positivity rate is going down. But we are alert and taking measures to contain the spread of the virus and prevent mortalities,” said a senior health department official. The health department is collecting around 1.3 lakh samples every week for Covid tests. In the last seven days, more than 1.32 lakh samples were collected of which 12,563 persons tested positive. In the last 24 hours, 10 persons died while 1,872 others tested positive. Sunday figures took the state’s overall tally to 2,11,310 and casualty count to 1,989. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (351), Jodhpur (253), Bikaner (204), Alwar (117), Ajmer (115), Sriganganagar (91), Sikar (87), Kota (81), Udaipur (75), Barmer (65), Nagaur (57), Jalore (56), Pali (49), Bhilwara (43), Jhunjhunu (34), Chittorgarh (32), Jhalwar (23), Rajsamand (18), Dungarpur (18), Tonk (17), Barmer (15), Dausa (14), Sirohi (12), Jaisalmer (9), Churu (9), Baran (7), Bundi (6), Karauli (5), Dholpur (4), Pratapgarh (3) and Banswara (2). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 384, Jodhpur’s casualty count touched 194 with two deaths, Ajmer recorded its 148th death Bikaner (145), Bharatpur (96), Alwar and Nagaur 61st and Churu reported its 29th Covid-19 casualty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-positivity-rate-goes-down/articleshow/79121174.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan's Covid positivity rate goes down||JAIPUR: While the health department is bracing for the second Covid wave, the state’s positivity rate has been continuously dipping over the last four weeks. In the last seven days (Nov 2 to Nov 8), the positive rate remained at 9.5%, down from 9.6% a week earlier (October 26 to November 1). In the preceeding weeks, the rate was 9.8% (October 19 to October 25) and 10.8% (October 12 to October 18). “The positivity rate is going down. But we are alert and taking measures to contain the spread of the virus and prevent mortalities,” said a senior health department official. The health department is collecting around 1.3 lakh samples every week for Covid tests. In the last seven days, more than 1.32 lakh samples were collected of which 12,563 persons tested positive. In the last 24 hours, 10 persons died while 1,872 others tested positive. Sunday figures took the state’s overall tally to 2,11,310 and casualty count to 1,989. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (351), Jodhpur (253), Bikaner (204), Alwar (117), Ajmer (115), Sriganganagar (91), Sikar (87), Kota (81), Udaipur (75), Barmer (65), Nagaur (57), Jalore (56), Pali (49), Bhilwara (43), Jhunjhunu (34), Chittorgarh (32), Jhalwar (23), Rajsamand (18), Dungarpur (18), Tonk (17), Barmer (15), Dausa (14), Sirohi (12), Jaisalmer (9), Churu (9), Baran (7), Bundi (6), Karauli (5), Dholpur (4), Pratapgarh (3) and Banswara (2). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 384, Jodhpur’s casualty count touched 194 with two deaths, Ajmer recorded its 148th death Bikaner (145), Bharatpur (96), Alwar and Nagaur 61st and Churu reported its 29th Covid-19 casualty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-positivity-rate-goes-down/articleshow/79121176.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fire at Greater Kailash building, 7 people rescued||NEW DELHI: Seven people were rescued from a building in south Delhi’s Greater Kailash after a fire broke out in its basement on late Saturday evening. The fire department received a call around 11.15pm and sent seven fire tenders to the spot. By then, the smoke had engulfed the entire building located in S Block of GK-I. Fire officials went inside and rescued the people trapped on upper floors. They couldn’t come out on their own because of the smoke. The fire was subsequently put out and cooling operations were initiated. An inquiry is being conducted to determine the cause of the fire. Meanwhile, on Friday, police rescued several sex workers when a building caught fire on GB Road in central Delhi. The building had at least 70 sex workers inside when the fire broke out. The beat officer of the area had entered the building even before the fire tenders came and also called his colleagues and locals for help. The women, who had shut themselves in in five-six rooms in panic, were convinced to come out and made to go out one by one, said an officer. Eight fire tenders reached the spot after they were rescued and doused the blaze.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fire-at-gk-building-7-people-rescued/articleshow/79118613.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder Singh: Assured Amit Shah of no law & order trouble||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday said he has spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah seeking his intervention to ensure restoration of train services in the state. He said he is hopeful of early resumption of movement of goods trains in Punjab. Amarinder had spoken to Shah on Saturday to discuss the situation and assured him that there were no law and order concerns to prevent resumption of services for ‘facilitating supply of essential commodities’ in Punjab and the neighbouring states of Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir. He added that all these states were suffering huge losses due to the suspension of train services. Amarinder highlighted that the security concerns could be serious for the nation if essential supplies did not reach the armed forces in Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir before snowfall due to the railways’ decision not to ply goods trains immediately. He informed Shah that all tracks had been cleared by the farmers for the ‘movement of freight trains’ and the ground situation was now totally peaceful and conducive for safe transportation of goods. The chief minister also pointed out that the agitating farmers had not disturbed peace in any part of Punjab over the past few weeks of their protests. Similar to his assurance to railway minister Piyush Goyal, Amarinder also told Shah that he had directed the state police to extend all support to the Railway Protection Force (RPF) in providing security on rail tracks as well as the platforms to enable smooth movement of freight trains. Amarinder informed Shah that the state government was closely engaged with farmer organisations to persuade them to lift their blockade completely to allow passenger trains also, so that Punjabis, including the 1.5 lakh soldiers stationed at various places, could come home for Diwali. The CM termed as unfortunate the attempts by the opposition, including certain BJP leaders, to politicise the issue instead of finding an amicable solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-assured-shah-of-no-law-order-trouble/articleshow/79118587.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan's Covid positivity rate goes down||JAIPUR: While the health department is bracing for the second Covid wave, the state’s positivity rate has been continuously dipping over the last four weeks. In the last seven days (Nov 2 to Nov 8), the positive rate remained at 9.5%, down from 9.6% a week earlier (October 26 to November 1). In the preceeding weeks, the rate was 9.8% (October 19 to October 25) and 10.8% (October 12 to October 18). “The positivity rate is going down. But we are alert and taking measures to contain the spread of the virus and prevent mortalities,” said a senior health department official. The health department is collecting around 1.3 lakh samples every week for Covid tests. In the last seven days, more than 1.32 lakh samples were collected of which 12,563 persons tested positive. In the last 24 hours, 10 persons died while 1,872 others tested positive. Sunday figures took the state’s overall tally to 2,11,310 and casualty count to 1,989. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (351), Jodhpur (253), Bikaner (204), Alwar (117), Ajmer (115), Sriganganagar (91), Sikar (87), Kota (81), Udaipur (75), Barmer (65), Nagaur (57), Jalore (56), Pali (49), Bhilwara (43), Jhunjhunu (34), Chittorgarh (32), Jhalwar (23), Rajsamand (18), Dungarpur (18), Tonk (17), Barmer (15), Dausa (14), Sirohi (12), Jaisalmer (9), Churu (9), Baran (7), Bundi (6), Karauli (5), Dholpur (4), Pratapgarh (3) and Banswara (2). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 384, Jodhpur’s casualty count touched 194 with two deaths, Ajmer recorded its 148th death Bikaner (145), Bharatpur (96), Alwar and Nagaur 61st and Churu reported its 29th Covid-19 casualty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-positivity-rate-goes-down/articleshow/79118586.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Pune||NIV proposes massive sero survey in Pune metropolitan region, rural limits||PUNE: Scientists at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) have proposed a sero survey of 14,500 people in rural and urban Pune to gauge the extent of Covid-19’s spread. When it gets the go-ahead, it will be the Pune Metropolitan Region’s largest check for antibodies yet. Results from Pune’s first sero survey, released in August, showed seropositivity rates nearing 60% in some slum pockets, with an overall 50% positivity. But that sero survey, experts said, was inadequate as it was limited to only 1,644 citizens across five high-incidence zones within Pune Municipal Corporation limits. But the proposed survey is expected to cover residents of slums and large housing societies across areas that have recorded high, medium and low transmission. Sources said the proposal is currently being reviewed by the divisional commissioner’s office. Public health expert Subhash Salunke, technical advisor to the state on Covid-19, said, “Experts from NIV and BJ Medical College-Sassoon hospital have agreed to carry out the sero survey across PMC limits and 13 district tehsils.” Salunke said divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao is expected to take the final decision. Health experts have been urging the administration to use the lull in cases to launch sero surveys.  “A comprehensive sero survey is very much needed to assess Covid’s true spread in the district. Currently we don’t have enough scientific evidence to understand the real situation. We have been relying on case detection statistics, which is not the correct method,” Salunke said. Senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee, who spearheaded the recent sero survey in Pimpri Chinchwad said, “Results from a large survey of PMC and rural limits will provide data on infection spread, infection fatality rates (IFR) and help us determine if residents are vulnerable to a second wave.” The Pimpri Chinchwad sero survey had found antibodies in 34% of 5,000 surveyed residents. But prevalence of some immunity among the surveyed could be over 50% as T-cell-mediated protection can persist even after Covid-19 antibodies disappear from the blood, Banerjee said. According to Salunke, every ward of the PMC should be included in the Pune city sero survey. “This will allow us to plot effective counters,” Salunke said. Pune also has the advantage of securing help from top research institutions. Experts from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Savitribai Phule Pune University and the DY Patil Medical College and hospital have played vital roles in previous sero surveys. “We would need a team of 70 to 80 doctors for the task. If required, we can also mobilize doctors from medical colleges from neighbouring districts,” Salunke said. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao remained unavailable for comment and NIV director Priya Abraham refused to reveal details of the sero study proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/niv-proposes-massive-sero-survey-in-pmc-rural-limits/articleshow/79118598.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Buses to run at full capacity till November 30||NEW DELHI: Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Cluster Scheme buses, which were allowed to run at full seating capacity by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on a trial basis till November 8, have now got an extension to continue operating at full seating capacity till November 30. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who is the chairman of DDMA, approved the state government’s proposal to allow buses to run at full seating capacity on Sunday. Buses in the capital had earlier been permitted to operate with a cap of maximum 20 passengers and Delhi government had proposed that no standing passengers be allowed. AC buses, meanwhile, can seat 35 passengers while non-AC buses, the fleet size of which is much higher, can seat 41 passengers. As the order for allowing full seating capacity on a trial basis came to an end on Sunday, an extension of the order was granted. The DDMA order stated that the Covid situation in Delhi has been assessed and it has been decided that intra-state movement of buses with full seating capacity may be continued further from November 9 to November 30 on a trial basis. Delhi Disaster Management Authority had also allowed ISBT in the city to reopen last month, which resumed operations from November 3. Watch Delhi: Buses to run at full capacity till November 30||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/buses-to-run-at-full-capacity-till-nov-30/articleshow/79118630.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Diwali shoppers let guard down as they crowd Mandai & Laxmi Road||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: The city’s main marketplace at Laxmi Road and adjoining areas were packed with shoppers on Sunday, days before Diwali, raising a concern about people disregarding the looming fear of a second wave of Covid-19 during this winter. Shopkeepers were upbeat about the brisk business, particularly as the lockdown had dealt a severe blow to the business. While some people were content with their shopping binge, others were worried about the situation triggering a fresh wave of infection. As Aundh resident Dina Parthasarathy said, “We’re back to the pre-pandemic crowding. If this level of crowding continues, we will definitely have a second wave. I couldn’t walk on footpaths today. I even saw a man sneezing without a mask on.” The market road was particularly crowded on Sunday evening. Shoppers were on foot as the police had restrained movement of vehicles and were seen managing the crowds. Many people were seen wearing masks incorrectly even in the midst of a crowd. Rahul Bora, member of the Laxmi Road shop owners’ body, said, “The fear of the pandemic seems to be waning and people seemed happy to get out of their homes to shop before the festival. Women are happy to be able to shop at the market. Keeping safe distance from each other amid such crowd is next to impossible, but we have seen customers wearing masks and using sanitisers while they shop.” Another shop owner Surendrabhai Kazri said, “The turnout of customers has been much better today than the last few days. Diwali is around the corner and so is the wedding season so business is picking up. We saw 60% increase in footfall. All shopkeepers have set up sanitization stations. We are not allowing customers in without wearing masks.” Homemaker Savitri Mackar, who went shopping to Laxmi road with her daughter, said, “It is like a ritual to shop on Laxmi road ahead of Diwali. So now that the government wants us to slowly go back to our normal lives, we are doing so with precaution. We knew how crowded Tulshibaug would be, so we wore face shields over our masks to be extra safe. Many others were not bothered about wearing masks properly.” Roadside vendors, however, do not have the means to take all precautions. Kiran Joshi, software professional, said, “Many vendors did not have mask or had them pulled down to their chin while interacting with customers but they too deserve to earn something so that they can celebrate the festival.” (With inputs by Govind Vijaykumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/diwali-shoppers-let-guard-down-as-they-crowd-mandai-laxmi-road/articleshow/79118621.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kanpur||Dubbed ‘spy’, Kanpur man to return home after 8 years in Pakistan prison||KANPUR: Shamshuddin, a 70-year-old man from Bajaria, Kanpur, has finally returned from Pakistan on completing his eight-year imprisonment in Karachi jail after being dubbed an ‘Indian spy’ and is eagerly waiting to meet his family. Shamshuddin, a resident of Beri Kak Hata in Kanghi Mohal under Bajaria police station, crossed the Attari-Wagah border to reach India on October 26 after his release from Karachi jail and is in mandatory quarantine. Sisamau circle officer Tripurari Pandey said, “We are completing the legal formalities and are in touch with our counterparts in Amritsar. Shamshuddin would be discharged from the quarantine centre on Monday, and will reach the city by Tuesday or Wednesday. It is a matter of great relief and joy for his family that he is coming home after a torturous imprisonment in Pakistan jail.” A Pakistan court had sentenced Shamshuddin to eight years in prison in 2012 for espionage and possessing a fake passport. Shamshuddin, an expert in making shoe uppers, was lodged in Karachi Jail on October 24, 2012. His ordeal had, however, started much earlier in 1992 when he left Kanpur for Delhi in search of employment, but was misguided by one of his Pakistani relatives who took him along to Pakistan. His relative reportedly managed Pakistan nationality for Shamshuddin by faking documents. In 2012, Shamshuddin was nabbed by intelligence when he tried to get his passport renewed when was planning to return to India. Pakistan authorities accused Shamshuddin of being an Indian spy who entered the country illegally, and accused him of involvement in anti-national crimes and forging documents. Later, a court sentenced him to eight years in jail. Officials in Amritsar administration contacted his family in Kanpur and asked them to come over and take him along as his quarantine term at Narayangarh rehabilitation centre gets over on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dubbed-spy-man-to-return-home-after-8-yrs-in-pak-prison/articleshow/79119343.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 9, 2020||Bareilly||Trenches dug up, drones, camera traps and elephants deployed in search of elusive tiger||Bareilly: After three human lives were lost in tiger attacks in a month, the forest department has deployed two elephants and dug up trenches along the boundary of the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) to restrict the movement of the “man-eater” tiger in human habitats. Officials have also mounted camera traps in the affected villages and have been using drone-mounted cameras to monitor the movement of the tiger that remained elusive, so far. Earlier, local politicians in a letter to the district magistrate had urged him to tranquilise the big cat that had “turned a man-eater”. Divisional forest officer (DFO) Anil Patel told TOI the presence of herbivores like wild boars, Nilgai, and others in the standing sugarcane crop was drawing increasing numbers of felines from the jungle. Envisaging increasing man-tiger encounters with the sugarcane harvesting season approaching, the DFO said, “We have urged the farmers to work in groups and carry with them radios and mobile phones so that the loud sound keeps big cats at bay. Besides, the department has deployed extra teams to keep an eye on the movement of tigers.” Forest officials have, meanwhile, intensified vigil to ensure nobody enters the forest area. “Our teams are working round-the-clock in three shifts. Besides, we have dug up trenches and deployed elephants to restrict tigers moving outside the forest, and have been using drone cameras to track the movement of big cats,” said the DFO. The DFO said they were also taking the help of Katarniaghat forest team, Wildlife Trust of India and WWF-India to deal with the situation. On October 24, 32-year-old Avdhesh Yadav was mauled to death when he was grazing his cattle near DTR buffer zone in adjoining Majhra Purav village. The partially eaten body of 60-year-old Pyarelal was found in the forest area on October 8. According to officials, a tiger killed him in Majhra Purav village and then dragged his body into the forest. Similarly, 65-year-old Gyaan Singh was killed on October 5, and his partially eaten body was found after two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/trenches-dug-up-drones-camera-traps-and-elephants-deployed-in-search-of-elusive-tiger/articleshow/79115967.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 9, 2020||Pune||PCMC to keep just one Covid care centre||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: There has been a substantial drop in the number of Covid Care Centres — housing asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms — across Pimpri Chinchwad. There were as many as 26 CCCs in September within the twin townships, but civic chief Shravan Hardikar said with fewer new Covid cases, the administration is now planning to keep just one unit operational — a 300-bed unit in Balnagari. He said, “Through consistent efforts, we have managed to bring down the number of Covid patients. Staff from the closed CCCs have already been diverted to the civic hospitals. We are also disengaging Covid beds from private hospitals. Hospitals with less than 30 beds can go ahead with routine treatment, but the larger facilities will have to produce a ‘step-down’ plan.” Hardikar added that if there are fresh spikes in cases, the centres that have been shut down can be restarted within 72 hours. The civic chief said the positivity rate within PCMC limits has been less than 10% since October. But some have called for more resources to be allocated. Social activist Maruti Bhapkar said the administration will have to stay alert considering Diwali is now only a few days away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-to-keep-just-one-care-centre/articleshow/79118632.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Zilla parishad officials report 50% bed occupancy||PUNE: Over 1,300 beds, including the oxygen and ventilator-supported units, are currently occupied in Pune rural areas. The number is from a total of 2,729 allotted beds. But ICU occupancy in these parts continues to be high. On Sunday, the bed availability dashboard showed that for critical patients, only 40% (88 beds) were available from a total of 225. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the Pune zilla parishad, said the count of ICU patients has increased because patients were being moved into intensive care even if there was a slight deterioration in their health. Prasad said, “Intensive care allows for better treatment. For us, this move has led to a huge drop in deaths.” He said the administration was also expecting more advisories from district officials and the state government ahead of Diwali. “Firecrackers and consumption of sweets during the festival season can harm at-risk patients. If particulate matter remains suspended for a long time, it can harm those with weak lungs. Too many sweets can trigger other complications,” he said. A report by ZP officials said Pune rural still has a test positivity rate of 22.7% and a death rate of 2.6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-officials-report-50-bed-occupancy/articleshow/79118634.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 9, 2020||Mysuru||Elephants destroy paddy crop in Mandya||MANDYA: Elephants destroyed paddy crop worth lakhs near Dabbahalli village of Malavalli taluk on Saturday. According to forest officers, a herd of eight elephants, which has come from nearby Shimsha forest, has destroyed the crops belonging to several farmers. Farmer Puttarajegowda, whose crop has completely been destroyed, said that he has suffered huge financial loss. “My paddy crop was about to be harvested. I invested a lot of money to cultivate paddy on my 3acre land. I have lost it,” he rued. The villagers urged the forest officers to provide adequate compensation to the affected farmers, failing which they would launch an agitation. They also urged the forest officers to find a permanent solution to end elephant menace. The forest officers assured farmers that they would ensure compensation. Meanwhile, efforts to drive back the elephants to forest were under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/elephants-destroy-paddy-crop-in-mandya/articleshow/79117315.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: File complaints, rate officers with just a click of the mouse||NEW DELHI: Soon, you will be able to file a complaint with police and monitor it at the click of a mouse. Not only this, you will also be able to rate the services and convey satisfaction or discontent with the resolution of the complaint. On Monday, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava would be conducting a soft launch of the ambitious Integrated Complaint Management System (ICMS), which was being tested at select police stations and offices of joint commissioner of ranges and district DCPs. The software would be put into use at many more offices now. Shrivastava said, “We are giving public grievance redressal a top priority status. We are doing comprehensive testing of ICMS with the focus on both speedy processing of complaints and information flow to complainants. The testing has been going on since August 15 and all police station staff have been trained in this regard.” ICMS, which would be synced with the crime and criminal tracking system, would have several citizen-friendly features and offer interactivity, something that was not there earlier. “Since we serve 1.2 crore Delhiites, apart from a sizeable floating population, we get 1.5 lakh complaints annually. The bulk of these complaints are received at the police station level in person or by post,” said a senior officer. Under ICMS, the complaints sent by post or given as hard copy in person would be digitised and uploaded into the system. People would be able to access it on the Delhi Police website. “For each complaint, whether it is filed online or offline, an inquiry officer from the unit concerned will be assigned,” added the officer. The entry of complaints would be done at all levels, including the commissioner’s office where the bulk of complaints are received. Once a complaint is marked to the inquiry officer concerned, his name and contact details would be sent to the complainant. This would enable the complainant to send all further evidence, photos, documentation, etc to the officer. The complainant would be automatically informed of the disposal of his complaint, along with the details. “This system will bring in transparency and accountability, since an unregistered complaint can be misused. ICMS also has an extensive management information system, considering the size of the database with numerous variables. This will give the senior management an idea of the police stations receiving many complaints, and also the police station that is being most complained against,” said an official. People can give their feedback on the handling and disposal of their complaints online and directly to senior officers too. “The complainant can call up the inquiry officer and seek details of developments in the case. Under ICMS, all file movements will happen in a time-bound manner. The complainant will be provided a resolution period. The ticket to close the complaint would be given after resolution is provided and feedback of satisfaction level is sought from the complainant,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/file-complaints-rate-officers-with-just-a-click-of-the-mouse/articleshow/79118642.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Bareilly||BJP MLA’s son among 6 booked for thrashing Shahjahanpur BKU chief||Bareilly: Shahjahanpur police have booked the son of a BJP MLA and five others, for allegedly thrashing and pointing a pistol at the district chief of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rashtravadi) on Sunday. The FIR was registered after the farmer union threatened to stage a protest. The farmer union leader, Mahendra Singh Yadav, was allegedly thrashed by Arvind Singh, son of the Dadraul BJP MLA Manvendra Singh, along with his bodyguard, an advocate and three others, said police. The incident was reported on Friday, but police had refused to register a complaint till the union staged a protest.Yadav said, “I was speaking to the tehsildar of Sadar regarding a complaint against a land mafioso, when Arvind Singh and others barged in and began misbehaving with me inside the office. When I later stepped out, Arvind pointed a pistol at me and threatened to kill me, before thrashing me with the other accused.”On Saturday, hundreds of farmers led by Yadav, who was accompanied by his family, and protested inside the collectorate premises, demanding action against the accused, after which, a probe was ordered and an FIR was registered in the case.“A case has been registered against Arvind Singh and five others for threatening and thrashing the BKU district chief. A case was also registered against Yadav and others after the other side also filed a complaint alleging the union leader had tried to extort Rs 10 lakh and a plot from them,” said circle officer (city) Praveen Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bjp-mlas-son-among-6-booked-for-thrashing-shahjahanpur-bku-chief/articleshow/79115981.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Look for candidates in all wards: Mushrif||Kolhapur: The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has started looking for candidates in all the 81 wards for the upcoming election of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation. NCP leader Hasan Mushrif, who is also state minister for rural development, has asked the city leaders to survey for candidates with elective merit and start visiting the voters. The directions from the senior party leader hints that the NCP may contest the KMC election independently and then post-poll alliance will be made with Congress. NCP city president RK Powar said, “Contesting the election in alliance is tricky as our loyal supporter may not get ticket for a particular seat where the alliance partner is fielding its candidate. There are chances of rebellion and to ensure party cadre remains in line, we have been asked to hunt for possible candidate in all 81 wards.” In 2015, the NCP had contested independently and won 15 seats. Congress, too, had contested independently and won 29 seats. Both formed a post-poll alliance to keep the BJP and Tararani Aghadi out of power. Shiv Sena too has strong roots in the city and its leaders are targeting 25 wards where the party has winning chances. In the last election, Sena had won just four seats. Rajesh Kshirsagar, former Sena MLA, said, “Though I am not an MLA now, we had carried out development works worth crores throughout the city. We will talk about these works before the voters. The decision to ally with any party will be taken by our party’s state unit. Right now, we are focusing on wards where we have strong candidates and have good chances of winning.” The five-year tenure of the current civic body ends on November 15. The elections are yet to be called and if it happens, we expect that it will be postponed by few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/look-for-candidates-in-all-wards-mushrif/articleshow/79118656.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Dreams shattered, urban poor find it even harder to cross Covid bridge||NEW DELHI: “We hadn’t been able to save much after working for two decades,” said Ruksar Bano. “We spent some money on a second-hand sofa set and a bicycle for my son. Now there’s no sofa and no bicycle. We sold them to make ends meet.” Read the entire story on TOI+How urban poor are finding it tough to cross Covid bridge||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dreams-shattered-urban-poor-find-it-even-harder-to-cross-covid-bridge/articleshow/79118667.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
November 9, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region records 523 new Covid cases, 582 recoveries & 11 deaths||PUNE: The total number of progressive Covid-19 cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region reached 3,28,089 with an addition of 523 positive patients on Sunday. There were also 11 deaths in the district, which took the toll to 8,079. The number of discharges on Sunday was slightly higher than the addition of new cases at 582. Areas under the Pune Municipal Corporation limits areas had 217 new cases. The PCMC limits added another 123 to the PMR total and Pune rural, meanwhile, recorded 119 new patients. Other areas within region councils and the cantonments had 47 and 17 new cases respectively. With 259 discharges, the PMC on Sunday had the highest number of Covid-19 recoveries within its limits. Rural areas followed with 101 recoveries while officials from the PCMC recorded 101 patient discharges. As on November 8, there were 4,726 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals and another 6,138 in home isolation. Data from the PMC showed that 1,152 patients were on oxygen support. The daily Covid-19 report by the civic body said the number of critical patients in hospitals was 396 — 260 were on ventilator support. And out of the 11 reported deaths in the PMR, the PMC recorded seven, the rural administration one and the cantonments, two. There were no Covid deaths recorded within PCMC limits on Sunday. Civic officials said most the deceased Covid patients had underlying health conditions triggered by high sugar levels and high blood pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-523-new-cases-582-recoveries-11-deaths/articleshow/79118640.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
November 9, 2020||Kochi||Hatchery to be set up to boost brackish water fish production||KOCHI: Setting the stage for increasing the brackish water fish production in Kerala, the Chennai-headquartered Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA) has partnered with the state fisheries department to set up a multi-species fish hatchery under the aegis of the government. An MoU was signed between CIBA and Agency for Development of Aquaculture Kerala (ADAK) for the establishment of a hatchery at Odayam in Thiruvananthapuram, following the initiatives taken by fisheries minister J Mercykutty Amma. According to the MoU, CIBA will provide scientific and technical support to the government for developing captive breeding and seed production technology of commercially important brackishwater fishes—Asian seabass, milkfish and Kerala’s state fish pearl spot. The hatchery will target seed production of these species throughout the season. The partnership between CIBA and the state government also aims to support critical human resources development in the niche area through regular and continuous hands-on training programmes. “CIBA’s linkage as a knowledge partner will be a game-changer in the state’s brackishwater aquaculture sector as it would become an ideal model for transfer of technologies in a farmer-focused manner,” said K K Vijayan, director-CIBA. The establishment of the much needed brackishwater multi-species hatchery is timely and would provide stimulus for augmenting brackishwater finfish production in the state along with enhancing the livelihood generation during every step of the fish production process, he said. “Kerala is endowed with rich brackishwater resources to the tune of 1.26 lakh ha. Since timely availability of fish seeds in sufficient quantity is still a major constraint, the brackishwater aquaculture is yet to explore its potential resources. Timely availability of seeds in a farmer-friendly way will help develop the sector,” he said. “The proposed hatchery will help boost the sustainable brackishwater fish production in the state as it addresses the critical issue being faced by the fish farmers—inadequate seed availability of brackishwater fishes,” said Tinku Biswal, fisheries secretary and chairperson, ADAK. According to M Kailasam, principal scientist & head-in-charge of fish culture division of CIBA, fish species such as sea bass, milkfish and pearl spot are ideal for Kerala, considering the resilient nature of the species to changing salinities and their market demand in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hatchery-to-be-set-up-to-boost-brackish-water-fish-production/articleshow/79117599.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops nab man who robbed for bike EMI||AHMEDABAD: A man who pulled off a robbery to pay for instalments for his bike was caught just hours after he had grabbed a bag containing Rs 5 lakh, on Saturday. Naroda police nabbed Utkarsh Dangi of Ramol, who hails from Bihar. Police sources said they are hunting for his accomplice, Ravi Koshti of CTM. Naroda police have recovered the Rs 5 lakh and have handed over the accused to Odhav police. The inspector of the Odhav police station, R J Jadeja, said Dangi is being interrogated. “Dangi and Koshti had identified an angadia firm in Odhav and were staking it out,” a cop said. “Rakesh Tiwari, who owns a factory in Bileshwar Estate in Odhav, came out of the firm with a bag containing the money and headed towards his office on his scooter.” Dangi and Koshti intercepted Tiwari near Viratnagar and snatched his bag. Odhav police flashed the message to police stations across the city. Later, a Naroda police patrol spotted the duo in suspicious circumstances near Devnand Sankalp City. “Koshti escaped while we caught Dangi and recovered Rs 5 lakh,” the police source said. Inspector Jadeja said a team has been formed to nab Koshti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-nab-man-who-robbed-for-bike-emi/articleshow/79117595.cms||---
November 9, 2020||India||Tamil Nadu: How vested interests kept media glued to Kamala Harris’s native village Thlasendrapuram||THULASENDRAPURAM: When Joe Biden and Kamala Harris were declared the President and vice-president of the US, Kamala’s ancestral village Thlasendrapuram celebrated an early Diwali. Only that the villagers didn’t know about the ‘daughter of the soil’ till a few groups educated them with banners and buntings during the runup to the polls. In the past few days, the villagers have been performing pujas at the local temple, drawing rangolis and bursting firecrackers. But these wouldn’t have happened had certain politicos and caste groups not worked overtime to organize and feed them to the media. An important person in Thulasendrapuram today is J Sudhakaran, president of the Green City Rotary in Mannargudi. Sudhakaran and his wife, a DMK union councillor, have been on local television for the ‘pride parade’ they orchestrated. Sudhakaran organised special prayers and annadhanam (offering of free food) for Kamala’s victory at the Sri Dharma Sastha temple, ensuring that the media was in attendance. “I learned that Kamala Harris loved idli and sambar,” he said. “So, I decided to reinforce my prayers for her victory by offering her preferred food to around 500 people in the village.” The next day he drew a rangoli in front of his house - and the attention of the local media. “We wish Kamala Harris wins,” read the rangoli. Next came R R Kalidas Vandayar, 57, who took his supporters to the temple and offered a special prayer on Friday. The pictures of a placard with Kamala kept near the portraits of the departed ancestors of Kalidasa Vandayar had been doing the rounds on social media. “Vandayar is a family name of Mukkulathor community in this belt. My grandfather P R R Rathinasamy Vandayar was a contemporary of P V Gopalan. We have heard about Gopalan from our parents,” said Kalidas. Malarvendhan, an AMMK functionary managed to be the first in the village to officially congratulate Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris on Sunday morning. His interview was aired on TV channels. Soon, state food minister R Kamaraj and DMK Tiruvarur district secretary Poondi K Kalaivanan visited the village and “congratulated Kamala” though the media. While people like S V Ramanan, 70, probably the only person in touch with Kamala’s aunt Dr Sarala Gopalan in Chennai, kept a low profile, some others in the agraharam (colony of brahmins) and other areas came forward to share information about the childhood of Shyamala Gopalan, Kamala’s mother. P V Gopalan was a native of Painganadu agraharam. He and his family including daughters Shyamala and Sarala had migrated from the village several decades ago. R Ravi Iyer, 61, of Painganadu agraharam said Shyamala Gopalan had her schooling at the panchayat union elementary school in Thulasendrapuram. “I heard from my father Raghunatha Iyer, who was a school teacher, that she studied in this school,” he said. Many villagers TOI spoke to said they were unaware of these tales till a couple of weeks ago, but were happy about Kamala’s achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-vested-interests-kept-media-glued-to-kamala-harriss-native-village/articleshow/79120336.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 9, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Kheri on alert after 21 dengue, 67 malaria cases in one month||BAREILLY: With 21 cases of dengue and 67 of malaria being reported in Lakhimpur Kheri district in a span of one month, CMO Manoj Agarwal has notified all private hospitals and pathological laboratories to inform about people suffering from any vector-borne disease. Helpline numbers of medical experts have been circulated among the masses to ensure every patient gets timely treatment. The steps have been taken after seven suspected dengue deaths were reported at Sansaarpur village in Dhaurahra tehsil in a week. Anti-larvae spraying have been conducted and blood samples of suspected patients are being tested, especially in rural areas. District malaria officer Akhilesh Singh said, “The situation was under control till last month. Now, there is a sudden outbreak of dengue and malaria cases in both rural and urban areas of the district. We are now distributing pamphlets listing 'dos and don’ts' for preventing and managing dengue and malaria. Residents have been advised to destroy all mosquito breeding sites and prevent waterlogging. All cases are being monitored.” CMO Agarwal told TOI, “We have shared helpline numbers to report dengue and malaria cases. Efforts are being taken to spread awareness about how dengue spreads. People have been advised to visit community health centres or district hospital instead of seeking treatment from quacks. No official death due to dengue has been reported in the district so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kheri-on-alert-after-21-dengue-67-malaria-cases-in-one-month/articleshow/79115998.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 9, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: How vested interests kept media glued to Kamala Harris’s native village Thlasendrapuram||THULASENDRAPURAM: When Joe Biden and Kamala Harris were declared the President and vice-president of the US, Kamala’s ancestral village Thlasendrapuram celebrated an early Diwali. Only that the villagers didn’t know about the ‘daughter of the soil’ till a few groups educated them with banners and buntings during the runup to the polls. In the past few days, the villagers have been performing pujas at the local temple, drawing rangolis and bursting firecrackers. But these wouldn’t have happened had certain politicos and caste groups not worked overtime to organize and feed them to the media. An important person in Thulasendrapuram today is J Sudhakaran, president of the Green City Rotary in Mannargudi. Sudhakaran and his wife, a DMK union councillor, have been on local television for the ‘pride parade’ they orchestrated. Sudhakaran organised special prayers and annadhanam (offering of free food) for Kamala’s victory at the Sri Dharma Sastha temple, ensuring that the media was in attendance. “I learned that Kamala Harris loved idli and sambar,” he said. “So, I decided to reinforce my prayers for her victory by offering her preferred food to around 500 people in the village.” The next day he drew a rangoli in front of his house - and the attention of the local media. “We wish Kamala Harris wins,” read the rangoli. Next came R R Kalidas Vandayar, 57, who took his supporters to the temple and offered a special prayer on Friday. The pictures of a placard with Kamala kept near the portraits of the departed ancestors of Kalidasa Vandayar had been doing the rounds on social media. “Vandayar is a family name of Mukkulathor community in this belt. My grandfather P R R Rathinasamy Vandayar was a contemporary of P V Gopalan. We have heard about Gopalan from our parents,” said Kalidas. Malarvendhan, an AMMK functionary managed to be the first in the village to officially congratulate Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris on Sunday morning. His interview was aired on TV channels. Soon, state food minister R Kamaraj and DMK Tiruvarur district secretary Poondi K Kalaivanan visited the village and “congratulated Kamala” though the media. While people like S V Ramanan, 70, probably the only person in touch with Kamala’s aunt Dr Sarala Gopalan in Chennai, kept a low profile, some others in the agraharam (colony of brahmins) and other areas came forward to share information about the childhood of Shyamala Gopalan, Kamala’s mother. P V Gopalan was a native of Painganadu agraharam. He and his family including daughters Shyamala and Sarala had migrated from the village several decades ago. R Ravi Iyer, 61, of Painganadu agraharam said Shyamala Gopalan had her schooling at the panchayat union elementary school in Thulasendrapuram. “I heard from my father Raghunatha Iyer, who was a school teacher, that she studied in this school,” he said. Many villagers TOI spoke to said they were unaware of these tales till a couple of weeks ago, but were happy about Kamala’s achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/how-vested-interests-kept-media-glued-to-kamala-harriss-native-village/articleshow/79119352.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 9, 2020||Pune||Celebrating Deepotsav on a budget with creative do-it-yourself ideas||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: As people grapple with pay cuts and no bonuses, the festival of lights will be celebrated on a tight budget. From decoration to gifts, people are opting for do-it-yourself (DIY) ideas to enjoy the festival without burning a hole in their already shallow pockets. Homemaker Shalini Agarwal said, “Before Diwali come days of thorough annual cleaning of the entire house. We get rid of stuff we don’t need. I found a box of old bangles that my son and I used to make a candle holder. We also used some of the bangles to intertwine with fairy lights to hang up as festive decor in our living room.” Sara Abdul, a teacher, said, “We teach our students the significance of every festival celebrated in India through storytelling and art and craft work. This year, we had craft sessions during our online classes and we made diya garlands and paper lanterns. Parents helped their children and they put up the decorations in their homes.” Graphic designer Akash Mansukani, who started baking during the lockdown, is gifting his close friends and family hampers of baked goods that he has prepared. “When you gift something handmade, it is more personal. We always send sweets to our friends and extended family, but this year we are doing something different by making our own hampers. I will be making brownies, muffins and cookies using fresh and healthy ingredients for the hampers we will be sending out to people using online delivery services instead of visiting their homes. I have been trying out some recipes and I have perfected the ones I will be using for the hampers. If I purchase a hamper with similar contents, it will cost double or more than what I would spend if I make it myself.” Travel consultant Samriddhi Johar revisited her hobby of cross stitch during the initial days of the lockdown and has since been honing her skills with the needle. “I have been making cross stitch designs and even tried my hand at some embroidery on table cloths, curtains, bedsheets and pillow cases. A few weeks ago, I thought of gifting my loved ones something handmade so I bought some plain table cloths, runners and mats and created personalized designs on them to give out to a few. Though it is easy to order something online or commission a personalized gift, it is quite expensive right now. People hardly ever take the time to make something themselves nowadays, but, since I have the time, I thought I might s well do it.” Neha Kashi, mother to two children and a telecom professional, said, “We don’t buy loud fire crackers but only burn phooljaris during Diwali to celebrate since we have a dog. This year, however, we will not even buy phooljaris. Instead, I will make pull-apart Diwali-themed bonbons with small sweet treats inside for the children. I was looking for alternative options for phooljaris or to find a DIY idea that I could make at home. I came across this idea for Christmas bonbons, which I thought I could adapt to a Diwali theme with some modifications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/celebrating-deepotsav-on-a-budget-with-creative-do-it-yourself-ideas/articleshow/79118666.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Trichy||Plastic bags widely in use as shops see festival sales||Trichy: Banned plastic carry bags are being used blatantly after the commercial establishments resumed business after the lockdown norms were relaxed. While major shops such as textile showrooms and departmental stores have adapted sustainable solutions like cloth and paper bags for a price, the cost-free banned plastic carry bags are prevalent among the street vendors and small-scale shops.Trichy Corporation in January 2018 banned less than 50-micron thickness plastic carry bags identified as unhealthy for the environment. The move predated the state government’s ban on 16 types of single-use plastics from January 1, 2019. While the enforcement and subsequent adherence to the ban were at a desirable level till March 2020, the outbreak of Covid-19 impacted the enforcement of the plastic ban in Trichy city. Though the circulation of the plastic carry bags was low during the lockdown, with festivities around it has taken centre stage as the vendors and public without any consideration continue to litter the commercial streets.“Previously, a section of people brought their own bags as we were charging to offer a cloth bag. Now, such practice from the customers has vanished,” a grocery shop owner said under the condition of anonymity. Rallying on the demand, the environmentally unfriendly bag in banned colours and thickness have sneaked into Trichy city. As Trichy Corporation is yet to resume the awareness and penalization drive to prevent the circulation of the bags, the street vendors and small scale shops enjoy a free run this festive season. Official sources said that authorities pursue a slow approach to rein in the banned plastics. “Since traders are recovering from the financial loss incurred in Covid-19 lockdown, we have to be little slow on the enforcement,” a senior health official with Trichy Corporation said. Although the customers could be charged for the cloth bags offered as a replacement for plastic bags, poor awareness fails to curtail the circulation of banned plastic carry bags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plastic-bags-widely-in-use-as-shops-see-festival-sales/articleshow/79119355.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 9, 2020||Goa||Cong confronts Bicholim police for halting rally||Bicholim/Saligao: The president of the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC), Girish Chodankar and party members on Sunday confronted the Bicholim police after they blocked the ‘tractor rally’ organised in protest of ‘anti-farming bills’ passed by the Centre. After almost two hours of heated arguments, the rally was allowed to proceed towards Mapusa on a condition that they will not move together. Police said that they had acted as per the order issued by joint mamlatdar Shripad Majik. The rally culminated near the Bodgeshwar temple in Mapusa. Chodankar said the government tried its best but “did not succeed in suppressing a people-oriented rally”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-confronts-bicholim-police-for-halting-rally/articleshow/79119363.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Financial crisis led Lady Shri Ram student to kill herself, say her parents||HYDERABAD/NEW DELHI: Days after a 19-year-old student of Lady Shri Ram College (LSR) died by suicide, her parents, who live in Rangareddy near Hyderabad, blamed it on financial crisis and lack of support from the central and state governments. On November 2, the body of the student, Arunima (name changed), was found hanging at her residence in Shadnagar. In her suicide note, she stated that she didn’t want to burden her family as they were already in a financial crisis. She also asked her family to ensure that they claimed the “Inspire” scholarship amount of Rs 1.2 lakh that was due in March 2021. The student had secured admission in LSR in BSc (mathematics). Her parents, who mortgaged their house for Rs 2 lakh and sought loans worth Rs 1.05 lakh from mahila mandal groups for their daughter’s education, alleged that the college’s order to vacate the hostel during the pandemic drove Arunima into taking the drastic step. “She knew we had put everything at stake to send her to Delhi for higher studies. She couldn’t seek more money from us as she was aware that we were struggling to pay back the loans. We had discontinued the education of our younger daughter to support her higher studies,” G Srinivas Reddy, the 19-year-old’s father, told TOI. Arunima’s parents also alleged that despite knowing that their daughter had no access to a laptop with internet service or a decent smartphone to attend online classes, she was asked to vacate the hostel. “I want the government to ensure that other students don’t face such problems,” said G Sumati Reddy, her mother. A case under CrPC Section 174 was registered at Shadnagar police station following a complaint filed by the father. Suman Sharma, LSR principal, said, “It is shocking news and we are in grief about what has occurred. The child never approached the hostel, scholarship committee or even the maths department for any assistance.” LSR Alumni Association on Sunday issued a statement saying they were saddened by the incident. “We have spoken to the principal and the college is equally shocked as she had never approached the department, administration, principal or faculty members for any help. LSR has a certified counsellor to help students. Even we have started a charity for needy students,” it added. (With inputs from Mohammad Ibrar in New Delhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/financial-crisis-led-lsr-student-to-kill-herself-say-her-parents/articleshow/79118693.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad’s positivity rate more than state’s avg of 10%||Aurangabad: As per the latest official report published by the state public health department, the weekly positivity rate of Covid 19 in Aurangabad district is more than the state average of 10%. Besides Aurangabad, Latur, Osmanabad and Beed are the other districts in Marathwada where the positivity rates are on the higher side. With weekly positivity rate of 28.7%, Nashik district is at the top of the chart in the state while with 2.4%, Jalgaon is at the bottom. Health authorities have warned people that Covid-19 could rear its ugly head again if no prevention measures are taken. “There is a growing public perception that Covid-19 has disappeared, which is not the case. While some of the foreign countries are now facing the second wave of the infection, we could witness a similar situation if precautions are ignored,” said Aurangabad district health officer Sudhakar Shelke. Appealing to people to take extra precaution during the festive season, health authorities have also stressed on the importance of early testing for Covid-19 in case any possible symptoms are felt. Among other important parameters to gauge the current status of the pandemic, five out of eight districts in Marathwada have mortality rate more than the state average of 2.6%. As per the aforesaid official report, 248 foreign firms and nine from India are engaged in the development of the Covid-19 vaccine. As many as 10 global firms have reached the third phase of the trail, which is a step before the licencing of the vaccine. Out of total nine such Indian firms, four have reached upto the stage of pre-clinical trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabads-positivity-rate-more-than-states-avg-of-10/articleshow/79117612.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 9, 2020||Bareilly||Cane farmers can dial toll free numbers to redress issues||Pilibhit: With a view to addressing various issues of farmers and providing them with information about advanced techniques of cultivation without making them visit the departmental offices, state sugarcane administration has launched two toll free numbers. Sanjay R Bhoosreddy,additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, UP, said one toll free number, 1800- 103-5823, will be operated by the ERP (enterprise resource planning) service provider company. The second number, 1800-121-3203, has been launched by the state sugarcane department. Both numbers will function 24 X 7, he added.The new system will facilitate farmers to be in direct contact with sugarcane scientists for availing necessary technical know-how.“The farmers can register their complaints related to the survey of their crops, supply bonds, issuance of the supply tickets, the service of farm machinery on fair rent being provided by the farm machinery banks on either numbers. The details of the caller will be noted down by the call executive following which the complaint will be referred for redressal to the respective district cane officer (DCO). The farmer will then be approached by the local cane officials to resolve the issue,” Bhoosreddy said.The farmers will also be informed about the disposal of their complaints through SMS on their mobile phones. Officials will monitor disposal of farmers’ complaints on a daily basis, he said.The previously launched departmental website and the e-ganna app will continue to provide parallel services to the farmers to resolve their issues.For matters related to the modern techniques of sugarcane cultivation and problems related to pests, insects and diseases, farmers were earlier provided with toll free number, 1800-180-155, to approach scientists at Krashi Vigyan Kendra, Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cane-farmers-can-dial-toll-free-numbers-to-redress-issues/articleshow/79116009.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||26-year-old found dead in KPHB colony||Hyderabad: A 26-year-old private employee died under suspicious circumstances at KPHB colony. R Sreedevi, 50, a housewife from Bollarum lodged a complaint with KPHB police on Sunday stating that her newphew Y Veera Venkata Vinod, 26, a resident of NRSA colony, was found lying unconscious on the floor of his apartment, with blood oozing out of his mouth on Saturday night. He was rushed to a nearby hospital but the doctor’s pronounced him dead on arrival. A case was registered under section 174 of CrPc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/26-yr-old-found-dead-in-kphb-colony/articleshow/79118696.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Sealdah link likely to be operational by August||KOLKATA: If all goes well, East-West Metro may run till Sealdah by August next year, Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said. Currently a 7km truncated Sector V-Phoolbagan section is operational. When completed, the Metro will link Howrah Maidan with Sector V via the tunnel under the Hooghly. On October 5, railway minister Piyush Goyal launched the Phoolbagan station promising to open the entire corridor by December, 2021. Sealdah station, which is the next stop, should have been launched soon after Phoolbagan had it not been for the tunnelling fiasco on August 31, last year. The three-tier Metro station is now doubling up as the site for refurbishment of the tunnel boring machine (TBM) that completed the eastward tunnel and entered the station box on October 9. A 12m×8m space at Sealdah Metro station has been left uncovered to lift out the TBM’s parts. The TBM, Urvi, will be lowered again to start building the remaining 800m of the westward tunnel from December-end. Talking about the progress of the Metro station coming up 17m below the Sealdah railway station, Joshi said civil work is being completed simultaneously. “We shall try our best to commission Sealdah station in August, so the stretch till Sealdah can be used before the entire 16km corridor is operational,” said Joshi. The E-W Metro, implemented by Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation, will be operated by Metro Railway. Urvi will complete the rest 800m of the west-bound tunnel till Durga Pithuri Lane off Bowbazar where its sibling, Chandi, had hit an aquifer on August 31 last year, and buildings collapsed due to large-scale subsidence. Chandi now lies defunct 20m below Durga Pithuri Lane. A shaft is being built there to pull both machines out when the tunnelling is completed by March, next year. Till then, the 12m×8m opening at Sealdah Metro station, used as a shaft for Urvi, will remain. Slush excavated by Urvi will be taken out via the shaft. Back-up gantries of the 75m-long TBM will also be extracted and its main 9m (functional and heaviest) part will be lifted out of the shaft at Durga Pithuri Lane. Only after the tunnelling is over, can the Sealdah station shaft be covered with ceiling . At the 10,000sqm Sealdah Metro station, being built by ITD ITD-Cemantation, granite work is being done. To accommodate the huge footfall because of its proximity to Sealdah railway station, the Sealdah Metro station is 1.5 times larger than the one at Phoolbagan. But it’s smaller than the Esplanade station, which will be a hub for the three Metro lines — the existing north-south, the under-construction East-West and the Joka-Esplanade corridors. Joshi said, “December 2021 is an optimistic target for the entire 16km corridor. But we do have an August 2021 deadline for Sealdah.” He added, “Trains coming to Sealdah Metro station can return from the same platform to the crossover 700m away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sealdah-link-likely-to-be-operational-by-aug/articleshow/79118692.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 9, 2020||Trichy||Many takers for karupatti sweets this Diwali||Trichy: The karupatti(palm jaggery) sweets have been gaining popularity among the public during this Diwali. With karupatti substituting the refined sugar, these sweets are the favourites of the health conscious. Sweet stalls in the city have therefore stocked up their inventory of karupatti sweets. Although the Diwali season was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, sweet stalls opined that the sales of sweets and snacks have not witnessed a major setback. Sweets such as karupatti badusha, karupatti laddu and karupatti jangiri, which have been hitting the sweet stalls for a few years now, can be identified by their unique brown texture. “Once the customers develop a liking for the unique taste of karupatti, they continue to come back for the same,” Sathiyanarayanan R, managing partner, Amba sweets said. Medical professionals opined that sweets made of karupatti are healthier than sugar based sweets. Since karupatti is being used as one of the ingredients in formulating Siddha medicines, medical practitioners said that the palm jaggery has therapeutic values. “Karupatti has several vitamins, minerals such as sodium and potassium. It is rich in iron too,” Dr G Sivaraman, Chennai-based senior Siddha physician said. However, as karupatti is rich in potassium, Sivaraman said that chronic renal patients and diabetic people should avoid even these sweets. Although the price of karupatti sweets are a tad higher than those made of refined sugar, the sweet stalls here said that the demand for karupatti sweets is still high. “Karupatti sweets are only costlier than normal sweets by Rs 30 to 40. People who are health conscious don’t mind spending a few more bucks,” said K R V Ganesan, proprietor of Aswins sweets said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/many-takers-for-karupatti-sweets-this-diwali/articleshow/79119360.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Signature Bridge to dazzle its way into the new year||NEW DELHI: This week marked two years of the opening of one of the city’s recent icons — Signature Bridge, which will sport a new look on the eve of New Year. By January, the project will also boast of new facilities for tourists, including a cafe, selfie points and a parking lot. Signature Bridge, the pylon of which is more than twice in height compared with Qutab Minar, was opened on November 4, 2018. Besides being an important link between northeast Delhi and the rest of the city, it has also become a favourite place for Delhiites to click selfies, prompting Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC), a Delhi government agency that executed the project, to develop it as a tourist spot. This July, DTTDC used state of the art technology to provide aesthetic theme-based lighting, with separate focus light on the cables in lines with similar lighting on iconic structures across the world. “We are bringing in a software, which will be able to project hundreds of kaleidoscopic patterns on the bridge and the observatory at top with short changeover time by the new year,” said Sanjay Goel, managing director and CEO of DTTDC. “The software will be able to improvise and project special patterns for particular occasions such as diyas during Diwali or Tricolour.” A dedicated ramp is also expected to be ready next year to ferry tourists from the approach part to the main deck, without disrupting the traffic on the bridge. DTTDC plans a small parking, cafe and a toilet near the approach area where tourists can have tea and snacks before taking the ramp along the approach road right up to the pylon from under the bridge. “The work on the ramp and other parts of the project is 70% complete. We expect it to become operational by January,” Goel said, adding that the project would have been completed by now but for Covid-19. Near the pylon, DTTDC is creating selfie points in a small enclosed area but visitors will have to wait a little longer for the 360-degree view of Delhi from the observatory deck. There are two inclined and two vertical elevators facilitating access to the four-storey observatory with a viewers’ gallery. Visitors will have to changeover from the oblique to the vertical lift to reach the observatory. “To make the elevators more user friendly, we are trying to make the changeover more seamless,” Goel said, adding that it would take some time before visitors could reach the observatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/signature-bridge-to-dazzle-its-way-into-the-new-year/articleshow/79118706.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Brothers cultivate paddy to show sister how rice is grown||MANGALURU: Curiosity of a girl led her twin brothers in Kadaba taluk to cultivate paddy in a small patch of land in front of their house. For the past three years, Bhavan and Bhuvan, final year BSc students at St Philomena College, Puttur and residents of Bellandur, Kadaba taluk, have been cultivating paddy in a small field. “When my sister Shriyajna entered Class 1 three years ago, she asked us — how is rice produced? We had no answer as there were no fields nearby. We tried to answer, but that wasn’t appealing to her. So we decided to demonstrate by starting from scratch,” explained Bhavan. The twins, guided by their father, built a field on 40 cents land. The duo has been sowing, transplanting, harvesting, threshing and producing rice from the past two years. “We grew paddy in 40 cents land last two years, but this year, it was reduced to six cents. It is because we’re in final year and need to focus more on academics. We will continue to do it in full scale next year ,” he added. The yield has been good. Bhuvan says they have produced two quintal of paddy. The paddy straw, a residue used as fodder, is enough for a year. “This year, we may get less than 50 kg of rice.” On explaining why they found it difficult to answer their young sister, who is now a Class 3 student at government primary school in Ammei, they said their family stopped growing paddy and switched to commercial crop — areca nut 20 years ago. “All the paddy fields were converted into areca nut farms. It is the story of everyone living around us. Paddy fields have vanished after farmers found it unviable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/brothers-cultivate-paddy-to-show-sister-how-rice-is-grown/articleshow/79116696.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 9, 2020||Goa||Experts committee to identify, demarcate zones for cage fish farming||Panaji: To implement cage fish farming as per the Goa State Mariculture Policy 2020, the state government has proposed to constitute an expert committee for zonation and demarcation of marine waters for mariculture. The committee will be headed by the director of fisheries as chairman while the deputy director of fisheries will be the member convener. The members will include a representative of National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) in Goa, a representative of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) Karwar, Karnataka, a representative of the fisheries survey of India, Mormugao and a representative of Krishi Vigyan Kendra, South Goa, department of agriculture. The committee will identify the zones for sea cage farming and demarcate them as zone A and zone B. It will also identify the site where sea cage culture can be permitted by issuing detailed geographical co-ordinates. TOI had reported in August that mariculture, a specialised branch of aquaculture, may soon receive a boost in Goa. Mariculture involves the cultivation of marine organisms for food and other products in an enclosed section of the sea such as cages/pens, or in tanks, ponds or raceways which are filled with saline water. The state government has formulated a leasing policy to introduce systematic management strategies both for conservation and sustained fish production. The aim is to encourage artisanal fishers to take up offshore open sea cage culture so that they shift from capture fisheries regime to culture fisheries regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/experts-committee-to-identify-demarcate-zones-for-cage-fish-farming/articleshow/79119383.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Sandalwood tree stolen from collector’s home in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: One sandalwood tree was chopped and stolen from the official bungalow of the Aurangabad district collector sometime during the early hours of Saturday. The incident has raised serious questions on the security cover at bungalow located on the VIP road of the city. Police have confirmed there is round-the-clock security at the bungalow as well as multiple CCTV cameras. Police sources said this was not the first incident of sandalwood tree theft from the bungalows or government offices. In recent years, sandalwood trees have been stolen from this very bungalow (including during the previous district collector’s term), the police commissioner bungalow and also from the office of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) located opposite to the city police headquarters. In the latest incident, based on the complaint lodged by one of the bungalow employees Shaikh Mohammed Farhan, the Begumpura police have registered a case of theft against unidentified suspects. When contacted, inspector Sachin Sanap said the incident took place sometime between 1.30 am and 7 am on Saturday. The policemen, who visited the spot said the boundary wall on the rear side of the bungalow passes by a hill. As a result, anyone may easily access the premises from there. Based on the police’s advice, the administration has now started installing barbed wires on the backyard boundary wall to prevent any further unauthorised entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sandalwood-tree-stolen-from-collectors-home-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79117636.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 9, 2020||Mysuru||Property row: 7 held for assault on family||MYSURU: Periyapatna police have arrested seven persons in connection with the alleged assault on a family following a property dispute at Billahalli village of Bettadapura hobli of Periyapatna taluk on Saturday night. According to police, B M Channabasappa, 69, and his neighbour Gurulingappa B S, had been fighting since 2018 over a piece of land that separates their houses in Billahalli. The matter had reached court too. In his complaint to police, Gurulingappa charged Channabasappa and six of his associates with assaulting his family members. “When the villagers rushed to their help, one of the associates from Bengaluru, who was wielding a gun, fired in air,” police stated. Fearing further attack, Gurulingappa’s wife Shwetha and two other family members allegedly consumed pesticide. They were rushed to different hospitals in Mysuru for treatment. The villagers blocked the road to prevent the accused from fleeing. All the seven accused have been arrested, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/property-row-7-held-for-assault-on-family/articleshow/79117284.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kochi||Rights activist Sheena Jose passes away||THRISSUR: Social activist and one of the pioneers of feminist movements in Kerala Sheena Jose died here in the early of hours on Sunday. She was ailing for some time. Jose, 55, was a teacher at government training college and was among the founders of ‘Chethana’, one of four early feminist groups in Kerala, the other three being ‘Manushi , ‘Bhodhana’, and ‘Prachodhana’. She was a dynamic presence in most alternative movements in Thrissur, including the group which was bringing out ‘Padhabhedam’ journal. “She was endowed with the rare quality of transforming every issue into aesthetically brilliant expressions, with the energy drawn from strength of the rustic idioms of Thrissur’s marketplace,” recalls writer and activist Prof V G Thampy. “Sheena was brimming with affection, energy and firm commitment to the ideals she believed in. She was never burdened by theoretical pretences and had a unique capacity to make any debate into a democratic and vibrant sharing of experiences and knowledge devoid of any obstinacies. Her life as well as expressions were simple, lucid and down-to-earth,” recalls Gandhian and writer K Aravindakshan. Recalling that Jose entered the public sphere in the mid-1980s, activist-writer Civic Chandran said she was active in ‘Save Western Ghats March’, which passed through Kerala, Karnataka, and culminated in Goa, in 1987. The march was organized to stop the environmental destruction going on then. She was also part of the march from the Naval Academy area in Ezhimala, Kannur, to Baliyapal in Orissa where people were resisting against a missile testing range project, which was later dropped. Jose was active in numerous struggles for gender justice and environmental protection like in the agitations against sexual abuse of the girl at Sooryanelli and in the fight against the proposed nuclear power plant at Peringom, Kannur. She contributed immensely in numerous workshops on gender issues, alternative film, literary and cultural interventions. Activist lawyer K V Bhadrakumari recalled that Jose had no inhibition in speaking out her views even to those who disagreed with her, but she never nurtured any bitterness. “Her smile was classic, and had the innate potential to lift you up from any depths of depression you may be going through. I used to wonder how she was able to smile so organically and energetically even while remaining sensitive to any form of injustice around her,” Bhadrakumari said. She is survived by her husband Santhosh who is also an activist in the film, environment and theatre fields. Her late brother Shaju Jose was also an activist and worked in Asianet’s editorial team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sheena-jose-pioneer-of-feminist-movements-dies/articleshow/79117651.cms||T Ramavarman
November 9, 2020||Trichy||Temporary bus shelters being established in Trichy||Trichy: Trichy Corporation has launched civil work to establish a couple of temporary bus shelters in the city to decongest the cramped Central bus stand here. The move is aimed at preventing overcrowding in the bus stand vicinity as people are travelling to their natives ahead of Diwali. Lakhs of people are expected to visit the Central bus stand soon. Being established at a cost of Rs 1.10 lakh, the temporary bus shelter on Williams Road near Sona Mina theatre will cater to the needs of people travelling towards Thanjavur and other delta districts. The temporary shelter will be opened from November 10 and will be in use till November 19. A corporation official said that adequate light arrangements and water tanks will be facilitated at the venue. Mobile toilets and urinals are to be facilitated as well. For buses heading to Madurai, Pudukkottai and southern districts, a temporary bus shelter is being established near Mannarpuram roundabout. Sources said that buses will be operated between the temporary bus shelters with Central and Chathiram bus stands. Although the two bus shelters are expected to decongest the Central bus stand, officials are skeptical over common public adhering to the social distancing norms while waiting at the temporary shelters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/temporary-bus-shelters-being-established-in-trichy/articleshow/79119370.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Delhi||DoE rap for govt schools inaccessible to disabled||NEW DELHI: The director of the directorate of education has written to the district education officers for not being able to achieve 100% barrier-free accessibility in government and government-aided schools despite being issued funds for it. Following an assessment of accessibility of government school buildings for children with disabilities in December 2019, show-cause notices were issued to 666 heads of government schools, stated the letter by director Udit Prakash Rai. “Further, composite school grant under Samagra Shiksha 2020-21 has been released to schools” and instructions have been issued for using it “for construction and modification of ramps, railings, handrails and CWSN toilets”. According to the letter, “Even after these multiple instructions, the work of ensuring 100% barrier-free accessibility in government and government-aided schools are very discouraging.” Section 19 of Right to Education Act 2009 and Section (ii) of Rights of Persons with Disability Act 2016 mandate that government schools provide inclusive education to children with special needs. To achieve this, the institutions are to make building, campus and various facilities accessible. The schools are required to build ramps with handrails and tactile path, post signage, make the reception low in height, install Braille buttons in elevators, and construct accessible toilets. The schools have been in the past directed to ensure the availability of all these features before completion of any construction or renovation work. Rai has directed the district education officers to ensure 100% accessibility by March 31, 2021, as per the guidelines of the Union urban development ministry. The director has asked the officers to organise meetings at district levels with the public works department and other government authorities to expedite the process and submit a monthly progress report to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doe-rap-for-govt-schools-inaccessible-to-disabled/articleshow/79118715.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Fire brigade to establish 5 temporary fire stations for Divali||LUDHIANA: As Divali is around the corner, fire brigade officials are on their toes to check related arrangements in the city for quick response towards fire incidents. As of now, they have decided to establish five temporary fire stations at various locations in the city and along with this, tubewells will be kept ready for refilling of fire tenders so that there should not be any delay in handling of the situation. On Divali night, due to cracker bursting fire incidents take place at many locations and so fire officials remain on high alert. There are only five fire stations in the city, which are not enough as fire tenders get stuck in traffic jams during festival time. Keeping this in mind, temporary fire stations will be established at Jalandhar bypass, Sherpur chowk, Samrala chowk, Dandi Swami and Bharat Nagar chowk. One fire tender will remain stationed at each location for speedy response and fire tenders from permanent fire stations will then follow suit. Sub-fire officer Navrang Singh said on Divali night, fire incidents increase and sometimes these take place at one time, so they would have to keep the staff ready. He said apart from this, they had asked for drivers from the MC and those drivers would join a day before Divali or on the morning of Divali. He claimed that they would try to control the situation but even people should remain alert while busting crackers. Meanwhile, crackers shops have been established at various locations and for stationing fire tenders near these locations shopkeepers will have to deposit Rs 2,000 per shop, along with other fire safety arrangements like fire extinguishers, sand buckets and water tubs. Earlier, fire brigade used to take Rs 25,000 for one fire tender near these cracker markets but now the state government has fixed Rs 2,000 per shop price. Fire brigade to check hydrants in old markets Ahead of Divali, the fire officials will conduct checking of fire hydrants in old markets of the city. These hydrants are checked only once around Divali and if found in working condition, then water can be arranged from these hydrants. Markets like Dal bazaar, Chawal bazaar, Ghas Mandi, etc. have hydrants installed inside. A few of the tubewells will also be kept ready for the refilling of fire tenders, if required, and staff will be deployed at these tubewells from November 13 to 15. Last Divali had witnessed lesser fire incidents Last year, on Diwali, fewer fire incidents had taken place. Except for a few major incidents, most of the incidents had happened on vacant plots. Even this year, lesser incidents have taken place due to closure of factories. The fire officials are hopeful that there will be lesser incidents even this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fire-brigade-to-establish-5-temporary-fire-stations-for-divali/articleshow/79117658.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Trichy||40-year-old gets 10-year jail for raping and impregnating minor||Tiruvarur: The mahila court in Tiruvarur has awarded 10 years of rigorous imprisonment to a 40-year-old for marrying and impregnating a minor girl. According to the prosecution, the accused has been identified as Baskar, a tractor driver from Karakottai village in Mannargudi. He is married and has two children. The accused befriended a 15-year-old girl and took her to Tirupur in 2014 promising to marry her. For more than two years, Baskar had raped her and impregnated the girl. In the meantime, the accused went missing abandoning the minor girl in Tiruppur. The girl who returned to her native village along with her baby, lodged a complaint with police stating that Baskar raped her on the pretext of marriage and had cheated her. Based on the complaint, all-women police from Tiruvarur registered a case and subsequently arrested Baskar.The trial was going on for the last four years in the Mahila court came to an end on Saturday. The mahila court judge awarded 10 years rigorous imprisonment and slapped Rs 10,000 fine on the accused. If the accused failed to pay the penalty, the judge ordered that he should undergo further 5 months of imprisonment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/40-year-old-gets-10-year-jail-for-raping-and-impregnating-minor/articleshow/79119373.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada’s Covid cases are now below 100 per day||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada (DK) district has been witnessing a downward trend in fresh Covid-19 cases in recent days. The district that recorded a highest single-day spike of 456 fresh Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths on September 18, has been reporting an average of 82 cases per day in the last one week from November 1. Except on November 3, the number of fresh cases in the district was below 100. On November 3, 123 fresh cases were recorded. At present, the district has only about 1,000 active cases, and has also has been recording more recoveries than fresh cases. The last week saw 1,294 people recovering from the infection, and the average per day recoveries of patients being 184 against 82 fresh positive cases during the period. The district that reported its first Covid-19 case on March 22, has recorded 30,747 positive cases after conducting 2,70,039 tests till November 6. Out of 30,747 positive cases, 28,934 have been recovered, while there were 686 deaths as on November 6. Dr Ashok H, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada, told TOI that the increased surveillance on part of the district health and family welfare department has helped in bringing down the positivity rate of Covid-19. “We have been conducting more than 3,000 tests per day. Similarly, we are also creating awareness on precautions to be followed continuously. Hence, the number of fresh cases is reducing drastically,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dks-covid-cases-are-now-below-100-per-day/articleshow/79116712.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Less than a week before Diwali, no festive cheer in the market yet, say shopkeepers||Nagpur: With a week to go for Diwali, retailers say business is not back even to the pre-Covid levels despite the festive sales drive being launched. There is little hope of matching last year’s turnover. Apart from Covid, the stores have also been hit due to price war by online portals and a conservative stance by consumer loan companies, in wake of the current situation, traders said. TOI talked to a cross section of outlets, from multi-brand stores to footpath vendors, business was down everywhere. Despite the reduced footfall, most people ignored distancing in the shops as well as on streets. Traders are pinning hopes on the coming week to make up the shortfall. “In normal times, retailers begin booking their stock a month before the festival. This year only the pending orders that were not executed in January-February are being released. Payments are also down,” said Gopal Agrawal, president of Readymade Garments Wholesalers Association. This shows there is a poor demand at the retail stores, he said. Ashok Kumar Gandhi of M/s A K Gandhi Group that deals in consumer durables and two-wheelers said, “festive rush has certainly pushed the business but the levels are much below last Diwali’s.” Gandhi said it was seen this time the consumers are not relying much on finance companies. They are preferring to buy in cash instead, no matter if that reduces their budget “This is maybe due to the economic uncertainty that has followed Covid,” he explained. Ajay Madam, who heads the Cloth Merchants Association, however, had a bullish outlook. “Consumers have withheld any major spending during the last six months. This has also led to substantial savings, which are expected to be spent during this festive season. Government servants are expected to have sizable disposable income,” he said. At the malls, only a moderate rise in sales was reported. “The sales are up compared to the last month but consumers are still cautious. Footfall is not upto the expectations,” said manger of a multi-brand store in east Nagpur, refusing to be named. The source said consumers were preferring electronic gadgets like computers as against garments, maybe due to requirement of work from home. “The discounts offered to online portals was passed on to retailers also a fortnight ago. But that was too late and has not helped in reviving sales,” said Karan Grover who runs a mobile shop in Sadar. Manager of another mutli-brand store in west Nagpur said, “last year the same day we had clocked in a sale of over Rs 1 crore, it is less than a half that now.” A majority of the crowd was seen at the garment segment of the mall. Footpath vendors also said the rush was not back yet. “There may be crowd on Sitabuldi main road but business is not even half of the earlier levels,” said Pramod Mishra of the Street Vendors’ Association. Consumers from centres within 100km used to come to Sitabuldi for festive buying. The influx has not begun yet due to Covid which has hampered the street vendors’ sale,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-a-week-before-diwali-no-festive-cheer-in-the-market-yet-say-shopkeepers/articleshow/79117655.cms||Shishir Arya
November 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Two held for entering Ozar airport using cop’s ID||NASHIK: Dindori police on Friday arrested two people for entering the Ozar airport using an identity card belonging to a city traffic branch policeman. On Saturday, the suspects were produced before a court that remanded them in police custody till Monday. According to the police, an unidentified man had asked the suspects to come to the airport to collect a motorcycle. Since the suspects would not have been easily allowed inside the airport, they tried using the ID card of a policeman. The suspects have been identified as Amol Bapu Sable and Ananda Sanere — both aged 24 years and residents of Uttamnagar, Cidco. “The two men were arrested under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 447 (criminal trespass) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code,” a police officer said. Investigating officer, assistant police sub-inspector A N Avhad, said, “One of the suspects had communicated with an unidentified person on WhatsApp for the purpose of buying a motorbike. They were asked to come to the airport to collect the vehicle after making the payment. Since one of them had worked as worker on a police towing vehicle, he had the identity card of a traffic policeman with him.” He added, “The suspect misused the ID card and managed to convince the security guard at the outer gate that he was a policeman. After parking their bike, the suspects tried to enter the main building, where they were stopped by another policeman. There too the suspects showed the same ID card. As the suspects were wearing face masks, they were asked to show another identity card for which they showed their Aadhaar card. Upon checking, their details did not match and when they were asked to remove their masks. Then the photograph on the policeman’s ID card also did not match.” The suspects were detained and later arrested by Dindori police. Police are also trying to check why the traffic cop had he given his ID card to the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-held-for-entering-ozar-airport-using-cops-id/articleshow/79118713.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Woman found dead near farm, hunt on for leopard||AURANGABAD: A 55-year-old woman is suspected to have been killed by a leopard when she was plucking cotton at a farm in the Chakla Shivar of Jamkhed village in the Ambad tehsil of Jalna district, on Saturday. The deceased woman has been identified as Subhadra Mhaske. Range forest officer Abhay Atkal, along with his team, paid a visit to the spot where the woman’s body was found on Sunday morning and reportedly found some pugmarks. Without taking a chance, village development officer K K Kalyankar made announcements in the village and the surrounding hamlets, asking residents to remain alert and take precautions while stepping out of their homes or going to the farms. Villagers in the area are panic-struck following the incident. Several villagers were found moving in groups with sticks and axes on Sunday. Ambad police said that as per her daily schedule, Subhadra had gone to the farm on Saturday morning. When she did not return even after sunset, her three sons and some villagers went to look for her. After several hours of search, Subhadra’s body was found deep in the bushes. The place where her body was found indicated that she was dragged for several hundred feet by the leopard, which left the body only when it got stuck in the bushes. Her head was found at a distance, portions of her hands and legs were found to have been eaten by the animal. The body was moved to Ambad civil hospital, where an autopsy was performed on Sunday morning followed by the last rites at the village crematorium. Authorities said that the injuries as well as tooth marks on her body indicated that she was attacked by a wild cat. However, further probe would make things clear. Preliminary probe by the police has revealed that some of the women workers from the neighbouring farm heard the scream of a woman on Saturday afternoon but did not pay much heed as they could not make out the direction from where the noise was coming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-found-dead-near-farm-hunt-on-for-leopard/articleshow/79117660.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Registration with FSSAI must for small home food businesses||BENGALURU: The pandemic and the lockdown has seen homemade culinary ventures, where people with cooking and baking skills have started selling their produce through social media and other online platforms, proliferate. However, while small food businesses with an annual turnover of less than Rs 12 lakh do not need a licence from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), many are unaware that they mandatorily have to register. Food businesses with an annual turnover less than Rs 12 lakh and production capacity not exceeding 100kg or litres per day have to mandatorily register with FSSAI. The operator can register for one to five years. Operating without registering can attract a fine of up to Rs 5 lakh and even a jail term. A cursory search on Instagram for home cooked dishes, cakes or cookies will throw up numerous such ventures in Bengaluru. But many of these sellers are unaware of food safety laws or the mandatory registration process. Anshumala, a culinary aggregator who is part of an online platform that trains people yearning to start gourmet operations from home, says, “It is true that not many are aware of the rules. One of the key inputs we provide is to help them register their operations with FSSAI.” While a state licence for food business operator (FBO) is mandatory for people with an annual turnover of over Rs 12 lakh and up to Rs 20 lakh, the registration for smaller businesses costs only Rs 100. “It’s a simple rule like needing a learner’s licence to drive,” said Bharavi, a Bengaluru-based theatre artiste who launched his home kitchen through Instagram during the lockdown. “Home-based food ventures must declare that what they sell is of good quality. Ignoring paperwork is escaping responsibility.” Legal experts say the problem arises if a customer finds fault with the food and complains to FSSAI. The regulatory body could initiate action under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006. The penalty under Section 50 of the Act does not exceed Rs 25,000, but could go up to Rs 5 lakh along with prison time if the seller isn’t registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/registration-with-fssai-must-for-small-home-food-businesses/articleshow/79116828.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||KT Rama Rao to inaugurate three link roads||HYDERABAD: Three link roads will be inaugurated on Monday by MAUD minister KT Rama Rao. Link road between Road No.45 to Old Bombay road (Leather Park) built with Rs 15.5 crore, the link road between Old Bombay road to Chitrapuri colony, Khajaguda via the Engineering Staff College, built with Rs 19.51 crore and the link road between Miyapur and Nizampet (Rs 7.75 crore) will be inaugurated. Foundation stone will be laid for a vehicular underpass (VUP) bridge at Leather Park being built with Rs 23.10 crore by the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-to-inaugurate-three-link-roads/articleshow/79118717.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ludhiana||MC to put up resolution in meeting over relief to dyeing units||LUDHIANA: For compliance with the Punjab and Haryana high court orders of providing relief to dyeing units, municipal corporation officials will put up a resolution in the MC general house meeting on November 10, where house members will give nod to the resolution. The dyeing units association members had filed a case in the high court against the MC for issuing the disposal charges bill from April 1, 2020, till March 31, 2021, while ignoring the fact that during lockdown the units were closed. The HC had given relief to the dyeing unit association and had asked the MC to send revised bill to the dyeing unit owners. In the agenda it is mentioned that the HC in an interim order passed on June 30 had concluded that the MC may not charge disposal charges for lockdown period and the amended bills may be sent to the dyeing units. Following this, the MC officials inquired from the DC office about the exact period of lockdown. Replying to the query, the DC office stated that there was complete lockdown from March 23 to May 31 and after that from June 1 till July 15 it was partial lockdown. The officials have now proposed to exempt the bill for March 23 to May 31 while from June 1 till June 30 they should give 30% waiver in the bill amount. However, for those who have already paid these bills, the civic body officials will adjust the amount in their next bills accordingly. The officials claimed that they even took legal opinion and members of the dyeing association were also there in the meeting, where the members said that though the government allowed functioning of units from June 1, these became fully operational from July 1. Now, house members will take a final decision on this proposal in the MC general house meeting. MC to hire technical staff As the civic body is facing an acute shortage of staff these days and employees are getting retired with each passing month, the civic body will now hire technical staff through outsourcing. One such agenda will be tabled in the MC meeting osn Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-put-up-resolution-in-meeting-over-relief-to-dyeing-units/articleshow/79117664.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||Soon, standardisation in feni production to be introduced||Panaji: The excise department is gearing up to introduce standardisation in quality of feni production starting this season, the process which gained momentum in August 2016 with the amendment of the Goa Excise Duty Act, labelling Goa’s brew as ‘heritage drink’. “We should be able to issue permissions to genuine feni distillers complying with quality standards defined by the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) for feni from this season. A meeting with stakeholders was held last week to discuss the draft feni policy prepared by the Goa University,” said excise commissioner Shashank Mani Tripathi. The need for standardisation of feni making process was felt as distillers reduce the strength of the base spirit to increase their profit margin, bringing disrepute to the product. “While few distillers have been trying their best to maintain the quality of feni, some bad apples are spoiling the show,” said a North Goa based distiller. Goa is the only state in the country that produces feni from cashew apples, and despite it getting a geographical indication for the product over a decade ago, feni is yet to gain popularity on par with country spirits such as Tequila and Scotch. “Feni has a lot of potential, but due to non-standardisation of quality, it is still seen as cheap country liquor. The potentials of feni have not been tapped yet. Our exercise to standardise the quality of feni is aimed in that direction,” Tripathi said. Once the standardisation in quality is achieved, feni will be promoted in a big way, he said. When the draft of the feni policy was shared with stakeholders in March, they felt the proposed policy was not realistic and lacked true spirit. “The discussion was held last week over how to improvise the draft policy, and suggestions and recommendations received from them will be inculcated in it. A meeting has been scheduled in this regard next week,” he said. The draft policy though listed various processes involved in producing feni, the stakeholders felt it was silent on providing direction to the distillers and help navigate the challenges involved in making feni in modern times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-standardisation-in-feni-production-to-be-introduced/articleshow/79119391.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 9, 2020||Kochi||Father breaks girl’s arm for discarding his liquor bottle||IDUKKI: A man allegedly broke his six-year-old daughter’s arm after she threw away his liquor bottle at Periyakudi tribal colony in Marayoor in Idukki. The man, reportedly drunk, reached home on Friday night with a liquor bottle. He started quarrelling with his wife and beat up her in the presence of their daughter. The girl then threw away the liquor bottle, which made the man angry. The 40-year-old man allegedly twisted daughter’s right arm and pushed her to a corner of a room. The girl’s arm swelled up the next day and she was taken to primary health centre at Marayoor. Health department officials informed paralegal volunteer Usharani Murukan about child’s ordeal. The paralegal volunteer informed Marayoor police and they registered a case against the father. “The incident was reported to district legal service society secretary Dinesh M Pillai,” Murukan said. “Police arrested him under IPC sections 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and sections of Juvenile Justice Act,” said Marayoor CI Anilkumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/father-breaks-girls-arm-for-discarding-his-liquor-bottle/articleshow/79117669.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chennai||‘Vari Kumar’ helps Greater Chennai Corporation collect 91 crore in taxes||CHENNAI: The tax collection mascot and an online campaign has helped Greater Chennai Corporation collect the highest half-yearly tax in the past five years. Despite the pandemic, the civic body has collected Rs 91cr this October. In 2019, the civic body’s half yearly tax collection was Rs 71cr, in 2018 it was Rs 51cr, in 2017 it was Rs 50cr and in 2016 the corporation collected Rs 55cr. The highest amount was collected in Ambattur (Rs 18cr), Royapuram, Teynampet and Adyar (Rs 10cr each). The mascot, a man resembling a Chennai resident, was brought in to target youngsters, said Meghanath Reddy, deputy commissioner, revenue department of the corporation. “The social media team sat together and jotted down the various common characteristics of a Chennai man and we designed this mascot. The name Vari Kumar was chosen as ‘vari’ in Tamil means tax and Kumar is a common second name. Also, ‘vari’ rhymed with worry which would help us in our various campaigns,” said Reddy. He said that the idea of a social media campaign instead of a door-to-door outreach was mainly because youngsters and elderly were extremely active on social media due to the pandemic. “And children will inform their parents about this. Moreover, these children will be future taxpayers,” said an official. There has been a massive response online with many liking and responding to the mascot. The T Nagar Residential Welfare Association wrote to the corporation praising the concept. “Necessity is the mother of invention, it is said. The Greater Chennai Corporation’s novel method of inducing the taxpayers to pay their taxes elicits attention. Especially, the campaign using an imaginary ‘Vari Kumar’ as its mascot. It states that Vari Kumar has no worries as he pays the tax well before the due date and avails of 5% incentive,” said V S Jayaraman, a resident of T Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vari-kumar-helps-corpn-collect-91cr-in-taxes/articleshow/79117652.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Vijayashanti raps KCR for poaching||Hyderabad: Congress star campaigner Vijayashanti on Sunday attacked CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Twitter. “KCR-led ruling TRS had either threatened or lured Congress MLAs to join the TRS. The TRS’s strategy to weaken the Congress has resulted in the BJP emerging as a challenger,” she said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vijayashanti-raps-kcr-for-poaching/articleshow/79118742.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Meerut||Hired during SP regime & nixed by BJP’s, UP’s 4,000 Urdu teachers still cling to hope||MUZAFFARNAGAR: On the eve of Urdu Day, a teachers’ association in UP on Sunday appealed to the state government to hire the 4,000 Urdu teachers whose appointment process was nixed soon after the BJP-led dispensation took over the reins. The Yogi Adityanath-led government had stopped the appointment process in 2017 saying that the education department “already has enough Urdu teachers and fresh recruitment was not needed.” The matter then reached the Allahabad high court which asked the state to appoint all the teachers. After a review petition filed by the state government was rejected, it came out with a notification in 2018, saying that the hiring process has been nixed. The case is in the Supreme Court now, sources said. Over three years have passed and the 4,000 candidates are still clinging on to the hope that they will get the appointment letter. In September this year, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi slammed the state government for “obstructing” the appointment of the teachers. On Sunday, Urdu teacher welfare association and Urdu development organization held an event in Muzaffarnagar. In a joint appeal to the government, they said that the appointment of the 4,000 teachers should restart now. Event organizer Kalim Tyagi said, “As many as 4,000 Urdu teachers are still waiting for appointment letters from the government. Schools across the state need 20,000 Urdu teachers. The government should consider this.” According to district unit head of the Urdu teacher welfare association, Sharafat Ali, “After the government halted the appointment of the Urdu teachers, the matter reached court and is still pending there. But we appeal to the Yogi government to resume the appointment process.” Urdu teacher Iltamas Ali Khan, a resident of Shamli district, said, “The matter is now in the Supreme Court. I hope we all will get appointment letters soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hired-during-sp-regime-nixed-by-bjps-ups-4000-urdu-teachers-still-cling-to-hope/articleshow/79116748.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Man blames Bamu as PWD rejects licence application||Aurangabad: Vishal Lavhale had his work-licence application rejected by the Public Works Department (PWD) as he could not produce the degree certificate to show that he had completed his engineering course in 2018.“I fulfilled the eligibility criteria to get a PWD work-licence as a part of the government scheme aimed at offering work to young unemployed engineers. However, my application was rejected as I could not produce the degree certificate,” said the 24-year civil engineer.Lavhale is among scores of students of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) who have not received their degree-certificates even after passing out in 2018. These students were directly admitted to second-year engineering after completing diploma studies. Over the past two years, they are made to run from pillar to post to get the documents. Directly admitted students, who passed out in 2019, too are facing a similar issue in getting the degree certificate.Dhiraj Jadhav, another affected student, said he needs the degree certificate as he is about to clear the last-phase of competitive examinations. “We keep meeting different Bamu officials with a plea to get the handing degrees. They keep promising quick action, but nothing happens,” he said.Student activist Tukaram Saraf said it is outrageous that young engineers are losing opportunities due to malfunctioning of the Bamu. “The office of chancellor and the state government must look into the issue in order to offer relief to the affected students,” he said.When contacted, Bamu controller of examinations Yogesh Patil said the issue would be resolved before the third week of November. “We have been facing a system-generated issue in accessing records of the diploma students who later joined the engineering courses. The issue will be fixed soon,” he said. Vice-chancellor Pramod Yeole could not be reached for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-blames-bamu-as-pwd-rejects-licence-application/articleshow/79117680.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Nashik||Former MLC donates Rs 20 lakh to armed forces||NASHIK: Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLC Nishigandha Mogal, on the occasion of her 75th birthday, donated Rs 20 lakh for the benefit of war widows and ex-servicemen. For this generous gesture, Mogal, who was an MLC between 1996 and 2000, has even earned praise from Prime Minitser Narendra Modi. “I simply thought of doing my duty towards the brave men in uniform, and decided to give my gold ornaments for the welfare of the defence personnel. The PM writing to me was a big surprise,” she said. “All my life, I have nurtured the dream of doing something for the armed forces. Few months ago, I thought of using my gold ornaments for this. My family stood by my decision and I am happy about that,” she added. On being asked about where she got the idea to donate her ornaments, Mogal said the act of a few women donating their ornaments to the erstwhile Janata Party, during a rally held in Nashik, was etched in her mind and that inspired her to take the decision. “Just after the Emergency, late Mohan Dharia conducted a rally in Nashik and urged people to vote for the party and also asked for donations. At that time, few women presented their gold ornaments to the cause,” Mogal said. The former BJP Mahila Morcha regional president has also been to the Kargil War Memorial and was moved by the bravery of each of the martyred soldiers. “These incidents were my inspiration to contribute for a social cause. Since I have fulfilled all my duties and both my sons are well settled, I decided to part with my ornaments,” she said. Mogal then called up defence officers to enquire about how she could present the gold ornaments as contribution to the armed forces, but was informed that they could accept cash, but not gold. “I, therefore, sold my gold ornaments and they provided me with the relevant bank details for completing the transactions. I received the payment receipt on October 15,” Mogal said. “Our country has a tradition where the mothers and sisters have always been at the forefront of contributing for nation-building — even in the form of donating gold ornaments. Your invaluable contribution towards the armed forces personnel has only strengthened that tradition of our country,” Prime Minister Modi wrote in the letter of appreciation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/former-mlc-donates-rs-20l-to-armed-forces/articleshow/79118743.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Nagpur||Developed Ambazari garden likely to be ready by Sept 2022||Nagpur: The development of Ambazari garden will be complete by September 2022 and the city will have a great hang out spot. Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) had signed an agreement with PPP operator Garuda Amusement (Nagpur) Pvt Ltd in September and given it two years to develop all the facilities. Along with the garden, the operator will develop fitness, recreational, amusement and tourism facilities. The operator will develop a community centre with banquet halls, party lawns, a resort with 20 rooms and a kitchen. It will also develop a club house with a swimming pool, gymnasium, tennis court, squash court, bar-cum-restaurant, jacuzzi, steam bath, etc. Along with the existing walking track, a cycling track would be developed. A green gym and recreation hut would be set up in the garden. An urban hut of 50 commercial outlets, amphitheatre, exhibition and art gallery and a botanical garden would also be developed. The children’s play area would be transformed into a state-of-the-art amusement park, which will have an aquarium, water park, food court and souvenir shops. The PPP operator will invest around Rs100 crore and will pay an annual royalty of Rs1.5 crore to MTDC. The 44-acre Ambazari garden would be divided into five zones. Zone A and B will be for entry and parking respectively, Zone C – recreation space for kids, Zone D – tourism area with space for shops, exhibitions, etc and Zone E – public recreation area. The Devendra Fadnavis cabinet had cleared the proposal for MTDC taking over Ambazari garden from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in July 2017. Nothing happened till January 2020 when MTDC finally took possession of the land. It signed an agreement with the PPP operator in September 2020. NMC was using only 19 of the total 44 acres. In 1990s it had started boating facilities and some amusement rides. However, the contract with the operator was cancelled after a few years. After a long gap, NMC tried to develop the park on its own but got no response to the bids. Finally, it persuaded the then chief minister Fadnavis to ask MTDC to do the job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/developed-ambazari-garden-likely-to-be-ready-by-sept-2022/articleshow/79117678.cms||Ashish Roy
November 9, 2020||Kochi||Why varied norms for 2 MLAs: Congress||THRISSUR: KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran on Monday demanded that the LDF government should clarify why it is arresting the Muslim League leader M C Kamaruddin, MLA, even when not taking action against CPM leader P V Anvar, MLA, who is also facing charges of corruption. The KPCC president said the chief minister should reply to the question posed by Youth League leader P K Firoz that how can the state adopt different standards in the case of two MLAs who are facing similar charges. The Congress is of the view that the law should take its due course in the case of both the MLAs, he said. Ramachandran alleged that the ruling LDF leaders are trying to scuttle the probe into gold smuggling, drug peddling and corruption in the Life Mission project when it was realised that the role of the top leaders are getting exposed. He said the CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan should recognise the fact that his own party documents had highlighted the need for ensuring that the family members of the party should also maintain high moral and ethical standards. Balakrishnan cannot wash his hands off by saying that his son Bineesh Kodiyeri, who is facing charges in connection with the drug peddling case, is not a CPM member, the KPCC president argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/why-varied-norms-for-2-mlas-cong/articleshow/79117685.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Political parties resent proposed hike in water, sewage tariff||LUDHIANA: With the civic body officials planning to put up a resolution to hike water and sewage tariff in the MC general house meeting on November 10, political parties have started showing resentment against the decision. Keeping this in mind, the BJP councillors conducted a meeting to discuss the MC house meeting agenda on Sunday with district president Pushpinder Singal and claimed that at this time the MC should not hike the tariff and rather should postpone it for one year. Not only the BJP, but also former Congress councillor Parminder Mehta has termed this decision wrong. The BJP councillors condemned the Congress leaders for bringing old resolutions in the MC house which had already been discussed. They said they would express resentment against the hike in water tariff in the meeting and also the proposal to impose heavy penalties on the illegal hoardings. They said they were not against penalty on the defaulters, but it should be nominal. They claimed that the MC was planning to hire a private firm for the water and sewerage dues, but they would not let this happen and they would revolt against this decision. The BJP councillors claimed that a meeting was going to be held after a long time but even then the mayor had fixed time for the meeting at 3pm and that too in the open space in Rose Garden, keeping in mind that it should not continue for long. They said how 95 councillors would not be able to put their issues in the meeting as there was only a few hours left for the discussion. They said the mayor had fixed the meeting only for approval to these resolutions and not for discussing public issues. The BJP district president Singal, however, said they had also sent a letter to the mayor that since the BJP and SAD were no longer in alliance, then they should be given information about any activity separately and leader of BJP councillor Sunita Rani should be given time in the house to raise issues. Meanwhile, ex-Congress councillor Parminder Mehta has also asked the mayor not to revise the water tariff at this time. He said instead of putting pressure on people the MC officials should be told to work hard and perform their duty. He said it was because of the careless attitude of the civic body officials that the MC was planning to hire a private firm for tax recovery. He said the officials should be asked to visit field areas and collect the pending taxes. The Akali Dal councillors will conduct their meeting on Monday and they will decide a strategy for the house meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/political-parties-resent-proposed-hike-in-water-sewage-tariff/articleshow/79117675.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Coimbatore||PM Modi pays rich tributes to ayurveda doyen||Coimbatore: Prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid rich tributes to the late managing director of Arya Vaidya Pharmacy, P R Krishnakumar, and said the void caused by his death would be hard to fill. In a message that was sent for the remembrance event held here, Modi said Krishnakumar’s remarkable efforts to serve the ayurveda would be widely remembered. Addressing the event, Mizoram governor P S Sreedbaran Pillai said Krishnakumar played a key role in getting international recognition for ayurveda. State ministers S P Velumani and M C Sampath also spoke about the yeomen services rendered by Krishnakumar, who died of Covid-19 in September. State chief secretary K Shanmugham, district collector K Rajamani and former Meghalaya governor C V Shanmuganthan also paid encomiums to Krishnakumar, who was also the chancellor of Avanashilingam University for Women in the city. Agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pm-modi-pays-rich-tributes-to-ayurveda-doyen/articleshow/79118746.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kochi||OSF helping more fishers to minimize loss, finds study||KOCHI: Fishermen community has benefited from the advance forecasting under the national monsoon mission and most of them listen and follow the alerts issued in the ocean state forecast (OSF), according to a survey report by the National Council for Applied Economic Research (NCAER). The report, ‘Estimating the economic benefits of investment in monsoon mission and high-performance computing facilities’ was based on the response from a primary face-to-face survey in collaboration with the Reliance Foundation Information Services (RFIS). The response was from 757 marine fishermen across 34 districts in seven states, including Kerala. The survey found that 82% of fishermen reported using OSF advisories every time before venturing into sea and 87.7% of fishermen are using these advisories on a daily basis as compared to just 15% before 2015. About 95% of them reported to have avoided empty trips by following OSF advisories, which helped them save Rs 18.25 crore of operational cost. Many used the information issued as advisory on potential fishing zones (PFZ). A total of Rs 1.92 crore additional income was generated from the 1,079 successful fishing expeditions made using the advisories. About 97% of the fishermen received information about flood or cyclone on time and about 86% were able to minimize their losses due to this. The national monsoon mission (NMM) was initiated in 2012 with the broad objective to set up a dynamical prediction system for seasonal forecast. The study aimed to examine the role of improved accuracy of weather prediction in improving the livelihood of farming, livestock rearing and fishing communities. It was also aimed at understanding the importance of weather-based advisories in decision making and reducing loss in agricultural households and fishery households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/osf-helping-more-fishers-to-minimize-loss-finds-study/articleshow/79116750.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Britain to get memorial to fallen soldiers of Saragarhi||A 9-foot tall bronze statue of Havildar Ishar Singh who led 21 Sikh soldiers who fought till their last breath defending their signal post during the Battle of Saragarhi against more than 10,000 Afghan tribesmen is set to become the first monument in Britain specifically honouring the fallen heroes. The memorial to the battle, the subject of 2019 Bollywood blockbuster ‘Kesari’ starring Akshay Kumar, will be unveiled next to the Guru Nanak Gurdwara in Wednesfield, Wolverhampton in September 2021. The gurdwara congregation have so far raised £50,000 (Rs 48 lakh) of the £100,000 (Rs 97 lakh) total cost. The 21 soldiers from the 36th (Sikh) Regiment of Bengal Infantry made a valiant last stand, fighting for over six hours to the bitter end, leaving around 180-200 Pathan tribesmen dead. Councillors at Wolverhampton City Council are expected to approve proposals to lease land to the gurdwara for the siting of the statue at a meeting on November 11. The only other memorial to the battle in the UK is a plaque at Uppingham School honouring Colonel John Haughton, the Commandant of the 36th Sikhs, killed in action in 1898. Councillor Bhupinder Gakhal, whose family is from Jalandhar, and who is spearheading the project, said his passion began 40 years ago when he, aged 14, went on a trip to India and saw a calendar inside the State Bank of India, with an image of Sikhs standing on ruins. When he asked the bank manager what it was, he said, "Son, this is your history, research it."  “This is a very proud moment for the Sikh community as once it is erected it will be there for generations to come. These 21 Sikhs could have run away, but they didn’t and fought to the very last man. The British Empire recognised their sacrifice,” Gakhal said. No images have been found of Havildar or any of the fallen heroes. “There is a gentleman in New York who looked at the surviving relatives of the 21 soldiers and did portraits of them based on that,” Gakhal said. For the sculptor Luke Perry this is a “blessing” as it gives him more freedom in his artwork. He has already constructed most of the statue in clay. “He is not instantly recognisable and so lot of people are saying that it looks like their grandfather so it is easier to engage with,” he said. "This Battle is a big part of British history but it’s been forgotten because the British Raj is not taught in British schools. I am very glad to be part of it.” Saragarhi researcher, author and film producer Capt Jay Singh-Sohal said: “Saragarhi was unique not just in the odds - 21 men vs 10,000; but also in that the British immediately recognised it as a gallant deed and took great efforts to recognise it with a view of inspiring others to fight in similar ways. It's important we remember this battle and those martyrs who fought for dharam (or righteousness).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/britain-to-get-memorial-to-fallen-soldiers-of-saragarhi/articleshow/79118750.cms||NAOMI CANTON
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad cop who cleared path for ambulance reaches out to patient||HYDERABAD: Five days after he shot to fame after a video showed him running almost 2 km to clear a traffic jam for an ambulance, Abids traffic constable G Babji, on Sunday said he reached out to the patient and found that he was recovering in hospital. In a feeble voice, the patient, who is suffering from a heart ailment, greeted Babji, and that gave the constable immense satisfaction, he said. On November 2, when a senior citizen was being shifted in an ambulance from one hospital to another private hospital in Malakpet, the ambulance was stuck amid heavy traffic jam at Abids GPO crossing. Babji, a 2010 batch constable, was posted at the crossing and on seeing an ambulance, ran from Abids GPO junction to Koti Andhra Bank, about 2 km to pave way for the ambulance, while clearing traffic. The patient is a senior citizen from Hayathnagar. The patient’s nephew Satish, who sat in the ambulance, shot the video after he saw the constable running to clear the way. This video brought the effort of Babji to the spotlight as it went viral and was carried in these columns on November 5. “I don’t know the patient’s name. But his nephew Satish came in touch with me. He made a video call and showed me the patient, who spoke only two words to me, saying Namaskaram Babji garu (Hello Mr Babji). It gave me lot of happiness. Later I met his family members in Hayathnagar, many locals also joined them and appreciated me a lot,” Babji told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-cop-who-cleared-path-for-ambulance-reaches-out-to-patient/articleshow/79118753.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Nashik||EPFO relaxes norms for filing certificate||Nashik: In what may come as a respite for 1.35 lakh pensioners in Nashik region, the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has further relaxed the norms for filing life certificates. Pensioners can now file their life certificates after completion of a year from the date of filing the certificate last year. This means that those who submit their life certificates in January in the coming year can now submit the same certificate by the same date in the same month in 2022. Usually, pensioners have to submit their life certificates in November every year. But, the EPFO has extended the deadline for submission of life certificates by December 31. Pensioners may visit the nearby common service centres along with their relatives and submit their life certificate there. “Now, pensioners can submit their life certificates round the year but only after completion of one year from the date of filing the certificate last year,” said EPFO officials. The Nashik regional office of EPFO has jurisdiction over five districts—Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon. Presently, there are 12,917 establishments and 17 lakh accounts in Nashik region, including 1.35 lakh pensioners. The monthly PF collection of the Nashik regional office is estimated to be around Rs 84 crore, while payment distribution is around Rs 62.90 crore per month, which includes Rs 30 crore pension to 1.35 lakh pensioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/epfo-relaxes-norms-for-filing-certificate/articleshow/79117690.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant corridor committee visits Masinagudi area||Udhagamandalam: The Sigur elephant corridor inquiry committee, headed by justice K Venkatraman, inspected a part of the corridor in Masinagudi area on Saturday.The three-member committee, comprising Venkatraman, former judge, Madras high court as chairman, Ajay Desai, consultant to World Wide Fund for Nature India and member of the technical committee to come up with a national elephant action plan (Neap) and Praveen Bhargava, trustee of Wildlife First and former member of National Board for Wildlife, was constituted by the Supreme Court as part of its verdict on Sigur elephant corridor in the Nilgiris to decide the individual objections of the appellants.The three-member team visited Bokkapuram and Vibhudimalai area in Masinagudi range and collected details of those areas from forest department officials.This is the first visit by the committee to the corridor area. “The whole of the corridor cannot be inspected given its vast area. Today, we are conducting a primary inquiry in a part of the corridor,” Venkataraman said. “Aggrieved people with objections can file their claims with proper documents for inquiry. After thorough inquiry and based on verification of documents, a report will be prepared.”The court has directed the state government to set up infrastructure and other amenities for the committee within 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-corridor-committee-visits-masinagudi-area/articleshow/79118752.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||People should come together to end family rule in Telangana: G Kishan Reddy||HYDERABAD: As TRS working president KTR launched a scathing attack against Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Sunday, the latter responded strongly, saying that the ruling TRS family should be defeated for Telangana’s emancipation. Speaking in presence of rank and file of the party, he said that the central government has written to the state thrice, asking to furnish a full report on the estimates of flood damage. “But instead of sending the report, they are attacking us unnecessarily,” said Kishan. He added that BJP should win in Telangana to end the family rule. “Hyderabad had drowned and many people lost their lives. But the CM could not even take the time out to visit the families of the deceased. Did he or KTR visit any hospital when the Covid-19 pandemic was raging? Everybody should come together to defeat TRS,” he said, calling upon his party cadre. Kishan also sought to know where was the development for which Rs 67,000 crore was spent in the city. “The Centre gave ration for the poor people for eight months. TRS did not do anything but criticise,” said the Union minister. He also said that the BC voters should not support TRS as the party has not provided 50% seats to them for the upcoming GHMC polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-should-come-together-to-end-family-rule-in-t-kishan/articleshow/79118755.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Agra||Agra cop crushed to death by tractor smuggling sand from Rajasthan||AGRA: A 24-year-old constable, Sonu Chaudhary -- who had joined the police force in 2018 -- was allegedly crushed to death under the wheels of a tractor, laden with illegally mined sand, while he was trying to stop it in the wee hours of Sunday in Agra’s Kheragarh area. The accused tractor driver and his accomplices also opened fire on the police party and escaped under the cover of morning fog, said superintendent of police (SP), city, Botre Rohan Pramod. An FIR has been registered against six people under various sections of IPC, including rioting, murder and attempt to murder, and under sections 3, 57 and 7 of the UP Minor Minerals (Concession) Rules, 1963. According to the FIR, lodged by sub-inspector Amit Singh, police received a tip-off regarding movement of some tractor trolleys laden with sand from Rajasthan to Agra’s Ahela village. Subsequently, additional police force was called from the police station and barricades were put up at Ahela crossing. Around 3:50 am, half-a-dozen tractor-trolleys were seen coming towards the crossing but the drivers stepped on the gas on seeing the police. While a few of them sped away towards the village, two tractors hastily moved towards Soan Ka Badda Nagla area. A police jeep followed these tractors and tried to stop them. Turns here Sonu got off the police vehicle in a bid to stop one of the tractors, but he was run over and crushed to death. Sonu was rushed to hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Sonu was deployed at Saiyyan police station in Agra for the past one-and-a-half-year, and this was his second posting after Jagdishpura since he joined the police force. The constable hailed from Aligarh and his last rites were performed in his native village Fazilpur Jattari today in the evening. Sonu’s wife, Priya, had come to Agra just a few days ago to celebrate Karva Chauth. The couple got married only last year on May 8. Sonu’s mother, Usha Devi (42), is in a state of shock and unconsolable. She refuses to believe that her son is no more. Her husband had died last year and now she has lost her eldest son. Sonu’s uncle Arun Kumar told TOI that the deceased was the eldest in the family. His younger brother Navneet Kumar is in the Army and is at present posted in Jammu & Kashmir. “Though Navneet was informed about his brother’s demise, he will not be able to attend the last rites as he would reach by tomorrow (Monday) evening or Tuesday,” said Arun Kumar. “It was a very unfortunate incident. Sonu was a hard-working and energetic policeman,” said Botre, adding that it is a loss for the entire police force. He added that several police teams have been formed to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-cop-crushed-to-death-by-tractor-smuggling-sand-from-rajasthan/articleshow/79116065.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 9, 2020||Shimla||For patients in home isolation, e-OPD must||SHIMLA: The Covid-19 positive patients opting for home isolation in Himachal Pradesh will now have to undertake e-OPD consultation on daily basis. It has been made mandatory for them to go for at least one e-consultation per day via e-Sanjeevani OPD mobile app. It would ensure the daily monitoring of their health status. In a recent circular issued by the health secretary this additional condition has been included for the very mild, pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients opting for home isolation. Most of the over 4,000 active cases in the state are in home isolation. Maximum 864 active cases are in Mandi district, followed by 800 in Shimla district and 611 in Kullu district. According to the fresh guidelines, the chief medical officers (CMOs) will have to provide with the pamphlet explaining step for registering for e-OPD consultation in home isolation kit so that patient is able to register. The e-OPD doctor on duty will enquire about symptoms like fever, cough, sore throat and diarrhoea, medication being taken and status of co-morbidity if any. The doctors deployed at e-OPD hubs will be trained by the state-level Covid clinical team regarding the management protocols for the pandemic. The CMOs have been directed to share the list of all the Covid-19 positive patients in home isolation with the Integrated Diseases Surveillance Programme division and 104 callcentre on daily basis. In case a patient is not able to register for e-OPD consultation, the healthcare worker attached to that patient will help him or her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/for-patients-in-home-isolation-e-opd-must/articleshow/79118764.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hubballi||4 more held in Vijayapura shoot-out case||VIJAYAPURA: Police have arrested four more persons in connection to the recent shoot-out case, where two persons were murdered and five others were injured at Kannal Cross, on Sunday. Vijayapura superintendent of police Anupam Agarwal said a team lead by additional SP Ram L Arasiddi and DSP K C Laxminarayan has arrested Kashinath Bheemappa Talikoti, 24, of Rajaratna Colony, Vijayapura; Raju alias Rajahmed Razaksab Gunnapur, 27, of Bambal Agasi, Vijayapura, Yunusali Husensab Mujawar, 24, of Sarwad village; and Siddu alias Shahapeti Siddu Gurupadappa Mudangi, 24, Yogapur Colony, Vijayapura. “We have seized two motorcycles, mobile phones and a weapon from them,” he added. With this, the number of arrests in the case rose to 11. Agarwal said Mahadev Sahukar Bhairgod, who was injured in the attack and admitted to BLDE Hospital, has been shifted to another hospital. “Bullets were removed from his body and he was provided with ventilator. As doctors said his condition is still critical, he is shifted to another hospital for further treatment. The name of the hospital can’t be stated for security reasons,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/4-more-held-in-vijayapura-shoot-out-case/articleshow/79116221.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kochi||FSSAI’s ‘food’ fortification move unscientific: NGOs||KOCHI: Agriculture welfare organizations have asked Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to reconsider the proposal to make mandatory fortification of edible oil with Vitamin A and Vitamin D and rice with Vitamin B12, iron and folic acid. “While we agree with FSSAI’s diagnosis that India faces a huge nutritional challenge, we strongly disagree with its prescription. We strongly urge FSSAI not to pursue this route and at the same time promote and highlight alternatives as well,” said Usha Soolapani, director of Thanal and co-convenor, Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture (ASHA). ASHA, which is an informal alliance of more than 400 organizations from across India working among other themes on sustainable agriculture and safe, diverse, sufficient and nutritious food, has flagged the move as ‘scientifically unproven’. Industry groups like Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) with which FSSAI’s food fortification resource centre works should not be involved in such assessment at all. GAIN has companies like BASF, Royal DSM amongst others, which carry a serious conflict of interest, in that they benefit from the huge market to be gained from fortification and their involvement is highly objectionable. There are concerns around overdose, which is a major issue with mandatory fortification in that it does not discriminate for dosage within a given population. A study last year by Anura Kurpad, head of physiology at St John’s Medical Institute, Bengaluru, had cautioned that food fortification and iron tablet supplementation may expose women to excess iron, ASHA said in a statement. There’s a need to promote awareness, working with other bodies and non-government organizations who are working on low cost, sustainable solutions, such as kitchen gardens, bran in diet and nutrition-rich diverse varieties of crops, suggests ASHA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fssais-food-fortification-move-unscientific-ngos/articleshow/79116758.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana adds 2,380 fresh cases, 15 die; cure rate slips||CHANDIGARH: Amid a fresh spike in Covid-19 cases in Haryana, the state on Sunday reported 2,380 new cases and 15 deaths, while the recovery rate came down to 89.96%. Gurgaon with 964 fresh cases once again beat its all previous daily case counts. With the latest figures, the state’s total of cases so far has reached 182,804 with 1,912 deaths, and 1,630 recoveries. Now, the state has 16,448 active cases, out of which 275 critical patients are either on oxygen or ventilator support. Maximum four deaths are reported from Hisar, three from Bhiwani, two each from Gurgaon and Mahendragarh, and one each from Faridabad, Karnal, Yamunanagar and Kaithal. Faridabad reported the second-highest 390 new cases, Hisar 172, Rohtak 103, Sirsa 78, Mahendragarh 77, Rewari 75, Sonipat 71, Panchkula 66, Jhajjar 63, Bhiwani 61 and 59 persons tested positive in Fatehabad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-adds-2380-fresh-cases-15-die-cure-rate-slips/articleshow/79118761.cms||Manvir Saini
November 9, 2020||Hubballi||Cops take steps to streamline traffic in Hubballi||HUBBALLI: From the last few years traffic management was out of order in the city and hence people were facing several difficulties to traverse in Hubballi. After Labhu Ram took charge as the commissioner of police, it seems that emphasis is being given to make traffic management more effective. In the last few days many choke points causing traffic jams were removed by traffic cops. For smooth and streamlined movement of vehicles, barricades and graders were placed at several places. Traffic police have already set up cones, barricades and cement walls for proper segregation of two-way movement of vehicles in the city. In South Traffic division, temporary barricades have been fixed to segregate two-way movement of the vehicles in busy areas like Old Hubballi Durgadbail, Kasbapet area, new Durgadbail and other areas. In some places, graders were placed, resulting in smooth traffic movement. South traffic police station inspector Mahantesh Hosapet said that after assuming charge as the new police commissioner, Labhu Ram held a meeting and gave clear instructions for effective management of traffic. “He said vehicle owners should not feel the heat of traffic and choke points causing traffic jams should be removed,” he added. “Many steps are being taken to effectively streamline traffic in the city. Similar steps have been taken in East Traffic station limits too,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police (crime and traffic) RB Basaragi told STOI, “In many places, we have erected temporary barricades. Actually, Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation should provide us the equipment. But we managed to place graders using our funds and we will continue our effort to streamline traffic.” HDMC was asked to extend help in effective management of traffic and they assured all possible help, said the DCP. Bad roads affecting works An officer said that in new Durgadbail, footpaths were encroached by street vendors were cleared, helping vehicle users get parking space. Many measures to improve traffic movement in North Traffic division has been hampered by the poor condition of roads, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cops-take-steps-to-streamline-traffic-in-hubballi/articleshow/79116959.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Three arrested in Jalna with country pistols||AURANGABAD: The special squad of Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta nabbed three suspects from the neighbouring Jalna district on Saturday midnight and seized two country-made pistols and equal number of live rounds from them. The suspects have been identified as Abhijit Waghmare (22) of Borgaon, Badu Khillare (24) of Khillare Takli, both in Bhokardan of Jalna and Kapil Jogdande (25) of Nyaynagar Lane of Aurangabad. The seized firearms have been sent for forensic analysis and police are trying to ascertain if any rounds have been fired from these weapons and also if they have been used in committing any body or property offences. Police said that Abhijit is the of a teacher and is pursuing his under graduation, Badu is a farmer while Kapil has criminal cases registered against him and is also pursuing education. All the suspects have been handed over to Cidco police station where an offence has been registered against them. On being produced before the court, they have been remanded to police custody. Special squad’s assistant inspector Rahul Rode, who laid the trap, said that the preliminary probe has revealed that the trio, in an attempt to make fast money, decided to get into illegal firearms trading for which they had brought these pistols from Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-arrested-in-jalna-with-country-pistols/articleshow/79118759.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 9, 2020||Kochi||Lemongrass project launched in Marayoor||IDUKKI: Forest department has launched a project to cultivate high-yielding variety of lemongrass in Anchunad region of Marayoor. Many farmers in the region have been cultivating lemongrass for several decades. To ensure income sustainability and more profit for such farmers, officials of united nations development programme (UNDP) distributed slips of high-yielding variety of lemongrass to farmers in the region. The project is being implemented with the support of UNDP, India Highrange Mountain landscape and Haritha Keralam. “We distributed Krishna variety of lemongrass slips from the central institute of medicinal and aromatic plants to the farmers in Marayoor division and Chinnar,” said a UNDP official. “Nearly 220 farmers from Nellipettikudy, Puthukudy Echampettikudy and Vellakalkudy would benefit from this project. Two lemongrass extracting units have also been set up in Marayoor Sandal division and Chinnar. In addition, facilities would be arranged for farmers to sell herbage at the extraction centre,” said the official The project also aims to reduce forest dependency and man-animal conflict. According to forest department officials, tribespeople in Muthuvan and Hill Pulaya settlements of Anchunad village have been cultivating lemongrass for generations. They cut grass during the day and extract oil at night. Demand for lemongrass oil extracted here is high due to its superior quality. Munnar wildlife warden R Lakshmi inaugurated the lemongrass slips distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lemongrass-project-launched-in-marayoor/articleshow/79116787.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: 5km-long traffic jam tests, tires Zirakpur||MOHALI: Zirakpur witnessed 5km-long queues of cars and other vehicles on Sunday, which is fast becoming habitual of such traffic jams with starting point near Singhpura leading to the Patiala crossing. Commuters had a tough time as many were stranded for over three hours. Amber Garg said, “We live near the Defence Enclave side and have to cross the Best Price mall and it is not possible on days when the highway is clogged with jam. It is the need of the hour to have foot over bridges at many places for people.” People commuting daily to Derabassi industrial area from Chandigarh said they were fed up of negotiating traffic snarls as it is wastage of time. Deepak Singh, an industrialist having a unit at the focal point in Derabassi, said, “Major traffic jams have become a regular feature in Zirakpur. We have to waste around two hours whenever there is a traffic jam here. Sometimes, it takes 40 to 50 minutes to reach the entry of the flyover.” Similar is the condition of the Ludhiana-Kurali t-point in Kharar, where third phase of the flyover is under construction. Commuters allege that it generally takes more than an hour to cross the Ludhiana-Kurali t-point in Kharar before ascending on to the flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5km-long-traffic-jam-tests-tires-zirakpur/articleshow/79118789.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||3 days on, cops still probing minor girl’s trafficking case||HISAR: Three days on, police are still investigating the human trafficking case which came to light after the suicide of one Subhash, a resident of Mangali Mohabbat village in Hisar district. Although the girl from Assam has been recovered from the accused and kept safe in the One Stop Centre, police have not yet recorded her statement in court. On November 6, Subhash, 36, a resident of Mangali Mohabbat village, committed suicide by consuming poison. His elder brother Shravan said Subhash, who was unmarried, happened to meet Kuldeep, a resident of Bhari village in Hisar, who was married to a girl from Assam. Kuldeep and his neighbours Pratap and Monu got Subhash married to a girl from Assam on payment of Rs one lakh. After three to four days of marriage, the girl quarrelled with Subhash and returned to Kuldeep’s house, he said. After this, Pratap and Monu submitted a complaint against Subhash at Mangali police post. Havildar Sandeep came to Subhash’s house and asked him to report to the police post. After this, Kuldeep, Pratap and Monu told Subhash that they would send him to Assam and implicate him in a criminal case if he did not give them Rs 1.5 lakh. Upset, Subhash committed suicide by consuming poison, he said. Azad Nagar police station registered a case under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Kuldeep, Pratap and Monu on the complaint of Shravan. ASI Harish Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that the girl from Assam was recovered from the accused and kept safe in the One Stop Centre. On the question of recording the girl’s statement in court, he said the matter is being investigated. He added that the DSP will investigate the case on Monday, after which the accused will be arrested and the girl’s statements will be recorded. Despite repeated calls and texts, Hisar superintendent of police (SP) Balwan Singh Rana did not respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-days-on-cops-still-probing-minor-girls-trafficking-case/articleshow/79118769.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Meerut||Gang illegally selling video lectures of Delhi’s prominent IAS coaching centre busted, 1 held||MEERUT: Police in UP’s Meerut have busted a gang which used to illegally sell video lectures of a prestigious civil services coaching centre of New Delhi after hacking into its server and copying it. The stolen material was a big hit among IAS aspirants as it was available on cheaper rates. The gang was unearthed after the arrest of a member, Anupam Srivastava, who spilled the beans and told police about the entire group and its operations. UP Police is now looking for the kingpin of the gang, a Haryana resident. The arrested accused has turned into a government witness and is cooperating with investigators trying to unearth the fraud, police said. The investigators claimed that it could be the tip of the iceberg as only one coaching institute has approached them with complaint. “Several other coaching institutions may have been hit by such cyber frauds,” a police officer said. The pandemic has forced all the coaching centres to switch to the online mode to give classes. The fraudsters were also quick to adapt to the technology. Earlier they used to sell photo copies of the original study materials. Now, they are selling the copies of online video lectures. The institute had filed a complaint on October 16, prompting the local cyber cell to launch a probe. The institute smelled a rat when aspirants approaching them for online courses nosedived during lockdown. After an initial inquiry, the coaching’s administrative staff approached Meerut police as handler of one of the Telegram groups hailed from the city. Similar complaints were registered in Delhi and Haryana too. According to police, the gang used to contact aspirants on Telegram app through fake accounts. They used to offer the videos of online classes at much lower prices. “We have traced at least seven groups on Telegram app with over 3,000 aspirants as members. The students used to approach the group handlers with their demands-- based on subjects, particular teachers or the full course. The gang, after receiving the money in their account, used to share the Google drive link with the aspirants,” Manoj Dixit, cyber cell in-charge in Meerut, said. “The gang used to accept money through UPI. Thousands of the transactions have been done in the last few months,” he said. The kingpin, Murarilal from Haryana’s Hisar, is absconding and police have announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on him. Cyber cell sleuths in Meerut said that the gang has hired software engineers and IT experts who hack into the servers of the coaching institute and steal videos of the online courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/gang-illegally-selling-video-lectures-of-delhis-prominent-ias-coaching-centre-busted-1-held/articleshow/79116797.cms||Piyush Rai
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Diwali rush chokes Chandigarh roads||CHANDIGARH: Ahead of the festive season and also when Diwali is only a week away, the city markets were seen jam-packed and roads chaotic on Sunday. Shrey Puri, who owns a shop in Sector 22, said, “Our market is totally jam-packed and there is a huge rush during the weekends. Traffic moves at a snail’s pace here during the festive season. We prefer to come to our shops on two-wheelers during this time of the year. Even though the Chandigarh traffic police give facilities of parking at government schools, people still tend to park their vehicles haphazardly.” He said due to wrong parking, the residential area gets choked. Shopkeepers revealed that as compared to last year, business is down by 50 % this year due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The city’s famous markets such as sectors 9, 18, 19, 20, 22 and 35 were full of festive rush on Sunday. The traffic officials had even set up barricades in the middle of the road in sectors 18, 19 and 22 to avoid chaos, but people were still seen parking on the roads in Sector 18, thus causing traffic jam in the afternoon. Ravleen Arora, a UT resident who came for shopping at Sector 22, said, “The city markets always have a good vibe during the festive season and we prefer coming here in spite of going to malls. People should prefer carpooling at this time as it saves a lot of space as well as time and results in less chaos. I live nearby so I prefer to come on foot and also I don’t have to look for a parking space near the market.” Officials of the Chandigarh traffic police were on their toes at these busy markets to ensure smooth flow of traffic. In Sector 22, around 20 % of the road is divided with barricades along with ropes to ensure smooth flow of traffic. However, the rest of the area in the sector only barricades have been placed, giving way to four-wheelers as well as two-wheelers to make a U-turn or intersect the road from wherever they want, hence causing chaos. According to the orders passed by the Chandigarh administration recently, they have allowed people to park vehicles inside 33 government schools for free. The move was taken to curb traffic menace across the city during the festive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/diwali-rush-chokes-city-roads/articleshow/79118787.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||Rights activists stress on inclusive education for kids with disabilities||Panaji: The issue of children with disabilities being denied access to regular schools was raised at a webinar on protecting and empowering children with disabilities recently. Disability rights activist Avelino de Sa said the importance of inclusive education was being overlooked and students with disabilities are being forced to get admitted in special schools with no authority to address this issue. Deputy director (admin) social welfare Taha Haaziq, who is visually impaired, shared his experience of inclusive education. “My education was done in an inclusive set up, so I know how important this is. The confidence that inclusive education gives a person with disabilities is huge,” he said during the webinar organised by the Goa State Commission for Protection of Child Rights and Disability Rights Association of Goa. Despite laws in place, most schools and school toilets in Goa are not yet accessible to students, with disabilities forcing some to stay away, de Sa stated, adding that special educators face problems in getting salaries on time leading to a lack of job satisfaction on their part which in turn affects the students. Rama Chari, co-founder and director of Diversity and Equal Opportunity Centre (DEOC) said the new Rights of Persons with Disability Act 2016 is very strongly inclined towards inclusive education. “The act also extends to private recognised schools and the new education policy also reiterates all this. We have to ensure that this gets implemented. It’s not just about physical infrastructure, but about the curriculum, methodology and teachers training,” she said. De Sa said the new act mandates that no new construction licences and NOCs be issued by the town and country planning (TCP) and panchayat unless they are accessible for persons with disabilities. Haaqiz said the government is working on making modifications in existing government buildings to make them accessible. Efforts are under way to sensitise panchayats about the rights of persons with disabilities, he said. Chari stressed that the problem lies not with the persons with disabilities but with the environment that is not disabled friendly, and appealed to people not to patronise or discriminate against them. The issue of a full-fledged commissioner for persons with disabilities not being appointed was also raised, to which Haaziq said that the department has been vigorously following this up. “The government has raised a ban on employment till December. We are still trying to get an exemption and trying to get the interviews done as soon as possible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rights-activists-stress-on-inclusive-education-for-kids-with-disabilities/articleshow/79119395.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Mayor begins drive against illegal shops in city||MANGALURU: Mayor Diwakar along with Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) officials on Sunday commenced a drive against shops, restaurants and other business establishments that carry out business without obtaining MCC’s trade license. The team visited restaurants, fruit stalls, eateries and shops and verified building license, trade license and other documents pertaining to buildings and shops. “We have commenced a drive to check the building license and trade license of shops. The commissioner will initiate action to shut down buildings and shops in case they don’t have valid license,” Diwakar said. He added that the city corporation has received several complaints of building contractors encroaching public places including roads and footpaths in the city. “Buildings are constructed on encroached public places and they are used for various purposes. Pedestrians are facing difficulties due to encroachment of footpaths. People are unable to park their vehicles. In the wake of complaints from the public, I have directed officials of revenue and town planning departments to act immediately. Officials have been directed to vacate all such encroachments immediately,” Diwakar said. Officials said many traders have either not obtained license or did not renew it. Notices will be served, and action will be taken to shut their business premises if they do not respond immediately. The drive will be continued in all 60 wards of the city corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mayor-begins-drive-against-illegal-shops-in-city/articleshow/79116808.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Kochi||‘70% workers depend on Kerala for jobs’||KOCHI: According to a survey conducted among the households of Thuamul Rampur block of Kalahandi district of Odisha, nearly 70% of guest workers from the region depend on Kerala for jobs. The survey was jointly conducted by Kerala-based centre for migration and inclusive development (CMID) and Odisha-based Gram Vikas. The survey was conducted in 440 households in the block from December 23, 2019, to January 15, 2020. The organizations randomly selected 22 villages and 20 households from each selected village. Most people who migrated had moved out of the state, particularly to Kerala, and worked either in construction or in the hotel industry, earning an average monthly wage of Rs 12,000. The estimated monthly remittance to Thuamul Rampur from its migrants (from Kerala and other states) were about Rs 23 million, the survey titled, ‘Labour migration from remote rural Odisha Thuamul Rampur block, Kalahandi’, has found. “More than 80% of the people are below poverty line. Four of the five are below poverty and they belong to the SC, ST or OBC communities. The youth would stay back home if they could get Rs 10,000 per month in wages, but agriculture, the major job-provider, has no future at all. Hence, migration gives them a sea of opportunities and they send back Rs 250 million as the yearly remittances to Thuamul Rampur,” said CMID executive director Benoy Peter. “Guest workers constitute about 6% of Thuamul Rampur’s population. About 9% of the OBC population and 8% of the SC population in Thuamul Rampur worked elsewhere outside the district. Of all the guest workers from Thuamul Rampur, only 3% cent were women,” the report state. The top five destination districts of the guest workers from the block are: Thrissur (28.6%), Ernakulam (13.1%), Kannur (8.3%), Hyderabad (4.8%) and Pathanamthitta (3.6%). “Nearly three-fourths of all workers were engaged in a shop, establishment or a factory. About 17% moved with a contractor and another 8% were footloose labourers,” the survey found out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/70-workers-depend-on-state-for-jobs/articleshow/79116801.cms||Shenoy Karun
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 2 Covid deaths, 109 fresh cases||CHANDIGARH: The city reported 109 positive cases and two deaths on Sunday. This has taken the active cases to 876 and the death tally is now 234. The patients who died are a 82-year-old man from Sector 49. He had Diabetes Mellitus and Myocardial Infarction and died at GMCH-32. Another patient was a 73-year-old woman from Sector 22. She had severe acute respiratory infection and hypertension with chronic kidney disease. She died at GMSH-16. Meanwhile, 46 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total recoveries to 14,024. Mohali reports one death, 75 new cases Mohali: The Mohali district reported one death and 75 new cases on Sunday. A total of 61 patients have also recovered. There has been a slight rise in the active cases. The total active cases count has risen from 683 to 696 and the total fatalities now stand at 246 in the district. The recovery rate too has fallen slightly from 93.39% to 92.69%. Mohali Urban saw 53 cases, which is 70.66% of the total positive cases, followed by Lalru (8), Derabassi (7), Dhakoli (4), Kurali (2) and Kharar (1). The health department officials said as of now the total number of positive cases reported in the district is 12,897, of which, 11,955 have recovered. Meanwhile, Mohali civil surgeon G B Singh said his family has been dealing with public as he and his son, both are doctors and his wife is a director at a university. They were tested positive and have been put under home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-records-2-covid-deaths-109-fresh-cases/articleshow/79118792.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||3 from Pinjore booked for duping marble trader of Rs 1 lakh||CHANDIGARH: The UT police have booked three persons for allegedly duping a city-based businessman of Rs 1.13 lakh by issuing him a cheque with fake signatures. The accused have been identified as Raju Rawat, Ajit Sharma and Satish Sharma. All are residents of Pinjore, Haryana. Pawan Kumar Bansal, who runs a marble store at the marble market in Dhanas, alleged that the three accused came to his shop and purchased marbles and tiles on August 8, 2020. They purchased marble worth Rs 1.13 lakh. They gave three cheques of Rs 35,000 each and paid Rs 8,000 in cash. When the complainant presented the cheque in the bank, the cheques were dishonoured as signatures did not match. He then called up the accused and told that the cheques were dishonored by the bank. The accused promised to come to his shop and give cash payment, but failed. Sarangpur police have registered a case under relevant sections of the IPC against all the three accused. Woman loses Rs 13k in online fraud Online swindlers duped a woman of Rs 13, 500 on the pretext of providing her a room on rent in the city. Mamta Rani, a resident of Ferozepur, Punjab, lives in Sector 51 at a rented accommodation. She wanted to change her accommodation and contacted a person via an ad, who introduced himself as Paramjit. Heasked her to pay Rs 2,000 as advance money. Later, the accused met took Rs 5,000 more. She alleged that she received another call from one Karanvir, who told her to transfer Rs 3,500 in his account and Rs 3,000 more were later deducted from her account. 2 booked for duping man of Rs 7L in Ambala The police on Saturday registered a case of cheating and forgery after a resident of Naraingarh alleged two persons duped him of Rs 6.80 lakh on the pretext of providing government jobs of Chandigarh. Ashok Kumar of Naraingarh in Ambala district lodged a complaint against Madan Bhatia of Milk Colony, Dhanas, Chandigarh, and his mother Meena, alleging that they posed as employees of HSSC and promised to provide government job to his daughter and a relative. He alleged that they gave forged joining letters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-from-pinjore-booked-for-duping-marble-trader-of-rs-1l/articleshow/79118794.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||243 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths in Uttarakhand; drive against swine flu starts||DEHRADUN: Even as fresh coronavirus infections, though declining in number, continue to be reported from Uttarakhand, the health department has now started preparing for the Swine Flu threat. Director general (health) Dr Amita Upreti told TOI that the department has already ordered the medicines and other related things to tackle any possible swine flu case in the state. “Tamiflu tablets will be purchased for adults while the kids will be given syrups. Both the government and the private hospitals have been asked to get themselves prepared for swine flu and get their isolation wards ready,” she added. Around 39 people had died of swine flu in the state last year. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand recorded 243 new Covid-19 infections on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases of the virus shot up to 65,279 in the state. Among the fresh cases of Covid-19, the maximum of 97 were reported from Dehradun, followed by 54 from Haridwar, 21 from Pauri, 14 from Nainital, 12 from Uttarkashi, 11 cases each from Tehri and Udham Singh Nagar, 10 each from Rudraprayag and Champawat, two each from Chamoli and Almora, and one from Bageshwar. “The state also reported deaths of two Covid-19 patients on Sunday. While one patient died in Haldwani, the other death was recorded in Udham Singh Nagar. The two deaths pushed the Covid-19 toll to 10,665 in the Himalyan state,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Besides fresh cases, 155 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection on Sunday. With this, the recovery rate reached 91.4% in the state. So far, a total of 59,719 people have recovered from the infection in Uttarakhand while 523 infected people have migrated out of state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/243-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-in-state-drive-against-swine-flu-starts/articleshow/79116795.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 9, 2020||Agra||Wife, daughter of Agra North MLA test Covid +ve||Agra: Days after Agra North MLA tested positive for Covid-19, his wife and daughter were diagnosed with the deadly virus on Sunday. Being symptomatic, the MLA's family members were admitted to a private hospital. At least 78 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Agra, taking the district tally to 7,736. A 61-year-old man also died while undergoing treatment at the SN Medical College. The resident of Dayalbagh locality was suffering from diabetes, hypertension, pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 150 deaths of Covid-19 patients have been reported in Agra district. The current Covid-19 sample positivity rate in the district is 2.6% and the fatality rate is 1.9%. Moreover, 51 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 7,736 cases reported, 7,072 [91.4%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases in the district has now increased from 488 on Saturday, to 514 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/wife-daughter-of-agra-north-mla-test-covid-ve/articleshow/79116072.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat police restrict timing of firecracker use||AHMEDABAD: In-charge commissioner of police and joint commissioner of police, crime branch, Amitkumar Vishwakarma issued a notification late on Saturday placing restrictions on the use of firecrackers from November 9 to November 19. The notification states that during Diwali, firecrackers can be lit or exploded only from 8pm to 10pm. The notification has prohibited the use, manufacture or sale of sky lanterns (Chinese tukkals or baloons). The notification also bans the lighting and explosion of a series of crackers as they make loud sound and create garbage issues. The notification states that only firecrackers with sound limits of 125-145 decibels and authorized by The Petroleum and Explosion Safety Organisation (PESO) will be allowed. Firecracker boxes should carry information markings of PESO. The notification further states that crackers cannot be lit or exploded near hospitals, nursing homes, health centres, educational institutions, courts and religious places, as an area with a radius of 100 metres from these places are declared as silent zones. As there is a ban in place on importing crackers, imports and sales of such crackers is prohibited. The notification has also prohibited online orders and sales of crackers through all e-commerce websites. Besides these, the notification also bans lighting or exploding of firecrackers in marketplaces, lanes, public roads or places near petrol pumps, LPG bottling plants and storage facilities and other places where inflammable substances are stored or kept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-restrict-timing-of-firecracker-use/articleshow/79117759.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||27-year-old man sets himself ablaze||HYDERABAD: Following an altercation with his wife, an upset daily wage worker, set himself ablaze using diesel at Kishangunj on Saturday. The victim was identified as Y Ashok, 27, a labourer from Kishan Gunj. On Saturday, the victim had an argument with his wife over a petty issue. After the argument, Ashok doused himself with diesel and set himself ablaze. Ashok’s landlord rushed him to Osmania General Hospital. The victim is currently undergoing treatment. Afzulgunj police recorded Ashok’s statement and registered a burns case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/27-yr-old-man-sets-himself-ablaze/articleshow/79118793.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Man tied up, hit for passing inappropriate remarks in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The son of a village sarpanch in Nirmal district has been booked after he assaulted a 36-year-old man for allegedly misbehaving with a widow. Meanwhile, based on the woman’s complaint, a counter-case has been registered against the 36-year-old for misbehaving with her. On Sunday, Raju, an unemployed man from Lingapur village in Kadam mandal of Nirmal district lodged a complaint with Kadam police, alleging that the sarpanch’s son A Srinu, along with the 40-year-old widow and her brother E Sekhar, tied his limbs using a rope and hit him with a stick in front of the panchayat office. Based on the complaint, Kadam police registered a case against the trio under sections 324 and 341 of the Indian Penal Code. “Raju is unemployed and the villagers said he behaves in an erratic manner. He often sits near the panchayat office and passes comments on passers by. On Saturday night, he made vulgar comments against a widow and her daughter. On Sunday morning, the woman, along with her brother and their relative Srinu, caught Raju at the panchayat office and assaulted him with a stick after tying him up,” said Kadam inspector K Raju. Police said that there are no external severe injuries on Raju. Based on the complaint lodged by the woman, police registered a case against Raju under sections 354-a, 509 and 506 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-tied-up-hit-for-passing-inappropriate-remarks/articleshow/79118788.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Cyber criminals caught in Jharkhand||AURANGABAD: The cybercrime branch of the Aurangabad city police has finally nabbed the key members, including the kingpin, involved in an interstate racket. The arrested men have been identified as Vinodkumar Singh, a 40-year-old from Bokaro in Jharkhand, and RanjanKumar Prasad, a 33-year-old resident of Chas in Bokaro. The accused, after being produced before the court on Sunday, have been remanded in 10-day police custody. A team, led by PSI Rahul Chavan, and half a dozen constables were camped for several days in Jharkhand to nab the suspects This is the second set of arrests made by the cybercrime police led by inspector Geeta Bagwade. Earlier, on November 1, fruit vendors Kalunesh Mohammed Shaikh (36) and Mohammed Avsaan Raza (28), both from Sahebganj of Jharkhand, were arrested after the probe revealed that the money was transferred to the bank accounts handled by these accused. All the arrested accused are part of a racket that recently duped city-based industrialist of Rs 56.6 lakh while falsely claiming to be representatives of a state-owned petroleum company offering LPG cylinder dealership to him for the Waluj-Pandharpur area. The suspects contacted Changdev Tandale on May 5 and offered him the dealership. Tandale trusted them and transferred Rs 56.6 lakh to the bank accounts shared by the suspects. Cybercrime police officers said Tandale, in 2019, while responding to an advertisement from the state-run LPG company, had applied for the distributorship. But he had lost the bid. Few months later, the suspects obtained this confidential data, which the cyber police suspect was stolen from the LPG company, and targeted Tandale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cybercriminals-caught-in-jkhand/articleshow/79117701.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 9, 2020||Agra||Audio of tehsildar asking for Rs 3 lakh bribe goes viral; Agra DM orders probe||Agra: District magistrate Prabhu N Singh on Sunday ordered a probe after a recording of a telephonic conversation in which Kirawali sub division tehsildar Raju Kumar is purportedly demanding Rs 3 lakh as bribe for mutation of land went viral on social media. Kirawali sub divisional magistrate Sumit Kumar Singh has been ordered to probe the matter and submit a report. The latter has sought a clarification from the tehsildar. According to sources, an applicant had moved two files for land mutation at Kirawali sub division. After over two months, when no action was taken, the applicant approached tehsildar Kumar through retired revenue clerk Arjun Singh. For the processing of the files, the tehsildar allegedly demanded Rs 1.5 lakh for each from the applicant. SDM (Kirawali) Sumit Kumar Singh said, “The audio of an alleged conversation between the tehsildar and an applicant of land mutation has been received. In this regard, clarification has been sought from the tehsildar. Time-bound action will be taken in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/audio-of-tehsildar-asking-for-rs-3-lakh-bribe-goes-viral-agra-dm-orders-probe/articleshow/79116082.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Integrated online system to track LBH coaches||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has rolled out a first-of-its-kind software for integrated online monitoring of Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) design coaches. The technology will raise an alarm in case of any anomaly that may arise when the coach is still or in motion on real-time basis and prevent unusual occurrences such as coach detachments. SCR’s chief public relations office Ch Rakesh said on Sunday that the new system would enhance the safety of train movements. “There are several glitches that may arise when a train is on the run, which can lead to wheel shelling. This in turn causes several other problems such as spring breakage, grease oozing and damper leakage. To effectively address this problem, the new software has been developed by our in-house team,” he said. In addition to the safety of the trains and passengers, the new system will ensure enhanced life of the vital rolling stock parts like wheel, spring and dampers. SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya has appreciated the team of officers and staff of Tirupati coaching depot for implementing the “out-of-the-box” idea of integrated online monitoring of train coaches with minimal cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/integrated-online-system-to-track-lbh-coaches/articleshow/79117724.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Rajkot||Cracker bursting allowed for two hours in Rajkot||Rajkot: A notification issued by the Rajkot police commissioner has allowed the bursting of fire crackers in the city from 8pm to 10pm only. The city police has banned the bursting of fire crackers in public places including footpaths, roads and near hospitals, schools, court and government offices. There will be no online trading of the crackers. Only those traders who have got license from directorate general of foreign trade will be allowed to sell the crackers. The traders will have to abide by the rules of petroleum and explosives safety organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cracker-bursting-allowed-for-two-hours-in-rajkot/articleshow/79116814.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Eight-year-old sexually abused by minor boy||HYDERABAD: An eight-year-old girl was allegedly sexually abused by a juvenile in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Police said that both the victim and the accused reside in the same locality. On Saturday afternoon, the boy invited the victim to his residence for playing. But with support of another juvenile, he went on to allegedly abuse the girl. “As per the complaint, one juvenile abused the girl while the other juvenile was present when the offence took place. We are still investigating the case,” Aswaraopeta inspector Upender said. Police said that as victim’s condition is normal, they will be questioning both the boys in conflict with law shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eight-yr-old-sexually-abused-by-minor-boy/articleshow/79118818.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hafiz Baba Nagar residents ran to terraces as rain submerged area||HYDERABAD: In the wee hours of October 18, residents of Hafiz Baba Nagar, Chandrayangutta ran to save their life after being jolted out of sleep as water gushed into their houses with great force. Most then spent long hours on terrace of their buildings. Within minutes, this high-density area was submerged with water reaching as high as four feet. The water that gushed into bylanes washed away cars, bikes and whatever came into its way. “It was 1:30am on October 18, the day we will never forget,” said Mohammed Khaja, a resident of Hafiz Baba Nagar. “I heard screams accompanied by sound of water gushing. Within seconds, the water gushed into our house and we ran to the terrace. After six hours, we got help from authorities. Around Rs 15 lakh worth valuables, which include cars, furniture and electronics were washed away. Fortunately, there was no loss of life.” It was not like a regular downpour inundating the Charminar zone, instead water entered directly into houses from Gurram Cheruvu. The bund of the lake suffered a breach, flooding nearby homes within no time and catching residents off guard. Many recalled the water pressure, and the havoc it caused. “Unlike in a regular downpour, the water pressure was tremendous. Within 15 minutes, the area was submerged. Fortunately, I was awake. As soon as I got a call from our neighbours, I opened the window and saw cars, autos and bikes being washed away. I shifted my family members to the first floor immediately as the ground floor of our building was completely submerged,” said Fahim Khan, a resident. “I wanted to shift to a three-storey building located in our lane, but it was not possible due to the sheer pressure of the water. The next day, we shifted to our relatives’ house after boats were sent to rescue us. We returned after five days,” he said. As of Sunday, the bund is being repaired. Staff and machinery have been pressed into service. D Kistappa, executive engineer of GHMC, Chandrayangutta circle, said: “The weir of Gurram Cheruvu is being restored. After the lake breached, silt accumulated, which was two-foot to six-foot high, has been cleared. Desilting of all nalas running through Hafiz Baba Nagar has been completed and the damaged main road has been restored. Road restoration at some places is underway, which will be completed within two days.” Experts blame the rampant encroachment of the lake as well as its inlets and outlets for the flood havoc. They warn that floods may recur if long-term measures are not implemented. Several structures have come up over the past few years on full tank level (FTL) of Gurram Cheruvu and Baba Nagar nala. Most of them are residential buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hafiz-baba-nagar-residents-ran-to-terraces-as-rain-submerged-area/articleshow/79118848.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Women peddlers junk hooch to light up Ramjanmabhoomi||AYOD HYA: In a giant leap of faith, women hooch peddlers of Barabanki have smashed their poison cauldrons and are moulding clay diyas to illuminate Ramjanmabhoomi during the three-day Deepotsav. Kanchana, 35, who lost her husband to hooch two years ago continued to brew the killer potion to keep the kitchen fires burning. Now, she has cut through the vicious cycle of crime and poverty and is making diyas for Diwali. “A miracle is happening. Just two months ago, I was selling hooch and was a criminal in the eyes of law. Today, I am doing a pious job and my diyas will hail the homecoming of Lord Ram from exile,” she said. Another resident of Chayanpurva village of Barabanki, Sundara, 50, too feels blessed by the opportunity to make diyas for Ayodhya’s Diwali. “My husband was disabled after consuming illicit hooch, but I continued to be in the liquor business to bear expenses of my two grandchildren, who study in Lucknow. Now, there’s a huge turnaround in our lives. I don’t have to go to jail or suffer police raids,” she told TOI. Barabanki police took the initiative to reform women hooch sellers of Chayanpurva that straddles 12 hamlets under Ramnagar police station, infamous for production and sale of hooch — a deadly concoction brewed mostly by women who have no other means of livelihood. Talking to TOI, Barabanki police superintendent Arvind Chaturvedi, said, “It all started two months ago when we began providing women with alternate jobs like beekeeping and producing wax candles. Before Diwali, we trained them in moulding clay diyas and set a target of 2 lakh lamps, which will illuminate Janmabhoomi and Saryu banks on Deepotsav. They will earn Rs 5.50 per diya and the money will soon be transferred to their account. We have sent the first consignment of 20,000 diyas to Ayodhya last Monday.” District magistrate, Barabanki, Adarsh Singh, said, “We were given a production target by Ayodhya chief development officer and we will ensure supplies on time before Diwali.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/women-peddlers-junk-hooch-to-light-up-ramjanmabhoomi/articleshow/79119412.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt not in favour of blanket ban on firecrackers||AHMEDABAD: Even as Covid-19 rages on and concern has been expressed about the impact of air pollution on vulnerable people because of firecrackers, the state government is inclined not to enforce a blanket ban on firecrackers. On Saturday, the state home department issued a routine notification, banning setting off of firecrackers in public places; the government has been doing so since 2018. The government asked police commissioners and district magistrates to announce similar notifications in their respective areas. Earlier this month, the National Green Tribunal had issued notices to states and Union Territories, including Gujarat, where air quality was poor and had sought a response from them in the matter. Some states like Delhi, Rajasthan, Odisha and West Bengal have banned firecrackers in view of the ongoing pandemic. Sources in the ruling party said that the government is not inclined to dampen the festive spirit in Gujarat; the Gujarati New Year is celebrated right after Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-not-in-favour-of-blanket-ban/articleshow/79117796.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Autobiography of nonagenarian spiritual leader released||UDUPI: ‘Kadalatadiyinda Himagiriya Tanaka,’ an autobiography on the spiritual life of Tapovani Mata aka Subhadra Mata, the prime disciple of late Sri Vishvesha Tirtha of Pejawar Mutt was released in Haridwar on Sunday. It was jointly released by Sri Vishwaprasanna Tirtha, the seer of Pejavar Mutt, with Acharya Balakrishna of Patanjali Yogpeeth. Thinker G Bhaskar Mayya translated the Hindi original into Kannada, on this spiritual leader who hails from this district. Drawn to the spiritual way of life, Subhadra obtained ‘mantradeeksha’ from then seer of Pejawar Mutt Sri Vishvesha Tirtha and undertook nine years of solitary penance at Tapovan, some 4,000m above sea level. She later set up an ashram at Haridwar that provided free boarding to tourists and saints alike. At present, the nonagenarian is undergoing treatment at Sri Ramakrishna Ashram Hospital at Haridwar under Acharya Balakrishna. Shyamala S Kundar, member, National Commission for Women, who felicitated the spiritual leader on this occasion, said the life of Tapovani Mata is an inspiration for all. “Given that she hails from my home district, it was my privilege to be part of this book release function done in her presence by the current seer of Pejawar Mutt and Acharya Balakrishna,” Kundar told TOI over phone. “Her spiritual accomplishment is par excellence,” she averred. Tapovani Mata said her entire life has been dedicated to Udupi Sri Krishna, and remembering the senior seer of Pejawar Mutt, Sri Vishvesha Tirtha. “It is the guidance of Sri Vishvesha Tirtha and blessing of Lord Krishna that I have been able to tide over challenges that life has posed to me,” she said. “I remembered the seer at all stages of my life, and this helped me in my life’s spiritual journey,” she noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/autobiography-of-nonagenarian-spiritual-leader-released/articleshow/79116845.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 3 polluting industrial units on agricultural land sealed||CHANDIGARH: Three electroplating industrial units were sealed after they were found running on agricultural land and releasing hazardous chemical effluents in Makhan Majra village of the city. The owners had taken power in an illegal manner and had no set-up for the release of effluents, draining them in the open. The pollution control department took the action after receiving a complaint. The matter was initially brought to the notice of senior administration officers of the UT administration. An inspection at the site revealed the units were under the red category, meaning they were highly polluting industries. Industries are divided into red, orange, green and white categories – in accordance with their pollution levels. The most polluting units are marked red. A technical team found materials used to run the units and illegal power connection. The factories had hired a number of persons. “Electroplating industries generally deal in manufacturing different types of screws and related items. Chemicals are used to coat the outer layers of the screws. They are harmful and the effluents need to be capped in a scientific manner,” sources said. The department has started the process to get a case registered against the owner who gave his land on rent for setting up the industries besides taking action against the people running the illegal units. A technical team of the department has already inspected the premises and found hazardous chemicals. “We are investigating since how long these industries were running. As the factory operators managed to secure an illegal connection and other infrastructure, it seems the land owner helped them fully,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-polluting-indl-units-on-agri-land-sealed/articleshow/79118850.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik station ticket counter may return to original spot||Nashik: Four months after the computerised passenger reservation system (PRS) was shifted to platform number 4, the Bhusawal division of the railways is again considering to shift the facility to its original location near the Nashik Road railway station’s main entrance.The Railways had shifted the PRS to platform 4 to decongest the entrance. However, passengers have been wary of using the PRS on platform 4 because of its surroundings. “The road leading to the booking counter is narrow and passes through a densely populated area. This can be intimidating, especially at night, given that there is no public transport facility. It is inconvenient for most people coming from Nashik city. They must cross the bridge and go to platform 4 to book tickets. This adds 15 minutes to travel time,” said Sudhakar Rane, a commuter. “The new location is very cut-off from the railway station. It is scary for a woman to travel alone on that road,” said a woman doctor who did not wish to be named. The ticket window on platform 4 is also out of CCTV coverage and there have instances of touting by anti-social elements there. A senior railway officer said the PRS was shifted to decongest the entrance of the station. However, given the complaints and feedbacks, relocation is under consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-station-ticket-counter-may-return-to-original-spot/articleshow/79117782.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 9, 2020||Rajkot||Four rob computer class owner of Rs 2,500||Rajkot: Four persons were booked on Saturday night for allegedly thrashing and robbing a computer class owner of Rs 2,500 at Ramapir Chowkadi in Rajkot on Friday evening.Police said the accused, Nirav Rajyaguru, posing as a journalist, barged into the computer class run by Bhargav Dave on Friday along with his three aides besides a cameraman. The henchmen are yet to be identified, said cops“Rajyaguru accused Dave of being involved in a scandal and threatened of making his video viral on news channels, press and social media. He tried to extort money from Dave with his threats,” said M B Gadhvi, sub-inspector with Gandhigram police station. Rajyaguru first thrashed Dave and demanded Rs 5 lakh as hush-up money. When Dave showed his inability to pay such a huge amount, the accused reduced his demand to Rs 3 lakh and at the same time allegedly snatched Rs 2,500 cash Dave had in his pocket, said Gadhvi. The accused then left the spot warning Dave to pay him the sum within two days unfailingly. Police said the accused had also carried out a recce four days ago when Dave had gone to Ahmedabad. “After the attack, Dave’s friend told him to check veracity of Rajyaguru’s claims and told him to call the accused to call him up to collect Rs 20,000 from him. However, instead of coming in person, Rajyaguru sent two of his cronies to collect the amount. Dave suspected Rajyaguru of being an imposter running a scam and decided to lodge a complaint against him,” added Gadhvi. Based on Dave’s pliant, police have launched a manhunt for accused Rajyaguru and his aides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-rob-computer-class-owner-of-rs-2500/articleshow/79116829.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chennai||80% of Tamil Nadu consumers do not know trans fat harms: Survey||CHENNAI: The inexpensive biscuits at your neighbourhood tea shop or the fried bajjis at your favourite restaurant might taste amazing, but they also slowly increase your chance of a heart problem, without you realising or the authorities taking action. And this is true with popular labels too, a survey has shown. After a survey of 1,124 people including doctors, oil industry representatives and people across TN, Chennai-based Citizen Consumer and Civic Action group found that while 80% of general consumers were not aware of trans fat and its implications on health, it was 22% for doctors. The survey also exposed poor regulatory compliance. Trans fat, a form of unsaturated fat, is present naturally in milk products, certain types of meat and is also industrially produced by partial hydrogenation of vegetable oil. Present in bakery products, chips, biscuits and related products, it can cause heart problems and increases risk of death by heart disease. Most of those surveyed including bakery and oil industry representatives admitted to using items rich in trans fat like vanaspathi and 68% didn’t know the harmful effects of reused oil, which has trans fat. Consultant dietician Dharini Krishnan says all fried/baked items have trans fat. “Many inexpensive biscuits claim to have butter, which costs Rs 500 per kg. It is doubtful if they really use butter.” Presence of trans fat depends on the length of heating, temperature and the amount of oil reused, Dharini said. Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) limits trans fat to 5% in food items and says this will be brought to 2% by 2022. The survey showed only 19% of oil and related products were produced with 2% or less, while 33% were still working towards ensuring compliance. Only 45% of the labels studied mentioned trans fat levels, while 40% mentioned only presence of the fat. The rest didn’t mention anything. A senior TN food safety wing official said, “Even doctors only advise staying away from fatty food and don’t explicitly mention trans fat.” All awareness programmes on trans fat planned this year were washed away, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/80-of-tn-consumers-do-not-know-trans-fat-harms-survey/articleshow/79117781.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||Health, education & jobs: Citizens spell out their vision for Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: In the wake of Uttarakhand completing 20 years of its formation, citizens of the state have highlighted three key areas — access to healthcare, education, and employment opportunities — where the state needs to perform better. In a survey conducted by social organisation ‘Social Development for Community Foundation’ (SDCF), a majority of the people in the state wished for more job opportunities, better connectivity, access to healthcare and education, and sustainable development. More than 300 state residents participated in the survey. Sharing the key findings of the survey, Anoop Nautiyal, founder of SDCF, said, “Setting goals for the state for the next 20 years, respondents highlighted the need to focus on job generating projects like software hub, IT, infrastructure, and digital pathway. The respondents also stressed on the need to develop Uttarakhand as a green economy and said that initiatives related to organic farming, horticulture, floriculture, and others should be promoted.” Several eminent citizens also spelt out their vision of the state’s road ahead. Noted author, Raj Kanwar said, “The purpose for which Uttrakhand was carved out from Uttar Pradesh is still to be achieved. In fact, the promises made by subsequent governments over the years are yet to be fulfilled. Development of people in the hills is a far cry. ” President of Doon Residents’ Welfare Front, Mahesh Bhandari however felt that a number of promises have been fulfilled. “A lot has been done but much more needs to be taken up. Employment generation should be the focus area now so that migration can be checked,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/health-education-jobs-citizens-spell-out-their-vision-for-ukhand/articleshow/79116824.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 9, 2020||Meerut||Meerut DIOS notice to 120 schools for ‘failing to provide’ Covid-related data||MEERUT: Meerut district inspector of schools on Sunday issued a notice to 120 schools for not providing Covid-related data and sought within three days an explanation for their "negligent behaviour". Notably, all those schools which have reopened in the district need to provide a list of norms being followed on their campuses, along with a daily report on Covid positive cases, if any. “A notice has been issued to as many as 120 schools for not sending Covid-19 data daily. The schools have been asked to explain, or else an FIR will be lodged against them under relevant sections of the Epidemic Act,” said DIOS GK Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-dios-notice-to-120-schools-for-failing-to-provide-covid-related-data/articleshow/79116086.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Girl molested in Ahmedabad's Vadaj, FIR filed||AHMEDABAD: A 13-year-old girl in Vadaj area of the city was allegedly molested by two unidentified men from the same area who allegedly told her to remove her pants when she was going towards her home on Saturday. The survivor’s mother (40) has said in her complaint lodged with Vadaj police station that she had sent her daughter, a class-8 student, to buy milk outside the lane of their house to cook some sweet as it was her husband’s birthday. When the girl returned home, she was crying and seemed scared. When her mother asked her the reason behind it she told her that two men, aged around 25 from the same area, had molested her. The girl alleged that the accused duo had told her to remove her pants and when she began running away, they laughed at her and fled from the spot. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/girl-molested-in-vadaj-fir-filed/articleshow/79117802.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Mysuru||Young woman’s half burnt body found, murder suspected||MYSURU: A woman’s body was set on fire on the roadside in Kellur village under the Periyapatna police limits in the early hours of Sunday. The body was burnt totally between the knee and head. Police suspected the victim may have been murdered somewhere else and burnt in the spot. It is not known where she was murdered, why and by whom. According to police sources, around 5.30am on Sunday, a local nurse and two of her friends were on a morning walk. They found smoke coming from an unknown object. As the smoke was thick, they decided to check where the smoke was coming from. They were shocked to see a body burning. They screamed and tens of locals rushed to the spot. They found a woman’s body that was set on fire and alerted police, said sources. According to police sources, the woman was aged around 18-20. She was wearing a pink legging, metal rings, and bangles. “As the body was burnt from the head to the knees, we are unable to identify the victim,” added police sources. “We launched an investigation to identify the victim and the cause of her murder,” they said. Mysuru SP CB Rishyanth and other senior officials visited the spot and reviewed the investigation. Forensic experts and dog squad also pressed into service. Finger print experts collected a few pieces of evidence. According to sources, Rishyanth asked the local police to put all efforts to establish the identity of the deceased and to trace the culprits. Meanwhile, All India Mahila Sanskritik Sanghathan condemned the incident. The organisation’s Mysuru district unit urged police to trace the culprits and initiate stern action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/young-womans-half-burnt-body-found-murder-suspected/articleshow/79117197.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Mysuru||‘Benki roga’ may affect paddy output this kharif season||MYSURU: Over 20 % paddy crop in the cultivated area in the district has been infected with ‘blast disease’, popularly known as ‘benki roga’. Of the total 1.05 lakh hectares in which paddy has been transplanted, the disease has destroyed over 20% crops. This will affect the paddy output in the kharif season, said sources. Speaking to TOI, joint director of agriculture Dr Mahantheshappa said the highest number of cases were reported in Saligrama, Mirle hoblis of K R Nagar taluk, Bannur, Sosale, Kasabha, Talakadu hobli in T Narasipura taluk, Biligere hobli of Nanjangud taluk and other major rice bowls of the district this year. Cases of stem borer, rice roller pest attack to paddy were also reported from several villages. However, these diseases were tackled with pesticides and insecticides. But the blast disease, which is caused by fungus that infects the aerial and root tissues of paddy saplings at the beginning and then enters the plant’s vascular system, blocks supply of water and nutrients to the plants resulting in stunted growth. As the infection spreads through water and air, the colour of the infected plants turns to yellow, ash from green, he said. The intermittent rains and climatic variations experienced the last 15 days has been identified by experts as one of the major reasons for the spread of the disease.  Dr Mahantheshappa said farmers have been advised to spray tricyclazole or other fungicides to bring down the infection. The department is also giving wide publicity through television channels as well as Raitha Samparka Kendras to encourage the use of these fungicides to arrest spread, he added. He said 50 lakh tones of paddy output is expected in this kharif season. The disease will have an impact of about 10 - 20% of paddy output this year owing to this disease, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/benki-roga-may-affect-paddy-output-this-kharif-season/articleshow/79117546.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||We have forgotten why the need arose for a separate state and have ignored the soul of statehood campaign: Experts||DEHRADUN: As Uttarakhand completes 20 years of its formation on Monday (November 9), those who have been watching the state’s development over the past two decades say that the development of plain areas — like Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar, and Haridwar — has been carried out at a rampant pace but the hills have suffered . “We have forgotten why we demanded a new state and fought a long battle for it. We have kept that motive on the backburner. It was not just for the development of Dehradun, Haridwar, or Udham Singh Nagar but also for the people living in the hills. We have not been able to check the issue of migration from hills. Further, poor infrastructure and lack of healthcare and education services have made the lives of those living in the hills miserable,” environmentalist Anil Joshi told TOI. In a similar vein, political analyst Jay Singh Rawat said, “As many as 734 villages have become uninhabited in the last 10 years. In the 2011 census, the state had 1,034 villages with no inhabitants and now, that number has shot up to 1,768. This data compiled by a body constituted by the state government to check migration highlights that the demands of the people living in the nine hill districts continue to be neglected.” He added that on the positive side, road and air connectivity has improved. “A number of roads have been made, air connectivity with other cities has improved, and new projects like All Weather Char Dham Road and Rishikesh-Karnprayag rail project offer a ray of light to the people of the hills. However, poor healthcare and education services along with limited job opportunities is forcing people to migrate from the state,” he added. Udit Ghildiyal, who runs an NGO and has been active in promoting the agri sector in Pauri, is of the view that the return of people during Covid-19 offers a good opening for the state to fillip reverse migration. “Yes, a lot of damage has been done in the past and the large-scale migration makes it evident. But nearly 4 lakh people have returned in the last nine months and now the government can come up with good schemes to retain them. However, it will require a lot of will power and sincere efforts,” he said. Ghildiyal added, “The state’s focus has been tourism and industries but in the next few years, the government needs to focus on employment and better infrastructure in the hills. There are many villages where only elderly people are left and we do not want such a situation in other villages.” It is worth mentioning that when Uttarakhand was just carved out of Uttar Pradesh, the Char Dham shrines used to record just a few lakh pilgrims each year. However, the Char Dham devotee turnout had risen to 32 lakh in 2019. Infrastructure projects like the All Weather Char Dham Road and Rishikesh-Karnprayag rail route along with Delhi corridor are also underway to better the connectivity of the state. According to official data, 327 heavy industries and 64,619 micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) have also come up in the state in the past two decades. Back in 2000, Uttarakhand had a collective of 14,202 heavy industries and MSMEs. However, issues like migration, a permanent capital, and appointment of Lokayukta have still not seen a solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/we-have-forgotten-why-the-need-arose-for-a-separate-state-and-have-ignored-the-soul-of-statehood-campaign-experts/articleshow/79116859.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 9, 2020||Rajkot||Leopard that killed five-year-old boy caged||Rajkot: The leopard that had mauled the child of a labourer to death in Paniya village of Dhari taluka in Amreli district was caged on Sunday. According to the forest department officials, after the leopard had killed five-year-old Paras Chapania, the son of Kuversinh Chapania, on November 4, several cages had been placed to trap the big cat. “We had set up cages at several places including entrances of the village, finally leading to the entrapment of the leopard,” said a forest official. Kuversinh was a migrant labourer who had come to Paniya village from Madhya Pradesh with his wife and children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-that-killed-five-year-old-boy-caged/articleshow/79116853.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||South Central Railway develops prototype to monitor LHB coaches||HYDERABAD: To enhance safety during train movement and avoid enroute detachments, South Central Railway (SCR) has developed a first-of-its-kind new software prototype for integrated online monitoring of Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches or the passenger coaches while on the run. The software will continuously measure and record data points for online monitoring of Axle Box Bearings and Wheel Slide Protection Device by making use of data analytics. SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya said, “This project will help in enhancing safety standards of LHB coaches and will also help improve life of rolling stock parts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-develops-prototype-to-monitor-lhb-coaches/articleshow/79118849.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Girls close gender gap in engineering||AHMEDABAD: In a sign that the gender divide in STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) courses is narrowing, there has been a significant rise in girls enrolling in engineering courses for the academic year 2020-21. From about 15:85 ratio of girls versus boys over the past five years, it has reached 19:81 this year. The trend is not limited to computer science and electronics. There has been a rise in the number of girls opting for mechanical and chemical engineering courses. Automation in industries is believed to be a major reason in bringing down the gender disparity in these areas, said Rajul Gajjar, principal of LD College of Engineering. “Earlier, there was a rush for admissions in a few areas such as computer science and information technology,” said Gajjar. “Today, this has changed as you can see a large number of girls pursuing undergraduate courses in chemical and mechanical engineering.” Another reason, according to Gajjar, is that girls continue to perform better than boys academically and hence have a wider choice in selecting engineering programmes. Anju Sharma, principal secretary of higher and technical education, is of the view that the share of girls in engineering courses is only going to rise in the next few years. By 2025, girls are likely to have a 25% or higher share in the number of seats for engineering courses, according to Sharma. “After a long time we have seen a significant rise in the percentage of girls pursuing degree engineering programmes,” said Sharma. “There is a major shift considering that girls have been choosing medical over engineering in the past.” The Kanya Kelavani scheme has reaped rich benefits and the changing scenario is an indicator in this direction, she added. About 25,000 students have been allotted colleges by the Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) in the first two rounds. The committee had initiated the proceedings for a total of 55,000 seats in degree engineering. Aastha Rawal, a Class XII science (Group A) graduate, who has recently enrolled in information and communication technology course at Adani Institute of Infrastructure Engineering, said that girls are breaking the glass ceiling and exploring newer opportunities in engineering. “Earlier in a class of 60 students in engineering, there were hardly six to eight girls,” according to Rawal who lives in Gandhinagar. “This is changing. The number of girls opting for Group A in science over Group B is also rising.” Another student, Drashti Parikh from Ahmedabad, who has enrolled in computer engineering at Indus Institute of Technology and Engineering said that about 40% of girls in her Class XII batch have decided to pursue degree engineering courses. Most of them have opted for computer engineering, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/girls-close-gender-gap-in-engg/articleshow/79104829.cms||Bharat Yagnik
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Pay Rs 2,500 per quintal MSP for fine rice variety, demands Telangana Congress||HYDERABAD: The Congress has demanded that the government pay Rs 2,500 per quintal as minimum support price for the fine variety of rice. Telangana Congress working president and former MP Ponnam Prabhakar said a large number of farmers had taken up cultivation of fine variety of paddy following the diktat of the government as part of state’s regulated farming policy. “The government has to offer Rs 2,500 per quintal MSP and also bonus if needed while procuring fine rice variety from the farmers,” he said. The party will soon constitute a permanent committee to plan and spearhead agitations for the cause of the farmers. The Congress, along with the farmers, will organize a tractor rally in Khammam district to protest the anti-farmer policies of central and state governments. The Congress will stage demonstrations in front of all the district collectorates on November 12, demanding compensation to the farmers whose crops were damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pay-rs-2500-per-quintal-msp-for-fine-rice-variety-demands-cong/articleshow/79118867.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Meerut||Paper mill sealed for burning plastic, rubber in garbage in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Days after six jaggery production units were sealed in Muzaffarnagar for making air stifling for locals by burning waste, teams of pollution department, district administration and police raided and sealed a paper mill after it was found burning waste such as plastic and rubber late Saturday night. During the late-night raid, pollution control board regional officer Anikt Kumar and sub-divisional magistrate Deepak Kumar found a pile of waste such as plastic and rubber on the mill premises. Vipul Kumar, an engineer with the pollution department in Muzaffarnagar, said the waste was “being burnt at the paper mill, which was causing air pollution”. “The paper mill was sealed,” said additional district magistrate (enforcement) Amit Singh. “A report was sent to the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board to impose a penalty on the mill.” Notably, the action was taken under a “special night drive” launched by the UPPCB to check increasing air pollution level with the help of police and the administration. “Launching the drive three weeks ago, nearly 90 government officers from various departments were pressed to crackdown on polluting units. They fined 24 units located on Janstah, Bhopa and Joli roads of Rs 97 lakh jointly,” added Singh. Three days ago, six jaggery production units were sealed for burning waste and each fined Rs 1 lakh penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/paper-mill-sealed-for-burning-plastic-rubber-in-garbage-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/79116092.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||Bureaucracy & police brass descend on Ayodhya||AYODHYA: The state’s bureaucracy and police brass touched down at Ayodhya on Sunday to take stock of preparedness for the grand Deepotsav celebrations to be held on November 13. Covid protocols will be strictly followed and all roads leading to Saryu banks and Ramjanmabhoomi will be barricaded, said a senior government official. Only invitees will be allowed entry at the Deepotsav venue, where chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Governor Anandiben Patel will be present. Talking to TOI, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, said, “this will be the fourth Deepotsav celebration in Ayodhya since its launch in 2017 and has been given the status of a state fair. The chief minister has given elaborate instructions for conduct of Deepotsav, which will be unique as this is the first time in 492 years that Ramjanambhoomi will be illuminated with thousands of diyas. Also, 300 religious sites, including temples, ghats and kunds will be lit with diyas.  Celebrations, however, will be held by adhering to Covid protocol of social distancing,” he said. Along with Awasthi, additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal, principal secretary, tourism and culture, Mukesh Kumar Meshram, additional director general of police (law & order) Prashant Kumar, ADG Lucknow Zone S N Sabat, director general, tourism, G N Ravikumar, and director information, Shishir, were present in Ayodhya. The main Deepotsav programme will begin from 3pm on November 13 and will be broadcast on public address system and displayed on 70 LED vans in Ayodhya. Doordarshan will air the event Sabat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bureaucracy-police-brass-descend-on-ayodhya/articleshow/79119420.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Obese Covid-19 patients face more complications, say doctors in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: While obesity can increase the complications associated with Covid-19 multiple-fold, at least 30% of the complicated cases of Covid-19 are found to be among obese patients, say doctors. While obesity (body mass index more than 30) is in itself considered to be a risk factor for many diseases including diabetes, hypertension, brain stroke and lung disease, obesity along with Covid-19 only complicates things further. Meanwhile, it is frontal obesity, i.e. weight around the waist area and potbellied people who are at a higher risk of severe complications due to Covid-19 and younger age is not going to help in this, say experts. Speaking about the scenario, Dr Ganshyam M Jagathkar, we have seen close to 3,000 inpatients and most of the obese patients had severe form of Covid where either the lung function was very badly affected or there was multi-organ dysfunction. It is observed that patients who were on the lean side were less likely to have severe manifestations of the disease. Also, weight rather than age, was found to be a factor in having severe manifestations, which means that even younger patients with high BMI were found to have severe complications,” he said, citing the recent case of a 34-year-old Covid-19 patient weighing 125 kilograms and having dangerously low oxygen saturation levels (of just 52%), who had to be on ventilator support for over a month to be saved. Obesity influences the respiratory system and lung function which means that the breathing capacity of obese people are lower than normal. “Comorbidities like diabetes, heart disease etc in obese people put them at a higher risk of severe Covid-19. The low functional residual lung capacity make them vulnerable to desaturation and delayed recovery,” explained Dr Kiran Madala, incharge head of department of critical care at Nizamabad Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/obese-covid-19-patients-face-more-complications-say-docs/articleshow/79118875.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 9, 2020||Chennai||18 years after arrest, trio held with counterfeit currency get 3-yr rigorous imprisonment||CHENNAI: Eighteen years after they were arrested for possession of counterfeit currency notes, a city court has found three men guilty and sentenced them to three years rigorous imprisonment. The Seven Wells police had booked N Abdul Khader, S Paulprabhakar and V Parthasarathy — all aged above 60 years now — in 2002 after they were caught with counterfeit currency equivalent to Rs 10 lakh while acting based on a tip. The case was transferred to the counterfeit currency wing of the Central crime branch (CCB) and trial commenced by the end of 2008. According to the prosecution, more than 2,000 counterfeit notes in the denomination of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 (pre-demonetization) were recovered from the accused. While the court held that the prosecution does not have a case that the accused had circulated the counterfeit notes and acquitted them of criminal conspiracy charges, it acknowledged that they were found in possession of counterfeit currency and the machinery needed to print them. After the accused plead for leniency citing health ailments, considering the old age, absence of criminal antecedents and passing of time in the trial, the court sentenced that the three undergo three years rigorous imprisonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/18yrs-after-arrest-trio-held-with-counterfeit-currency-get-3-yr-ri/articleshow/79117812.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Bengaluru||#StopIndiaSpitting campaign gains traction amidsts pandemic in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A group of citizen volunteers-Beautiful Bengaluru - is spearheading a movement aimed at stopping people from spitting in public by spreading awareness around the habit with its campaign #StopIndiaSpitting. The campaign is being driven by the theme, ‘Spitting spreads Covid; Spitting must stop’. The organization says people have realised that wearing masks, washing hands, lathering hands with sanitisers and social distancing are important to stay safe from the virus, but continue to spit in public, which can spread the virus even faster. Odette Katrak, co-founder, Beautiful Bengaluru, speaking during a webinar, said spitting is considered too disgusting a topic to be discussed, but people need to educate each other for the menace to stop. “I’ve seen people who wear masks remove them to spit and then put it back on again,” Katrak said. “They don’t understand that the saliva can spread Covid,” she said, adding that she has often stopped people from spitting. “When I tell them it could spread the virus, they do understand,” she said. “But stopping spitting in India is a huge thing. The habit carries on from generation to generation. People must realise that it impacts their health.” Katrak launched the campaign on a larger scale in March and is taking it to the national level with ‘Beautiful Bharat’ initiative. Beautiful Bengaluru with like-minded individuals and organisations began petitioning the PM’s office and various organisations to raise their voice against the habit and the PM even mentioned it in his Mann Ki Baat on April 26. “Our petition went viral and in three weeks we had 41,000 signatures, but making spitting punishable is not enough in a country of our size. A penalty is a deterrent, but we also need to build awareness around it and change mindsets,” Katrak said. The organisation plans to add impetus to the movement to ensure the habit is eradicated by the second half of 2021. As per a survey the NGO conducted, it found that before Covid, 55% of people would not be willing to get involved and stop a person from spitting. However, after Covid, 89% of people say they will prevent someone from spitting. Showing people how the habit leads to the spread of the virus has helped the movement in the last few months. Posters made by Katrak’s organisation are being used in Telangana, Odisha and Puducherry among other states. “A young student from Delhi, Shreya Meher helped us with an apt poster that shares the message perfectly. It gives me hope that we can bring a nationwide change,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/stopindiaspitting-campaign-gains-traction-amidsts-pandemic/articleshow/79116916.cms||Farheen Hussain
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Make Ahmedabad model district in country: Shah||Ahmedabad: Union home minister Amit Shah asked district administration officials to make Ahmedabad a model district in the country on Sunday. He was presiding over the district development co-ordination and monitoring committee, which was conducted through video conferencing. Progress of various development and welfare works of 23 departments was reviewed at the meeting. Shah said that district administration officials should educate farmers on the benefits of crop rotation and organic farming to ensure that they get better yield of their crops. Progress of various central and state government projects like Smart City, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Abhiyan, e-gram Vishwa Gram and the like were discussed at the meeting. The sex ratio of Ahmedabad district (number of girls per 1,000 boys) was also discussed at length at the monitoring meeting. District collector Sandip Sagale and district development officer said the district administration has been striving to increase the sex ratio through programmes like `Savayu Sanmaan’, `Kanya Shakti Pujan’ and district-wide celebration of the international day of girl child. Enrolment from the district in the central government’s Ayushman Bharat scheme and claims made under the health scheme were also reviewed at the meeting. Implementation of other key schemes of the central and state governments were also reviewed. Apart from district administration officials, MP Kirit Solani, revenue minister Kaushik Patel, MOS home Pradipsinh Jadeja, mayor Bijal Patel and MLAs remained present for the monitoring committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/make-ahmedabad-model-district-in-country-shah/articleshow/79117811.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Nitin Saini appointed new ADG of DRI, Ludhiana zonal office||LUDHIANA: In a big decision by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), Nitin Saini (IRS) has been appointed as the additional director general (ADG) of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Ludhiana zonal office. Saini is the youngest IRS officer to clinch this top most post which has the jurisdiction over Jammu Kashmir, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh. A 2000 batch IRS officer, Saini has had a very distinguished career as he has busted several high profile cases of tax evasion and cracked numerous cases involving notorious tax evaders. Due to his exemplary services, on the Republic Day of 2017, he was conferred upon the prestigious Presidential award of appreciation certificate for ‘specially distinguished record of service’. Before being posted as ADG of the DRI, till now Saini has held several important posts in different organisations in Ludhiana. He was serving as commissioner, appeal (CGST and central excise), Ludhiana, since December 2019 and back in 2017 he had served as the additional director of Directorate General of Central Excise Intelligence (DGCEI). He has served in the central excise and service tax commissionerate, Ludhiana, as the joint commissioner. Meanwhile, the high profile charge of DRI, Ludhiana zonal office, includes four main units, which are Amritsar regional unit, Chandigarh regional unit, Jammu regional unit and Sri Nagar sub-regional unit. The post of ADG, Ludhiana, had been lying vacant for several months now and its charge was being held additionally by officials of other DRI units. DRI is the apex intelligence and investigative agency for matters relating to violation of the Customs Act and its tasks mainly involve around collection of intelligence about smuggling of contraband goods, narcotics, under-invoicing, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/nitin-saini-appointed-new-adg-of-dri-ludh-zonal-office/articleshow/79117806.cms||Mohit Behl
November 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen seek help from adm for sourcing rural youth for factories||LUDHIANA: Members of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) held a meeting with ADC Sandeep Kumar on Saturday. The agenda of the meeting was to discuss the problems being faced by the businessmen in Ludhiana city and get them resolved with the help of the district administration. During the programme, CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja, said that CICU was working for the industry as well as for the economy. Ahuja suggested that there was a need to focus on employment in rural areas, especially for the youth of Punjab, and due to non-availability of transportation means, they were unable to generate livelihood from the industry. He suggested that to resolve this issue, the government should start bus service from remotest of the rural areas to the industrial areas in cities like Ludhiana. Ahuja also stressed upon the need to increase the employment of rural youth in the wake of decreasing availability of the labour from other states. Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, highlighted that the living conditions of the migrant workers and workers belonging to other cities and villages of Punjab and working in cities like Ludhiana were not good as without any proper infrastructure they were forced to live in ‘vehras’, where there were no proper arrangements and living conditions were pathetic. Sharma suggested that the state government should devise a pilot plan under which proper housing facilities should be set up in the industrial hubs like Ludhiana to give hygienic and safe accommodation to the industrial workers upon payment of nominal charges. After interaction with the businessmen, ADC Sandeep Kumar,said that there were numerous schemes of the Centre and state government for the industry but due to lack of awareness, businessmen were unable to avail of the benefits of these schemes. He also suggested that workers should be certified by recognition of prior learning to brush up their skills, so that they could be able to perform better. He also said that to turn small-time businessmen into big entrepreneurs, a programme, Xcelerator Ludhiana Programme (GAME) has been started by the state government, in which 30 successful industrialists would get benefit of several industry-related schemes from the government. The ADC also assured the businessmen that he would take up the matter of bringing rural youth forward for employment in Punjab factories. The meeting was attended by more than 50 CICU members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-seek-help-from-adm-for-sourcing-rural-youth-for-factories/articleshow/79117815.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Husband spends hours with accused wife||AHMEDABAD: A 30-year-old man from Gota, whose wife had allegedly killed his mother, 52, over domestic violence has spent hours with the accused, who is six weeks pregnant. The police officer, who witnessed the visits of Deepak, complainant, and Nikita Agrawal, accused of killing Deepak’s mother Rekha Agrawal, said that they both have been trying to figure out a solution of this legal hurdle in their 10-month-old married life. “They had spent two to three hours together when Nikita was in custody and talked about the problems they faced in their life,” said the police officer. When Nikita allegedly killed her mother-in-law at their flat in Royal Homes in Gota on October 27, by striking her on her head with an iron rod, neither Deepak nor her parents talked to her and her parents even scolded for her deed. Nikita stated before police that her mother-in-law had suspicions that Nikita’s pregnancy was the result of her illicit relationship with her father-in-law Ramniwas Agrawal. She also said that her mother-in-law tried to hit her with an iron rod which she snatched away from her and hit her back. She had also allegedly tried to burn the body||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/husband-spends-hours-with-accused-wife/articleshow/79117821.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress’s BC move has TRS, BJP in spin||HYDERABAD: Congress has put the ruling TRS and BJP in a tight spot with its decision to give tickets to BC candidates in 75 out of the total 150 wards in the forthcoming GHMC elections. While the TRS has launched a counter offensive saying that Congress showers love for BCs only at the time of elections and that it has always been pro-BCs, the BJP said it is in favour of rendering social justice but a final decision would be taken by the party soon. Animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and excise minister V Srinivas Goud launched a scathing attack against the Congress for trying to project its love for the BCs.  “Right from Rs 6,000 crore sheep distribution programme to various other schemes, hundreds of crores of rupees are spent on the welfare of BCs by the government. The government has released money for construction of BC welfare bhavans,” Yadav said. The BCs comprise 50% of the total population in Hyderabad. As per the GHMC Act, the BCs are eligible for 33% quota, which means that about 50 of the total 150 wards in the civic body elections would be reserved for BC candidates. BJP spokesperson Krishna Saagar Rao said they believe in social justice. “We strongly believe that all social groups require equal and fair representation. We don’t believe social engineering should be applied for advancing one’s political agenda. The BJP president along with seniors will take a decision on how many seats should be allotted to which social group,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congs-bc-move-has-trs-bjp-in-spin/articleshow/79118878.cms||Roushan Ali
November 9, 2020||Rajkot||‘Hungry’ man kills his mother, sister in Gujarat||RAJKOT: In a macabre incident, hunger pangs stoked the devil in a farmer who ended his mother and sister’s day-long stand-off over the matter of cooking dinner by killing them both in one stroke, in Zikiyari village of Morbi taluka on Saturday night According to police, not being served dinner after he returned from the farm at night, hunger pushed Devshi Bhatia (40) to the edge and in a fit of rage picked up a sickle and hacked his mother Kastur Bhatia (65) and sister Sangita Bhatia (35) to death. “Kastur and Sangita were engaged in a noisy debate since afternoon over who should prepare dinner that night since the afternoon. Devshi, who is unmarried, reproached the duo and warned them that they better decide fast as he would want dinner served as soon as he returned home from work at night, and went out of the house. However, matters between the two women only escalated to an impasse and the duo resorted to a kitchen strike of sorts,” said Radhika Bharai, Morbi deputy superintendent of police. However, as goes the saying, hunger knows no friend but its feeder’, things turned bloody after Devshi returned home tired and hungry at night. “When Devshi found that neither of the women had cooked food and were still on the fight mode, he became incensed. Hunger fuelled his blind rage and the man sought to end the debate once and for all with a scythe that he found lying in the house. He killed the duo by hacking their throats,” said Bharai. Police investigation revealed that after the crime, Devshi himself called up the police, his family members and known some people in village to inform about his deed. Devshi was detained the same night,said AA Jadeja, sub-inspector with Morbi taluka police station. “Sangita had been staying with her mother for the past several years after walking out on her husband,” the cop added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hungry-man-ends-wholl-cook-fight-by-killing-mom-sister/articleshow/79116911.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||'Non-Gorkhas in unit will dampen spitit'||NAINITAL: The Indian Army’s proposal to induct non-Gorkhas from Uttarakhand into the Gorkha Rifles (GR) has received a strong response from Nepalese-domiciled Gorkha veterans who have served in the GR regiments. Speaking to TOI, Colonel DK Pradhan (retd) – a Gorkha from Nepal who is a veteran of the 1971 Indo-Pak war– said that the move will adversely affect the fighting spirit of the unit. “The Gorkhas fight for ‘Naam, namak and nishaan’. The spirit is ingrained in the community and therefore plays a very important role for us. If people from other areas are included in the regiment as well, it won’t be the same thing,” he said. When asked about other regiments of the Army having soldiers from other ethnicities, another Nepalese-domiciled veteran who did not wish to be named, said that the other regiments have had this tradition from earlier times but that is not the case with the Gorkha regiments. “The Gorkha regiments have only had Gorkha soldiers and therefore breaking this tradition is not a good idea. If this is being done because of the strained relations between India and Nepal, people should remember that the ties would mend soon. I feel that these things should not affect the induction policy of one of the fiercest regiments of the Indian Army,” the veteran said. Notably, Gorkhas are inducted into the GR regiments on a 60:40 ratio – for every 60 recruits from Nepal, there are 40 from India. The move to induct non-Gorkhas from Uttarakhand into the GR regiments is also being seen by some as a move to tilt the balance in favour of Indian-domiciled soldiers. Reacting to this, Subedar Major RK Thapa (retd) who is in-charge of matters pertaining to Nepalese Gorkhas in the All-India Gorkha Ex-Servicemen's Association, said that if there was a plan to decrease the number of recruits from Nepal, the Army should focus on recruiting Gorkhas from India instead of inducting non-Gorkhas. “There are over two crore Gorkhas across the country. They live in Himachal, Uttarakhand, Jammu and several places in the North-east. If there is a need to decrease the number of Nepalese recruits, then the Gorkhas from India should be promoted to join the Army. Inducting non-Gorkhas is not a good plan since it would break the tradition that is the cornerstone of the Gorkha regiments,” said Thapa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/move-to-induct-non-gorkhas-of-uttarakhand-into-gorkha-rifles-will-adversely-affect-fighting-spirit-of-gorkhas-say-regiment-veterans-from-nepal/articleshow/79116894.cms||Prashant Jha
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Expenditure sees a slump in Telangana due to revenue crunch||HYDERABAD: With a sharp decline in income due to the Covid-19 induced economic slowdown, the expenditure capacity of Telangana has also been hit hard.  According to the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), the state spent Rs 60,786 crore upto September this year, which is nearly six percent lesser than the spending till September in the last fiscal year. The figures released by CAG reveal that the budget estimate in the state, including revenue and capital, was Rs 1,60 crore up to September. The state has only spent 37% of the estimate. By September last year, Telangana had spent 43% of the budget estimates. Although the state had ambitious plans of spending Rs 22,061.18 crore on capital expenditue this year, only Rs 6,403.14 crore 29.02% of the figure has been spent until now. This accounts to nearly 11% decline, compared to the spending last year. Sources have said that if the income does not improve, the capital works will suffer further problems. The revenue and fiscal deficits are also high this year.  A revenue surplus of Rs 4,482 crore was estimated in the budget. However, the state is in fact facing revenue deficit now. Telangana had come to depend upon borrowing in the first half of the year. The revenue for the first six months was 26.51% lesser than the estimates for Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/expenditure-sees-a-slump-in-t-due-to-revenue-crunch/articleshow/79118891.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Atrocity complaint against Satellite man||AHMEDABAD: A sanitation worker, 50, from the Vejalpur area of the city filed a complaint on Saturday under charges of SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) act against a man from the Satellite area for allegedly uttering cast-based abuses. In his FIR with Satellite police, Nanu Ladva, resident of Ekaldevnagar in Vejalpur who belongs to Valmiki community, states that Apoorva Shah, a resident of Aap-1 residential society on Shivranjani Crossroads abused him over non-payment of his wages on July 20. Ladva said that the society members had decided that they would give him Rs 7,000 per month to keep the society clean. But after he worked for a month, Shah allegedly refused to pay Rs 7,000 and just paid Rs 5,000. When Ladva objected, Shah abused him and also uttered caste based slur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/atrocity-plaint-against-satellite-man/articleshow/79117856.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Surat||Gujarat got many projects, thanks to PM Modi: Vijay Rupani||SURAT: Chief minister Vijay Rupani, while stating how Gujarat had been benefiting from the central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said on Sunday that Gujarat had got many projects thanks to Modi. “Gujarat has suffered injustice for years. But our own Narendrabhai is PM and Gujarat is getting all the help and guidance and we can bring new projects in the state,” said Rupani while addressing the inaugural function of the Ro-Pax terminal at Hazira in Surat on Sunday morning. “Within 17 days of becoming the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi gave all the permissions for Narmada dam. Gujarat had been facing a crude royalty issue. Narendrabhai took interest in this matter and we got Rs 10,000 crore. Gujarat got the country’s first bullet train (Ahmedabad to Mumbai) and credit goes to Narendrabhai,” said Rupani. “Moreover, many states in the country got All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) but Gujarat was not getting it. However, Gujarat got the AIIMS now because of Narendrabhai,” Rupani said. “There were many institutions in the state that were doing good work. They got national recognition under the Modi government. These institutes include Ayurved University and National Forensic Sciences University in Gandhinagar. Even amid Covid-19 time, Gujarat’s development track continues and is adding new feathers in its cap,” he added. Mansukh Mandavia, Union minister for shipping, said, “Maritime sector is the one sector in which India once ruled. 5,000 years ago Lothal port was connected with the world through maritime trade.” “The Vadia family from Surat used to build the world’s finest ships. In the past, the government could not even prepare a detailed project report while the Modi government builds projects within the same time-frame. It was Narendrabhai’s dream to connect Saurashtra to Surat and it has become a reality today,” Mandvia added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-got-many-projects-thanks-to-pm-modi-rupani/articleshow/79117863.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: No salary for 3 months, heavy workload leave marshals in distress||BENGALURU: BBMP marshals who were tasked with the responsibility of enforcing Covid-19 norms such as ensuring people wore masks and maintained social distancing to check the spread of the virus have not been paid for three months now. One of the reasons cited for the delay is a BBMP decision to pay salaries to marshals from fines they collect and related files being held up at various levels. Marshals were originally recruited to help BBMP manage solid waste in the city, but when Covid-19 kicked in, they were put in charge of enforcing Covid-19 safety rules. Initially they had the sole power to levy fines on violators, but given the mammoth task and since marshals were often the butt of public ire, BBMP brass decided to rope in police to assist them. Marshals, who, after deductions of about Rs 1,500 draw a salary of Rs 17,000 every month, were set targets to book violations. While the target is informal in most zones, it is official in south zone. Yet, marshals themselves have not been paid for three months and they say they are in distress and are finding it difficult to run their families. Ganesh K, a BBMP marshal in south zone, says they work for 12 hours a day and have a target to book at least 10 cases daily. “We had not been paid for the past three months,” he said. “On Saturday we were given a month’s salary.” Ganesh said work pressure is immense and if salary continues to be delayed he would be forced to quit. “Collecting fines has become a major agenda but for us working on the ground, we feel bad when we penalise people,” he said. “We should have been deployed to warn citizens and to insist they wear masks. Most of the people who we fine are daily-wage labourers who work hard to earn a living. We have no choice but to collect fines from them.” Lohith SN, another marshal, said they went without salary for 90 days at a stretch. “There are people who depend on me at home. It is not as if the Palike informed us earlier about the situation. I had to borrow cash on interest from a private lender to run my family,” he said. BBMP sources say Karnataka Ex-servicemen Welfare Society (KEWS) outsources marshals to BBMP and that there are about 300 marshals in the city. “Salaries have been delayed after a new special commissioner (finance) took charge. The special commissioner had wanted clarifications which will be released soon,” said the source. Asked why salaries were delayed for three months, a BBMP officer said that there were irregularities in payments which led to salaries being withheld for some time. It may be recalled in the week of October, BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad wrote to the state government asking it to repatriate an official in the Palike’s accounts office to his parent revenue department citing financial irregularities. Officials say there were financial irregularities in four different categories — Rs 7.9 crore in general allotment, Rs 7.7 crore in special commissioner funds, Rs 5.8 crore in state finance commission funds and Rs 7 crore in offline payment to the Gandhinagar executive engineer. BBMP special commissioner Randeep D said salary bills have been sent to the finance department and would be released soon. “As per a decision, we wanted to pay salaries from the fines marshals collected rather than taking it from BBMP accounts,” Randeep said. Asked why there was a delay, he said that it was because some files remained pending in the chief accounts office and they have not been cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-salary-for-3-months-heavy-workload-leave-marshals-in-distress/articleshow/79116936.cms||Kiran Parashar
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao’s wife donates Rs 1 lakh to BPL family in Karimnagar||HYDERABAD: Moved by the plight of a below poverty line family which lost its head of the family who was also the bread-winner, Shobha Rao, wife of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao donated Rs 1 lakh to the family. K Tirupathi, resident of Trimualapur village of Ramadugu mandal in Karimnagar district died of ill-health recently. His wife, two children and his parents got shelter in Kapu Bhavan after their house collapsed in the recent heavy rains and floods. Shobha Rao came to know about the plight of the family through news reports. She sent Rs 1 lakh financial assistance through Choppadandi MLA Sunke Ravishankar. The MLA handed over Rs 3 lakh, including the donations given by others, to the family members of Tirupathi on Sunday. The TRS MLA also assured the family of a double bedroom unit and free education to their children in the government-run Gurukul schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcrs-wife-donates-rs-1l-to-bpl-family/articleshow/79118879.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Salem||Farmers grow ganja, held||Krishnagiri: Two farmers were arrested for cultivating ganja in between standing crops on their farmland near Hosur here on Sunday. The Anchetty police identified the accused as K Angamuthu, 43, and his accomplice M Govindan, 42, both residents of Attapallam village. A police officer said they had inspected the farmland based on a tip that the framers were cultivating ganja in between sorghum crop. “We found the ganja plants and arrested the two.” They were produced before the judicial magistrate of Hosur sub-court and lodged in the Salem Central Prison under judicial custody for 15 days. The officer said they had set the ganja plants, valued at Rs 2 lakh, on fire. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/farmers-grow-ganja-held/articleshow/79118893.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP plans walkathon across GHMC wards in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In the run up to the GHMC poll, the BJP has planned a massive walkathon across all the wards in the city. All state-level BJP leaders, including state party chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar and Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy, will participate in the event.  In a meeting held with GHMC BJP leaders, it was decided that the week-long walkathon will begin on the day after Diwali. The meeting also took stock of the voters’ list released by the state election commission. “It was found that there were unaccountable additions and deletions of voters in the ward. There is also no polling station list. We will raise our objections before the SEC on Monday,” said Surender Reddy, BJP Bhagyanagar district president, adding that the party is ready to take the legal route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-plans-walkathon-across-ghmc-wards/articleshow/79118896.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 9, 2020||Erode||CM will decide on reopening schools after parents’ meet: Min||Erode: School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Sunday said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami would take a call on reopening of schools based on parents’ suggestions.Talking to the media after issuing bonus and Diwali benefits to milk producers at Chinnanaickanur, Vellankoil and Ottarkarattupalayam villages in his Gobichettipalayam assembly segment here, the minister said meetings with students’ parents would be held as per the guidelines issued by the government.“Schools will be fumigated completely before conducting such meetings. Parents could visit nearby schools, instead of the ones in which their wards are studying, to put forward their suggestions,” he said.If the schools don’t reopen as scheduled, the minister said, special classes would be arranged for students of classes IX, X, XI and XII, if needed. Sengottaiyan said his department had not received any complaints from parents about private schools charging more fee than prescribed. “We are ready to take necessary action against school managements if they charge extra fee from parents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/cm-will-decide-on-reopening-schools-after-parents-meet-min/articleshow/79118897.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||Millions of diyas to mould Ayodhya history, pilgrims to virtually zoom into ‘treta yuga’||LUCKNOW: The rural development department and Mati Kala Board of khadi and gramodyog department have joined hands to provide free electric potter wheels to 25 self-help groups (SHGs) for manufacture of 2.5 diyas to be lit in Ayodhya during Deepotsav. Sources in rural development department said, the provision was made under state rural livelihood mission that envisages employment opportunities to SHGs, many of which have women members. The state government plans to set a record by lighting 5.51 lakh lamps in Ayodhya, a year after Supreme Court mandated construction of Ram Temple at Ramjanmabhoomi. The move comes even as chief minister Yogi Adityanath plans to supervise Deepotsav to be organised between November 11 and 13. The department would procure remaining diyas from other potters in the state. “The department conducted a training programme for members of SHGs, besides providing them with electric potter wheels. The lamps and idols are proposed to be made of cow dung, which would be cheap,” mission director, SRLM, Sujit Kumar told TOI. Sources said, at least 2 lakh diyas have already been produced by six SHGs in Masauda block of Ayodhya. Of these, ‘Shakti’ SHG alone has manufactured 1lakh diyas. Enthused by the SHG’s performance, the district administration has decided to provide electric potter wheel to more than two dozen Ayodhya-based SHGs. The department has also ordered manufacture of wick (‘baati’) which would be used in lighting diyas at the famous Ram Ki Paidi. This comes days after the state government roped in 170 SHGs from over 30 districts for manufacture of puja and festive material for Navaratri and Diwali. The SHGs have been engaged in manufacture of lamps, candles, jhalars (decorative lights) and Laxmi-Ganesh idols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/millions-of-diyas-to-mould-ayodhya-history-pilgrims-to-virtually-zoom-into-treta-yuga/articleshow/79119428.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand carved its own identity on national level: Uttarakhand CM||DEHRADUN: On eve of the state foundation day on Sunday, the chief minister said that Uttarakhand has carved its own identity and efforts of the state government in its three-and-a-half-year rule have been appreciated at a national level for positive performance in all areas. He pointed out that the BJP government’s pragmatic industrial policy had invited a large amount of investment in the state and expressed confidence that the trend will continue. He said that his government has been making sincere efforts to develop Uttarakhand into a global tourist destination for adventure and wellness enthusiasts, with the state introducing a number of schemes to boost job creation and self-employment in the state. “Projects worth Rs 1 lakh crore have been approved by the union government for Uttarakhand. Work is underway at a fast pace on all the projects. Many national-level institutions are being established in Uttarakhand,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-carved-its-own-identity-on-national-level-cm-rawat/articleshow/79116991.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 9, 2020||Coimbatore||AIADMK rules out possibility of coalition govt in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: AIADMK has once again ruled out a coalition government in the event of the alliance winning the upcoming assembly elections. State fisheries minister D Jayakumar said that the AIADMK would win a decisive mandate and form government of its own with absolute majority. “If you look at the history of Tamil Nadu AIADMK had always captured power with majority. That will be the case after 2021 assembly elections too,” he told reporters in Chennai on Sunday. Jayakumar’s comments came hours after BJP leader L Murugan said the saffron party would determine the next government in state. “People of Tamil Nadu would never leave scope for a coalition rule in the state,” he said. At the same time he said that the AIADMK would witness a decisive victory, unprecedented in the history of Tamil Nadu, in the upcoming assembly elections. The AIADMK as well as our allies will win all the seats, he said. “The AIADMK will win with absolute majority and form government. So there is no question of a coalition government,’’ he said. In the past too, whenever BJP leaders issued statements suggesting coalition government, the AIADMK was swift to rule out the possibility. A few days ago when former union minister Pon Radhakrishnan asserted that BJP will be part of the next government, AIADMK leader Vaigaichelvan told TOI that TN never had a coalition government in the past and will not have one in future too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-rules-out-possibility-of-coalition-govt-in-tn/articleshow/79118902.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: New collectors for Asifabad, Bhupalpally||HYDERABAD: The state government on Sunday affected a couple of IAS transfers with Rahul Raj, additional commissioner GHMC, a 2015 batch officer, being transferred and posted as collector and district magistrate of Kumarambheem-Asifabad, replacing Sandeep Kumar Jha who was transferred. According to orders issued by chief secretary Somesh Kumar, Mohammad Abdul Azeem, a 2004 IAS officer, collector and district magistrate of Jayashankar-Bhupalpally was transferred. Mulugu collector Krishna Aditya, a 2014 IAS officer, has been placed in full additional charge of the post of collector and district magistrate of Jayashankar-Bhupalpally. Meanwhile, the state government issued orders on Sunday extending the tenure of retired IPS officer Anurag Sharma for three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-collectors-for-asifabad-bhupalpally/articleshow/79118915.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||‘Op all out’ to keep city more guarded||Lucknow: Lucknow police launched ‘Operation all out’ on Sunday. As many as 1,500 additional cops would be pressed into service at all the major crossings for constant police visibility and vigilance. Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey said that trouble spots have been identified in the city which include the areas infamous for incidents of loot and dacoity. In these areas, zigzag barricades would be placed along with polygon units. “The motive is to curb crime and instil confidence in people that even during late hours police will be there for their safety,” he said. The officer also directed SHOs and ACPs to coordinate and plan out patrolling and checking near slum areas and bus stops falling under their jurisdiction and areas near railway lines. Senior officials from the rank of deputy commissioner of police and joint commissioner of police must conduct random checking of spots to ensure that operation is being followed on the ground-zero. The operation will continue throughout the winter season and police response vehicles of UP 112 have also been made a part of the operation. “They would escort and help women travellers and passengers if found alone during odd hours,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/op-all-out-to-keep-city-more-guarded/articleshow/79119430.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Operation akarsh: Telangana BJP wary of TRS poaching party cadre||HYDERABAD: Even as BJP state office-bearers met here on Saturday to discuss the party strategy for the ensuing GHMC polls, the party is wary about ‘operation akarsh’ by the ruling TRS and how to protect its cadre and leaders. BJP has already suffered a blow with its spokesperson Sridhar Reddy joining the TRS. Sridhar said many others from the BJP would join the TRS before the civic body elections. During the recent Dubbak by-election, finance minister T Harish Rao ensured that several grassroots workers and leaders joined the TRS. The BJP is worried that the TRS would try to poach its city-level leaders before the GHMC polls. While this is so, the BJP is not keeping quiet either. It is also trying to cajole disgruntled leaders and activists from the TRS to jump over to its side. Former mayor Teegala Krishna Reddy is all set to join the BJP, while sitting TRS corporator T Srinivas Reddy joined the BJP on Friday. “The TRS has failed to implement the manifesto released in 2016 election,” he said. BJP during the 2016 GHMC elections was in alliance with TDP and won only four wards. The party is aiming to bag 80 wards this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/operation-akarsh-bjp-wary-of-trs-poaching-party-cadre/articleshow/79118912.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||Agra most polluted in the country||Lucknow: There was no improvement in the air quality of Lucknow and other UP cities as pollution levels remained high on Sunday. The Air Quality Index of Lucknow was 392— just 8 notches short of the ‘severe’ air. AQI was above 400 in eight UP cities. Lucknow’s AQI was just three units lower than that of Saturday. Agra and Ghaziabad with AQI of 458 and 456, respectively, were the most polluted cities in the country. Jind in Haryana was the third most polluted city with AQI 441, followed by Greater Noida with AQI 440. AQI in other UP cities was: Kanpur (436), Bulandshahr (435), Noida (428) and Baghpat (421). “There is a need to pay attention to this alarming rise, else it will take a toll on the health of people. Preventive measures are now not only an emergency but the last resort to save people from bad air. Citizens should take the initiative on their own to ensure no pollution emission activity is undertaken by them while the government should make a policy to take control of the situation,” said environmentalist Prof Venkatesh Dutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/agra-most-polluted-in-the-country/articleshow/79119437.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Erode||Farmers grow shallots as price spikes||Erode: Farmers in and around Gobichettipalayam in Erode district are busy cultivating shallots as price are reigning high. “Farmers in Kongarpalayam and Vinoba Nagar in Gobichettipalayam taluk are involved in shallots cultivation,” M Karuppanna Goundar, a farmer from Kongarpalayam, said. Shallots are cultivated in nearly 100 acres in these two villages, he added. One kilo of shallot was sold for Rs 20-Rs 30 about two months ago. Now, shallots are sold for Rs 120/kg. The price of shallot is expected to increase till February 2021 with marriage season coming up. A farmer said nearly Rs 60,000 per acre is spent for cultivating shallot. The seed for shallots costs Rs 100 per kilo. It will need at least 500kg per acre. “We will get profit if the rate continues for the next three months,” the farmer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/farmers-grow-shallots-as-price-spikes/articleshow/79118916.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: TSRTC city bus services see rise in passenger occupancy||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) city buses that had met with a lukewarm response when the corporation resumed its services in September, is now witnessing a growing patronage from passengers with overall occupancy seeing a steady rise. According to the officials, passenger occupancy in the city buses has now gone up over 50% and is expected to improve further once the offices and educational institutes reopen. “We initially registered occupancy of 12% to 15% a day. However, after two months of resumption of the services, on an average, the TSRTC’s Greater Hyderabad Zone (GHZ) is currently registering occupancy of 50% to 53% a day,” said TSRTC executive director V Venkateshwarlu. According to officials, around 900 to 1,000 buses, including mofussil services, are being operated daily in GHZ. TSRTC was instructed to increase bus operations beyond 25% only when the occupancy touched 75%. “Most of the passengers are still preferring own vehicles due to the Covid-19 situation. The number of buses will be increased in a phased manner,” said transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-city-bus-services-see-rise-in-passenger-occupancy/articleshow/79118917.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh to launch IoT project in MSMEs for energy efficiency||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government will launch an Internet of Things (IoT) pilot project in micro, small and medium enterprises in all districts to study energy efficiency measures. After the success of the initial project in an MSME unit in East Godavari district, the Union ministry of power-led Bureau of Energy Efficiency has agreed to and sanctioned funds to extend the IoT pilot project to all districts. The AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) in coordination with the industries department will take up the project in five MSME units in each district under the initiative. The move is expected to help MSMEs improve their energy performance and savings, competitiveness and productivity. The IoT project may identify the scope for introducing latest energy efficiency technologies to replace existing obsolete or inefficient technologies. According to officials in the state, the Bureau of Energy Efficiency sanctioned the project with funding support within a record period of 24 hours. The government has identified around 19 sectors in MSMEs with opportunities for energy efficiency. Discoms in the state estimate that the sector has an energy saving potential of around 400 MU per annum at the rate of at least 10 per cent energy savings out of a total existing consumption of 5,125 million kilovolt ampere hour. Under the pilot project, IoT-enabled power control devices would be installed to examine energy efficiency measures in various kinds of small and medium industries. The initial pilot project that was taken up in Padma Ceramics in East Godavari district found that the IoT device would help save around 11,000 units per annum with an annual monetary benefit of Rs 80,000. State officials informed that the device supports real-time monitoring of various electrical parameters and gives information on voltage fluctuations through mobile phone communication, which would help MSME owners take immediate steps to save energy and ensure safety of machines. Energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said the state government considers round-the-clock cost-effective power as a key instrument of industrial development. “It wants to improve energy efficiency in the MSME sector through accelerating adoption of innovative energy-efficient technologies, such as IoT-enabled power monitoring systems, etc.” said Srikant. When the energy secretary informed chief secretary and chairman of APSECM, Nilam Sawhney, about the quick response of BEE, the chief secretary said the response of the Union ministry of power and BEE towards promoting energy efficiency measures in Andhra Pradesh is commendable. “The state government will continue its efforts to make Andhra Pradesh one of the best states in the energy efficiency sector,” said Nilam Sawhney.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-to-launch-iot-project-in-msmes-for-energy-efficiency/articleshow/79117006.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Trichy||BDU extends admissions till mid-November||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) has extended admissions for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in affiliated colleges. The last date to submit online applications has been extended till mid-November from November 9. The decision would benefit BDU affiliated arts and science colleges that have not been able to fill all the seats. Many colleges have written to the university seeking extension of admission following which the decision on extension was taken. Many of the rural colleges are still struggling to fill seats in the undergraduate programs. Inviting applications through the online mode was cited as a reason by colleges for poor response from students this year. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-extends-admissions-till-mid-november/articleshow/79119433.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Erode||Four of family attempt suicide, one critical||Erode: Aggrieved at the sudden demise of her husband, who died of jaundice a few days ago, a 48-year old woman and her three children attempted to commit suicide by consuming synthetic cow dung powder (saani powder) at Karungalpalayam here in the early hours of Sunday. They were, however, rushed to hospital by neighbours. While one of them is critical, the condition of the remaining three is said to be stable. The Karungalpalayam police said the breadwinner of the family, Raja, of Karungalpalayam, had succumbed to jaundice at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital in Salem on Thursday (Nov 5). “Grief-stricken, his wife R Sivakami, sons R Premkumar, 27, R Buvanesh, 25, and daughter R Shalini, 17, decided to end their lives and took food laced with cow dung powder at 1.30am on Sunday,” an investigation officer said. Hearing them cry in distress, neighbours rushed to their house and took them to the government hospital in Erode. “The condition of Premkumar is critical. The remaining three are out of danger,” the officer said. Raja, he said, was an egg trader and Premkumar was assisting him in his business. “Buvanesh is a BE second-year student and Shalini a Class XII student.” The Karungalpalayam police have registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/four-of-family-attempt-suicide-one-critical/articleshow/79118918.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||Trash burning ban goes up in smoke in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The air quality index (AQI) of Lucknow has touched ‘severe’ mark but burning of garbage in the open, one of the prominent contributors of air pollution, continues unabated in various parts of the city despite ban. The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) had banned burning of waste in the open in 2017 with the provision of Rs 500 fine but a TOI reality check found violations in several areas including Lalbagh, Latouche Road, New Hyderabad, Aliganj, Jankipuram, Gomtinagar and Daliganj. TimesViewOpen burning of garbage is a perpetual problem in the city which aggravates air pollution, particularly in winters (from November to February). LMC has not been able to check it despite making several punitive provisions. Like every year, district administration has woken up at the time when air pollution level has started rising alarmingly. It has issued directions to curb the menace but the execution is still not up to the mark. While the administration needs to ensure that agencies impose the ban in letter and spirit, people also need to shun the practice and stop others from doing so in their areas.Residents complained that smoke is taking its toll on their health and no action is being taken by LMC despite complaints. Residents of Sector C in Aliganj said sanitary workers dump garbage on the roadside and burn it which creates smog in the morning and causes breathing problem to residents, especially senior citizens who go out for morning walk. “Once my father told a sanitary worker not to burn garbage but he did not pay heed to him. Our complaints to LMC also went unattended,” Vikas Lamba of Aliganj (Sector C) said. Anuj Verma of Latouche Road said, “This area has many electronics and cycle repair shops. Owners of these shops dump waste on the road which is burnt by sweepers in the morning.” Anya Tiwari of Sector H, Jankipuram, complained that waste was burnt by sanitary at least thrice a week. “This has been the practice for last 10 years despite several complaints by residents,” Tiwari said. In Vikrant Khand, Gomtinagar, TOI found a heap of garbage on fire in a park. “LMC workers do not collect garbage from our locality. We hired a private company but its services are also irregular. Hence, residents dump garbage in park. The gardener sets it on fire,” said Tarun Gupta, a resident. Additional municipal commissioner Amit Kumar said, “LMC has launched a drive to penalise violators. At least 56 people have been booked in last few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/trash-burning-ban-goes-up-in-smoke/articleshow/79119459.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||East Godavari records less than 200 Covid infections in over 4 months||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,237 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,42,967. The toll increased to 6,791 as 12 more people died of the novel coronavirus. As many as 2,256 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Sunday. There are currently 21,403 active cases in the state, with 8,14,773 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 96%. There are less than 1,000 active cases in seven districts. Kurnool has a recovery rate of about 99%. West Godavari reported 379 cases, followed by Guntur at 364, Chittoor (329) and Krishna (277) and East Godavari (188). This was the first time for East Godavari to record fewer than 200 cases in over four months. Five districts posted less than 100 cases to the table on Sunday. East Godavari has the highest caseload of 1,18,598 lakh cases. Neighbouring West Godavari continued to occupy the second place with 88,676 cases. Ten districts of the state have a cumulative caseload of at least 50,000 cases, barring Krishna, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. Of the 12 deaths registered on Sunday, three are from Krishna, two each from Chittoor and Visakhapatnam, and one each from East Godavari, Guntur, Nellore, Srikakulam and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh tested 76,663 Covid-19 samples to detect 2,237 new cases with a case positivity rate of about 3%. The state has so far conducted 86 lakh Covid-19 tests with an overall positivity rate under 9%. The national average positivity rate was about 7%. The state’s Covid-19 mortality rate stood at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/east-godavari-records-less-than-200-infections-in-over-4-months/articleshow/79117022.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Lucknow||Name Alamnagar as Budheshwar Dham: Mohanlalganj MP||Lucknow: BJP MP from Mohanlalganj, Kaushal Kishore, has written to railway ministry asking to change the name of Alamnagar railway station to Buddheshwar Dham — which as per mythology is associated with Sita, wife of lord Ram. According to Kishore, “The place Alamnagar railway station has been part of the mythological folklore in which mother Sita, after her return from 14 years exile, worshipped to Lord Shiva at this place. Currently this place is popular among locals as Buddheshwar Dham. On every Wednesday during monsoon, a big fair is organised around Budheshwar temple and people from across the country visit this place.” “Budheshwar Dham has also been marked as a tourist destination by the UP government,” he added . The MP on his official letter pad has written to railway ministry to consider the mythological importance of the place and the sentiments of the public to rename Alamnagar railway station as Buddheswar Dham railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/name-alamnagar-as-budheshwar-dham-mohanlalganj-mp/articleshow/79119461.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Dengue stings district with highest cases in 5 years||LUDHIANA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the district is suffering an onslaught of dengue too. To date, Ludhiana has recorded the highest number of dengue cases in the past five years. According to the health department data, the number of cases reported till November 7 was 1,693, including 361 patients of other districts and 46 from outside Punjab. In 2019, the district had registered 1,509 cases, which was 12.2% less than the hitherto 2020 figure. At 489, the number was the lowest in 2018. As many as 1,083 cases were reported in 2017 and 755 in 2016. Even as the cases are increasing, no death was reported due to the disease this as well as the previous year, say the health department officials. The data suggests that the number of dengue deaths was the highest in 2015, when seven patients died of it. The year had seen 1,876 people contracting the disease.  “Even as the number of cases is higher this year, the disease did not snatch any life. We are tackling Covid-19 and working hard to control dengue, too,” says civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. “Besides the municipal corporation teams, we have constituted 18 teams, each comprising two members including an assistant malaria officer, to check its spread. The teams visit each sub-division for an inspection. We have divided the city into two parts and deputed supervisors and multi-purpose health workers to monitor the high-risk areas. The department’s anti-larvae workers, too, are on the job. We advise residents to wear clothes that fully cover the body and use mosquito repellants,” he adds. The health department officials say perhaps because of novel coronavirus, dengue prevention didn’t get much attention. “More cases of dengue are expected and may continue to be reported till November-end,” says an official. Residents say the authorities should conduct fogging regularly. “MC officials are yet to conduct fogging in many areas. It should be done regularly to check mosquito menace,” says Keemti Rawal, a resident of Chander Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dengue-stings-dist-with-highest-cases-in-5-years/articleshow/79117038.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 9, 2020||Erode||4 die, 11 hurt as SUV rolls down ghat road in Tamil Nadu's Erode district||ERODE: Four people were killed and 11 others injured after a sports utility vehicle (SUV) rolled down the ghat road near Burgoor here on Sunday while they were being taken to their workplace at Vattakadu area near Andhiyur from Thambureddy village. Police said the vehicle with 15 farm labourers onboard was heading to a farm field at Vattakadu. “When the SUV neared Maniachi area, its driver lost control over the vehicle while negotiating a sharp turn. The vehicle hit a roadside tree and rolled down the slope and landed on the road below upside down,” a police officer said. Four people – Devaraj, 45, Sikkannan, 45, Thoddappi, 45 and Johan, 35, all residents of Thambureddy village – succumbed to their grave injuries on the spot. “While the driver, whose identity is yet to be ascertained, managed to escape from the accident spot, the remaining 11 farm labourers were trapped inside the mangled vehicle. They were rescued by a few bikers 30 minutes after the incident,” the officer said. He said the spot where the accident occurred was a dense forest area, where movement of motorists and people was generally less. The bikers alerted the Burgoor police, who took the injured to the government hospital at Andhiyur. Doctors there referred them to the government hospital in Erode city, where their condition is said to be stable. The dead bodies were, meanwhile, sent to the government hospital at Andhiyur for postmortem. The officer said the vehicle was overloaded with farm labourers and cited that as a cause for the accident. “The driver could not control the vehicle at the sharp turn as it was overloaded.” Police have registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/overloaded-suv-rolls-down-kills-4/articleshow/79118947.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Hubballi||Serosurvey: Experts wary over low infection in Dharwad district||HUBBALLI: The serosurvey conducted by state government showed only 8.7% of Dharwad’s population was exposed to Covid-19 by mid-September, the lowest in the state and experts say it’s hard to fathom why the district hasn’t seen a spike. The survey tested samples from 440 people of which 7.1% showed they had developed antibodies and 2% had an active infection. Dr Mahantesh Nagamoti, professor of microbiology, JN Medical College, Belagavi, said it’s hard to reason why cases are declining, especially since it’s a new disease. “There could be many reasons for such a low spread,” Nagamoti said. “It could be people are putting off visits to home of relatives and friends and socialising has reduced. People are also not dining out. Or it could be more than half the population follows safety protocol like wearing masks and maintaining social distance. People could have even become health conscious and are indulging in regular exercise, eating a balanced diet, using multivitamins and maintaining self-hygiene.” He, however, said a bigger pool must be tested to find out if the district has achieved her immunity Dr SS Patil, physician from Hubballi, said the district needs to establish facility-based surveillance to monitor the trend of infection. This can help local decision-making in fighting the pandemic, he said. Dr Patil, however, warned people not to drop their guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/serosurvey-experts-wary-over-low-infection-in-dharwad-district/articleshow/79118056.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana minister K T Rama Rao slams Centre, BJP for not responding to SOS on flood aid||HYDERABAD: Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) working president and municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao on Sunday tore into the BJP government at the Centre for not releasing an immediate central flood aid of Rs 1,350 crore and also accused four BJP lawmakers from the state of doing precious little. Telangana authorities said the recent deluge resulted in Rs 8,868 crore loss towards crop damage and property destruction in Hyderabad and elsewhere, requiring immediate central aid. KTR said Prime Minister Narendra Modi released Rs 669 crore to Karnataka state in less than four days after BS Yediyurappa wrote a letter, whereas not one paisa was released to Telangana despite chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao writing a letter to the PM on October 15. “The Central government is ignoring Telangana in providing flood relief but promptly helping States where the BJP is in power,” he said. “Is Telangana not a part of India? When the Centre is responding quickly for flood relief requests from Karnataka and Gujarat, why this indifference towards Telangana? Shouldn't the PM come to the rescue of Hyderabad when it needs Centre’s help,” KTR said at a media conference here on Sunday. Both BJP and Congress are indulging in politics of mud slinging, while the TRS government was busy helping the flood-affected victims, he said. Taking a dig at the MoS home G Kishan Reddy, KTR said the minister was not helping the state, while their leaders and MPs make tall claims, which are all lies. “The state BJP leaders should introspect and get assistance from the Centre as a responsible party rather than making silly claims or take up programmes to hamper the government’s assistance to flood victims,” he said. Reacting to the local BJP’s slogan, “mana city, mana BJP” (Our city, Our BJP), KTR quipped: “What right do they have to go to the people without getting a paisa towards relief from the Centre?” KTR brushed aside allegations of misappropriation of money in the flood relief distribution of Rs 10,000 to each of the affected families and said Congress and BJP were making baseless allegations. The Chief Minister was kind enough to release ₹554 crore immediately for relief measures. The BJP and Congress are trying to derive political mileage out of the issue, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-slams-centre-bjp-for-not-responding-to-sos-on-flood-aid/articleshow/79119656.cms||Roushan Ali
November 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,400 Covid cases, 5 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 1,440 new cases of Covid-19 and five deaths, raising the total count of cases to 2,50,331. As the death toll rose to 1,377 so far in the state, altogether 2,29,064 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection even as 19,890 patients are currently undergoing treatment. It is for the first time in months that the national average recovery rate has surpassed the recovery rate in the state. While the recovery rate in the state is currently 91.5%, the national average is 92.4%. The case fatality rate in the state is currently 0.55%. On Saturday, 42,673 samples were tested for the Covid-19 infection, of which 18,776 samples were of primary contacts of patients who have tested positive over the last few days. A total of 46.2 lakh samples have been tested in the state. The number of samples tested per million population is now 1,24,085 in the state. GHMC recorded 278 cases on Saturday, while Medchal-Malkajgiri recorded 133 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-1-4k-covid-cases-5-deaths/articleshow/79118946.cms||---
November 9, 2020||India||CIC lets govt hold back info on run-up to home secy resignation||NEW DELHI: The Central Information Commission has allowed the Cabinet Secretariat to withhold records of deliberations and file notes leading to the resignation of former Union Home Secretary Anil Goswami, who was asked to put down his papers following allegations of his attempts to stall the arrest of a former minister by the CBI. The panel has based its judgement on a Delhi high court order in a separate case in which it had held that file notings and deliberations of the Group of Officers or the Disciplinary Authority cannot be disclosed. The court had, however, allowed information on action taken in relation to complaints against an officer to be provided to an applicant. Chief Information Commissioner Y K Sinha buttressed his argument to withhold the information citing a Supreme Court verdict, which had held “..professional records, including qualification, performance, evaluation reports, ACRs, disciplinary proceedings, etc. are all personal information... Such personal information is entitled to protection from unwarranted invasion of privacy and conditional access is available when stipulation of larger public interest is satisfied.” Goswami was forced to resign in February 2015 for allegedly trying to stall the arrest of a former Union minister in a case by the CBI. RTI applicant and IPS officer Amitabh Thakur had sought to know from the Cabinet Secretariat the details of action taken on a complaint against Goswami, including communication exchanged between various authorities and file notings. Not getting a satisfactory response, Thakur appealed before the CIC. He argued that he wanted the information in public interest “to know the sequence of events which led to the forced resignation of Goswami”. Sinha said the contentions put forth by Thakur did not establish the larger public interest which would be served by the disclosure of the information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cic-lets-govt-hold-back-info-on-run-up-to-home-secy-resignation/articleshow/79119920.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ranchi||Tractor rallies today to oppose farm laws||Ranchi: Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC), a part of the ruling alliance in the state, on Sunday announced to hold tractor rallies across the state on Monday to up their ante against the new farm laws introduced by the Union government. The party dubbed the laws anti-farmer. The Grand Old Party also aims to collect signature of three lakh farmers during the statewide rallies which will be sent to the party’s high command as a part of the nationwide drive to submit the signatures to the President and demand a rollback of the controversial laws. Congress-ruled states have been up against the farm laws ever since it was introduced around two months back by the Narendra Modi government. After Punjab, Rajasthan government last month introduced three bills in the assembly against the farm laws enacted by the Centre. Punjab on the other hand had passed a resolution against the farm laws and passed four bills to counter the contentious laws. Recently, Punjab chief minister captain Amrinder Singh also led a rally in Delhi demanding a rollback. While Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and his party Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) had criticised the laws and said it will favour the capitalists, ally Congress has been running campaigns on the ground. Congress president-cum-state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said, “The farm laws aren’t acceptable to the farmers as it is aimed at indirectly ending the MSP by creating a platform for corporate players to earn profits. Voices of protests against anti-farmer laws is growing louder everywhere and the Union government must take a note.” Monday’s rally will kick off from Rampur in Namkum. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The rally will begin at 11am and criss-cross through different parts of Ranchi. All MLAs and ministers of our party will take part in the rally, which is our continued fight for the farmers of the country and the state. After the BJP-led government in the Centre failed to amend the land acquisition Act, it has come up with farm laws that are pro-capitalist.” Meanwhile, JPCC also held demonstrations and party workers sported black badges in Ranchi and other parts of the state on Sunday on the occasion of the fourth anniversary of demonitisation, accusing the Modi government of paralysing the country’s economy and pushing people on the brink. In Ranchi, demonstrations were held at Albert Ekka Chowk and Morhabadi, which was attended by top notch office bearers of the party. “Notebandi (demonitisation) turned out to be a failed attempt to curb black money, but was a successful experiment by the Modi government to collapse the country’s economic growth in one stroke,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tractor-rallies-today-to-oppose-farm-laws/articleshow/79117868.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Ranchi||‘Middlemen usurping subsidies, MSP hike won’t help farmers’||Ranchi: The mahagathbandhan government has failed to keep its election promise of providing Rs 2,500 as minimum support price (MSP) for every quintal of paddy to farmers. Even during this year’s budget speech, the government had reiterated its promise to increase the MSP to Rs 2,500 per quintal. But chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday approved a proposal to provide Rs 1,868 per quintal as the MSP for paddy along with an additional bonus of Rs 182 per quintal. For Grade-A quality paddy, Rs 1,888 per quintal has been fixed as the rate. The MSP proposal will likely be placed before the cabinet next week. The rates are largely in tune with the MSP prescribed by the Centre. Talking to TOI on Sunday, Badal Patralekh, the state agriculture minister and Congress MLA from Jarmundi, said the government was committed to fulfil its poll promise, but the plan to further raise the MSP was put on hold as the administration wanted to first prepare a roadmap to plug leakages. Patralekh said, “We wanted to give an MSP of Rs 2,500 from our first year itself but during my recent field visits with state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon to the Santhal Pargana, we discovered that middlemen were cornering most of the cash subsidy schemes of the government.” He added, “We spoke with several farmers in the Santhal Pargana to know the rate at which they sell their paddy. We learnt that some sell a quintal of paddy for as low as Rs 500, a few for Rs 700, while others sell at Rs 1,300 to middlemen. The latter then sell the stock at government procurement centres for about Rs 2,000 per quintal. This means that the farmers didn’t get the rates approved by the government. Increasing the MSP to Rs 2,500 would not benefit the farmers. So I have asked the officials to first prepare a proper plan so that the entire money reaches the real beneficiaries.” Paddy is procured by the state food and civil supplies department. Sources in the department said that farmers tend to avoid selling paddy directly to the government owing to the delay in receiving payments. “Farmers want on the spot payment in lieu of their paddy. Rather than direct benefit transfer, they stress of getting hard cash. We are working out ways to improve the procurement and payment structure,” he said. This year, Jharkhand is expecting a bumper harvest owing to the good monsoon. Sources said that the agriculture department is expecting about 55 lakh tonnes of paddy, much higher than the annual average of 37 lakh tonnes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/middlemen-usurping-subsidies-msp-hike-wont-help-farmers/articleshow/79117819.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 9, 2020||Ranchi||2 festive special trains from Tatanagar this wk||Jamshedpur: In order to accommodate the rush of passengers to and from Bihar ahead of Diwali and Chhath Puja, South Eastern Railways (SER) will launch two festive special trains from Tatanagar from Tuesday. Both the trains — Durg Rajendra Nagar Terminal Express and Tatanagar-Danapur Express — will run to and from Bihar seven days a week, the bookings for which have started already from Saturday, railway officials said. Both trains will run from Tatanagar to Bihar till November 30 and those coming to Jharkhand from the neighbouring state can avail the trains’ services from November 11 to December 2. The Durg Express will depart from Tatanagar at 7:30pm and reach Rajendra Nagar the next day at 7:45am. When coming to the state from Bihar, it will depart at 8:50pm and reach Tatanagar the next morning at 7:55. Danapur Express will depart from Tatanagar at 8:15am and reach Bihar at 7:22pm on the same day. For those coming to Tatanagar from Bihar, the train will chug off at 6am and reach Jamshedpur in the evening at 5:50. “All the festive special trains are reserved and so the passengers should not arrive at the station without confirmed tickets,” senior commercial divisional manager (Chakradharpur) Manish Kumar Pathak said. He urged the passengers to comply with the safety measures pertaining to Covid-19 while travelling on the trains. DIG (GRP) Shailendra Kumar Sinha said that security on the trains is being tightened in view of the festive rush. SER decided to introduce the two trains after Tatanagar-Chhapra Express, which resumed service from November 5, received an overwhelming response. The express train, which runs from Jamshedpur to Bihar every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday and from the neighbouring state to Jharkhand every Wednesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday, is operating at full capacity at the moment, officials said. Meanwhile, the Ranchi rail division will run such similar special trains between Ranchi, Patna and Jai Nagar from November 16 to 21 and between Ranchi, Hatia and Patna from November 10 to December 1. Chief PRO of Ranchi rail division Niraj Kumar said the special trains are being run in view of the passengers’ need. “Most of the trains moving between Ranchi and different cities of Bihar are witnessing a high flow of passengers,” he said. He added that the standard operating procedures pertaining to Covid-19 are being followed properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-festive-special-trains-from-tatanagar-this-wk/articleshow/79118868.cms||B Sridhar
November 9, 2020||Ranchi||1 shot dead in Deoghar district, residents take body to protest site||Dumka: One person was killed while another was critically injured after unknown criminals opened fire at them near the Katiya locality of Deoghar district on Sunday. The deceased, Pappu Singh alias Pappu Sardar (45), originally hailed from Begusarai in Bihar and was residing at Bhurbhura locality under Rikhiya police station. The injured is identified as Sardar's nephew Golu Singh. The criminals fired at them when they were standing outside Sardar's flour mill in Katiya. Eyewitnesses said nearly 20 rounds were fired at them and Sardar died on the spot. Golu, who was hit by two bullets, is undergoing treatment at the Deoghar sadar hospital where his condition is said to be critical. The incident sparked protests and residents demonstrated along with Sardar's body on the airport road for a few hours in the evening and demanded immediate arrest of the assailants. Deoghar SP Aswini Kumar Singh said, “There were six assailants in two motorcycles and we are trying to arrest them. We believed that three of them conducted a recce while the remaining trio riding a separate motorcycle shot at the victims. A special investigation team led by sub-divisional police officer Vikash Chandra Srivastava is probing the incident.” Notably, this is the second incident of firing in Santhal Pargana region in the last two days. On Saturday, Pushpa Himatsinghka, a member of the Congress's women wing, was shot dead in broad daylight when she was inside her shop located at Dumka market. Dumka police on Sunday said the main accused, Rocky Himatsinghka, a relative of the deceased, has surrendered at the Salt Lake police station in Kolkata. Five members of Rocky’s family have been named in the FIR filed under different sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1-shot-dead-in-deoghar-district-residents-take-body-to-protest-site/articleshow/79117890.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 9, 2020||Ranchi||BJP to release ‘white paper’ on gathbandhan govt’s ‘failures’||Ranchi: Opposition BJP will bring out a white paper on the alleged misdeeds and the lack of governance in Jharkhand ever since the JMM-Congress-RJD mahagathbandhan government came to power in January. The decision was taken in the party’s core committee meeting on Sunday. Khunti MLA Neelkant Singh Munda, who attended the meeting, said, “Bringing out a white paper on the deteriorating law and order situation in Jharkhand was the key decision taken during the meeting. The Hemant Soren-led government has been nothing but a disaster as its lack of vision has led to misgovernance and a spurt in crimes. All that the government has done till now is blaming the Centre for everything in order to hide its failures. Now the people are worried about the future of this state under the current regime. By bringing out the white paper, we aim to hold up a mirror to their wrongdoings and expose them before the public, who are now repenting for voting the grand alliance to power.” He further said that Hazaribag MP and former Union minister Jayant Sinha, who also attended the meeting, has been tasked to prepare the white paper. “We will release it soon,” he added. Meanwhile, Sunday’s meeting — chaired by state party president Deepak Prakash and attended by BJP’s leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi, Khunti MP and Union tribal affairs minister Arjun and others — also chalked out the party’s strategies in the coming months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-to-release-white-paper-on-gathbandhan-govts-failures/articleshow/79117569.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 9, 2020||Ranchi||Cong observes demonetisation anniv as ‘Biswasghat Diwas’||Jamshedpur: Congress workers took to the streets here on Sunday to protest against the demonetization of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 currency notes by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi government on this day in 2016. The party observed the day as "Biswasgath Diwas". Congress's East Singhbhum vice-president Babloo Jha said decision to ban the notes has badly hit the country's economy. "It's effect is still felt now and the future is very bleak," Jha said. He alleged that crores of poor workers were thrown out of their jobs after the 'notebandhi' and particularly hit a poor state like Jharkhand hard. Recalling former Prime Minister and economist Manmohan Singh's statement that the Rs 2000 notes introduced by the Modi government is "useless", Jha said it is very difficult for the common man to use to the high denomination note in the market. He stressed that crores of taxpayers' money were wasted while printing the new currency notes. Jha also questioned the Centre on whether it has been able to bring back the black money as it had promised during the earlier elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-observes-demonetisation-anniv-as-biswasghat-diwas/articleshow/79118876.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
November 9, 2020||Ranchi||Cops arrest killer weeks after victim’s skeleton was found in forest||Chatra: A month after a woman’s skeleton was found from Nariyahi forest, police in Tandwa said they have arrested the killer. The man has admitted that he killed the woman over non-payment of Rs 90,000 which she had taken as a loan. On October 7, police recovered the woman’s skeleton from a nearby jungle and began a probe after lodging an FIR against unidentified killers in what they initially said was a “blind case”. The skeleton was later identified as that of Rubi Devi (26), wife of Rajesh Mahto. Officer-in-charge of Tandwa police station Pramod Pandey said, “Rajesh had filed a missing complaint on September 30 after Rubi went missing. Days later when the skeleton was found and it was identified as Rubi’s from the clothes we found in the area, Rajesh blamed Nesar Ansari for the murder and told us about the money angle.” Pandey also said that Nesar strangled Rubi in the forest upon finding her alone. “The three worked as daily wage labourers and Nesar had lent some money to the couple. Later, the couple refused to return the money. Nesar has confessed to the crime and told us that he had pressurised the couple to pay his money back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-arrest-killer-weeks-after-victims-skeleton-was-found-in-forest/articleshow/79118886.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Ranchi||No Covid deaths in state, 203 new cases detected||Ranchi: After a gap of three days, Jharkhand on Sunday reported no deaths linked to Covid-19 but 203 new infections surfaced, taking the cumulative caseload in the state to 1,04,442. A total of 298 recovered cases was also reported during the day. Of the total cases, 4,471 are currently active while 99,074 have recovered and 897 have died since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. According to the evening bulletin issued by the state health department, Ranchi continued to lead the day’s Covid tally with 60 new cases. It was followed by Hazaribag with 24 cases, Bokaro with 20, Dhanbad with 15, East Singhbhum with 13 and with Deoghar 11 cases. Godda, Pakur and Palamu reported zero cases. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, which still have over 1,000 active cases, almost all other districts have active cases below the 200-mark. With the downward trend, the state’s seven days growth rate stands at 0.27% compared to the national average of 0.48%. The seven-day doubling rate in the state, which stands at of 257.17 days, is also far better than the national average of 145.81 days. Moreover, with 94.86% recovery rate, the state’s figure is better than the national average of 92.50%. Jharkhand also reported a mortality rate of 0.85%, which is far less than the national average of 1.50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-covid-deaths-in-state-203-new-cases-detected/articleshow/79118846.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Dip in Maharashtra positivity rate linked to more districts using rapid antigen tests?||MUMBAI: Is the steep decline in Maharashtra's Covid positivity rate linked to an increasing number of districts relying on the less accurate rapid antigen tests (RAT)? Data accessed by TOI shows that in as many as 14 of the 36 districts in the state, over 50% of the tests being performed are with RATs. As per literature, the test is known to miss up to 50% of cases and the health ministry's recommendation is to use RT-PCR as the primary testing tool. Times ViewThe state must delve into the reasons why certain districts have to rely so heavily on the less accurate testing methods. After months, the state’s positivity rate has dropped below 10%, which is an important indicator of the reduced disease spread. We cannot afford to lose the slightest advantage gained over the highly contagious virus, particularly when the global mantra has been to test, trace and treat.A comparison drawn up by the state's public health department to understand the share of tests between RT-PCR and RAT for November 4 has revealed the trend. Of the 14 districts, the worst percentages were found in Parbhani, Bhandara, Solapur and Gadchiroli, where 72%-83% of the tests on that day were done using antigen. In other districts, like Latur, Nanded and Aurangabad, up to 68% tests were done with RAT. Parbhani was the worst among all districts as merely 17% of the tests were done using RT-PCR, considered the gold standard for detection of Covid-19. A state official said that while the data showed a testing pattern for November 4 alone, it would largely be true for other days too. Maharashtra's daily positivity rate has been witnessing a steady, but sharp decline, while the cumulative positivity rate continues to be 18%. The state has carried out nearly 94 lakh tests since January of which over 17 lakh (18%) have come positive. However, the daily positivity that used to be as high as 20% in the months of May to August started declining since September. In October, it fell to 10% and has since dropped to 9% and 8%. The positivity rate for November 4, when testing data was analysed, was 8.5%. "We are providing testing support at district levels and even tying up with medical colleges. But RT-PCR is resource intensive and, on some days, due to unavailability of manpower or other factors, antigen is relied upon more," said a state official. "We are seeing an overall decline in positivity in RT-PCR tests as well, so it would be wrong to link falling positivity rates to antigen volumes alone." Interestingly, testing data till October 31 shows that of the nearly 20.9 lakh tests carried out in Maharashtra, more than 10.3 lakh were done using antigen compared to 10.3 lakh using RT-PCR, although antigen was introduced only in July. In Gadchiroli, the trend will soon change as the district got its first RT-PCR lab last week, said Dr Anil Rudey, civil surgeon of Gadchiroli. "Earlier, we were sending samples to Nagpur, over 160km away. We have started with 60-80 tests and plan to scale up to 250 tests," he said, adding the district has carried out 74,000 tests of which nearly 54,000 was using antigen. Gadchiroli has reported over 6,200 positive cases. Officials said that in all review meetings regarding the preparedness for a potential second wave, CM Uddhav Thackeray has insisted that despite a drop in cases, testing momentum in the state should not dip. In fact, the BMC has been asked to up its daily testing number in the wake of increased movement due to Diwali festivities. Maharashtra has also recorded a dip in daily average testing in the last few days, which will be increased again, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-dip-in-maharashtra-positivity-rate-linked-to-more-dists-using-rapid-antigen-tests/articleshow/79119925.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 9, 2020||India||Shipping ministry’s name to include ports and waterways: Modi||NEW DELHI: The shipping ministry will be renamed as the ministry of ports, shipping and waterways. PM Modi made this announcement on Sunday while inaugurating the Ro-Pax terminal at Hazira and flagging off the Ro-Pax ferry service. “In most of the developed economies, the shipping ministry has the responsibility of ports and waterways. In India, the shipping ministry has been carrying out the tasks of ports and waterways. Now with greater clarity in the name, there will be more clarity on the works carried out by the ministry,” Modi said. Sources said there has been confusion for years on who is responsible for waterways, though the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) is the statutory authority for the notified national waterways, which include rivers, canals and creeks. “For example, there was some confusion whether the shipping ministry needed to get the go ahead from the water resources and Ganga rejuvenation ministry (currently known as Jal Shakti ministry) despite the river being notified as National Waterway-1. The renaming of the ministry will end all confusion,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shipping-ministrys-name-to-include-ports-and-waterways-modi/articleshow/79119924.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Court lifts price cap on high-res CT scan for non-Covid patients||MUMBAI: The price capping on high-resolution CT (HRCT) scan will not be applicable for non-Covid patients. Allowing radiology centres to charge more than the amount capped by the state, the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court said they can charge non-Covid patients Rs 4,000, higher than the price band of Rs 2,000-Rs 3,000 fixed by the state panel. However, the price cap will apply when the scan is done 'for diagnosis of Covid-19' or for a positive patient. The interim order as an "interim arrangement" passed on November 6 by a bench of Justices S V Gangapurwala and RG Avachat will be in force till December 4 when a petition filed by the Maharashtra State Branch of India Radiological and Imaging Association (MSBIRIA) is heard. The HC directed the association to ask its members to "notify at a conspicuous place" in the hospital the HRCT rates for Covid and non-Covid patients. The association had challenged the September notification capping rates of HRCT of the chest. The state had justified the blanket capping saying it was difficult to differentiate between Covid and non-Covid patients. The association said the "HRCT chest test is not a test for diagnosis of Covid-19". It cited literature from Journal of Clinical Imaging Science and the September 4 advisory of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to contend that rapid antigen test and RT-PCR are diagnostic tests for Covid. But the state said the same journal concluded that during the pandemic, patients coming to emergency centres with Covid-19 symptoms must also be screened with a chest CT. The association cited a recent judgement of the Nagpur bench of high court, which had stayed cost caps for non-Covid patients, to back its plea to set aside the notification. But the state said the capping would apply as the HRCT is "advised for detecting Covid virus infection itself". The HC said the Nagpur bench order holds the field today. If a patient comes to a hospital and requests an HRCT chest test for Covid-19 diagnosis, "then the petitioner (the association and its members) would be bound by the state notification (capping rates)," said the HC, saying it would decide the matter finally in December. Former IRIA president Dr Jignesh Thakker said they welcomed the interim order, but expressed hope that once the pandemic ended, they would be allowed to return to the pre-pandemic charges. State officials did not wish to comment on the judgement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-court-lifts-price-cap-on-high-res-ct-scan-for-non-covid-patients/articleshow/79119930.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 9, 2020||India||Branded ‘spy’ & jailed in Pak for 8 years, Indian finally returns||KANPUR: At 62, Kanpur native Shamshuddin had almost given up hope of ever seeing his family again after being convicted of being an “Indian spy” in Pakistan and jailed in Karachi. Eight years later, he is back home, but his homecoming will be complete only on Monday when he steps out of mandatory Covid-19 quarantine. Shamshuddin, a resident of Beri Kak Hata in Kanghi Mohal under Bajaria police station, had crossed the Attari-Wagah border on October 26 after Pakistan accepted his plea to be reunited with his family before his death. A Pakistan court had sentenced Shamshuddin to eight years in prison in 2012 for espionage and possession of a fake passport. An expert in making shoe uppers, he had left Kanpur for Delhi in search of employment in 1992, only to be misled by a Pakistan-based relative, who illegally took him along to that country by faking documents. In 2012, Shamshuddin was nabbed by an intelligence agency when he tried to get his passport renewed to travel back to India. The Pakistan authorities accused Shamshuddin of being an Indian spy who had entered the country for “anti-national” activities. Shamshuddin’s brother Faheemuddin said he spoke to his elder sibling a couple of days ago. “He (Shamshuddin) shared his bitter experience in Pakisan and said he was treated harshly in jail. He was put in a dark room, where he spent sleepless nights without sufficient food.” Sisamau circle officer Tripurari Pandey said Shamshuddin would be released from the quarantine centre in Punjab on Monday and was expected in his hometown on Tuesday or Wednesday. Shamshuddin’s 13-year-old daughter Azra, who was a toddler when she last saw her father, said she couldn't wait to meet her “Abbu”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/branded-spy-jailed-in-pak-for-8-years-indian-finally-returns/articleshow/79119936.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Arnab Goswami alleges assault, official says CCTV will bring out truth||MUMBAI: Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami, who was taken from a quarantine-centre-cum-jail in Alibaug to Taloja prison in a surprise move on Sunday morning, alleged that he had been assaulted during the shifting. As he was being escorted to Taloja prison around 9.30am, Goswami shouted out from inside the moving police van that he had been assaulted by the Alibaug jailer while being forced to go to Taloja. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sake“My life is in danger, please tell the courts to help me,” he said. “When I wanted to speak to my lawyer, I was assaulted in jail by the jailer.” Read AlsoSenior cops in trouble for 'botching up' Anvay Naik suicide caseFormer Raigad superintendent of police Anil Paraskar is in trouble for his alleged inept handling of the Anvay Naik suicide case.Alibaug prison superintendent Abasaheb Patil refuted the allegations of assault at the quarantine centre that was being run out of a municipal school to rule out Covid-19 among detainees. “CCTV camera surveillance at the quarantine centre will lay bare the lies of accused Goswami’s allegations of assault on him,” Patil said. Read AlsoArnab Goswami shifted to Tajola jail after he was found ‘active on social media’The Raigad police shifted Republic TV’s promoter, MD and chief editor Arnab Goswami to Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai from a makeshift quarantine centre-turned-jail in Alibaug on Sunday morning, a sudden move that they said was necessitated by their discovery that he was on social media from a mobileInspector Jamil Shaikh of the Raigad crime branch, who is the investigating officer in the case, said Goswami was shifted as he had been found using a mobile phone in judicial custody and had been active on social media. He said that as they feared Goswami would again get access to a mobile phone if lodged in Alibaug prison, they sought permission from higher authorities to shift him to Taloja. “As the investigating officer of the case, I wrote to the Alibaug jail superintendent seeking an inquiry report as to how the accused, Goswami, got access to a mobile for use in the quarantine centre under Alibaug jail authorities,” Shaikh said. “Subsequently, we submitted a letter to the Alibaug jail superintendent on Saturday and shifted the accused Goswami on Sunday morning.” A source at Alibaug jail said because of the Covid-19 pandemic, visitors were not allowed to meet the accused lodged at the quarantine centre and that was why detainees were provided a mobile phone to talk to their relatives. Under jail rules, an accused is permitted to talk to his lawyer or family member from a phone provided by jail administration. In the case of Goswami, it was found that he used a cell phone but was live on Facebook for two hours, said a senior IPS official. Whenever a mobile phone is provided to an accused in judicial custody, the name of the on-duty jail staff, the date and time are recorded in the daily register. “We are looking for the link, we have called for a report from jail administration,” the official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-arnab-goswami-alleges-assault-official-says-cctv-will-bring-out-truth/articleshow/79119937.cms||George Mendonca
November 9, 2020||Business||Benami 5 crore deposited in Bineesh’s accounts in 7 years: ED||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate has filed year-wise details of unexplained cash deposits of an average Rs 74 lakh a year in three bank accounts of CPM’s Kerala secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri, an accused in an illicit drug trafficking case being investigated by the agency. The Enforcement Directorate shared these details with a special anti-money laundering court in Bengaluru on Saturday while seeking extension of Bineesh’s remand. The agency has found cash deposits of more than Rs 5 crore in Bineesh’s three accounts in the last seven years as against his total declared income of Rs 1.2 crore. The cash deposits were in the range of Rs 55 lakh to more than Rs 1 crore a year in the last seven years since 2012-13 while Bineesh’s total income, declared through income tax returns, was around Rs 6-8 lakh a year, the highest being Rs 49 lakh in 2015-16. The Enforcement Directorate has sought information from other banks on accounts maintained by Kodiyeri junior and some of his close associates through whom he allegedly operated several shell companies and underground business enterprises. So far, the agency has received details of only three bank accounts maintained by Bineesh in his name. In its remand application, the Enforcement Directorate told the court, “On verification of bank accounts of Bineesh Kodiyeri, huge amounts of cash were seen deposited in his accounts especially IDBI Bank and HDFC. Kodiyeri has not given any satisfactory reply about the source of such huge cash deposits.” The agency told the court that its investigation found that Bineesh was engaged in trafficking of illicit narcotics and synthetic drugs and was the ringleader having a network of drug peddlers. The Left Front government in Kerala is under pressure from the opposition which are seeking the resignation of the top leadership of CPM in the state over allegations of narcotics trafficking and money laundering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/benami-5-crore-deposited-in-bineeshs-accounts-in-7-years-ed/articleshow/79119940.cms||Pradeep Thakur
November 9, 2020||Business||CBI books ex-CMD of PSU for ‘demanding’ 1-crore bribe||NEW DELHI: The CBI has booked Moyukh Bhaduri, former CMD of Hindustan Steelworks Construction Ltd, for allegedly demanding Rs 1 crore bribe in awarding a tender for the construction of Trade Facilitation Center and Crafts Museum (TFCCM) in Varanasi, officials said on Sunday. This is the second case against Bhaduri after the agency concluded its preliminary enquiry against him. HSCL, a PSU under the steel ministry, was appointed as project management service provider for the TFCCM project in 2015, officials said. It is alleged that Vikas Jalan, MD of Trans Metalite India Pvt Ltd, had demanded Rs 2.2 crore from Anant Saxena of Zillion Infra for facilitating the selection of HSCL to the project. HSCL published expression of interest regarding the project for which eight bidders came forward. It is alleged that Bhaduri entered a criminal conspiracy with Anant Saxena of Zillion Infra, who on the former’s behalf demanded Rs 1 crore from one of the bidders for giving contract for the construction of Trade Facilitation Center & Crafts Museum at Varanasi, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cbi-books-ex-cmd-of-psu-for-demanding-1-crore-bribe/articleshow/79119947.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||As they battle Covid, frontline warriors ask people to stay safe||Panaji: The call of duty has not been easy for Covid-19 warriors over the past few months. From getting infected and re-infected on duty, battling suffocation and dehydration in plastic PPE suits, having to put toilet visits on hold and staying away from their loved ones to ensure their families’ safety, the doctors, more than anyone, are waiting for the pandemic to end. “Being in a PPE suit is like wearing woollen clothes at 12 noon, on Colva beach, with a helmet and scarves. It is extremely hot and troublesome. Initially, it was a cotton blend material and was breathable. Now, it is a plastic bag,” a doctor said. Working in impermeable plastic suits for long durations, without a sip of water, is not only cumbersome but also adds to the mental exhaustion the doctors already experience while treating Covid patients. Non air-conditioned settings in Covid wards to avoid transmission of the virus have left many doctors bathing in their own sweat and fainting in the heat. “We feel dehydrated and dizzy. Many doctors and nurses initially fainted on duty. It takes time to get used to working in PPE. Some of us consume electrolyte before starting our shift,” another doctor said. Months ago, when fewer doctors were on Covid duty doing long shifts, and when the burden was on a few, PPE was also in short supply, making it even more challenging for those on duty. “Initially, the demand and supply didn’t match, and we were permitted only one PPE per shift. We wore it for 6 to 12 hours straight depending on our shift,” one doctors said. With PPE rationed out, they had no option but to put off visits to the loo in the middle of their shifts. “I’ve worn diapers on night shifts. When I had my periods, I used menstrual cups instead of sanitary napkins to save me trips to the toilet,” a doctor said. “We have to doff (take off the PPE) and dispose of it before using the toilet. This would mean wasting the PPE,” she said, adding that she got ideas on how to save her PPE by reading the experiences of doctors at AIIMS and other hospitals in India and the US. The sequential donning and doffing process of the PPE takes around 20 minutes and must be done with utmost care. The situation has improved considerably, with enough PPE kits available and more doctors put on Covid duty, but they continue to put their lives on the line. “The risk in a Covid ward and ICU set up is high as the viral load is very high, but I feel we also face a risk in general wards when we are not in full PPE and when we don’t expect to counter a Covid-positive patient. Now we know that we must treat every patient, even in a non-Covid space as a Covid suspect,” a doctor said. Is there anything else they require to ensure their safety? “We need more people to stay safe and keep the cases low. We can manage the rest. It’s really sad to see someone get infected. A severe form of the disease leads to a lot of complications. Some improve and some don’t. Older patients tend to succumb to a more serious form because of comorbidities, but we’ve seen young people struggling, too,” another doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-they-battle-covid-frontline-warriors-ask-people-to-stay-safe/articleshow/79118447.cms||Lisa Monteiro
November 9, 2020||Goa||Self-medicating without follow up dangerous: Docs||Panaji: The post-Covid care clinic at Hospicio Hospital in Margao has seen few patients who experienced fatigue and other symptoms because they were self-medicating without proper follow-up after discharge. “There is a lapse in terms of medication. Patients are continuing with their course for two to four weeks after discharge. Self-medication can be harmful, especially in patients with comorbidities,” clinic coordinator Dr Rita Vaz said. “When a course is prescribed at the time of discharge, the patients must return to a post-Covid care clinic for a follow-up after completing their course,” she said. Decisions on continuing or discontinuing medication have to be taken by the doctor, but there have been cases where patients, including senior citizens with comorbidities, have been self-medicating. A 75-year-old at the clinic had issues with wrong dosage of medication. “He came in with signs of fatigue and it was found that he was self-medicating. He was deciding on the dosage on his own and this was creating problems,” Vaz said. A team of doctors at the clinic examine the patients, take an X-ray if required while also checking their medical history in detail. “Even those with slight signs of discomfort, breathlessness, hypoglycemia and giddiness must get themselves checked,” she said. The first post-Covid care clinic in the state was opened at Hospicio hospital on October 22. Prior to it being set up, recovered patients in South Goa would visit the South Goa district hospital. The clinic sees around 20 post-Covid patients via prior appointment every Thursday between 2 and 4.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/self-medicating-without-follow-up-dangerous-docs/articleshow/79118464.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||Inquiry against cop for closing Anvay Naik case that named Arnab Goswami||MUMBAI: The state government has ordered an inquiry against the investigating officer who filed a closure report last year in the 2018 abetment to suicide case in which Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two other businessmen are the accused. Anvay Naik, an architect and interior designer, was found dead on May 5, 2018, along with his aged mother Kumud, at their farmhouse in Alibaug. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeA suicide note purportedly stated that they had ended their lives because payments due to them had not been cleared by Arnab Goswami of ARG Outlier, Feroz Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia, and Nitesh Sarda of Smartworks. The note said Rs 5.4 crore was due in all. Read AlsoSenior cops in trouble for 'botching up' Anvay Naik suicide caseFormer Raigad superintendent of police Anil Paraskar is in trouble for his alleged inept handling of the Anvay Naik suicide case.Naik was MD of Concord Design Pvt Ltd, an architectural and interior designing firm, and his mother was on the board of directors. Read AlsoArnab Goswami shifted to Tajola jail after he was found ‘active on social media’The Raigad police shifted Republic TV’s promoter, MD and chief editor Arnab Goswami to Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai from a makeshift quarantine centre-turned-jail in Alibaug on Sunday morning, a sudden move that they said was necessitated by their discovery that he was on social media from a mobileBased on the suicide note left behind by Naik, the police registered an FIR under Section of 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC against the three. The police from Alibaug in October 2019 filed a closure report, classifying it under 'A' summary. An 'A' summary is where the magistrate classifies the case as true but undetected. The police from Alibaug on Wednesday arrested Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda, who were later remanded in judicial custody. At the time, the police said they had found new evidence. Read AlsoMumbai: Arnab Goswami alleges assault, official says CCTV will bring out truthRepublic TV editor Arnab Goswami, who was taken from a quarantine-centre-cum-jail in Alibaug to Taloja prison in a surprise move on Sunday morning, alleged that he had been assaulted during the shifting.Police sources said Dy SP (Khalapur) Sanjay Shukla has now been asked to conduct the inquiry into the lapses on the part of the previous investigating officer, Suresh Warade. Shukla has two weeks to submit his report. Naik's daughter Adnya complained that Warade did not professionally investigate the case and hastily filed the closure report without the family's consent. The police will also look at why Warade came to the city on May 30, 2018, and recorded Goswami's statement inside the joint commissioner of police's cabin instead of calling him to Raigad. Adnya complained that the police had not investigated the non-payment of dues by Goswami's Republic TV, which had driven her father to suicide. She alleged that soon after she took up the matter she started getting threat calls. She alleged that although Warade was transferred from Alibaug to the traffic branch, he continued to investigate the matter. "The inquiry will cover why he did not hand over the investigations when he was transferred and at whose behest he continued to probe the matter even after he was transferred in June 2018," an official said. Warade refused to comment on the matter. "An inquiry is underway and I am not supposed to speak," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-orders-inquiry-against-cop-behind-closure-of-anvay-naik-case/articleshow/79119951.cms||Ahmed Ali
November 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Weekly average of fresh Covid cases in Karnataka falls to mid-July level||BENGALURU: With a consistent dip in number of new cases reported daily over the past few days, the weekly average of fresh infections in Karnataka has reached mid-July levels when the pandemic was beginning to spike. Experts warn against complacency and predict a second wave of infections in the next 60-90 days. The daily average of new cases was under 3,000 for the first time for several weeks in November. The first week registered 20,735 new cases, comparable to 26,992 cases in the week between July 15 and 22. From the fourth week of July, the state has seen more than 40,000 cases each week, with some reporting more than 65,000 cases. As of November 7, nearly 95% of the 8.4 lakh Covid patients had recovered in Karnataka and the case fatality rate is 1.3%, better than the national average. Among the top five states in caseload, the CFR is bettered only by that of Andhra (less than 1%). More testing must be done in rural areas’Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson, state Covid-19 expert committee, said: “Cases have been steadily coming down in the past three weeks. While this is a good trend, the focus on prevention must continue. Going by what has happened in Europe and Maharashtra, a second wave of infections is expected in 60 to 90 days of dip of the first wave.” Another expert, on condition of anonymity, pointed to the findings of the recently released serosurvey and said several districts in the state have low prevalence and these could see a spike. The expert singled out districts like Gadag, Dharwad and Chikkaballapur. Both health department officials and experts, while pushing for higher testing, said it’s too early to believe the worst is over. The strategy must be to prevent fresh infections, and in line with this, last week, the expert committee recommended that the state not conduct GP elections. “We must continue with the same level of testing at least till December,” Manjunath said, while some experts said the government must focus on non-urban areas. A majority of testing is in Bengaluru, followed by Mysuru, Mangaluru and Hubballi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/weekly-average-of-fresh-covid-cases-in-karnataka-falls-to-mid-july-level/articleshow/79119945.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||Daily infections below 300 for 18th consecutive day||Panaji: With 149 new Covid infections reported over the past 24 hours on Sunday, daily Covid cases have stayed below the 300 mark for the 18th consecutive day. After reporting an average of 150 cases daily in July, 370 in August, 530 in September and 330 in October, the average daily count over the past eight days has dropped to 180. Positivity rate on Sunday also dropped to 8%. Two persons, both under 65, died over the past 24 hours. A 62-year-old lady from Marcel developed bilateral Covid pneumonia and died of atrial fibrillation. She had diabetes, hypertension, Ischemic heart disease and history of a stroke and passed away four days after she was admitted. The other patient, a male aged 51 from Sindhudurg with chronic kidney disease died of Covid pneumonia. He died after two days of admission. The recovery rate in the state stands at 94.18%. A total of 207 people recovered over the past 24 hours. Forty two patients were hospitalised over the past 24 hours and 103 opted for home isolation. There are presently 1,976 active cases in the state. Margao health centre continues to have the highest number of active positive cases at 160. This is followed by Ponda at 133, Panaji at 125, Vasco at 107 and Chimbel at 101 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/daily-infections-below-300-for-18th-consecutive-day/articleshow/79118507.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Robbery accused attacks cops, shot at||BENGALURU: Banaswadi police opened fire on a robbery suspect who attacked a subinspector on Sunday when a police party took him near a water tank in HRBR Layout to recover a dagger used in committing crime. The injured suspect is Arbaz Khan alias Kancha, 22, of Pillanna Garden. Khan and his associate Santosh had threatened the public by wielding a dagger and later robbed bakery owner Sharath on Kacharakanahalli Main Road on October 22. Sharath paid the duo Rs 4,500 from his bakery’s cash box. Bansawadi police identified the accused with the help of CCTV footage. The duo had committed many robberies in Banaswadi, Amruthahalli, KG Halli and Pulakeshinagar police station limits. “Banaswadi police learnt Khan was at Atturu Kuppam, Tamil Nadu. A team headed by sub-inspector Shahajahan rushed there and arrested him. They brought Khan to Bengaluru on Saturday. Khan confessed to his crime and informed cops he would show them the dagger, which he used along with Santosh to rob Sharath,” a police officer said. SD Sharanappa, deputy commissioner of police (east), said cops took him to HRBR Layout, Khan attacked Shahajahan with the dagger and injured him in the thigh. "Sensing danger, inspector H Jayaraj opened two rounds in the air. But Khan continued to attack policemen and Jayaraj shot at Khan’s left leg,” Sharanappa said. Shahajahan and Khan have been admitted to hospital and are out of danger, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-robbery-accused-attacks-cops-shot-at/articleshow/79119953.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi cases spike to 7,700, highest in India||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 7,745 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours on Sunday, the highest single-day spike till date and the second time in three days that the number breached the 7,000 mark, reports Sidhartha Roy. The capital had recorded 7,178 cases on Friday. Sunday’s tally was the highest in the country for the second time in three days. Delhi also reported 77 deaths. On average, there have been 60 deaths/day in November. Third and worst wave of Covid, says Jain‘Situation Will Improve Soon, Spike Due To Aggressive Testing’Sunday’s record number of cases came from 50,754 tests, with the overall positivity rate jumping to 15.2%. Of the total tests, 15,982 (31.4%) were done using RT-PCR method while the rest (68.5%) were Rapid Antigen Tests. The total number of positive cases in Delhi now stands at 4.38 lakh and the total number of those who have recovered is 3.89 lakh. The death rate based on the last 10 days’ data is 0.9%, according to the bulletin. The number of active Covid-19 cases is 41,857. The total number of Containment Zones is 3,878 at the moment. The month of November has seen a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, with the 6,000 mark breached on November 3 with 6,725 new cases and 7,000 mark crossed on Friday. The eight days of this month have already recorded 51,823 Covid-19 cases, 6,477 cases a day on average and total 478 deaths. Meanwhile, health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday told PTI that the capital was currently passing through the third and worst wave of Covid-19 so far but also said that the cases would soon come down. Jain ascribed the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases to aggressive testing and contact-tracing. The effect of the spike can also be seen on the occupancy of hospital beds in Delhi. Out of the total 16,027 hospital beds, 8,072 (50.3%) are occupied. According to data shared by city hospitals on the Delhi Corona App, 80.9% of the 1,261 ICU beds with ventilators are occupied and out of the 2,044 ICU beds without ventilators, 1,641 or 80.2% are occupied. Out of the total 8,107 beds in dedicated Covid Care Centres, 1,002 are occupied and out of the 527 beds in dedicated Covid Health Centres, 315 are occupied at the moment. The number of patients recuperating in home isolation is 24,723. An expert committee headed by Dr V K Paul had said that due to the festive and winter season, Delhi was likely to witness 12,000-14,000 cases of Covid-19 a day. Watch Covid-19: Delhi records 7,700 fresh cases, highest in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-delhi-cases-spike-to-7700-highest-in-india/articleshow/79119954.cms||---
November 9, 2020||India||Eye on China, India works to enhance Philippines ties||NEW DELHI: Even as the Philippines lifted its ban on oil exploration in the South China Sea, opening the way for deals with China, India has offered to give coastal surveillance radar systems to Philippines to improve maritime domain awareness (MDA). At a virtual meeting between foreign ministers of India and Philippines on Friday, foreign ministers S Jaishankar and Teodoro Locsin Jr revived a joint commission that last met over five years ago. An MEA readout said the two sides “agreed to further strengthen defence engagement and maritime cooperation between the two countries, especially in military training and education, capacity building, regular goodwill visits, and procurement of defence equipment. They agreed to enhance cooperation in the area of counterterrorism with information exchange between concerned agencies and support in terms of specialised training needs.” Complete coverage: India-China border stand-offIn October, Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte’s government lifted the ban on exploration in the South China Sea, which could pave the way for “joint” oil exploration projects, particularly with Chinese energy companies like China National Offshore Oil Corporation. Read Also4th India-Philippines Joint Commission on Bilateral Cooperation focused on shared interest in visa liberation: JaishankarIndia, Philippines discussed the shared interest in visa liberation during the fourth Joint Commission on Bilateral Cooperation, said S Jaishankar, External Affairs Minister, on Thursday."Co-chaired the 4th India-Philippines Joint Commission on Bilateral Cooperation with Secretary @teddyboylocsin.The six-year ban on oil exploration was lifted just before talks between Philippines and Chinese entities and observers in the region expect to see joint exploration projects being inked between China and Philippines. The Philippines expects this to be acceptable to Beijing, as well as re-affirming Manila’s sovereignty over these seas. China considers these to be disputed waters, and its debatable whether they would accept Philippines’ premise. Locsin, the Filipino foreign minister, waxed eloquent about how they could benefit from India’s experience in online and distance learning in a set of tweets after the meeting. The MEA statement said Jaishankar “invited Filipino students, scholars and academicians to avail the ITEC and e-ITEC initiatives, and make use of integrated PhD fellowships offered to Asean students at IITs.” India also invited Philippines to join the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure. Watch Eye on China, India works to enhance Philippines ties||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/eye-on-china-india-works-to-enhance-philippines-ties/articleshow/79119960.cms||Indrani Bagchi
November 9, 2020||World||Eye on China, India works to enhance Philippines ties||NEW DELHI: Even as the Philippines lifted its ban on oil exploration in the South China Sea, opening the way for deals with China, India has offered to give coastal surveillance radar systems to Philippines to improve maritime domain awareness (MDA). At a virtual meeting between foreign ministers of India and Philippines on Friday, foreign ministers S Jaishankar and Teodoro Locsin Jr revived a joint commission that last met over five years ago. An MEA readout said the two sides “agreed to further strengthen defence engagement and maritime cooperation between the two countries, especially in military training and education, capacity building, regular goodwill visits, and procurement of defence equipment. They agreed to enhance cooperation in the area of counterterrorism with information exchange between concerned agencies and support in terms of specialised training needs.” Complete coverage: India-China border stand-offIn October, Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte’s government lifted the ban on exploration in the South China Sea, which could pave the way for “joint” oil exploration projects, particularly with Chinese energy companies like China National Offshore Oil Corporation. Read Also4th India-Philippines Joint Commission on Bilateral Cooperation focused on shared interest in visa liberation: JaishankarIndia, Philippines discussed the shared interest in visa liberation during the fourth Joint Commission on Bilateral Cooperation, said S Jaishankar, External Affairs Minister, on Thursday."Co-chaired the 4th India-Philippines Joint Commission on Bilateral Cooperation with Secretary @teddyboylocsin.The six-year ban on oil exploration was lifted just before talks between Philippines and Chinese entities and observers in the region expect to see joint exploration projects being inked between China and Philippines. The Philippines expects this to be acceptable to Beijing, as well as re-affirming Manila’s sovereignty over these seas. China considers these to be disputed waters, and its debatable whether they would accept Philippines’ premise. Locsin, the Filipino foreign minister, waxed eloquent about how they could benefit from India’s experience in online and distance learning in a set of tweets after the meeting. The MEA statement said Jaishankar “invited Filipino students, scholars and academicians to avail the ITEC and e-ITEC initiatives, and make use of integrated PhD fellowships offered to Asean students at IITs.” India also invited Philippines to join the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure. Watch Eye on China, India works to enhance Philippines ties||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/eye-on-china-india-works-to-enhance-philippines-ties/articleshow/79119979.cms||Indrani Bagchi
November 9, 2020||Goa||Navy to challenge disability benefits to ex-serviceman||Panaji: Contrary to directions issued in 2017 asking the Armed Forces not to challenge orders granting disability pension to soldiers, the ministry of defence (MoD) has decided to file a review petition before the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT), which had ordered the Indian Navy to release the disability pension to former naval surgeon lieutenant Anan Jaiswal. MoD’s directorate of pay and allowance has written to Dr Jaiswal, who works at a pathology lab in Goa, informing him that AFT’s order to grant disability benefits cannot be implemented. “The AFT Mumbai order dated December 16, 2019, has been examined by IHQ MoD (Navy) in consultation with NAVPEN. It is hereby intimated that NAVPEN is in the process of filing a review application before AFT Mumbai,” said Commander Mohit Kabra, who is with the directorate of pay and allowances. The Armed Forces Tribunal at Mumbai headed by Justice Mohammed Tahir and Vice Admiral P Murugesan ordered the Indian Navy to release the disability pension within four months along with arrears for three years prior to February 2018 onwards. However, Jaiswal has yet to see any benefits, which prompted him to file a Right to Information application and approach the PMO. “The outcome of the case will be intimated in due course,” said commander Kabra. In 2017, MoD told the three services to grant ‘absolute sanction’ for disability pension in cases of personnel have been granted relief of disability pension by courts and tribunals. Despite directions by the Supreme Court and various benches of the Armed Forces Tribunal, MoD and the three services often denied soldiers disability pension on technical grounds. Speaking to TOI, Jaiswal said that his last recourse will be to approach the Supreme Court for relief. Jaiswal was serving at INHS Jeevanti, Vasco, when he contracted chicken pox from a patient he was treating. After he was posted to Lucknow in 2010 for a course he was subsequently diagnosed with motor neurone disease. Jaiswal, who joined as a short service commissioned officer, said that the Navy is challenging disability benefits to seven other former naval personnel. The navy initially delayed the disbursal of the disability benefits on the grounds that MoD did not receive a copy of the AFT’s order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navy-to-challenge-disability-benefits-to-ex-serviceman/articleshow/79118664.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Impounded bike stolen from police station||AHMEDABAD: A bike impounded in May 2019, was discovered missing from Odhav police station compound when the bike’s owner turned up in June 2020 to reclaim his vehicle. A complaint of vehicle theft was registered at the Odhav police station on Saturday after the discovery, and failure to find the bike. According to case details, the bike belongs to Mohammed Juned Kazi of Balasinor in Mahisagar. On May 15, 2019, the bike was detained by PSI S J Chauhan from Odhav Ring Road Circle as it had no registration number plate and the rider was without a helmet. After the incident, Kazi had gone to Doha in Qatar for some work and couldn’t appear to reclaim his bike. “After his return from Doha, Kazi paid the fine of Rs 6,300 at the RTO in Lunawada on June 6, 2020, and came to claim his bike with the fine receipt on the next day. However, Odhav police couldn’t find the bike in the compound of the police station. They also couldn’t find any documents regarding the bike having been handed over,” said a police official. Kazi was told his bike will be found, but after failing to do so police registered an FIR that between May 2019 and November 7, 2020, someone stole the bike from the compound of Odhav police station by breaking its lock or using a duplicate key. “We are still looking for the bike,” said an official of Odhav police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/impounded-bike-stolen-from-police-station/articleshow/79117592.cms||---
November 9, 2020||India||Won’t allow passenger trains: Punjab farmers||CHANDIGARH/PATIALA: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Sunday said he has sought intervention of Union home minister Amit Shah to ensure restoration of train services, even as agitating farmers stuck to their stand of allowing only goods trains and not passenger ones in the state. The Railways maintains that protesting farmers cannot dictate terms and that no goods train will operate in Punjab unless passenger trains are allowed. Amarinder had spoken to Shah on Saturday to discuss the situation and assured him that there were no law and order concerns to prevent resumption of services for “facilitating supply of essential commodities” in Punjab and neighbouring Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and J&K. He added that all these states and Union territories were suffering huge losses due to the suspension of train services. Amarinder highlighted that security concerns could be serious for the nation if essential supplies did not reach the armed forces in Ladakh and J&K before snowfall due to the Railways’ decision not to ply goods trains immediately. He informed Shah that all tracks had been cleared by the farmers for the “movement of freight trains” and the ground situation was now totally peaceful and conducive for safe transportation of goods. The CM also pointed out that farmers had not disturbed peace in any part of Punjab over the past few weeks of their protests against the three new agri laws enacted by the Centre. Amarinder also told Shah that he had directed the state police to extend all support to the Railway Protection Force. Meanwhile, farmer leaders said the cat was out of the bag after the Centre refused to start goods trains despite the protesters clearing railway tracks. They alleged that the central government was not only anti-farmer, but also anti-Punjab as it wanted to hit the economy of the state by not allowing goods trains to operate. The general secretary of BKU Ekta Dakaunda Punjab, one of the 32 protesting farmers’ groups, Jagmohan Singh Patiala said, “This is our agitation against the central government and the Centre cannot put any conditions.” A spokesperson for BKU Ekta Ugraha, another farmers’ organisation, said they had staged protests at 43 separate sites in Punjab, including railway tracks and at the residences of BJP functionaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wont-allow-passenger-trains-punjab-farmers/articleshow/79119977.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||‘Despite pandemic, shutting down wet markets not ideal’||Panaji: Even as the world has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, founder of Wildlife Trust of India, Vivek Menon said that shutting down wet markets in China or across the world was not ideal. “There is a lot of misinformation on the trade of wet markets of China. It’s not true that a lot of illegal products are sold there. A lot of traders supply legitimate goods to communities,” he said. Menon said that one cannot buy fish in Goa without entering a wet market. “A market where live chicken is sold is also a wet market. So, wet markets cannot be shut down, unless the whole world is turning vegetarian,” he said. He, however, said that there is a need to curb the illegal trade of wildlife “The major issue in Covid is the transport of exotic animals from different parts to different places and selling them there. If they’re taking pangolins from India and selling or eating them there, then that’s an issue. It’s also happening in South East Asia and Vietnam. If it’s illegal, it must be clamped down. If it’s happening legally, then we must campaign and make people understand that they need to rethink their law,” Menon said, adding that bats do not spread Covid. Menon was speaking on ‘tackling wildlife crime — a conservation imperative’ at a webinar on Sunday. I t was organised by Global Shapers, an environmental organisation. In his talk, he said that besides confiscating them from forests, even captive breeding of animals recognised under the Indian Wildlife Act as a crime. “Birds within the schedules of the Wildlife Act are not allowed to be captively bred, sold or kept. If you’re importing an exotic bird that does not fall under the schedule, there must be a local forest department certificate and appropriate paperwork to keep it,” Menon said. He added that village institutions and communities can help in stopping of poaching of elephants, tigers and other wildlife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-pandemic-shutting-down-wet-mkts-not-ideal/articleshow/79118694.cms||Nida Sayed
November 9, 2020||India||No consent to move contempt against CM: AG refuses to reconsider decision||NEW DELHI: Attorney general KK Venugopal has refused to reconsider his November 2 decision declining consent to BJP member and lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay to initiate contempt proceedings against the Andhra Pradesh CM and his principal advisor for making allegations against judges. The topmost law officer, in his reply to Upadhyay’s letter seeking reconsideration of the decision, reiterated his stand saying that the issue of contempt was between CJI SA Bobde and CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy and his principal advisor Ajeya Kallam. Venugopal on Saturday also said the lawyer was not precluded from raising this issue on his own before SC judges or during the hearing of a PIL filed by him only seeking the lifetime ban on convicted lawmakers. Upadhyay, on November 5, had urged Venugopal to have a relook on the decision and said, “I request you to peruse these points (particularly the fact that the question of contempt is not pending anywhere else) and kindly reconsider the granting of consent to my request.” “This is an issue of great importance at a time when our judiciary continues to be besieged by attacks, and a strong stand needs to be taken by those of us who are a part of the institution,” he said. In the November 7 reply, Venugopal said, “The very crux of the alleged contempt lies in the contents of the letter written by YS Jaganmohan Reddy to CJI, and thus open to the the SC to take up the matter of contempt suo motu as provided by Contempt of Courts Act, and rules made thereunder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-consent-to-move-contempt-against-cm-ag-refuses-to-reconsider-decision/articleshow/79119983.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vadodara startup TecSo ChargeZone raises Rs 22 crore||AHMEDABAD: Electric vehicles (EVs) charging services provider TecSo ChargeZone Private Limited has raised over Rs 22 crore ($3 million) from investors such as Venture Catalysts, Mumbai Angels, Keiretsu Forum and Ramakrishnan Family Office. TecSo’s EV charging startup Charge+Zone is incubated at both International Centre for Entrepreneurship and Technology (iCreate) and the incubator of Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII) called Cradle. “The Vadodara-headquartered Charge+Zone had raised an undisclosed sum in funding from Mumbai Angels in May this year,” EDII said in a media note on Sunday. In November 2019, iCreate invested Rs 50 lakh as optionally convertible preference shares in TecSo ChargeZone, which was founded by Kartikey Hariyani and Pavan Bakeri in 2018. The startup aims to expand the Indian electro-mobility market by enhancing the availability and accessibility of a network of charging points for electric vehicles (EVs). It is also one of the companies that manage EV charging stations for Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. “This is the second startup from EDII’s Cradle to raise funds from Venture Catalysts. Previously, Inner Sense-Green Ideology, an organic and health focused lingerie brand, had received funding of Rs. 2.5 crore from them. Inner Sense has also received debt funding of Rs 50 lakh from Yes Bank through EDII in its early stage,” EDII further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vadodara-startup-tecso-chargezone-raises-rs-22-crore/articleshow/79117620.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Palolem citizens demand better tourism infra||POINGUINIM: Residents of Palolem and Ourem in Canacona have written to the deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes demanding that the service road to Palolem, among other infrastructure and facilities, be upgraded or put in place in light of the upcoming tourism season. The Palolem Coastal Citizens group handed the memorandum to chief minister Pramod Sawant during his recent visit to Canacona. The memorandum stated that several tourists have already started visiting the beach and complained about the bad state of the service road at Palolem. The road is not only riddled with potholes, but is also narrow, the Palolem Coastal Citizens stated, adding that they have already been badly hit by the pandemic and cannot afford to lose business. Former councillor Dayanand Pagi said that the service road to Palolem is the property of PWD. “I have spoken to the junior engineer and urged him to send the proposal to the concerned authorities. He has promised to prepare an estimate and forward it,” Pagi said. The tourism stakeholders also pointed out that the Palolem beach area lacks a proper parking space and demanded that the government provide them a parking lot that can accommodate at least 300 vehicles. “Due to the insufficient parking area, many tourists come here and turn back,” the memorandum stated. The Canacona MLA said he will pursue matters after going through the memorandum. Among the other problems highlighted in the memorandum was the need to replace the old electricity lines, which snap every now and then causing power outages, and the problems faced by the fishing community. The memorandum demanded for a parking ramp for canoes, a shed where fish nets can be mended, a mini ice factory to facilitate storage of catch, and a fish market complex. Presently, in the absence of a market complex, vendors carry out business at the cross junction at Palolem and Agonda, the memorandum stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/palolem-citizens-demand-better-tourism-infra/articleshow/79118712.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||DGP hears grievances of Sanguem locals||Margao: DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena visited Sanguem on Saturday as part of community outreach programme. During his visit, he held separate meetings with members of the transport association, market association and the senior citizens. He listened to their grievances and suggestions and assured them the best of police assistance in every way possible way, police sources said. Meena also visited the IRBn camp Sanguem and police outpost Vichundrem. He held ‘sampark sabha’ with police personnel and listened to their grievances. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dgp-hears-grievances-of-sanguem-locals/articleshow/79118716.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||Study Delhi power model: AAP to state on tariff hike||Panaji: Condemning the proposed hike in power tariff, AAP said that it will arrange a trip for the chief minister and power minister to study the Delhi model to help them to implement the same in Goa. AAP’s Surel Tilve pointed out that in Delhi people get free electricity supply if they consume up to 200 units of electricity per month. “This has resulted in tremendous power saving as people reduce the use of electricity so that consumption remain within 200 units and they get free power,” he said. The resultant saved power is diverted for industrial use which boosts the economy said Surel who said that despite giving free electricity and water to people, the budget is surplus while the Goa budget is inevitably a deficit budget. In Delhi those consuming between 200 units to 400 units get 50% subsidy on the bill and hence pay only half the actual amount, he said adding that this has resulted in major reduction in consumption. In contrast Goa has recently increased its fuel and power purchase cost per unit, which will increase the bill amount. Surel, however, asserted that the will to succeed and do something different has to be strong in the government and pointed out that Delhi very sternly and strongly plugged all the leakages including a total clamp down on corruption which helped the electricity department there start making profits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/study-delhi-power-model-aap-to-state-on-tariff-hike/articleshow/79118741.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Goa||Ex-SBI chairman Kakodkar passes away at 83||PANAJI: Goa lost an illustrious son with former chairman of State Bank of India (SBI) Pandurang G Kakodkar passing away on Sunday after a massive heart attack. Family sources said that 83-year-old former banker, who also served as the chairman of Goa Public Service Commission, passed away at his Mumbai residence and was cremated the same day. Kakodkar, who played a key role in the transformation of the SBI, was instrumental in the bank achieving several milestones, particularly SBI’s entry into the global capital markets. Post retirement, Kakodkar played several roles in Goa before moving to Mumbai to live with his family members. Ailing for some time, Kakodkar had returned to Goa. His brother Divakar and wife Ranjana Kakodkar passed away years ago. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat expressed his sorrow on hearing about Kakodkar’s death. “Deeply pained by the passing away of eminent Goan, former chairman of State Bank of India and Goa Public Service Commission. My condolences to his family,” said Kamat. Kakodkar also served on the managing committee of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industries (GCCI) and served as chairman of Goa Public Service Commission from 1997 to 1999. GCCI president Manoj Caculo said GCCI mourns Kakodkar’s demise. “In his death, Goa has lost an illustrious son. He retired as the chairman of SBI, the largest public sector bank in the country, a rare distinction of which all Goans should be proud of,” Caculo said. Caculo said that Kakodkar used to share his banking experience with Goans by heading GCCI’s banking and finance committee for two terms. “We will always cherish his memory,” Caculo said. Aam Aadmi Party convenor Rahul Mhambre also expressed his condolences. “A true Goan who loved Goa and Goans. Heartfelt condolences to his friends and family members,” said Mhambre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-sbi-chairman-kakodkar-passes-away-at-83/articleshow/79118749.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Ex-IAS officer Sasikanth Senthil to join Tamil Nadu Congress today||MANGALURU: Two months after former IPS officer K Annamalai shed khaki and joined the BJP, former IAS officer S Sasikanth Senthil has decided to join the Congress on Monday to spice up the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly electoral battle. The former bureaucrat will join the Congress in Chennai on Monday in presence of AICC secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao and party state president KS Alagiri. Senthil, who quit the services last year after a 10-year stint as Karnatakacadre officer, said he thought of ‘working outside the system’ during fierce anti-CAA protests and NRC discussions in Dakshina Kannada district last year. Senthil: Focus is to strengthen CongWe can’t afford (these) vested interests to fill India with hate and hand it over to our children. In that journey, I have decided to be part of the Congress movement to realise this goal,” he said. Senthil said in a tweet: “I’ve been an activist trying to be a voice for the less privileged all through my life wherever I was and will continue the same until my last breath.” He said he chose Congress since its ideologies are consistent with what forms the bedrock of the Constitution. Stating the Congress leadership recognises “India has to be for all”, he said his focus is to strengthen the party. In August, Annamalai joined BJP as vice-president of Tamil Nadu unit and is preparing for electoral plunge in the next year’s assembly elections. Senthil, sources said, will be drafted for organisatioal work with an eye on the next parliamentary elections. He said home state Tamil Nadu was the final frontier for divisive forces and he had a responsibility to maintain “this Sparta as a symbol of no conquest within the country”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ex-ias-officer-senthil-to-join-tamil-nadu-congress-today/articleshow/79119950.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||NGT: HC directives on coastal regulation zone violation not open for review||PANAJI: Even if Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) had ordered demolition of illegal structures in coastal regulation zone (CRZ) area ‘without application of mind’, high court directives on such constructions have to be enforced and cannot be considered for review by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the tribunal said in an order. “We are unable to accept the submission. The matter was earlier duly considered and rehearing cannot be allowed in review. The construction has been found to be in violation of CRZ notification. Accordingly, the review application is dismissed,” the NGT told Shrem Resorts. The resort owners had appealed before the NGT seeking review of GCZMA’s demolition order issued in December 2019. The NGT held that GCZMA had passed the order after earlier issuing a show cause notice on October 20, 2018 and giving an opportunity of being heard to the appellant. The tribunal also referred to the proceedings before the high court in the matter and the undertaking given by the resort owners in the high court. “It is argued that the order issued by the respondent no. 1 (GCZMA) is without jurisdiction and without application of the mind and thus is not to be complied with. It is to be noted that even if the order as stated by the appellant is without application of the mind, but it was contested for more than two times before the high court and it was passed by a competent authority having jurisdiction to decide it, the appellant is bound to follow the orders especially the directions issued by the high court,” the NGT stated, quoting the high court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngt-hc-directives-on-crz-violation-not-open-for-review/articleshow/79118765.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Faridabad||Delhi-NCR's AQI stays ‘severe’||NEW DELHI: For the fourth consecutive day, the air quality in Delhi was in the “severe” category on Sunday with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 416, Central Pollution Control Bureau (CPCB) data showed. The air quality is likely to remain in the “severe” to “very poor” category on Monday. Track the pollution level in your cityAir quality improved marginally on Sunday morning when it entered the higher end of “very poor” category with an AQI of 394, but it touched “severe” in the afternoon with the average wind speed being 3kmph. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) showed the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 at 29% Sunday with 3,780 fire counts being observed a day earlier. Experts said stubble contribution and local pollutants were being accumulated, but there was very slow dispersion due to low wind speed. SAFAR said due to calm surface wind, air quality would improve when there would be a drastic reduction in fire counts. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed on Sunday was 3kmph and it dropped to nil a few times during the day. The wind direction was northwesterly, allowing pollutants from Punjab and Haryana to accumulate in Delhi.” The minimum temperature on Sunday was 11.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal, while the maximum temperature stood at 29.6 degrees Celsius. CPCB data showed Delhi-NCR’s average 24-hour PM10 concentration at 515 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) at 7pm on Sunday, while PM2.5 was 306.1 µg/m3. The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, a body under Union ministry of earth sciences, mentioned that significant improvement in air quality was not likely owing to slow wind speed, in particular during night time, and farm fires. Watch Delhi-NCR air stays ‘severe’ with AQI of 416 on Sunday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/delhi-ncr-air-stays-severe/articleshow/79120002.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR's AQI stays ‘severe’||NEW DELHI: For the fourth consecutive day, the air quality in Delhi was in the “severe” category on Sunday with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 416, Central Pollution Control Bureau (CPCB) data showed. The air quality is likely to remain in the “severe” to “very poor” category on Monday. Track the pollution level in your cityAir quality improved marginally on Sunday morning when it entered the higher end of “very poor” category with an AQI of 394, but it touched “severe” in the afternoon with the average wind speed being 3kmph. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) showed the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 at 29% Sunday with 3,780 fire counts being observed a day earlier. Experts said stubble contribution and local pollutants were being accumulated, but there was very slow dispersion due to low wind speed. SAFAR said due to calm surface wind, air quality would improve when there would be a drastic reduction in fire counts. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed on Sunday was 3kmph and it dropped to nil a few times during the day. The wind direction was northwesterly, allowing pollutants from Punjab and Haryana to accumulate in Delhi.” The minimum temperature on Sunday was 11.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal, while the maximum temperature stood at 29.6 degrees Celsius. CPCB data showed Delhi-NCR’s average 24-hour PM10 concentration at 515 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) at 7pm on Sunday, while PM2.5 was 306.1 µg/m3. The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, a body under Union ministry of earth sciences, mentioned that significant improvement in air quality was not likely owing to slow wind speed, in particular during night time, and farm fires. Watch Delhi-NCR air stays ‘severe’ with AQI of 416 on Sunday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-ncr-air-stays-severe/articleshow/79119990.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Noida||Delhi-NCR's AQI stays ‘severe’||NEW DELHI: For the fourth consecutive day, the air quality in Delhi was in the “severe” category on Sunday with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 416, Central Pollution Control Bureau (CPCB) data showed. The air quality is likely to remain in the “severe” to “very poor” category on Monday. Track the pollution level in your cityAir quality improved marginally on Sunday morning when it entered the higher end of “very poor” category with an AQI of 394, but it touched “severe” in the afternoon with the average wind speed being 3kmph. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) showed the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 at 29% Sunday with 3,780 fire counts being observed a day earlier. Experts said stubble contribution and local pollutants were being accumulated, but there was very slow dispersion due to low wind speed. SAFAR said due to calm surface wind, air quality would improve when there would be a drastic reduction in fire counts. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed on Sunday was 3kmph and it dropped to nil a few times during the day. The wind direction was northwesterly, allowing pollutants from Punjab and Haryana to accumulate in Delhi.” The minimum temperature on Sunday was 11.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal, while the maximum temperature stood at 29.6 degrees Celsius. CPCB data showed Delhi-NCR’s average 24-hour PM10 concentration at 515 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) at 7pm on Sunday, while PM2.5 was 306.1 µg/m3. The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, a body under Union ministry of earth sciences, mentioned that significant improvement in air quality was not likely owing to slow wind speed, in particular during night time, and farm fires. Watch Delhi-NCR air stays ‘severe’ with AQI of 416 on Sunday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/delhi-ncr-air-stays-severe/articleshow/79120000.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Gurgaon||Delhi-NCR's AQI stays ‘severe’||NEW DELHI: For the fourth consecutive day, the air quality in Delhi was in the “severe” category on Sunday with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 416, Central Pollution Control Bureau (CPCB) data showed. The air quality is likely to remain in the “severe” to “very poor” category on Monday. Track the pollution level in your cityAir quality improved marginally on Sunday morning when it entered the higher end of “very poor” category with an AQI of 394, but it touched “severe” in the afternoon with the average wind speed being 3kmph. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) showed the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 at 29% Sunday with 3,780 fire counts being observed a day earlier. Experts said stubble contribution and local pollutants were being accumulated, but there was very slow dispersion due to low wind speed. SAFAR said due to calm surface wind, air quality would improve when there would be a drastic reduction in fire counts. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed on Sunday was 3kmph and it dropped to nil a few times during the day. The wind direction was northwesterly, allowing pollutants from Punjab and Haryana to accumulate in Delhi.” The minimum temperature on Sunday was 11.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal, while the maximum temperature stood at 29.6 degrees Celsius. CPCB data showed Delhi-NCR’s average 24-hour PM10 concentration at 515 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) at 7pm on Sunday, while PM2.5 was 306.1 µg/m3. The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, a body under Union ministry of earth sciences, mentioned that significant improvement in air quality was not likely owing to slow wind speed, in particular during night time, and farm fires. Watch Delhi-NCR air stays ‘severe’ with AQI of 416 on Sunday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/delhi-ncr-air-stays-severe/articleshow/79119999.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ghaziabad||Delhi-NCR's AQI stays ‘severe’||NEW DELHI: For the fourth consecutive day, the air quality in Delhi was in the “severe” category on Sunday with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 416, Central Pollution Control Bureau (CPCB) data showed. The air quality is likely to remain in the “severe” to “very poor” category on Monday. Track the pollution level in your cityAir quality improved marginally on Sunday morning when it entered the higher end of “very poor” category with an AQI of 394, but it touched “severe” in the afternoon with the average wind speed being 3kmph. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) showed the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 at 29% Sunday with 3,780 fire counts being observed a day earlier. Experts said stubble contribution and local pollutants were being accumulated, but there was very slow dispersion due to low wind speed. SAFAR said due to calm surface wind, air quality would improve when there would be a drastic reduction in fire counts. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed on Sunday was 3kmph and it dropped to nil a few times during the day. The wind direction was northwesterly, allowing pollutants from Punjab and Haryana to accumulate in Delhi.” The minimum temperature on Sunday was 11.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal, while the maximum temperature stood at 29.6 degrees Celsius. CPCB data showed Delhi-NCR’s average 24-hour PM10 concentration at 515 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) at 7pm on Sunday, while PM2.5 was 306.1 µg/m3. The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, a body under Union ministry of earth sciences, mentioned that significant improvement in air quality was not likely owing to slow wind speed, in particular during night time, and farm fires. Watch Delhi-NCR air stays ‘severe’ with AQI of 416 on Sunday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/delhi-ncr-air-stays-severe/articleshow/79120001.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Patna||Female turnout more than men for third Bihar poll in a row||NEW DELHI: Female voter turnout has surpassed male voter turnout in Bihar for the third assembly election in a row, with women at 59.7% outshining the men at 54.6%. While the male voter turnout in this assembly poll was highest since 2010, with 53.3% recorded in 2015 assembly poll and 51.1% in 2010, female voter turnout in 2020 poll fell short of the 60.4% record turnout of women voters in 2015. It was significantly higher than the 54.5% female voter turnout in 2010. In the 2019 Lok Sabha poll, the 59.5% overall female voter turnout in Bihar was again higher than the 54.9% male polling percentage. As per the updated overall polling percentage for 2020 assembly election in Bihar, the combined turnout for all three phases stood at 57.05%. This is higher than the 56.6% turnout recorded in the 2015 Bihar assembly poll but a shade lower than the 57.3% turnout recorded in 2019 Lok Sabha poll. Considering that the poll was held under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic, the impressive voter turnout is being seen as a positive sign of robustness of Indian electoral process and also as a vindication of Election Commission’s “leap of faith” while balancing health and safety concerns with the democratic aspirations of people. The assembly constituency-wise turnout breakup, shared by EC officials with TOI on Sunday, shows that female voter turnout in this poll was over 70% in 11 assembly constituencies (ACs) and over 60% in 141 ACs. Male turnout did not exceed 70% in any of the 243 ACs and surpassed 60% in just 37 ACs. A higher female voter turnout is said to have played a key role in JD(U)’s past wins with Nitish Kumar’s liquor ban policy also seen as targeted at his women supporters. The results on November 10 will indicate which way the women voters have gone in the latest poll. Interestingly, though EC had allowed Covid-positive and symptomatic voters to vote by postal ballot or at the polling station in the last hour of poll, an EC official told TOI that none opted for postal ballot route and barely 242 Covid-positive electors came to the polling station to vote in the last hour of polling, including 109 in the first phase, 67 in the second phase and 66 in the third phase. However, 52,000 persons including senior citizens above 80 and persons with disabilities opted for postal ballot. EC deputy election commissioner in charge of Bihar Chandra Bhushan Kumar said a total of 876 cases of model code violation cases and 156 violations of Covid regulations were reported during Bihar poll. Cumulative seizures in the state totalled Rs 66.8 crore — which included 8.4 lakh litres of liquor valued at Rs 25 crore. This is a manifold rise over the seizures in 2015 assembly poll and in 2019 Lok Sabha election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/female-turnout-more-than-men-for-third-bihar-poll-in-a-row/articleshow/79120003.cms||Bharti Jain
November 9, 2020||---||Female turnout more than men for third Bihar poll in a row||NEW DELHI: Female voter turnout has surpassed male voter turnout in Bihar for the third assembly election in a row, with women at 59.7% outshining the men at 54.6%. While the male voter turnout in this assembly poll was highest since 2010, with 53.3% recorded in 2015 assembly poll and 51.1% in 2010, female voter turnout in 2020 poll fell short of the 60.4% record turnout of women voters in 2015. It was significantly higher than the 54.5% female voter turnout in 2010. In the 2019 Lok Sabha poll, the 59.5% overall female voter turnout in Bihar was again higher than the 54.9% male polling percentage. As per the updated overall polling percentage for 2020 assembly election in Bihar, the combined turnout for all three phases stood at 57.05%. This is higher than the 56.6% turnout recorded in the 2015 Bihar assembly poll but a shade lower than the 57.3% turnout recorded in 2019 Lok Sabha poll. Considering that the poll was held under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic, the impressive voter turnout is being seen as a positive sign of robustness of Indian electoral process and also as a vindication of Election Commission’s “leap of faith” while balancing health and safety concerns with the democratic aspirations of people. The assembly constituency-wise turnout breakup, shared by EC officials with TOI on Sunday, shows that female voter turnout in this poll was over 70% in 11 assembly constituencies (ACs) and over 60% in 141 ACs. Male turnout did not exceed 70% in any of the 243 ACs and surpassed 60% in just 37 ACs. A higher female voter turnout is said to have played a key role in JD(U)’s past wins with Nitish Kumar’s liquor ban policy also seen as targeted at his women supporters. The results on November 10 will indicate which way the women voters have gone in the latest poll. Interestingly, though EC had allowed Covid-positive and symptomatic voters to vote by postal ballot or at the polling station in the last hour of poll, an EC official told TOI that none opted for postal ballot route and barely 242 Covid-positive electors came to the polling station to vote in the last hour of polling, including 109 in the first phase, 67 in the second phase and 66 in the third phase. However, 52,000 persons including senior citizens above 80 and persons with disabilities opted for postal ballot. EC deputy election commissioner in charge of Bihar Chandra Bhushan Kumar said a total of 876 cases of model code violation cases and 156 violations of Covid regulations were reported during Bihar poll. Cumulative seizures in the state totalled Rs 66.8 crore — which included 8.4 lakh litres of liquor valued at Rs 25 crore. This is a manifold rise over the seizures in 2015 assembly poll and in 2019 Lok Sabha election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/female-turnout-more-than-men-for-third-bihar-poll-in-a-row/articleshow/79119986.cms||Bharti Jain
November 9, 2020||Goa||Sancoale man held for intimidating panchayats mantri||Margao: Verna police on Sunday arrested 39-year old Jayesh Fadte, a resident of Upasnagar, Sancoale, on charges of sending threatening messages to panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho and demanding ransom. Police said they acted following a complaint lodged by Godinho’s office in that regard earlier in the day. Fadte was arrested under Sections 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication), 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506/2 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Mormugao Dy SP Rajendra Raut Dessai told TOI that Phadte was named in the complaint lodged by Godinho’s office, based on which he was arrested. The arrest comes just a day after Panaji police registered an FIR against unidentified persons for threatening, using abusive language and demanding extortion money from chief minister Pramod Sawant. The chief minister’s office had told the police that the calls were being made from United Kingdom and the Gulf countries. The caller had demanded a ransom of Rs 50 lakh from the chief minster and threatened to kill him and his family if he refused to pay up. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said police were investigating if the arrested person has any links with the complaint made by the chief minister’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sancoale-man-held-for-intimidating-panchayats-mantri/articleshow/79118790.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Business||Times Auto CARnival enthrals Durgapur||Durgapur: The Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown dealt a terrible blow to the automobile industry, which has been struggling since 2019. However, signs of recovery have been visible from August, and as per recent industry reports, the sector has recorded a spike in vehicle sales at the onset of the festive season. Riding high on this positive sentiment, car connoisseurs and bike lovers of Durgapur were in for a treat with The Times Auto Carnival in association with Ei Samay at Junction Mall in Durgapur. The two-day event, held on November 7 and 8, showcased some of the most popular brands in the four-wheeler segment. The inauguration ceremony was held in the presence of the representatives of the participating brands. While there was an array of four-wheelers from Mercedes Benz, BMW OSL Prestige, Dutta Nissan, Pinnacle Honda, Chandrani Tata, SPL Volvo and SPL KIA for car lovers, bike aficionados did not feel left out, thanks to Jeet TVS. On display were Landmark Mercedes, E-Class; OSL BMW, 5 Series; Nissan, Kicks; Pinnacle Honda, Honda City; Chandrani Tata, Altroz; Sanwaria Volvo, S90/XC60 and Sanwaria KIA, Carnival. The Times Auto Carnival 2020 also catered to the queries — features, specifications and prices — of the prospective buyers over the two days. “Many were seen heading to the cars for a closer look and booking their dream vehicle. People of the vibrant industrial city made the most of this opportunity,” said a car dealer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/times-auto-carnival-enthrals-durgapur/articleshow/79114696.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||‘Threats prove collapse of law’||Panaji: Extortion threats against chief minister Pramod Sawant prove that the law and order situation in Goa has deteriorated, said Congress on Sunday. Congress demanded that the chief minister and Goa director general of police make a clear statement about the threat. Congress chided Sawant for publicly announcing that he received threatening calls as it shows that people are not safe in Goa. “It shows political immaturity and irresponsibility,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. “If the chief minister himself is not safe, then it shows that the common man is not safe.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/threats-prove-collapse-of-law/articleshow/79118825.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Goa||Mining issue: CM leaves for Delhi to meet Shah, Joshi||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant is scheduled to meet the Union home minister Amit Shah and mines minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday to seek a solution for mining resumption. Sawant left for Delhi on Sunday. Sawant is also likely to meet finance minister, tourism minister, water resource minister among others. He along with the core committee members are likely to meet BJP national president and apprise him about the development in the state. Recently Sawant had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi over mining resumption, who gave him a positive response. After the assurance of Modi, two meetings were supposed to be held for resumption of mining in early November. However, the meeting was postponed after mines minister tested positive for Covid-19. The state had earlier urged the central government to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to restart mining activities. There has been no mining activity in Goa since March 15, 2018, after the Supreme Court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. The state government had filed a review petition on February 7, 2018, in the apex court against the same order. When Sawant met Modi in March, he had requested the PM to direct the authorities to file an affidavit before the Supreme Court in support of resumption of mining activities in the state. Two mining companies had approached the apex court for extension of leases till 2037. Sawant may broach the issue of the three linear projects passing through the wildlife sanctuary in Mollem, with ministers concerned. Last week, Nuvem MLA Wilfred de Sa had said that when he along with several BJP MLAs had called on the chief minister over the three linear projects, especially transportation of coal, Sawant had said that he would raise the issues with central leaders when he visits Delhi next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-issue-cm-leaves-for-delhi-to-meet-shah-joshi/articleshow/79118851.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 9, 2020||Jaipur||Diwali bonus for government employees in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has decided to give ad -hoc bonus to its employees considering festival of Diwali in mind on Sunday. The bonus amount will cost the exchequer Rs 500 crore for 7.30 lakh employees. The official statement reads that 25% of the bonus amount has to be given in cash while the remaining 75% will be deposited in employees provident fund. He also made the monthly salary deduction on account of Covid-19 optional from mandatory. The move was taken after considering the demands of several employees association. The salary deduction was started in August this year aiming to utilise the money for relief and aid work related to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/diwali-bonus-for-government-employees-in-rajasthan/articleshow/79120007.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Goa||Parents seek CM’s intervention in pvt school fees issue||Panaji: The All Goa Unaided Schools Parents Association (AGUSPA) has sought the intervention of chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant in the issue of fees charged by private schools. The association has said that despite several parents informing private schools that they have either lost their jobs or income due to the pandemic, unaided schools have refused to give appropriate concession in fees. “Parents of children enrolled in unaided schools have witnessed problems with the schools during the pandemic across the board. The income of parents has drastically reduced or in some cases come to a standstill. Also, schools have not reopened for ,” the association’s chairperson Priti Mascarenhas said, after a new committee was AGUSPA committee was appointed on Sunday. Parents alleged that ‘unfair and stubborn methods’ were being employed by private schools in recovering fees. “They have denied relief to thousands of parents in Goa who are affected by the pandemic and whose children are at home but are asked to pay full fees. We have sought urgent appointment with education minister and chief minister and the director of education to resolve and discuss our issues. We hope to get an appointment with them at the earliest to help address the crisis at the earliest,” said Mascarenhas, in a statement after appointment of the new AGUSPA committee. AGUSPA is a registered body affiliated with All India Parents Association (AIPA). The new committee will see Pio Baretto serve as the secretary and Mervyn Menezes in the post of treasurer. The association said that despite parents informing private schools that they have lost their jobs, unaided schools have refused to give concession in fees||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parents-seek-cms-intervention-in-pvt-school-fees-issue/articleshow/79118869.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 51 illegal recruitment agents under lens||BENGALURU: Koramangala police have registered criminal cases against 51 unauthorised agents promising jobs abroad and collecting huge sums of money from aspirants. Shubham Singh, IFS, Protector of Emigrants (PoE) of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), had filed a complaint against the agents on Thursday. “We’ve taken up cases against 51 persons across the state. Agencies or agents that recruit people for jobs abroad should obtain permission from the PoE. But many are working illegally,” Joshi Srinath Mahadev, deputy commissioner of police (southeast) said, adding that legal action will be initiated against them. Police said many agents cheat emigrants by collecting huge sums without arranging jobs abroad. They collect information about vacancies abroad through social media and recruiters’ advertisements. Later, they share it on WhatsApp groups, Facebook and other online platforms, asking job seekers to send their resumes and passports and collect money. The Protector of Emigrants stated that several people have complained about illegal agencies. Acting as agents to recruit jobs abroad without permission from the PoE under the Emigration Act-1983 is illegal. Only around 20 agencies in Karnataka have permission from the PoE. According to police, the PoE had furnished the details of the 51 suspects, including their contact numbers and places of their operation. “We’ll summon all of them for interrogation,” an officer said. The complaint has been registered under IPC section 420 for cheating and various sections of Emigration Act, 1983. Three arrested on charges of vehicle theftVijayanagar police arrested three persons for allegedly stealing two-wheelers and seized four vehicles worth Rs 2,69,000 from them. The accused are Jabiullah, 19, and Saif Hussain, 21, both residents of Mangammana Palya and Abdul Hafiz, 20, of Bommanahalli. Police claimed with these arrests they have solved four vehicle-theft cases reported in Vijayanagar and Kamakshipalya police station since March. The accused had been arrested by HSR Layout police last year on charges of vehicle theft. But they continued with their offences soon after being released on bail, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-51-illegal-recruitment-agents-under-lens/articleshow/79120009.cms||---
November 9, 2020||India||Bid to induct non-Gorkhas will badly affect regiments’ fighting spirit, say some veterans||NAINITAL/DEHRADUN: The Indian Army’s proposal to induct non-Gorkhas from Uttarakhand into the Gorkha Rifles (GR) has received a strong response from Nepalese-domiciled Gorkha veterans who have served in GR regiments. Speaking to TOI, Colonel DK Pradhan (retd) — a Gorkha from Nepal who is a veteran of the 1971 Indo-Pak war — said the move will adversely affect the fighting spirit of the unit. “The Gorkhas fight for ‘Naam, namak and nishaan’. The spirit is ingrained in the community and plays a key role for us. If people from other areas are included in regiment too, it won’t be the same thing,” he said. When asked about other regiments of the Army having soldiers from other ethnicities, another Nepalese-domiciled veteran who did not wish to be named, said the other regiments have had this tradition from earlier times but that is not the case with the Gorkha regiments. “The Gorkha regiments have only had Gorkha soldiers and breaking this tradition is not a good idea. If this is being done because of the strained relations between India and Nepal, people should remember that the ties would mend soon. I feel that these things should not affect the induction policy of one of the fiercest regiments of the Indian Army,” the veteran said. Notably, Gorkhas are inducted into the GR regiments in a 60:40 ratio — for every 60 recruits from Nepal, there are 40 from India. The move to induct non-Gorkhas from Uttarakhand into the GR regiments is also being seen by some as a move to tilt the balance in favour of Indian-domiciled soldiers. Subedar Major RK Thapa (retd), who is in charge of matters pertaining to Nepalese Gorkhas in the All-India Gorkha Ex-Servicemen’s Association, said if there was a plan to decrease the number of recruits from Nepal, the Army should focus on recruiting Gorkhas from India instead of inducting non-Gorkhas. Meanwhile, some veterans from the community in India welcomed the move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bid-to-induct-non-gorkhas-will-badly-affect-regiments-fighting-spirit-say-some-veterans/articleshow/79119987.cms||Prashant Jha
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Buying 'stolen' phone for son's e-school gets maid in tangle with law||MUMBAI: A domestic help who was a recipient of Mumbai police's benevolence has turned out to be a suspect in a phone theft case. It all started with a tweet and Mumbai Police's desire to do good. A Goregaon resident, Kripa Jaising, tweeted on Saturday about her house help coming to work in tears as she had unknowingly purchased a stolen phone and was detained by the Government Railway Police (GRP) for a day. Jaising's concern was that the seizure of the phone had deprived her maid, Swati Savre's, son of his online schooling. As the tweets went viral, state home minister Anil Deshmukh's office took note and Mumbai police organised a new smartphone for Savre. The police commissioner tweeted a video clip of Savre thanking the department for its gesture. But the series of tweets put out by Jaising has left the railway cops rather surprised as Savre had told them that she had picked up the phone from an auto. A magistrate's court will decide later this month whether Savre would be made an accused or a witness in the case of phone theft. Savre (35) told TOI she was scared when the railway cops started asking her questions and blurted out the first thing that came to her mind. "In March, I had gone to the market when I overheard a man wanting to sell his phone. I asked him the cost as I wanted to buy a second-hand handset," she said. Savre was not acquainted with the man and has no documentation to show that she bought the phone from him. Her only intention, she says, was to facilitate her teenage son's online schooling. On Friday, Savre got a call from the railway cops when one of the stolen phones they had been tracking was traced to her address. "Savre told us she had found it lying in an auto. If that were the case, she should have produced it at any police station. Her call records show that she has been using the phone for six months. We asked her if she had bought the handset from someone so that we would look for the man, but she said she hadn't," said Bhaskar Pawar, senior inspector of Borivli GRP station. The railway cops have issued Savre a notice to appear in the magistrate's court on November 18. Jaising said Savre works for her since three years and she is convinced the maid is no thief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-buying-stolen-phone-for-sons-e-school-gets-maid-in-tangle-with-law/articleshow/79120021.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||No blanket ban, but can't burst crackers in public places: Maharashtra CM||MUMBAI: In an address ahead of Diwali festivities, CM Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday that the state was not planning to ban firecrackers, but would appeal to the public to show restraint in their use. Many states like Delhi, Karnataka and West Bengal have banned firecrackers this year. "Imposing a ban is not a solution for everything. Let us show trust in each other and ensure that everything we have achieved so far (in controlling the outbreak) does not go up in smoke," he said. However, he cautioned that "bursting of crackers in public places will not be allowed." Thackeray added that Delhi is seeing a spike in cases and experts have attributed it to an increase in pollution. 15 days after Diwali are crucial, can’t afford second wave: CMSpeaking about the Covid situation in the run-up to Diwali, Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday that a discussion was held by the state cabinet earlier this week on use of firecrackers, but not many were in favour of imposing a ban. He said daily cases in the state were on the decline, but a resurgence of infections was likely if Covid-19 norms of using masks, hand hygiene and maintaining social distance was not followed. “We have opened up almost everything. Crowd on the streets is almost back to normal, but many people are not using a mask. This will not be allowed. One Covid-19 patient can infect up to 400 more people if he does not use a mask,” said Thackeray. Even internationally, many countries are seeing a huge spike in cases, he said, and Maharashtra has to ensure that there is no repeat of the same in the state. “In many countries it is not a second wave, it is a tsunami of cases. We have adequate medical infrastructure, but only have those many doctors and medical staff. If a second wave strikes the state, there could be a crisis situation. We have to avoid that at any cost,” said Thackeray. He added that he has directed local authorities not to dismantle any Covid care centre for the next few months. They can be closed down, but should be revivable. He said the 15 days after Diwali would be a crucial period to see if cases were rising. He said the state will reopen school classrooms for students from class IX to XII post-Diwali and a decision to open religious places will also be taken then. He added the state is going slow on opening up of religious places as senior citizens regularly visit them and they are more vulnerable to catching the infection. ”I have been criticised for not reopening religious places, but I want to go slow on it. Because the same people who criticise me will not take responsibility if the cases go up,” said Thackeray, in a reference to the BJP’s protests against the government for not reopening temples. He also said the state is in talks with the railways about allowing the general public to travel on local trains. “We are co-ordinating with the Centre, a decision will be taken soon,” said Thackeray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-blanket-ban-but-cant-burst-crackers-in-public-places-maharashtra-cm/articleshow/79120029.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 9, 2020||Business||E-commerce co data breached, ‘info of 2 crore users put up for sale’||NEW DELHI: E-commerce platform Bigbasket has faced a potential data breach which could have leaked details of around 2 crore users, according to cyber intelligence firm Cyble. The company on Sunday admitted to the potential breach and said it was assessing the extent. “We have lodged a complaint with the Bengaluru Cyber Crime Cell and intend to pursue it to bring the culprits to book,” said the Bengaluru-based company. The Cyber Cell, however, did not confirm receiving the complaint. Cyble said a hacker has put data allegedly belonging to Bigbasket on sale for around Rs 30 lakh. “The research team found the database of Big Basket for sale in a cyber crime market, being sold for over $40,000. The size of the SQL file is about 15 GB, containing close to 20 million user data,” Cyble said in a blog post. It added the data put on sale includes names, email IDs, password hashes, contact numbers (mobile and phone), addresses, date of birth, location, and IP addresses of login among many others. While Cyble has mentioned "passwords", the company uses a one-time password sent through SMS which keeps on changing every time a user logs in. Meanwhile, the company said the privacy and confidentiality of customers is priority and it does not store any financial data including credit card numbers etc and is confident that this financial data is secure. The 9-year-old grocery e-commerce platform is funded by Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba group, the Mirae Asset-Naver Asia Growth Fund, and the British government-owned CDC group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-commerce-co-data-breached-info-of-2-crore-users-put-up-for-sale/articleshow/79120010.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Ranchi||Chinese product boycott pushes diya sales in Bokaro||Bokaro: With the chorus for a boycott of Chinese products growing louder, the movement ahead of Diwali has come to the aid of makers of earthen lamps or diyas in Bokaro. Many, riding piggy on the sentiments, hope for a better business this year. Speaking to TOI, a few potters said the much-needed “vocal for local” clamour has also pushed their sales up before the festival of lights. Some potters have also installed electric charkhas to increase the production of diyas to meet the demand. “Not only earthen lamps, but other decorative items made of clay are also in huge demand this time. Elderly people mostly prefer traditional simple diyas while the younger ones are demanding designer and decorative ones. We have brought diyas of a wide range to serve everyone’s choice,” said Nimai Chandra, a potter, who has set up his stall in front of the Church in Sector-IV. “For Hindus, light is the symbol of knowledge, wisdom, goodness, happiness, peace, truth and prosperity. Thus, lights play an important role in Diwali. The Chinese lights, which till last year had dominated the market, are being ignored by the residents this year. Residents have also realised that earthen lights help in lighting the spiritual path,” said Dasrat Pandey, a priest. “No more Chinese bulbs, we will go for the tradition diyas,” said Ruby Aggarwal, a resident of City Centre who came to purchase diyas at a roadside stall. Alok Pandit, a wholesaler of designer diyas, said the sales have increased this year. Designer diyas are available from Rs 5 to Rs 500 and above. Diyas made of ceramic, brass, copper, steel, and even gold and silver are available in the market. Anjali Sinha, a resident of Sector-3, said, “I found the diyas with deities in them very attractive. Other varieties of diyas, including pan, mangal kalash and others are also attractive.” Sandhaya Sinha, an instructor of Art of Living, said, “Covid-19 has taught us many things. One is that we should stick to our culture and celebrate Diwali traditionally without Chinese bulbs. Our potters have immense potential and their diyas are the best.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chinese-product-boycott-pushes-diya-sales-in-bokaro/articleshow/79116546.cms||Divy Khare
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||BSF nabs 13 Bangladeshis in N 24 Parganas||Kolkata: The Border Security Force apprehended 13 Bangladeshi nationals trying to sneak into India across the Indo-Bangladesh border at Tarali in North 24 Parganas on Friday. All of them have been handed over to Swarupnagar police station. “On Friday, troops of the 112Bn BSF, posted at Bithari BOP, spotted suspicious movement. The troops issued a challenge and nabbed five persons who admitted that they are Bangladeshi nationals. In the second incident, troops of the Hakimpur BOP gave chase to six persons near the International Border and apprehended them. Two more Bangladeshis were nabbed by troops of the Tarali BOP,” a senior BSF official said. During questioning, the Bangladeshis confessed that they had entered India several years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bsf-nabs-13-bangladeshis-in-n-24-parganas/articleshow/79119427.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 9, 2020||Ranchi||Interstate bus services see low passenger turnout||Ranchi: The interstate bus service, which started on Sunday under new norms of the state transport department, drew a lukewarm response from passengers on the first day. Notably, busses have started operating for various places of Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh including Patna, Gaya, Buxar, Bihar Sharif, Kolkata and Varanasi. A local operator said that in the coming days the interstate connectivity of pre-lockdown times will be restored. Md Sarfaraz, a bus owner, said, “The number of passenger is far less than normal. My bus, which starts for Buxar at 6pm, used to have 30 to 35 passengers by 4pm. However, today only 12 have come. The passenger inflow will increase when the festivals come close.” He said that a significant number of passengers are calling over phone for advance booking in view of Diwali and Chhat festivals. While several precautionary measures, like wearing of masks and sanitization have been made mandatory, the government has asked bus owners to run their vehicles in full capacity and charge the pre-lockdown rates. Though bus owners said they will follow the government norms, several of them preferred implementation of social distancing norms inside their vehicles. Member of Bus Malik Sangh (BMS) Kishore Kumar Mantri said, “It will be safer for both the passengers and the staff if social distancing is made compulsory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/interstate-bus-services-see-low-passenger-turnout/articleshow/79116557.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata hospitals hire nursing assistants to fill vacuum||KOLKATA: Hit by a flight of nurses to government hospitals and other states, private hospitals in the city have been forced to fall back on ‘nursing assistants’ or attendants. More than 100 of them have been appointed at Covid wards of at least four facilities since September, when nurses started quitting in large numbers. So far, more than 700 nurses — mostly experienced staff who had been working at the ICUs — have resigned from a dozen private hospitals across Kolkata, leaving them in the lurch. Recruitment of nurses for ICUs has been slow due to a paucity of skilled, experienced staff. “We have been forced to scale up the number of our nursing assistants, who are trained to attend to the patients, at the Covid ward. Since they are not qualified nurses, they are not allowed to dispense medicines, monitor patients or communicate with doctors. They act as facilitators, helping patients to the toilet, changing their clothes, alerting nurses and doctors if they need help,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Peerless has appointed 40 nursing attendants since October. The hospital has been running short of ICU nurses since last month. AMRI Hospitals, which had scaled down the number of its nursing assistants to 80, have recruited 40 again. “Since we have moved all our experienced nurses to the Covid ICUs, where they are needed the most, there is a shortage of staff at the Covid wards. Without assistants, it will be difficult to serve patients at the wards with a reduced nursing workforce. But we ensure they are not involved in clinical services,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. A south Kolkata private hospital has asked patients at the Covid ward not to expect nurses’ help round-the-clock. “While we have just about enough nurses for the ICU, the number is inadequate at the ward. Nursing assistants, too, are few since we haven’t yet been able to recruit enough. Patients have been complaining frequently about lack of assistance. We have asked them to try and do small chores, like pouring a glass of water, on their own,” said an official of the hospital. Ruby General Hospital, too, has been forced to fall back on nursing assistants after a fresh batch of 40 nurses — that had passed out from its own nursing course in September — refused to join. The hospital has been using the assistants both at the outpatient and inpatient departments, but strictly for non-clinical work. “They are not allowed to inject patients or administer medicines. They are merely filling in the gap created by the flight of nurses and are there to provide physical assistance to patients. Some of our nursing assistants also help doctors at the OPD,” said Ruby Hospital general manager-operations, Subhasish Datta. The hospital has around 35 nursing assistants and has been finding it difficult to recruit more since the pandemic began. “Like nurses, they have been reluctant to join as well,” Datta added. Peerless has stepped up its nursing assistant training course to rope in more, expecting the crisis of nurses to last several more months. “While the flight of nurses happens every year, this year, due to Covid, replacements have not been coming in from the northeast, Kerala, Jharkhand and Odisha, which supply the bulk of our nurses,” said Mitra. With the number of Covid patients climbing, using assistants at the wards, too, could be risky, pointed out a private hospital consultant. “It’s important to screen and gauge symptoms quickly at Covid wards, which an attendant is not trained to do,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-hire-nursing-assistants-to-fill-vacuum/articleshow/79119495.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Farmer found hanging with 4 of family murdered||Malda: A 33-year-old farmer was found hanging and his wife, two minor children and mother were found murdered on Sunday morning at their Jamalpur home in Tapan police station limits of South Dinajpur. Police prima facie suspect Anu Burman may have murdered his mother, wife and children before hanging himself. Anu’s sister Lalita Sarkar, however, told police a land feud could have led to the murders since her brother owned 6 bighas of land. Neighbours, too, suspect an “outsider” hand in the murders. “Preliminary enquiry reveals that Anu Burman was suffering from cancer. We have been told he was depressed for the last few days. Prima facie, it appeared that he first murdered four female persons of the family before committing suicide,” said South Dinajpur police superintendent Deborshi Dutta. “A magisterial inquest is being conducted. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem to reveal the cause of death. Probe is on,” he added. The family members have been identified as mother Ulubala Burman (60), wife Mallika (26) and daughters Beauty (10) and Snigdha (7). Police said they also learnt that Anu had to sell part of his land to raise funds for his treatment and was anxious as a consequence. A small-time farmer, Anu was supposed to go to his land to reap paddy on Sunday. Accordingly, some fellow farmers visited his house to call him in the morning. Not getting a response for long, they entered the house and found the bodies of the women and girls lying in a pool of blood and Anu hanging from the ceiling. Both his mother and wife had gaping wounds in their heads, possibly inflicted by a heavy weapon, while the girls’ throats were slit. Locals such as Aloke Burman, Nikhil Burman and others did not buy the police version of suicide. “Anu was very much a family man and it was a happy family. He could never kill his daughters. It is a case of murder by some outsiders,” they said and demanded that the culprits be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/farmer-found-hanging-with-4-of-family-murdered/articleshow/79119464.cms||Subhro Maitra
November 9, 2020||Ranchi||2 festive special trains from Tatanagar this wk||Jamshedpur: In order to accommodate the rush of passengers to and from Bihar ahead of Diwali and Chhath Puja, South Eastern Railways (SER) will launch two festive special trains from Tatanagar from Tuesday. Both the trains — Durg Rajendra Nagar Terminal Express and Tatanagar-Danapur Express — will run to and from Bihar seven days a week, the bookings for which have started already from Saturday, railway officials said. Both trains will run from Tatanagar to Bihar till November 30 and those coming to Jharkhand from the neighbouring state can avail the trains’ services from November 11 to December 2. The Durg Express will depart from Tatanagar at 7:30pm and reach Rajendra Nagar the next day at 7:45am. When coming to the state from Bihar, it will depart at 8:50pm and reach Tatanagar the next morning at 7:55. Danapur Express will depart from Tatanagar at 8:15am and reach Bihar at 7:22pm on the same day. For those coming to Tatanagar from Bihar, the train will chug off at 6am and reach Jamshedpur in the evening at 5:50. “All the festive special trains are reserved and so the passengers should not arrive at the station without confirmed tickets,” senior commercial divisional manager (Chakradharpur) Manish Kumar Pathak said. He urged the passengers to comply with the safety measures pertaining to Covid-19 while travelling on the trains. DIG (GRP) Shailendra Kumar Sinha said that security on the trains is being tightened in view of the festive rush. SER decided to introduce the two trains after Tatanagar-Chhapra Express, which resumed service from November 5, received an overwhelming response. The express train, which runs from Jamshedpur to Bihar every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday and from the neighbouring state to Jharkhand every Wednesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday, is operating at full capacity at the moment, officials said. Meanwhile, the Ranchi rail division will run such similar special trains between Ranchi, Patna and Jai Nagar from November 16 to 21 and between Ranchi, Hatia and Patna from November 10 to December 1. Chief PRO of Ranchi rail division Niraj Kumar said the special trains are being run in view of the passengers’ need. “Most of the trains moving between Ranchi and different cities of Bihar are witnessing a high flow of passengers,” he said. He added that the standard operating procedures pertaining to Covid-19 are being followed properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-festive-special-trains-from-tatanagar-this-wk/articleshow/79116538.cms||B Sridhar
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip’s ‘will free detainees’ comment draws oppn fire||Kolkata/Haldia: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday said if voted to power all political detainees in Bengal will be released irrespective of their political affiliations, evoking sharp responses from the ruling Trinamool Congress, CPM and Congress. TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee said in trying to blindly ape the first Mamata Banerjee-led government in 2011, Ghosh has confused legal measures with an “illegal blanket release”. CPM politburo member Md Selim said the 1977 Jyoti Basu cabinet decision to release political detainees — which even included Naxalites — was based on rights violations and not “political populism”. Congress dubbed it a political gimmick. Speaking at a rally in East Midnapore’s Haldia, Ghosh said: “The first cabinet decision of our government will be to withdraw cases against each political prisoner. We are not bothered about their political identities. We will do that for everyone across the political spectrum.” “It is not about BJP workers alone, we will free everyone, whether he is a supporter of CPM or Trinamool Congress,” he added. Banerjee, also a senior lawyer, questioned the legality of such statements. “No non-compoundable offences can be settled. You cannot stop the trial of a murder case midway. What Ghosh said is illegal. Neither has Ghosh studied the law, nor does he know how a democratic system works,” he said. “Those who were released after 2011 were not charged with major criminal offences. But not everyone was released. There are cases pending against some such prisoners even in my Lok Sabha constituency,” he added. “People of Bengal do not believe in such hollow promises, especially when it comes from BJP. We have seen how basic human rights were trampled upon from Unnao to Hathras,” said Selim. Pointing to the decision of the Left Front government’s first cabinet meeting in 1977, he said, “Left Front government under the chief ministership of Jyoti Basu took the decision to free political prisoners and they implemented that. Right-wing political parties do not even believe in that.” Congress leader Abdul Mannan felt such pre-poll promises would fall flat on the face during the elections. Human rights activists were also sceptical. “This is a politics over human rights, not to protect human rights. Bengal has heard this political rhetoric in the past and nothing much has happened,” said Sujato Bhadra, rights activist. Political expert Biswanath Chowdhury said, “This has been a staple political narrative in Bengal since the last 70s. This helps parties to enthuse their cadres, to give hope.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilips-will-free-detainees-comment-draws-oppn-fire/articleshow/79119415.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 9, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu avoids political statement in Murshidabad||Baharampore: Amid speculation over his political career, Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari — flanked by his followers (Dadar anugami) — made his public appearance in Murshidabad at a “non-political platform” on Sunday. While he refrained from any political statement, the state transport minister sought blessings of the people in Murshidabad for “sevak Suvendu Adhikari”. He was present at a memorial programme for Mofizuddin Mondal, a zilla karmadhyaksha who passed away little more than a month back. “His family members told me they have organized a programme under a non-political platform. I wanted to pay my tribute to him,” Adhikari said. Despite an organizational meeting called by the district TMC president and lawmaker Abu Taher, the memorial service had a significant presence of district leaders and office-bearers. Trinamool leaders, however, chose to ignore Adhikari’s presence at the “non-political platform” or the posters by “Dadar anugami”. “He holds a crucial ministry and has been performing duties diligently,” said a TMC leader. “Suvendu Adhikari is integral to Trinamool. We have been fighting together for long and Mamata Banerjee has been our main inspiration,” said Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee. Both BJP and Congress maintained a measured narrative. “I have been listening to rumours about him for the past six years. I have seen some banners but I am not sure of what they are trying to do,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. “I have been to Nandigram... It is unfortunate that Trinamool chose to leave them behind. There is nothing wrong if he revolts,” said Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-avoids-political-statement-in-murshidabad/articleshow/79119424.cms||Sukumar Mahato
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||We will give fitting reply on ownership of Kanjur plot: Maharashtra CM||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the state will give a fitting reply to all the questions being raised over ownership of the Kanjurmarg plot where it plans to build the Metro car shed. He said certain people were trying to stall the project by claiming the land belonged to them. "This government is not working with its eyes closed. All the land-related details were studied before the project was shifted there. Those who say the plot is salt pan land don't understand they are stalling a project required by Mumbaikars," said Thackeray. Thackeray had last month announced the state government's decision to shift the Metro 3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) carshed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg and had said the Kanjurmarg depot would be a common one for Metro 3 and 6. But a controversy regarding ownership of the land erupted after the Piyush Goyal-led department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) wrote to state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar stating the plot was salt pan land, which is under the salt commissioner who reports to the DPIIT. The state has claimed the land belongs to them and it will be handed over to MMRDA for the project. "Without heeding the criticism, we will do everything that is in the interest of the city," the CM said. He also said in the past few months several attempts have been made by 'Maharashtra-haters' to defame the state, but all their attempts have failed. "A campaign to defame the state was carried out by some people, who called it lawless, and a drug haven, but despite all that Maharashtra is getting investments," he said, adding he was also targeted for not leaving his house. "I was working from home, but got investments worth crores. MoUs worth Rs 17,000 crore were signed in June and just last week MoUs worth Rs 35,000 crore have been added."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/we-will-give-fitting-reply-on-ownership-of-kanjur-plot-maharashtra-cm/articleshow/79120038.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 9, 2020||India||Ex-MLC sells her gold to give 20L for defence forces||NASHIK: Former BJP MLC Nishigandha Mogal, on the occasion of her 75th birthday, donated Rs 20 lakh for the benefit of war widows and ex-servicemen. The generous gesture garnered her PM Narendra Modi’s praise. “I simply thought of doing my duty towards the brave men in uniform and decided to donate my gold ornaments for the welfare of the defence personnel. The PM writing to me was a big surprise,” said Mogal, who served as a councillor between 1996 and 2000. “Our country has a tradition where mothers and sisters have always been at the forefront of contributing for nation-building — even in the form of donating gold ornaments. Your invaluable contribution towards the armed forces personnel has only strengthened that tradition of our country,” PM Narendra Modi wrote in the letter of appreciation. “All my life, I have nurtured the dream of doing something for the armed forces. A few months ago, I thought of using my ornaments for this. My family stood by my decision and I am happy about that,” Mogal said. When asked about the inspiration behind her donation, Mogal recalled, “Just after the Emergency, late Mohan Dharia conducted a rally in Nashik and urged people to vote for the party and also asked for donations. At that time, some women presented their gold ornaments for the cause.” The act remained etched in her memory and motivated her to do the same. The former BJP Mahila Morcha regional president has also been to the Kargil War Memorial and was moved by the bravery of the martyrs. “These incidents inspired me to contribute to a social cause. Since I have fulfilled all my duties and both my sons are well settled, I decided to part with my ornaments,” she said. Mogal then called up defence officers to enquire about how she could contribute the ornaments and was informed that they could accept cash but not gold. “I, therefore, sold my ornaments and they provided me with the bank details for completing the transactions. I received the payment receipt on October 15,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-mlc-sells-her-gold-to-give-20l-for-defence-forces/articleshow/79120060.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Bengaluru||The Bengaluru women creating a visual record of nature||BENGALURU: Sugandhi Gadadhar once waited 18 days to catch sight of the majestic but publicity-averse denizens of the Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary in Karnataka. During peak monsoon, Radha Rangarajan undertook a nearly 1,000-km road trip to India’s southernmost tip, Kanyakumari, to chronicle the life of coastal communities. Arati Kumar-Rao has hauled bulky gear in the Thar Desert and marshes of the Sundarbans to gain a better understanding of these special regions. Read the entire story on TOI+How these women are driving discussion on environment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/the-bengaluru-women-creating-a-visual-record-of-nature/articleshow/79120032.cms||Harsh Vora
November 9, 2020||India||Chennai-Bengaluru eway gets NHAI push in boost to logistics hubs||NEW DELHI: Giving a big push to the construction of expressways and to provide faster connectivity to upcoming logistics hubs, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has invited bids for one package of the 263km Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway. The work on this four-lane expressway project, which will provide high speed and seamless connectivity to two upcoming logistics parks in Bengaluru and Chennai, will start in February or March. This first expressway project in south India will boost logistics movement, which has gained more importance in recent times. The project has been divided into 10 packages, three each in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka and four in Tamil Nadu. After completion, a car can travel the distance between Chennai and Bengaluru in less than two-and-a half hours. Road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari told representatives of industry chamber FICCI last week that he has requested PM Modi to lay the foundation stone for the project. The NHAI has set March 2024 deadline to make this stretch operational, barely months before the next general election. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 17,000 crore. The NHAI has set strict timelines for award and progress of all the 23 expressways and greenfield highways which have been finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chennai-bengaluru-eway-gets-nhai-push-in-boost-to-logistics-hubs/articleshow/79120040.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||BEST's daily ridership climbs to 23 lakh, back to 2018's average||MUMBAI: The number of passengers travelling every day on BEST's red buses has touched 23 lakh, which was the average daily ridership in 2018. BEST additional general manager Rajendra Madne on Sunday said that daily ridership has been growing steadily the past few weeks after the transport undertaking increased its total fleet to over 4,800 buses. "We expect ridership to cross the 25-lakh mark by November end as offices, shops, malls and other places have opened up. Also, people prefer buses for last-mile connectivity, especially outside railway stations," he added. BEST is operating its buses at full capacity on more than 400 routes across the city. It also runs conductorless mini buses, which are packed throughout the day, sources said. "The frequency of buses has also improved after we added 1,000 MSRTC buses on lease in our fleet, thus reducing passenger wait time at bus stops," Madne said. Commenting on BEST's daily ridership during the past decade, a senior official from the transport wing said: "It had dropped to 23 lakh in 2018 from 42 lakh in 2011-12, and then gradually rose to 25 lakh early 2019. With bus fares dropping to as low as Rs 5 for a 5-km distance, the daily commuter strength spiralled to 35 lakh before 2019 end." Owing to the Covid restrictions of only ferrying essential staffers across the Mumbai region, the ridership had dipped to 1 lakh a day in April and May, before rising to 2.5 lakh on June 15 when the lockdown was relaxed to some extent. BEST buses ferried 8 lakh passengers on June 22, and the number touched 10 lakh a day in August. On September 11, the ridership climbed to 16 lakh, and within a fortnight it touched 18 lakh. By the first week of November, it was back to 2018's daily ridership. Besides railway stations, the BEST has been picking up scores of passengers along the highways-LBS Marg, Western Express Highway, Eastern Express Highway and SV Road-too. "These are people arriving by long-distance buses who switch to BEST buses for last-mile connectivity to their offices," an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bests-daily-ridership-climbs-to-23-lakh-back-to-2018s-average/articleshow/79120094.cms||Somit Sen
November 9, 2020||India||Active Covid-19 cases decline nationally but up in 3 states||NEW DELHI: Even as the country’s active caseload of Covid-19 is consistently declining and now stands at 5.12 lakh, comprising only 6% of the total positive cases so far, active cases continue to rise in three states — Haryana, Delhi and Mizoram. On Saturday, active cases in Delhi stood at 40,258, up 1.35% compared to the previous day. Haryana recorded a growth of 2.32% in active cases to 15,713 while Mizoram had 562 cases, up 3.12% from a day ago. Read AlsoAfter falling for 7 weeks, Covid-19 cases in India riseAfter falling steadily since mid-September, the weekly count of Covid-19 cases and deaths registered a slight increase this week ahead of Diwali celebrations in the country. Around 3,25,000 fresh cases were reported during the week (November 1-8), up from 319,253 infections recorded in the previousThe active case curve in these three states has been showing an upward trend. Officials said the high burden of active cases in these states was driven by rising new cases and fewer recoveries. Overall, less than 50,000 daily new cases were recorded from across the country on Saturday with 45,674 people testing positive for Covid-19. Both Delhi and Haryana were among the top 10 states, accounting for 76% of new cases. However, in terms of absolute numbers, Delhi was much ahead of the other two states with 6,953 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/active-covid-19-cases-decline-nationally-but-up-in-3-states/articleshow/79120093.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 9, 2020||India||Modi greets LK Advani on 93rd b’day, says he is ‘living inspiration’||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted veteran BJP leader L K Advani on his 93rd birthday on Sunday and said he was a living inspiration to party workers and people of the country. In a tweet in Hindi, Modi said Advani, deputy prime minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government, played a significant role in the country’s development and also took the party to the masses. He was a “living inspiration” to crores of BJP workers and also the country, the PM said, wishing him a long and healthy life. Modi visited Advani to greet him along with top BJP leaders, including home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and party president J P Nadda. Advani is the longest-serving BJP president and is credited with charting the path for his party to grow from the margins of national politics to become its leading player, and then come to power in the 1990s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-greets-lk-advani-on-93rd-bday-says-he-is-living-inspiration/articleshow/79120091.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees highest max temperature of season due to late sea breeze||MUMBAI: The city on Sunday recorded a maximum temperature of 35.8°C at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) Santacruz observatory, the highest this season. This was 2.4°C above normal. Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 34.2°C, 1°C above normal. According to an IMD official, the late setting in of the sea breeze resulted in the hot conditions. “As the sea breeze or the westerly winds set late on Sunday, there was a rise in temperature,” said the official. The weather bureau forecast a clear sky for Monday with the maximum and minimum temperatures at 35°C and 22°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sees-highest-max-temperature-of-season-due-to-late-sea-breeze/articleshow/79120118.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Mumbai||At Rs 1,400 crore, Lodha UK's home sale costliest in London in 2020||MUMBAI: Lodha UK on Sunday said it sold a penthouse and two apartments on the lower floor to an anonymous buyer in its London project recently for £140 million (around Rs 1,400 crore). The property, No. 1 Grosvenor Square, is located in the upscale Mayfair Enclave, near the United States Embassy and Hyde Park. The residential property had been acquired by the Mumbai-based Lodha Group in 2014 for over Rs 3,000 crore. Gabriel York, co-chief executive officer of Lodha UK, said, "This is the most expensive home sold this year and probably amongst the top five most expensive homes ever sold. At pounds 9,200 per sq ft (almost Rs 9 lakh per sq ft), it is the most expensive home ever sold in London." It is learnt that the buyer will amalgamate the three apartments and convert them into a single unit spread over 15,600 sq ft. The penthouse alone is 8,100 sq ft in size. No 1 Grosvenor Square building served as the American Embassy and then as the Canadian High Commission. It has been home to American President - John Adams in the 18th century and US ambassador to the UK, Joseph P Kennedy, who was posted in London between 1938 and 1940. There is a replica of the Oval office in the lobby of the development. Joseph, who was the father of John F Kennedy, built an Oval office replica in the building during his stint as ambassador. The project houses thirty-nine apartments and five duplexes. York said that the majority of the buyers are those who own and run their businesses based in the United Kingdom, including some of the top FTSE companies. After purchasing the property in 2014, the developer restored the building facade and built the apartments behind it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-rs-1400-crore-lodha-uks-home-sale-costliest-in-london-in-20/articleshow/79120131.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Amritsar||Surjit Kumar Jyani meets Rajnath Singh & agriculture minister, says ready for farmer talks||BATHINDA: Former Punjab minister and BJP leader Surjit Kumar Jyani said after his meeting with defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar at New Delhi on Sunday that the ministers showed interest in solving the impasse and were ready to hold talks with farm leaders. Jyani was called for the meeting following his outburst against the BJP leadership for not listening to farmers protesting against the central farm laws or bothering to talk to them, Jyani told TOI over the phone: "Rajnath Singh asked to be put through to farm leaders and he spoke to a senior farm leader at length.” Formal Centre invite after farm groups agree for talks: JyaniJyani said Rajnath invited all 31 farm organisations for talks at his home. "The moment the farm organisations give their consent, a formal invitation will be extended," he added. Rajnath is said to have invited the farm leaders for talks to Delhi and even offered to host lunch for them. A meeting between ministers and farm organisations is expected immediately after Diwali. Sources said Jyani was also asked to get feedback from farm organisations. Jyani was accompanied by two BJP functionaries from Punjab, Harjit Singh Grewal and Bikramjit Singh Cheema. Sources said the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government took Jyani’s outburst “very seriously” and it was because of this that Union home minister Amit Shah and railway minister Piyush Goyal met MPs from Punjab on Saturday and Tomar showed interest in holding talks with farmers on the new farm laws. Jyani had on November 5 taken on the Centre, blaming Modi, Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda, saying they were not paying heed to the issues of farmers and insulting them. Farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal denied having spoken to ministers on the phone, but said Jayani called him on Saturday. “If the Centre sends an invitation for talks, we will discuss it and decide in a joint meeting,” he said. He also refused to reveal what was discussed during his telephonic conversation with Jyani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/surjit-kumar-jyani-meets-rajnath-singh-agriculture-minister-says-ready-for-farmer-talks/articleshow/79120115.cms||---
November 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana flip-flop: CM says will get a 2-hour window||CHANDIGARH: Two days after announcing complete ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Sunday that his government had decided to give the people of the state a two-hour window for sale and bursting of firecrackers on Diwali. In the region, Chandigarh has already imposed a ban on sale and bursting of crackers but Punjab does not intend to impose any ban. Punjab has restricted the bursting of firecrackers during the upcoming festivals to two hours only. Khattar on Friday had announced a complete ban on firecrackers till November 30 to prevent the risk of spread of Covid-19 due to polluted atmosphere created by bursting of the crackers. That day, the chief minister during an interaction with the media after the end of the two-day assembly session said his government had decided to completely ban the sale and bursting of crackers in the state. He had added that a notification would be issued in this regard on Saturday. Hry awaiting NGT’s Monday orderNo notification was issued on Saturday, with senior officers saying the notification would be issued on Sunday. However, during an interaction with the media at Daulatpur village in Fatehabad district before attending the wedding ceremony of former MLA Balwan Singh Daulatpuria’s niece, Khattar said his government would now allow sale and bursting of crackers for two hours. The ban had been initially imposed in order to reduce levels of pollution under guidelines of the NGT, the use of firecrackers has been banned. On the day of Diwali in the state, citizens can use firecrackers for only two hours, the CM said. The CM’s announcement has created confusion as there are still no clear guidelines for shopkeepers for sale and storage of firecrackers and whether they would be allowed to sell them before Diwali. Officers in the chief minister’s office had no details about the proposed guidelines. “We too have come to know about this announcement through the video clip. The departments concerned will frame guidelines accordingly to further clarify the issues related to timings etc,’’ a senior officer said on condition of anonymity. Moreover, NGT too will be issuing a complete order related to this on Monday, hence we shall wait for that as well, the officer said. The state’s environment department on Saturday had sent a proposal of complete ban on sale, storage and bursting of crackers till November 30 to the state disaster management authority for notification. “Now, officers concerned will be framing a fresh proposal and new guidelines will be finalised,” an officer in the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/harayana-flip-flop-cm-says-will-get-a-2-hour-window/articleshow/79120119.cms||---
November 9, 2020||World||US welcomes India’s rise: Joe Biden||The US and India share the same democratic values and have a tremendous capability to work together. The two must continue to aspire to the promise of prosperity and security, Joe Biden had told TOI’s Srijana Mitra Das in an interview in 2013 during his first visit to the country as vice president. Excerpts from that interaction: Please tell us about your visit to India? Our two nations are striving to make progress and this relationship plays a really important role in that. Our two countries must continue to aspire to the promise of prosperity and security, and that delivering on that promise is something we can do together, through our bilateral cooperation. We see India’s ‘Look East’ policy as an important element in regional cooperation, one that serves our common interests and values. Regarding regional dynamics, do you see both China and the Taliban becoming more significant players here? India, China and the United States are all important players in the Asia-Pacific region. Our countries should work together to advance our common economic and security interests. China shares borders and interests with South and Central Asia — it has a real stake in regional cooperation. Regarding the Taliban’s future role, we have been clear that if the Taliban are to have any role in Afghanistan’s political future, they will need to break ties with al-Qaida, stop supporting violence and accept the Afghan Constitution. How would you see US-Pakistan ties evolving, especially considering concerns on both sides, over drone attacks and over dynamics with extremist groups? The US looks forward to working with the government of Pakistan on a shared agenda — that includes countering terrorism, holding accountable those responsible for terrorist attacks, supporting Pakistan's economic growth and maintaining close consultations on a range of regional issues. Read AlsoNot just Kamala Harris, Joe Biden too has Indian linkI may have relatives in India,” US President-elect Joseph Biden had declared on his maiden visit to Mumbai in 2013, when VP-elect Kamala Harris’s Tamil Nadu connection wasn’t headline news yet.Which aspects of the US-India relationship are most significant to America — and how do you see ties developing? India’s rise as a global economic power is one of the most powerful stories of the 21st century. The United States has welcomed India’s emergence and both nations have profited from it. Our security and counterterrorism cooperation is vitally important to our global stability. India has also long been one of the world’s largest providers of United Nations peacekeepers. Our countries share the same democratic values and we have a tremendous capability to work together. India is the economic hub of South Asia and plays a significant role in helping to integrate the region. We strongly support the role India has played in Afghanistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-welcomes-indias-rise-joe-biden/articleshow/79120160.cms||Srijana Mitra Das
November 9, 2020||India||US welcomes India’s rise: Joe Biden||The US and India share the same democratic values and have a tremendous capability to work together. The two must continue to aspire to the promise of prosperity and security, Joe Biden had told TOI’s Srijana Mitra Das in an interview in 2013 during his first visit to the country as vice president. Excerpts from that interaction: Please tell us about your visit to India? Our two nations are striving to make progress and this relationship plays a really important role in that. Our two countries must continue to aspire to the promise of prosperity and security, and that delivering on that promise is something we can do together, through our bilateral cooperation. We see India’s ‘Look East’ policy as an important element in regional cooperation, one that serves our common interests and values. Regarding regional dynamics, do you see both China and the Taliban becoming more significant players here? India, China and the United States are all important players in the Asia-Pacific region. Our countries should work together to advance our common economic and security interests. China shares borders and interests with South and Central Asia — it has a real stake in regional cooperation. Regarding the Taliban’s future role, we have been clear that if the Taliban are to have any role in Afghanistan’s political future, they will need to break ties with al-Qaida, stop supporting violence and accept the Afghan Constitution. How would you see US-Pakistan ties evolving, especially considering concerns on both sides, over drone attacks and over dynamics with extremist groups? The US looks forward to working with the government of Pakistan on a shared agenda — that includes countering terrorism, holding accountable those responsible for terrorist attacks, supporting Pakistan's economic growth and maintaining close consultations on a range of regional issues. Read AlsoNot just Kamala Harris, Joe Biden too has Indian linkI may have relatives in India,” US President-elect Joseph Biden had declared on his maiden visit to Mumbai in 2013, when VP-elect Kamala Harris’s Tamil Nadu connection wasn’t headline news yet.Which aspects of the US-India relationship are most significant to America — and how do you see ties developing? India’s rise as a global economic power is one of the most powerful stories of the 21st century. The United States has welcomed India’s emergence and both nations have profited from it. Our security and counterterrorism cooperation is vitally important to our global stability. India has also long been one of the world’s largest providers of United Nations peacekeepers. Our countries share the same democratic values and we have a tremendous capability to work together. India is the economic hub of South Asia and plays a significant role in helping to integrate the region. We strongly support the role India has played in Afghanistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-welcomes-indias-rise-joe-biden/articleshow/79120161.cms||Srijana Mitra Das
November 9, 2020||World||US welcomes India’s rise: Joe Biden||The US and India share the same democratic values and have a tremendous capability to work together. The two must continue to aspire to the promise of prosperity and security, Joe Biden had told TOI’s Srijana Mitra Das in an interview in 2013 during his first visit to the country as vice president. Excerpts from that interaction: Please tell us about your visit to India? Our two nations are striving to make progress and this relationship plays a really important role in that. Our two countries must continue to aspire to the promise of prosperity and security, and that delivering on that promise is something we can do together, through our bilateral cooperation. We see India’s ‘Look East’ policy as an important element in regional cooperation, one that serves our common interests and values. Regarding regional dynamics, do you see both China and the Taliban becoming more significant players here? India, China and the United States are all important players in the Asia-Pacific region. Our countries should work together to advance our common economic and security interests. China shares borders and interests with South and Central Asia — it has a real stake in regional cooperation. Regarding the Taliban’s future role, we have been clear that if the Taliban are to have any role in Afghanistan’s political future, they will need to break ties with al-Qaida, stop supporting violence and accept the Afghan Constitution. How would you see US-Pakistan ties evolving, especially considering concerns on both sides, over drone attacks and over dynamics with extremist groups? The US looks forward to working with the government of Pakistan on a shared agenda — that includes countering terrorism, holding accountable those responsible for terrorist attacks, supporting Pakistan's economic growth and maintaining close consultations on a range of regional issues. Read AlsoNot just Kamala Harris, Joe Biden too has Indian linkI may have relatives in India,” US President-elect Joseph Biden had declared on his maiden visit to Mumbai in 2013, when VP-elect Kamala Harris’s Tamil Nadu connection wasn’t headline news yet.Which aspects of the US-India relationship are most significant to America — and how do you see ties developing? India’s rise as a global economic power is one of the most powerful stories of the 21st century. The United States has welcomed India’s emergence and both nations have profited from it. Our security and counterterrorism cooperation is vitally important to our global stability. India has also long been one of the world’s largest providers of United Nations peacekeepers. Our countries share the same democratic values and we have a tremendous capability to work together. India is the economic hub of South Asia and plays a significant role in helping to integrate the region. We strongly support the role India has played in Afghanistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/us-welcomes-indias-rise-joe-biden/articleshow/79120117.cms||Srijana Mitra Das
November 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Unfinished Smart City work on Baner Road claims lives of 2 techies||PUNE: Two young software engineers were killed in an accident shortly after Saturday midnight on Baner Road when their motorcycle fell into a cable duct dug up as part of the ongoing work for a pedestrian path under the Pune Smart City project. The victims — Devashish Vidyanand Saxena (24) from Bhopal, working with an IT firm in Hinjewadi, and Tejas Tridev Sharma (26) from Jaipur, who had moved to Pune a few months ago to work from home for a Mumbai-based IT firm — were on their way back to their rented flat in Mhalunge near Balewadi after dinner with some friends in Baner when they met with the accident around 12.30am, the police said. In the absence of any eyewitnesses or evidence like CCTV footage, the police could not say what caused the accident. Unfinished Smart City work on Baner Rd claims lives of 2A senior police officer said, “Prima facie, it is likely that Saxena’s motorcycle skidded off the road while negotiating a slight right turn and fell into the duct in front of a prominent clothing store,” a senior police officer said. Saxena was wearing a helmet while Sharma was not, the officer said. The preliminary postmortem report cited head injuries as the cause of death. “The families of the two victims have been informed about the mishap and they are on their way to Pune,” the officer said. The police are also investigating if the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL) and its contractor hired for the pedestrian path, cable duct and related works, had taken adequate safety measures like installing safety barricades and sign boards around the dug up area. “For now, we have registered a case of accidental death and have called for all the records from the PSCDCL and the contractor to ascertain if they had proper NOCs for the work and had ensured safety measures. After examining all aspects, we will decide about an FIR,” senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police told TOI. A PSCDCL officer, who did not wish to be named, told TOI, “Over the last one week, we have issued letters to the contractor to put up barricades, road reflectors and traffic signages on either sides of Baner Road where the work for footpath and cable duct is going on. We are making a footpath using concrete blocks at the site. It is the responsibility of the contractor to maintain safety of the motorists while executing the work on the road.” Saxena and Sharma were staying with their group of friends in a rented flat in Mhalunge off Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. Inspector Vijaykumar Lambture and his team from the Chatushrungi police arrived at the accident site on being alerted. They moved the victims to Aundh hospital. Later, they were taken to a private hospital near Pune railway station but were declared dead by the doctors. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame, who inspected the spot on Sunday morning, said, “Such tragedies can be averted with proper use of road furniture and traffic signages.” Saha Dev, who works at a scrap shop nearby, said, “The officials barricaded the road and also put the plastic strips joining the barricades on Sunday morning after the accident. There were no barricades till Saturday.” A senior police officer said before undertaking such projects on public roads, the authorities are expected to get a no-objection certificate from the police. Traffic police can tell the contractors to take up security measures. All these aspects will be examined in the investigation, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-unfinished-smart-city-work-on-baner-road-claims-lives-of-2-techies/articleshow/79120184.cms||Gitesh Shelke
November 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Many report traffic offences via cellphone app||PUNE: In the last 10 months, alert residents of Pimpri Chinchwad have uploaded 465 images of traffic violators they spotted while commuting on the roads. The traffic branch of Pimpri Chinchwad police has challaned 346 violators as yet. “Residents have been using the Mahatraffic app and uploading images of traffic violators,” said Shrikant Disale, assistant commissioner of police (traffic). He added that the police could send challans to 346 offenders as photographs of 112 offenders were not clear. “We are in the process of sending challans to seven more offenders. Till date, 18 people have paid the fine. We will recover fines from the remaining offenders too,” Disale said. The state government launched the Mahatraffic app last year so that people could upload live images of traffic violators. “People can also check challans issued against them and pay the fines through the app,” Disale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-many-report-offences-via-cellphone-app/articleshow/79120194.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 9, 2020||World||US President-elect’s desi connection: A Biden from Mumbai||MUMBAI: ‘Biden from Mumbai’. That’s how US President-elect Joe Biden often likes to recall the gentleman who had written him a congratulatory letter in 1972, soon after he was elected as one of the youngest US senators at the age of 29. The envelope of the letter bore the postal stamp of GPO Bombay and in it, Leslie Duncan Biden alias LD Biden, had congratulated him on getting elected to the Senate and had told him they were related. Capt Christopher Biden, who settled in India, seems the most likely candidate if Joe Biden indeed had an ancestor here.Leslie was based in Nagpur, but since his letter had flown via Bombay, he would not only be etched in Joe Biden’s memory as ‘Biden from Mumbai’, but also become his go-to ice-breaker story in meetings with Indian-Americans and Indian leaders. Read AlsoNot just Kamala Harris, Joe Biden too has Indian linkI may have relatives in India,” US President-elect Joseph Biden had declared on his maiden visit to Mumbai in 2013, when VP-elect Kamala Harris’s Tamil Nadu connection wasn’t headline news yet.During his visit to India in 2013 as US Vice-President, he had caused peals of laughter when he went off-script in his address to the Bombay Stock Exchange to regret that he never followed up on the letter. An article in an online paper claims that Leslie — who passed away in 1983 — had received a reply from Joe Biden nine years after he wrote the letter. LD Biden, the paper states, was an Anglo-Indian whose father was a photographer and whose brother went to England after India gained Independence. He married a woman from Goa and they had two sons and four daughters. Three of his daughters live abroad, while three other children passed away recently. Read AlsoUS welcomes India’s rise: Joe BidenThe US and India share the same democratic values and have a tremendous capability to work together. The two must continue to aspire to the promise of prosperity and security, Joe Biden had told TOI’s Srijana Mitra Das in an interview in 2013 during his first visit to the country as vice president.Leslie’s four grandchildren — who are based in Nagpur and working in other cities — are probably the only Bidens left in India and have desisted from making any claims of a link with Joe Biden. TOI got in touch with them, but they didn’t want to be interviewed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/us-president-elects-desi-connection-a-biden-from-mumbai/articleshow/79120140.cms||---
